
    ----CITATION----
        Cambridge, William G.. The Mechanic's Bride, or, The Autobiography of Elwood Gorden .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5978
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE MECHANIC'S BRIDE: 
               OR, THE Autobiography of Elwood Gorden. 
             
            BY WILLIAM G. CAMBRIDGE, AUTHOR OF "HENRI, OR THE WEB AND WOOF OF LIFE," "GLENWOOD," ETC. 
            
               BOSTON: 
               SHEPARD, CLARK AND BROWN.
             
            1857. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1857, by WILLIAM G. CAMBRIDGE, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               LITHOTYPED BY THE AMERICAN STEREOTYPE COMPANY, 
               PHNIX BUILDING, BOSTON.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            AS the marriage relation is regarded, by very many people, merely as a business-like arrangement, and not a holy bond of union, society witnesses the frequent interposition of parental authority, severing congenial souls, and inflicting wounds never to be healed on earth. With sordid parents, the nuptial tie is a consideration of dollars and cents, of family rank, of influential connections, etc., instead of true heart-affinity. Those who concur in this mercenary idea of wedlock will not care to read my story; while a larger and better class will, if I have been skilful in narration, peruse it with interest. 
            This work is not a fiction, simply, for it is based upon actual events. The strangest part of the narrative is true; and there are persons living in New England who will recognize the incidents in the guise I have given them. It is creditable to human nature that most of us refuse to believe in such parental pride, malice, and cruelty as I am about to portray, except upon personal knowledge. 
            That "The Mechanic's Bride" will be found interesting, and even exciting, I am confident. Believing that it has merits as well as demerits, I submit it to the public. 
            
               W. G. C.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. INTRODUCTION.-REVERSES. 9
                
               CHAPTER II. A QUARREL. 19
                
               CHAPTER III. PERSECUTION. 28
                
               CHAPTER IV. RECONCILIATION. 35
                
               CHAPTER V. PROSPERITY.-THE LOVERS. 38
                
               CHAPTER VI. THE OLD HOMESTEAD. 45
                
               CHAPTER VII. SEPARATION.-VISITS.-MR. WINDSOR'S WRATH. 55
                
               CHAPTER VIII. PARENTAL JAILERS. 61
                
               CHAPTER IX. A NEW ADMIRER.-AN UNPLEASANT INTERVIEW. 65
                
                
               CHAPTER X. PROPOSAL AND REJECTION.-TEMPEST IN A TEAPOT. 75
                
               CHAPTER XI. ATTEMPT TO MURDER.-DANGEROUS WOUNDS.-CONVALESCENCE.-HAPPY HOURS. 85
                
               CHAPTER XII. PRESUMPTION.-HOPING AGAINST HOPE. 101
                
               CHAPTER XIII. MATERNAL AFFECTION.-CLANDESTINE MEETINGS.-NEW INVENTION. 109
                
               CHAPTER XIV. A TEMPEST.-A NEW VOW. 118
                
               CHAPTER XV. SEPARATION.-REGRET.-NEW INVENTION PERFECTED. 123
                
               CHAPTER XVI. WELCOME LETTER.-MARRIAGE.-MY FATHER'S DEATH.-FEARFUL DREAM.-DISAPPEARANCE AND SEARCH. 129
                
               CHAPTER XVII. GAMBLERS' QUARREL.-A SNUG HIDING-PLACE. 141
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. TREACHERY.-UNAVAILING APPEAL.-THE PRISONER. 148
                
               CHAPTER XIX. UNNATURAL PARENTS.-A USELESS SEARCH.-WORLDLY SUCCESS. 158
                
                
               CHAPTER XX. ANGLING.-STORM AND DARKNESS.-ACCIDENT.-GOOD HAVEN. 171
                
               CHAPTER XXI. TRAVELLERS DELAYED.-LOVE AND DISAPPOINTMENT. 184
                
               CHAPTER XXII. A BRAVE SPIRIT. 191
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. DISSATISFACTION.-A MALE FLIRT EXPOSED. 199
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. STANTON'S RETURN. 214
                
               CHAPTER XXV. THE UNNATURAL PARENT. 224
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. DISMISSAL.-GOOD ADVICE. 229
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. A CHARACTERISTIC LETTER.-THE RUFFIAN FOILED. 233
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. ANOTHER VISIT TO DUNFIELD.-MUTUAL VOWS. 242
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. A CLUE.-DISCOVERY.-THE RESCUE. 249
                
               CHAPTER XXX. HAPPY LOVE.-TWO WEDDINGS. 266
                
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. SELF-EXAMINATION.-REFORMATION. 270
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. MAY APPLETON.-RECONCILIATION.-UNION, HAPPINESS, AND SUCCESS. 274
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. PUBLIC INDIGNATION.-PUNISHMENT OF THE CRIMINALS.-MR. MACKAY'S GIFT.-PURE HEARTS. 287
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. MADGE AT THE NEW HOME.-PLEASANT VISITORS. 293
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. A STRANGE DISCLOSURE.-CONCLUSION. 296
                
             
          
       
      
         
            The mechanic's bride, or, The autobiography of Elwood Gorden 
             
            THE MECHANIC'S BRIDE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I shall remember: 
                           When Csar says, Do this, it is performed." 
                        
                      
                     JULIUS CSAR. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "A most poor man, made tame by fortune's blows; 
                           Who, by the art of known and feeling sorrows, 
                           Am pregnant to good pity." 
                        
                      
                     KING LEAR. 
                   
                
               READER, picture to yourself a pleasant chamber, nicely carpeted, tastefully furnished, while a library of choice works, of history, romance, poetry, and science, extends the whole length of the room, from floor to ceiling. My study-for such it is-is located in the front part of a large, elegant dwelling-house, and overlooks many charming scenes. Here is the highway, smooth and hard. How straight it is for many miles, and how majestic seem those tall elm trees, on both sides of the road, which fancy sometimes converts into giant sentinels, to guard the lonely traveller, especially when seen by moonlight. 
               Beyond the trees there is a large brook, and I can hear its music all the day long, for it never seems to tire of its song. I can see its waters from where I now sit, and they sometimes look very dark, and sometimes glimmer with a silvery brightness. What a variety of flowers grow upon the banks of this brook, inviting the bee to come and help himself to their sweets, and fill his store. How busy he is, from morning till night, at work always and singing always, uniting his ceaseless hum with the murmuring of the waters. 
               A pretty field lies beyond the brook, and it is burdened with tall herdsgrass and waving grain. Still beyond is a green pasture,-very green now, for the showers have been frequent of late,-extending to the top of a high hill, where there is a grove in which the winds hold their maddest revels. The cattle are quietly cropping the grass in this pasture; and, if their actions belie them not, they enjoy it much. Beyond the hill, covered with woods, is the sky,-a portion of that great dome which God built, a wonder and a glory forever. 
               Are you surprised that I like my study?-that I consider the prospect beautiful? I am certain that you would like it, too, if it were yours. Better than that, you would like it though not yours, and wish the occupant all joy in the possession. 
               Well, I have spent many happy hours here; and a friend, who has been more faithful than a brother, often comes to share my pleasures, or add to them,-I am sure he does the latter. Yesterday, as we sat conversing of past events, he said to me: 
                
               "Elwood, I'll tell you what I want you to do." 
               "Well, my friend, say on." 
               "Write your autobiography: it would make an excellent book." 
               "Do you think so?" 
               "Certainly. Many interesting and strange things have happened in your life, and you can write them out just as well as not." 
               "I have ample time for it, but would it be best?" 
               "It can't do any harm, and it may do good. You shall do it, Elwood." 
               "If any body has a right to say shall to me, it is yourself; and, if you actually desire it, and I can obtain the consent of another,-who, in all deference to you, must be allowed to decide the question,-I will endeavor to write the book." 
               "Then I have you." 
               "How so?" 
               "That other person has already given her consent." 
               "Well done, my friend! I must make up my mind at once to become an author. My pen shall not lay idle for many a day after this, I give you my word; but if, by lack of experience in book-making, I fail to make an interesting work, the blame must fall upon you." 
               "Perfectly willing to take it, for my shoulders are broad." 
               "Yes; but they have never yet borne the weight which captious criticism has the power to lay upon them." 
               "Very true, and I fear they never will. Upon second thought, I don't know as I care to make the trial, for I am now growing old." 
               "I see that you are disposed to leave the field before the battle begins; nevertheless, the book shall be written, if life and strength do not fail me." 
               Our conversation ended here; my friend departed; and I am about to commence the allotted task. How well I may succeed, the future alone shall determine. I don't know exactly how to begin; but, so far as the interest of the story is concerned, it will not matter much. So then-- 
               My father had never been wealthy, but, when he married, he supposed that he owned a good farm. He paid every dollar of the purchase money, and was justly proud of the achievement, for he had earned it all with his own hands, and so had nobody to thank but himself. 
               When he was thirty years old, he won my mother's love, and five years later they were married. His anxiety to provide her a home, such as she was worthy of, caused the happy day to be so long deferred. She would gladly have shared his lot earlier, but he chose to wait. By strict economy and the most unremitting toil, he succeeded in accumulating the requisite amount to purchase the farm upon which he had set his heart. Then he joyfully claimed his bride. He was a good man, a lover of justice, truth, and humanity, and she was a suitable helpmeet. She had a just appreciation of the integrity and indomitable perseverance, which had carried my father bravely through long years of hard labor, to secure a home which should have all the comforts and attractions she could reasonably desire; and, in the days of adversity which followed, she did not forget it. 
               It was a pleasant place where my parents spent so happily the first two years of their married life. The house was a large, two-story, old-fashioned building, erected by a thorough mechanic, in a neat and substantial manner. The rooms were spacious, high, and so arranged as to be very pleasant. The architect had drawn his plan well, and I have seldom seen a dwelling better adapted to the wants of a farmer and his family. Strangers were prone to remark, "How very convenient every thing is." 
               A short distance from the house stood a story-and-a-half building, which was nearly new. The upper part of it was used for a granary, and the lower for the storage of farming utensils. Beyond was the barn, a commodious, substantial structure, which had been built but a few years, and was considered the best barn in the county. All the buildings were clapboarded and painted white. 
               In front of the house, quite a large yard was inclosed. With the exception of a few flower-beds beds, nearly the whole area was green. Roses bloomed in front of the windows, and there were large clumps of lilac bushes on each side of the entrance way, while half a dozen luxuriant fruit-trees stood as sentinels at convenient distances, on either side of the well-trodden path, to ward off the ardent attentions of the sunbeams in the season of oppressive heat. 
               The farm was an excellent one, as the reader would naturally suppose from the character of the buildings upon it; and yet, the former occupant went beyond his means, and was obliged to sell. The land lay in convenient proximity to the buildings and the highway, and was substantially fenced or walled. The stones had been carefully gleaned from the tillage-ground, and there were no superfluous bushes in fields or pastures. The place contained two noble wood-lots, one located in front and the other in rear of the house; the former containing twenty-five acres and the latter fifteen. The wood was in good part rock maple, interspersed with beech, hemlock, bass, black and white birch, chestnut, walnut, and white maple. The trees grew extremely large, and very compact, like a dense army of giants. The sugar-maples were nearest the house, and much delicious syrup and sugar was obtained from them annually. 
               In one inclosure, used as a sheep pasture, which had a very high wall, and long poles some two feet above, held there by stakes, were thirty chestnut trees, and it was called the "chestnut orchard." It furnished a bountiful yearly supply of that excellent nut. In the two pastures for cattle and horses, there were walnut trees, of the variety called "shag-barks," which grew to a great height, and spread widely their powerful arms. Every autumn they bent under the weight of the sweet treasures they produced. The fruit trees, of which there were many, yielded largely, and the quality of the fruit-apples, pears, quinces, peaches, plums, and cherries-was superior. Of currants there were so many it was seldom they were more than half gathered. Strawberries grew plentifully in the mowing fields, and, though uncultivated, they were large and sweet. 
               It was a gratification to walk over this farm in the "growing" season. How luxuriant were the grass, the wheat, rye, barley, oats, and corn; and their appearance never deceived, as on some land, for the soil here had bottom to it, and the crops were vigorous. 
               The buildings stood on a spot slightly elevated, so that there was a pleasant view of the delightful scenery. All the land near by was gently undulating; but in the distance there were high hills, green or covered with woods. Still farther on, mountain-peaks were visible, of a darker blue than the firmament. Sometimes a mist gathered about them all day long, and hid them from sight; again the clouds enveloped them with huge robes of blackness; and then the lightnings flashed from them, as they did from Sinai of old. But at sunset set their appearance was the most pleasing, for red, white, and golden-tinted vapors arrayed them in gorgeous garniture. 
               When a boy, I frequently travelled the road which ran through this farm and by the buildings; and I could not help envying the happy possessor and his family, for I knew that by right it belonged to my parents. My mother had often told me of their happiness when it was their own, and the reason they lost it,-tears all the while coursing down her cheeks. But she never alluded to the subject in the presence of my father, for he, poor man, could not bear it. As they had waited for this home so long, and toiled for it so incessantly, and were so happy when they obtained it, they fondly hoped that it would be their only home on earth. Alas! how soon were they doomed to the most cruel disappointment. 
               When two years had elapsed, it was alleged that a gross fraud had been practised upon my father, by the man who sold him the farm, and the purchase money must be repaid, or the place given up. To raise such a large sum was an impossibility; but he could not relinquish his rights tamely. With the faint hope that he might save his little property, he resolved to contest the claim as long as there was the least reason for hope. It was all in vain, however; after a year spent in costly litigation, he was compelled to relinquish his hard-won and dearly-cherished home. 
                
               My father's name was James Gorden, my mother's, Mary Elwood, and I was christened Elwood Gorden. We lived in the town of Dunfield. The reverse of fortune affected my father more than my mother, for he had toiled fourteen long years, bending all his energies toward one object; and now, to have the fruit of that labor swept away at once was too much. The long period of doubt, followed by the fearful reality, robbed him of health and strength, leaving him as helpless as a little child. 
               I was an infant when our fortune was thus doubly wrecked. My mother was now well aware that our support must depend upon her energies alone. She had a brave heart, and immediately formed her plans and carried them into effect. 
               Two miles from the farm, near a small cotton factory, she rented part of a tenement, and we removed there. Many bushels of grain and other provision, which the generous land, once ours but now lost, had yielded for our support, were carried with us to our new home; but, at the end of a year, the whole was consumed. During this period my mother had devoted her time to the care of her husband and child. She succeeded, however, in earning a few dollars with her needle, by encroaching upon the hours of sleep. 
               As our food was exhausted, some means must be found of purchasing more, or we must apply to the town, and be sent to the alms-house. When my father was made to understand our actual condition dition, the effect upon him was beneficial. Weak and desponding, he left his bed, and devoted himself to the care of his child. Relieved in a measure of two burdens, my mother resolved to seek for employment in the factory. After some delay, her services were engaged for the dress-room,-the place she preferred, for she could return to her family at an earlier hour than if she worked in any other room. 
               My father's heart rebelled against this arrangement; but there was no alternative, and he must submit. The cross was laid upon him, to see the wife whom he dearly loved performing the daily task of a mill-girl, besides attending faithfully to the numerous wants of her household. He felt that her constitution was not sufficiently robust for such unremitting toil. But she persevered, although it was hard to be compelled to do so much. She often returned home weary and dispirited; but her aching heart was soothed and comforted by the love of her husband and child. 
               Thus engaged, years passed away, no word of complaint escaping my mother's lips. My father suffered much, but he was comforted with the assurance, that, notwithstanding all our hardships, my mother felt that she had much to be thankful for. She had visited houses, in her lifetime, which contained every material comfort that heart could desire and yet, there was so much coldness, and such a lack of love and sympathy, that she preferred her own humble lot to one of those cheerless palaces. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I cannot tell 
                           What Heaven hath given him, let some graver eye 
                           Pierce into that; but I can see his pride 
                           Peep through each part of him: Whence has he that? 
                           If not from hell, the devil is a niggard; 
                           Or has given all before, and he begins 
                           A new hell in himself." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY EIGHTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Away to heaven, respective lenity, 
                           And fire-eyed fury be my conduct now." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FOURTH. 
                   
                
               WHEN I was four years old, my father had in a measure recovered his health. He had, previous to his marriage, labored beyond his strength, and, for many months after the loss of his property, it was doubtful whether he would ever be well again. That he improved so slowly was no marvel. As soon as the physician would consent, he secured a situation in the factory, and it was no longer requisite that my mother should perform double labor. Her release was opportune, for she could not have held out much longer, her physical energies being continually over-taxed. 
               When I was five, my only sister was born, who was immediately christened Lissy. We were very poor when the little helpless stranger made her appearance; but she was none the less fondly welcomed. What a treasure she was to me! a perpetual source of enjoyment! and I never wearied of playing with her. We grew up to manhood and womanhood, loving each other dearly, and our affection is warm to-day. I was her only brother, and she my only sister. Our dear parents idolized us both. 
               One fourth of a mile from our home lived a family by the name of Windsor. They were considered wealthy, and they were so, for country people. When Mr. Windsor married, a farm was his only property, and its value was much less than that of my father. Two relatives dying soon after, he inherited from their estates an amount sufficient to make him worth twenty thousand dollars. He was so elated by this good fortune as to feel that his neighbors were beneath him, especially my parents, who were among the poorest. 
               Mr. Windsor had two children, Thomas and Marion. Thomas was two years older than myself, and Marion a year older than my sister Lissy. We attended the same school, were often in the same classes, played together at all seasons, and for years were mutually fond of each other's company. I often questioned myself as to which I loved best, Marion Windsor or Lissy Gorden; and I was equally unable to decide which was the prettiest. Lissy's eyes were of a very deep blue, her cheeks red and hair flaxen; while Marion had gray eyes, and soft glossy hair of a dark brown. Many and many a time, when we were children, did I wind it around my finger, wondering how it could be so beautiful and so silky to the touch. Marion's face had but little color, and yet it was very lovely in expression, showing a pure heart and warm affections. A casual glance, or a close study, convinced the observer that she was a good and happy child. 
               Before the lapse of many years, I began to perceive a change in Thomas Windsor. It was gradual, but by and by the ugly fact stood out just as plainly as though it had been sudden. In his intercourse with Lissy and me, he became distant, reserved, and haughty. His conduct, however, scarcely disturbed my equanimity, for I knew that in all the essentials of a noble character I was in no respect his inferior. He desired his sister to withdraw herself entirely from our society, but she heeded not his aristocratic wish. 
               The winter that I was fourteen, Thomas' deportment had become insufferably overbearing, while Marion was more intimate with Lissy and me than with any other children. The boys and girls used to assemble on a high hill, for the purpose of enjoying the exhilarating sport of "coasting." Almost invariably Marion coasted with me, and thus early I knew that I loved her. The reader may smile, and say that it was only a boy's love. Be it so; but the passion has never known any abatement to this day. Ah, Lissy! dear as you were to me, and fondly cherished, I could now decide which I regarded as the most beautiful. That it gave you pain, when you perceived another was winning my affections, so that you could no longer hold the first or even an equal place in my heart, I never doubted. Poor as we were, and with but few friends, I could well understand the value to you of a brother's love. 
               I was a better scholar than Thomas Windsor, and that made him envious, for he desired to exhibit superiority in all things. Hard study availed him not, for I distanced him in every branch we engaged in. I was aware that he hated me for it. 
               On a certain day, never to be forgotten, Mr. Windsor visited the school, accompanied by strangers. Thomas and I were anxious to excel, and so we did our best. My success was more decided than ever, and I noticed that the strange gentlemen regarded me with interest. Mr. Windsor's face wore an expression of mingled vexation and anger. When I caught his eye, I realized that he was my enemy. 
               That night, when we left school, Thomas was in no amiable mood. A number of us went to the hill, for the purpose of coasting; and, after we arrived there, I asked Marion to coast with me. She was about to comply with my request, when Thomas told her that she must not. 
               "Why may I not slide with Elwood?" she asked. 
               "For the best of reasons, if I chose to give them," he replied; "but I want you to slide with me." 
               "Well, I shall not, if you do, for Elwood asked me first," she said. 
               "That is right, Marion," I remarked. "Hop on, and we'll soon see which will go the fastest." 
               "You had better attend to your own sister, and let mine alone," said Thomas. 
               "My sister is well provided for," I replied; "and, if she were not, possibly I could attend to them both." 
               "You are getting to be a little too large for your boots," he exclaimed. 
               "And so are you, sir," I retorted. 
               "My sister shall not associate with such a mean fellow as you, Elwood Gorden, if I can prevent it," said Thomas. "She has done it too long, already." 
               "Why, Thomas Windsor!" said Marion, "you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Elwood is not a mean fellow, and you know it; he is real good, every body says." 
               "Every body don't say it, for I don't," said Thomas. "You may praise him as much as you like,-who cares? Perhaps you will be his wife, some day, and then he can send you into the mill to maintain him, as his father did his wife." 
               "You are a wicked boy," said Marion, "and I will never love you any more,-see if I do." 
               "And I care but little if you don't," he rejoined. "if you are so intimate with a beggar." 
                
               "Beggar!" I said with much heat, "beggar! Thomas Windsor, why do you call me a beggar?" 
               "You can see the house where you live," he said, pointing with his finger; "it is no great shakes, any way, and there are two families besides yours in it. If I lived so meanly, I would not hold my head quite so high." 
               "We are poor," I replied with suppressed anger, "but honest. We are not beggars, though; we never have been beggars; and, unless God so wills it, we never shall be." 
               "That is true," said Marion, "and Thomas is very wicked for saying such things. But don't you mind him, Elwood. I love you a great deal better than I do him." 
               "You and I shall never quarrel, Marion," I said, "even if your brother does abuse me. We shall always be friends." 
               "Friends!" cried Thomas, contemptuously. "My sister will be taught to seek her friends among her equals, and not among the low and vulgar." 
               "Thomas Windsor," I said, "quit your insults at once, or you may have reason to be sorry. I am as good as you, and more than your equal. Who did best at school to-day, you or I? Mind is better than wealth, a thousand times; and, if you have more of the latter, I have more of the former." 
               "You are a great brag," he said, "and I always knew it. What a giant mind you have! Daniel Webster will be cast into the shade one of these days. But, unluckily for you, sir, some of the greatest dunces learn the easiest. There, El. Gorden, you have tried to frighten me,-see what you've got by it,-guess I shall say what I please." 
               "I am afraid you will get to fighting," interposed Marion. "Let us have a slide, Elwood. I am sorry my brother uses you so; he does very wrong." And the tears flowed from her beautiful eyes. 
               "And one great dunce would be very glad to learn as easily as I. He made such a complete failure, to-day, and was so mortified, that he is more ugly than usual,-which is needless," I could not help retorting. 
               "You are an impudent puppy, and a low-lived dog, El. Gorden; and, if you give me any more of your sauce, I'll whip you soundly. You talk in this way to me, when your mother had to work in the factory to maintain you and your lazy, shiftless father!" 
               By this taunt I was greatly exasperated, and could endure Tom's insolence no longer; so I sprang toward him, and with one blow laid him senseless at my feet. 
               With a wild cry Marion ran to him, and took his head upon her lap, and tried to recall him to life. "You have killed him!" she said, "my own dear brother. O! I will never love you any more, you cruel, wicked boy! I shall hate you always!" 
               In a sort of stupor I listened to her words; but, as Thomas did not move, I felt alarmed. Breaking through the crust, I sprinkled the soft snow upon his deathly pale face. He soon revived, and, with the help of his sister, arose to his feet. I expected an attack from him as soon as he should sufficiently recover, and so I was ready to defend myself. He seemed in no wise anxious for a fight, but regarded me with loathing and contempt. He had supposed, as he was older, that he could whip me with ease; but, as my fist had made a very sudden acquaintance with his head, and proved a little too hard for it, he had no inclination to run the risk of another blow. When he and Marion started for home, she was crying bitterly. 
               "I do not like you, Elwood," she said, "and I never will slide with you again, never!" 
               I knew that the blame lay with her brother, and angrily replied: "I don't want you to love me, and you may keep your liking to yourself, and welcome. I won't ask you to slide with me again, for I shall take my own dear sister, who is enough better than you." 
               I stood and watched them for a while; then, taking Lissy by the hand, started for home. I made her promise that she would say nothing about the quarrel to my parents, for, though I had no intention of keeping it from them, I chose to inform them myself. That evening was the most gloomy I had ever experienced, and I retired early. In the silence of my chamber I communed with my own thoughts. I felt that Marion had been very unjust. She had censured Thomas as much as had I; and, when I punished his scurrility, after extreme patience on my part and fierce threats from him, she ought not to have been so much offended. She did not like me, she had said, and I had replied that she might keep her liking to herself, and welcome; and yet, O consistency! I was so much attached to her, loved her so well, that I wept myself to sleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                  
                      
                        "Men that make 
                        Envy and crooked malice nourishment, 
                        Dare bite the best." 
                     
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Be advised: 
                           Heat not a furnace for your foes so hot, 
                           That it do singe yourself. We may outrun, 
                           By violent swiftness, that which we run at, 
                           And lose by over-running." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY EIGHTH. 
                   
                
               THAT I had committed a grave offence in the eyes of Mr. Windsor, in thus rashly punishing a rich man's son, I had no doubt. I knew he would demand the most ample satisfaction, and its nature I could well surmise. Money he could not have, even if willing to receive it. To make a sufficient atonement, my back must be bared to the rod, and the weapon of torture and disgrace be applied with excessive severity. Ever afterwards his influence would be exerted against me in every shape whereby he could do me injury. But the thought of these things occasioned me less anxiety than the words of that little girl, who had called me "a wicked, cruel boy," and said she would "never love me again," but should "hate me always." If she and myself were reconciled, I could face the others like a man. 
                
               In the morning, I informed my parents of what had occurred. They regretted that I had struck the saucy fellow, but they did not censure me. 
               When Thomas Windsor and his sister arrived at home, he told the story of his beating, but falsified it much. According to his account, I was the aggressor. When he had finished, Mr. Windsor was much enraged, and threatened to send me to prison. 
               Marion listened to her brother with much surprise, for she had not supposed him a slanderer and liar; and, when she heard her father say, in his wrath, that I should go to prison and stay there, she was greatly agitated. 
               "Father," she said, "Thomas has not told you the truth." 
               "Just like her," said Thomas, "to stick up for Elwood Gorden. She likes him a thousand times better than she does her own brother." 
               "In what respect has he deviated from the truth?" inquired Mr. Windsor. 
               "Don't ask her," said Thomas, "for she will say any thing to screen him." 
               "Silence," said Mr. Windsor, "and answer only when I speak to you. Come, Marion, let us have your version of the story; for, before I take any steps to punish Elwood, I want the whole truth." 
               By this time Marion was sobbing bitterly, and it was some minutes before she was able to comply with her father's commands. She finally gave a plain, unvarnished narrative of the facts,-for Marion Windsor could give no other. 
               "I am surprised, Thomas," said Mr. Windsor, "that you should be guilty of such falsehoods. The excited state of your feelings is your only excuse. It will be impossible to send Elwood to prison, but he must be punished. He may plead insult in justification, but that shall not save him; a person of his standing in life must not be allowed to strike a child of mine with impunity. He shall expiate the offence by submitting to a well-merited castigation, and it must be something more than boy's play. Since he is so fond of striking, he shall learn the delights of being struck. As for you, children, I forbid your associating with the Gordens any longer. They are mere paupers, at best, whom nobody, who is anybody, thinks any thing of. I ought to have put a stop to the acquaintance ere this." 
               "I don't want to associate with them," said Thomas. "I have scarcely noticed them this long while, and should not have done so at all, if Marion had only kept clear of that rascal Elwood." 
               "Well," said Mr. Windsor, "Marion is young, and therefore excusable; but she knows what my commands are now, and must obey." 
               "I am real glad she must," said Thomas, "for she likes El. Gorden and Liss. better than anybody else who attend school." 
               "Is that true, Marion?" inquired her father. 
                
               "I like them very much," she answered. "Lissy is always kind to everybody." 
               "But don't you know that you ought not to associate with people in their circumstances?" 
               "And why may I not associate with them? I think them all very good." 
               "They may be clever, with the exception of that ruffianly boy; but that is not the point. Look at their position, in society: why, it's a great deal below par." 
               "You mean, that they are very poor." 
               "To be sure. The wealthy never associate with people in such a low station as theirs. The two classes move in different spheres. Those things which prove amply sufficient for the poor fail to satisfy the rich, and so they must be kept separate." 
               "But, if the poor behave as well, are they not just as good?" pursued the little casuist. 
               "You don't seem to understand the matter, Marion. When you are older, you will be better able to make proper distinctions." 
               "I am afraid I never shall, for I love Lissy Gorden just as well as though her folks were worth millions." 
               "Well, we shall teach you to keep in your place, and she must learn to keep in hers. You are but children, now, and some things may be overlooked. You will soon be a young lady, Marion, and I trust you will conform to your parents' precepts, and not manifest a vulgar taste by associating with those whose rank is far beneath yours. Society makes very nice distinctions, and they must be heeded, at least by my family. Why, child, Lissy Gorden's mother was obliged to work in the factory, to keep them from starving." 
               "I know it, but is she any worse for that? She don't seem so to me; I think her a good woman. Lissy told me the reason that her mother had to work in the factory. Mr. Gorden was not to blame at all, but somebody was,-it was too bad. I couldn't help crying when she told me about it. The man who did the wrong will get his punishment, I guess. I hope he will, for he ought to." 
               At these words Mr. Windsor changed color, and his lips trembled as he attempted to speak. 
               "Well, Marion, you beat all," said Mrs. Windsor. "I had no idea that you were forming such low tastes. I shall see to you, hereafter, myself. It would not surprise me now to hear you say that you thought Elwood Gorden the best boy in the neighborhood." 
               "Madam, please not to interfere," said Mr. Windsor, austerely, addressing his wife. "I intend to settle this matter myself. Woman has her proper sphere, and man his. Everything which does not relate to her own domestic concerns, which she touches, she only complicates. Silence on the part of a woman, when cases like this occur, is the best argument she can offer. And so you think Elwood Gorden a very fine fellow, Marion?" 
                
               "She likes him better than she does me," said Thomas. "She is always a-sliding with him." 
               "Do you like a boy that knocks down your own brother?" inquired Mr. Windsor. 
               "I do not like him for that, and I told him so," replied the noble girl. "But he has always been good to me, and he is the best scholar in school." 
               "This conversation has continued long enough," said Mr. Windsor. "Hereafter, your associates must be from a different class. As to that young ruffian, I will see that he is punished as he deserves." 
               That night one little heart was very sad. In its moments of resentment, it fancied that it had shut me out; but I was there still. Marion was grieved that I had struck her brother, but she regretted saying that she should always hate me. She felt anxious because of her father's threatened correction; and, when her lips moved in prayer before she slept, I was sweetly remembered. 
               The next day, at school, I saw that Marion shunned Lissy and myself. I soon discerned that she was watched closely by her brother. In the afternoon, those speaking eyes were repeatedly fixed upon my face, and their expression manifested more sympathy and good will than hatred. 
               During the day, Mr. Windsor called upon my parents, and was very abusive, demanding that I should be most severely whipped. My father would not consent thus to degrade me. He was so much of a Christian as to tell Mr. Windsor that he would have had me submit to tenfold the insults heaped upon me, rather than that I should punish the aggressor so violently; still, the provocation was very great, and no chastisement could be submitted to. Mr. Windsor went home in a rage. 
               For some years after this, we were subjected to much persecution and to mean, petty annoyances. Mr. Windsor had the power to do us injury, because we were poor and he was rich. An agreement had been made between my father and a Mr. Manning, a relative of Mr. Windsor, that, as soon as school closed, I should be taken as his apprentice to learn the carpenter's trade. He immediately sent us word that he had concluded to dispense with my services. Mr. Windsor owned stock in the factory; and he succeeded, by false representations, in procuring my father's dismissal. This was a great misfortune, and caused us much suffering, so that we often went supperless to bed. Slanders against my mother were put into circulation, which went the rounds for a time, while many in town were made to believe that I was a graceless scamp. These trials we bore with all the philosophy we could summon. I often thought that, had I foreseen what my parents and sisters were to suffer because of the rash manifestation of my resentment, Thomas Windsor might have insulted me until his malice had spent itself. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Forgive me, Valentine; if hearty sorrow 
                           Be a sufficient ransom for offence, I tender it here." 
                        
                      
                     TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
                   
                
               I HAD no opportunity to speak to Marion for some days after the quarrel, for her brother was ever watching us. At last, as what I considered good fortune would have it, though bad for him, he was taken sick with a fever; and for the remainder of the term I improved opportunities. 
               When I first addressed the dear girl,-one noon-time,-she hesitated to reply, as though she was fearful that some one was listening, or that it would be wrong for her to do so. But my impetuous nature would not brook delay. Although her eyes had beamed a full assurance that she bore me no ill will, yet I must hear it from her own lips. 
               "Marion," I asked, "do you still hate me?" 
               "No, Elwood," she replied. "I felt angry with you when I said that." 
               "I am very glad that you do not. Your parents and brother hate me?" 
               "I fear that they do." 
               "If you feel kindly toward Lissy and me, why do you shun us?" 
                
               "Because," she answered, almost weeping, "because-father says I must." 
               "I feared as much. It is too bad, Marion." 
               "I know it is. You will not hate me because my parents are your enemies?" 
               "O no!" 
               "Do you like me, Elwood?" 
               "Yes, dear Marion; and, even though you cannot talk with me much, I shall always love you dearly. Don't forget or dislike me, will you?" 
               "No, no, Elwood, I cannot." 
               "I am sorry that I struck your brother, but he was very insulting." 
               "I know he was. I wish you had curbed your temper; but still I like you, just the same." 
               "You are a good girl, Marion. Will you tell me what was said the night after the quarrel?" 
               "Yes, if you will go into the school-house, where we can talk uninterruptedly." 
               I did as Marion requested. She had an excellent memory, and related to me the bitter speeches of her brother and father, already detailed. 
               When she had finished, I asked her if she meant strictly to heed her parents' commands, and hereafter to hold no intercourse with Lissy and me. 
               "O, I know not what to do," she said. "I wish to obey my parents, but it is hard to slight those I love the best." 
               "It is not right," I replied. 
               "I know it is not, and yet it seems dreadful to disobey my father." 
                
               "It was wrong for him to utter such a command, very wrong. It is unnatural to shun those we love most. God does not require that." 
               "I can't attend the same school, and never speak to you or dear Lissy at all; but we must be less intimate than we were." 
               "I know it, Marion. If we are very cautious, your parents may never be the wiser. I said harsh things in reply to your words which sounded so unjust; but forgive me, won't you?" 
               At this moment the teacher entered, and our conversation ended. It was resumed afterwards, however, and continued frequently, while the term lasted. But, as we were only children, much of our chit-chat would not be worth transcribing. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "When Fortune means to men most good, 
                           She looks upon them with a threatening eye." 
                        
                      
                     KING JOHN. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Good Mistress Page, for that I love your daughter 
                           In such a righteous fashion as I do, 
                           Perforce, against all checks, rebukes, and manners, 
                           I must advance the colors of my love, 
                           And not retire." 
                        
                      
                     MERRY WIVES OF WINDSOR. 
                   
                
               IT was a serious disappointment to me and my parents, when Mr. Manning sent word that he could not receive me as an apprentice. As my father was too poor to give me a liberal education, it was early decided that I should learn a trade. He had often talked over the matter with me, and I uniformly expressed a liking for the trade of a carpenter. The reason was, that I had exercised my ingenuity, with such rude tools as I could get, in constructing water-wheels, which were swiftly turned by a brook running near our house. I had also made shelves for the few books that we possessed; a neat chest for my clothes; taken off one of the old doors to the house and replaced it with a new one; and executed many other jobs in a neat and workmanlike manner. 
               My parents were desirous that I should be apprenticed prenticed to some one in Dunfield, and as near home as possible. Mr. Manning lived but a mile from our house; and, as he had the reputation of being a kind and indulgent master, we considered ourselves very fortunate in the engagement. But, through the machinations of Mr. Windsor, our pleasing plans were all overturned. 
               The next winter was long and severe. It was for us a period of trial, as my father could find employment only a small portion of the time. 
               In the spring, affairs looked more hopeful. In spite of Mr. Windsor's ill will, my father's services were in continual demand, while the neighboring farmers gave me enough to do in the planting season. Our home again smiled with plenty. No longer did we close our eyes in sleep to dream of tables groaning with an abundance, which some evil spirit prevented us from reaching, or which ever vanished as our hands approached. 
               Early that summer, a carpenter, by the name of Mackay, moved into our neighborhood. He was an excellent man, of indomitable perseverance and superior business tact. He frequently employed my father; and in time became so friendly toward me as to lend me his tools whenever I wished them. He seemed to like me very much, and often invited me to his house. He asked me, one day, in the presence of my father, what occasion I had to use carpenter's tools so often. I blushed, but made no reply. My father here remarked that I was quite a genius, in my way, but excessively modest about it. 
               "Does he construct what he undertakes without much difficulty?" inquired Mr. Mackay. 
               "I don't know as I am an impartial judge," replied my father, "but I think he does. He has always had a passion for making something ever since he could hold a jack-knife. He began by whittling out playthings for himself and sister, and now he makes any thing he sets his mind upon." 
               "I am glad to hear this of you, Elwood," said Mr. Mackay; "and, with your leave, I will examine the evidences of your skill." 
               My heart was palpitating wildly when he accompanied me home. According to his request, I showed him all the different articles I had manufactured. He examined them critically, and, as I could well perceive, with much interest. When he had finished, he asked me if I had ever worked with a carpenter. 
               I replied in the negative. 
               "You are, then," he said, "a natural mechanic, and I want you to go to work with me immediately. What say you to that?" 
               "O, I should like it above all things," I replied. 
               "Spoken like a man. Now let us return and see your father, for you have the genius to make your way in the world." 
               "Do you think so?" 
               "I don't think,-I know. I have always liked you, Elwood, and I expect to see you grow up to be an excellent citizen and an enterprising man. If your father is willing, you shall go to work with me at once." 
               My father was immediately made acquainted with Mr. Mackay's wishes. "I have learned your history," he said to him, "and it interested me much. Your fortune has indeed been a hard one. To earn money as you did, by the most severe toil, and lose it all without any fault of your own, is very trying to the stoutest heart. Such rascality is shameful, and the men who practise it are a set of thorough scoundrels. If everybody estimated them as I do, their number would speedily decrease. You have an influential enemy, I hear, Mr. Gorden, and you may always count upon me as a friend in any emergency. I hope that better days are in store for you. Your son is a natural mechanic; and, were I as avaricious as some men. I should try to secure his services on the usual terms for apprentices. I am willing to do much better than, and pay him wages from the first, letting him board with you when convenient. I will teach him all I know myself, and then I must be content to be 'left in the lurch,' as the saying is; for, if he applies himself, he will surely outstrip me." 
               My father shook Mr. Mackay's hand warmly; he was scarcely able to express his gratification in words. 
               For my own part, I had never been so happy in all my life. I could now learn the trade I preferred; remain at home; and at the same time aid my parents. 
               The matter was satisfactorily arranged, and I commenced work under as faithful and kind a master as ever boy had. My success was greater than even he or I anticipated; and, by the time I was twenty-one, father and myself had twelve hundred dollars in the savings bank. 
               I attended school two or three months every winter, and by earnest diligence obtained a better education than many whose opportunities were greatly superior. Thomas Windsor was kept at school nearly all of the time, but he was not able to enter college until he was twenty-one. 
               Seldom could I obtain an interview with Marion. Neither of us outgrew our childish love. She was only fifteen, when we met one day, by accident, in the beautiful little cemetery of Dunfield. A strange place-the reader will say-to make love in; and yet I fancy that it has been done by older people than we were. It was a lovely day, and we were both glad to meet thus. We were soon seated in a retired spot, and conversed at our leisure. 
               "I am so happy to see you once more, Elwood," she said, leaning her head upon my arm. That arm soon stole round her waist, and our hands were locked. 
               "It is strange that we should meet thus," I replied, "but some irresistible power drew me here to-day." 
               "And I felt that I must come, though I am sure I can't tell why." 
               "Are your parents as hostile to me as ever?" 
               "Yes, dear Elwood, and I fear their hatred increases. Thomas writes to them that, if they are not careful, I shall one day be your bride. They try to make me say I dislike you, but I cannot do that, for it would be untrue." 
               "Your words give me courage. Don't let them set you against me, Marion." 
               "That they can never do. I have always loved you, and I always shall." 
               "And this heart can bear no image but yours. I have great fears in relation to you, Marion. As soon as you are a little older, your parents will wish you to marry; they will desire to unite you to some wealthy man, and not to a poor mechanic." 
               "I shall never consent to it, say what they will. They may command, but in that matter I shall disobey. You are very kind to me, notwithstanding father and mother dislike you so much. They have injured your parents and yourself all that they could, Elwood." 
               "I know it, Marion; and I have forgiven them for your sake." 
               "I am so glad! And have you forgiven me for saying that I should always hate you?" 
               "Yes, dear, long ago. That was a trifle to forgive give. Those who love much will forget and forgive, not only little things, but great things." 
               "And you have forgiven great things for my sake, dear Elwood. You have been made to suffer because you liked me, and O! you may be compelled to suffer much more." 
               "I know it, my own; and, could the blows of enmity reach me alone, I would not murmur. You say that I have suffered. Alas! have you not suffered as much? I doubt not you have, Marion; and I believe you will be true. Therefore, if your parents remain inflexibly opposed to me, I fear for you greatly. The future looks dark." 
               "I know it, Elwood; but love shall yet brighten all the clouds." 
               "Heaven grant that it may be so! I have great faith in such love as I believe ours to be; were it not for this, I should despair." 
               "So have I, dear Elwood; and I will die before I will marry another! I am very young, I know, and my parents command me not to see you at all, on pain of their displeasure. These clandestine meetings are not to my liking; but what other course is open to us? It may be wrong, but I cannot, will not obey them, and they ought not to command me to slight and shun the one I so dearly love." 
               "Some parents are as cruel as death," I replied, bitterly. "Hearts must be sacrificed to wealth or station. I abhor such sentiments." 
                
               "They are very unjust, Elwood; but for my sake, do not hate my parents. They have done much for me, and have claims upon me for reverence and affection. I love them, and wish you could love them too. I don't expect that, while they ill treat you; but pray don't return evil for evil." 
               "Well, I will not. But could you be happy with me in an humble home?" 
               "O yes, I would rather live with you in a rude cottage than to dwell in a palace without you. Your fortune I would share gladly, whatever it may be. As young as I am, I have thought of it much, and there is no true happiness for me without you." 
               "Bless you, my dear one, bless you! Let your parents threaten as they may, you shall be mine, Heaven willing; and, if I have health, I will provide you with a home that neither your parents nor yourself shall be ashamed of." 
               "Of that I feel confident. I have heard with pride of your great mechanical skill. It vexes my father much that you should succeed so well." 
               "I see plainly that his hatred is implacable. Be it so; our faithful love shall conquer all things." 
               "So it shall, dear Elwood; and, with that belief, we can keep up good courage. But I must not tarry longer now, for my parents suspect that I still love you, and that we sometimes meet, in spite of their watching and spying." 
               "When shall we meet again?" 
                
               "Can you come here in exactly two weeks?" 
               "Yes, dear Marion, but it seems an age." 
               "Be cheerful, Elwood, and the days of our separation will soon be over." 
               With a long, lingering farewell, and more than one unspoken salute, we left the cemetery, and returned to our respective homes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Wise men ne'er sit and wail their loss, 
                           But cheerly seek how to redress their harms. 
                           What though the mast be now blown overboard, 
                           The cable broke, the holding anchor lost, 
                           And half our sailors swallowed in the flood? 
                           Yet lives our pilot still: is't meet that he 
                           Should leave the helm, and, like a fearful lad, 
                           With tearful eyes add water to the sea, 
                           And give more strength to that which hath too much; 
                           Whilst in his moan, the ship splits on a rock, 
                           Which industry and courage might have saved." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY SIXTH. 
                   
                
               WHEN I commenced learning my trade, I had one great purpose in view,-it was, to help my father repurchase the farm he had lost. I informed Mr. Mackay of the project. It pleased him much, and he promised his assistance. 
               "You are a noble fellow," he said; "and, if success is not yours, it shall not be for want of a helping hand from me." 
               He kept his word faithfully, and I astonished my parents more than once by carrying home a large sum of money. When they proposed purchasing a small farm, I opposed it. They acquiesced, but thought it strange that I was unwilling to aid them in securing a more comfortable and more permanent home than the tumble-down tenement we occupied. My sister censured my course, for she felt, and rightly too, that the "old folks" ought to have a good place in which to pass their old age. With Mr. Mackay's advice I kept my own counsel, and worked on diligently. 
               My employer, being an excellent business man, had accumulated a handsome property. When I was twenty-one, my mechanical abilities were vastly superior to his. On that day he presented me a splendid copy of Shakspeare, and very generously offered to take me into partnership. I accepted his offer without a moment's hesitation. We were more than usually successful, and at the end of a year, I had money sufficient for my contemplated purchase. The owner of the farm-or more properly, the occupant, for he had never half paid for it-was very willing to sell all the land and buildings, also the stock and farming tools. 
               The money that I had earned had been placed in the savings bank in my name. I frequently had my own book and father's likewise in my possession. When the day arrived for the payment of the purchase-money, I withdrew our joint savings, consummated the bargain, and received a deed. The house was then completely repaired according to my directions. Under the superintendence of Mrs. Mackay,-who became deeply interested in the plot,-it was thoroughly cleansed, from attic to cellar; new furniture was procured; and a day fixed for the removal thither of my parents and sister. 
                
               The morning of that day was exceedingly beautiful, and I invited our family to a ride. As soon as we had left, our humble household goods were packed up and taken to the dear, familiar farm-house. At noon we stopped at a hotel, took dinner, and spent considerable time in viewing a beautiful village cemetery, not far away. Having remained as long as was necessary in order to arrive at tea-time, we started on our return; but in due season I changed the course, and drove in the direction of the farm. 
               When we had almost reached there, I informed the family that I had agreed to call at the "old place," and take supper, for our friends the Mackays were there. This they thought very strange; but, before many questions could be asked, I drove up to the door. What questions they did ask, however, it taxed all my shrewdness and Yankee circumlocution so to evade that they should not suspect any thing until all was ready for the denouement.
                
               Our friends came out to welcome us with beaming faces. They invited us into the parlor, and, soon after, to tea. As we sat down at the table, my mother said: 
               "Why, Mr. Mackay, when did you move here?" 
               "Not long since," he replied. 
               "I must say, that you keep your movements very secret." 
               "Very true, our move-ments," he answered smilingly. 
                
               "And so this is your old home, mother," observed Lissy. "It is a nice place,-I wish that I could live here." 
               "It seems like the happy old times to be here once more, don't it, Mary?" asked my father. 
               "Yes, James," she replied tremulously, almost weeping. "We were happy here; but the bitterness of privation is passed, and I am reconciled. We lost our home,-a beautiful home, too,-but God gave us two as good children as ever blest a household." 
               "Very true, Mary," replied my father. "What a hard lot was yours, immediately after our great misfortune. There are many furrows on your face which would not have been there, but for the villany that was practised towards us. Thank God, we are quite happy again!" 
               "Having overcome all your troubles," said Mrs. Mackay, "I heartily sympathize with you, for your last days shall be your best." 
               "I hope they will have a better home than they have now," said Lissy, glancing at me. 
               "I hope so, too," said Mr. Mackay, "for they deserve it." 
               "That is what I have always told Elwood," said Lissy. 
               The conversation was now ingeniously turned, by Mr. Mackay, to the farm, the quality of the soil, the number of acres of woodland which my father left, and other items of like nature. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Mackay and Lissy ate quite heartily ily, especially the latter; but father, mother, and myself had little appetite. Their thoughts were busy with the scenes of their old home and their trials since; while my heart swelled with emotions of a peculiar and indescribable nature. Our friends pressed me to eat, and mother said she was fearful that I was unwell. 
               When supper was ended, Mrs. Mackay and Lissy went into the kitchen, and the latter immediately exclaimed: 
               "Why, mother! how much these look like our chairs. I never should know the difference." 
               "Nor I either," said Mrs. Mackay. 
               Mother immediately went out to see them. The effect of one glance was such that she clung to Lissy for support. An old neighbor, who had been let into the secret, had arranged them, and they looked very much as they did when they stood there twenty years before. Other things now attracted her attention, and she looked keenly at them with a puzzled air, at last exclaiming: 
               "These are my things,-I know they are. Say, Lissy, are they not ours?" 
               "I should think they were,-I can almost declare they are. Look at the old bellows! I am sure, now." 
               Mother turned and gazed at me. Suddenly a new light seemed to break upon her. She sprang and caught me to her heart, exclaiming: 
               "This is our home,-O! tell me, Elwood, is it not? You cannot speak: I know it is. O! Elwood, what a joyful surprise is this. So much like you, my dear, dear boy." 
               "Is it our home?" said Lissy, clapping her hands. "O! don't say it is not. We can be so happy here." 
               I wanted to speak, but found it no easy matter. Finally, I was able to stammer, "It is ours." 
               Lissy now caught me round the neck, and thus both mother and sister held me in a close embrace. 
               Father was unable at first to comprehend the exciting scene; but, when he did, he was deeply moved. And now each room was visited in turn, and every thing pleasurably examined. 
               "Well," said mother, "you have contrived this surprise with great skill, I must confess; I could not have done it better myself." 
               "But the mystery to me is," observed father, "where you obtained the money to accomplish all this." 
               "Yours and mine combined," I said proudly; "and we are not one cent in debt. Pardon me the liberty I have taken. At the time I withdrew the money from the bank which was placed there to my account, I withdrew yours also, and I have spent the whole except two hundred dollars, which I now return to you." 
               "O no," said my father, with much emotion; "keep it, my boy, for it is yours. I do not want it." 
                
               "No, father," I replied, "you may need this and more. I shall not keep it." 
               "But where did you get the remainder?" he inquired. 
               "I will enlighten you," said Mr. Mackay. "Elwood and I took a large job, which proved a lucky one. The amount which we realized was in proportion to the risk; this, and what we made on smaller contracts, gave him the means to accomplish an object which he long ago set his heart upon." 
               "Then that was the reason," said Lissy, "why you opposed the purchase of a small farm. I see that I did you injustice." 
               "I have had this project in view for many years," I replied. 
               "And nobly have you accomplished it, my dear boy!" exclaimed mother. "O, this pays for all!" 
               "For those many hard years of toil, mother," I said, "when the whole burden came upon you? Not yet, but it may." 
               We were now in the parlor; and ere long Mrs. Mackay came in, and said that we ate so little at supper, and looked so solemn, she had prepared tea again, and she did hope that we would now eat like Christians. In the best of humor, we all repaired to the table, and this time did ample justice to the good things set before us. 
               The evening was spent as joyfully as we could desire, each one feeling excellent reasons for gratitude to Providence. 
               The next morning, our friends bade us good-by, leaving a truly delighted family behind. Old neighbors soon flocked in, each with a kind word, and right glad was my father to shake their honest hands again. Lissy was flying hither and thither, all day long, singing as merrily as a lark. 
               A few days after, she saw Marion and told her this little history, describing, with a sister's partiality, the part I had acted; and the two gentle girls cried for joy in each other's arms. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "For aught that I could ever read, 
                           Could ever hear by tale or history, 
                           The course of true love never did run smooth; 
                           But either it was different in blood; 
                           O cross! too high to be enthralled too low! 
                           Or else misgraffed in respect of years; 
                           O spite! too old to be engag'd too young! 
                           Or else it stood upon the choice of friends." 
                        
                      
                     MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. 
                   
                
               MARION and I continued our clandestine meetings at different places, as often as we thought it advisable. O, how precious were those moments, and how much we said during them. 
               At last Mr. Windsor became aware of our intimacy. He was very wroth, and Marion was obliged to listen to a tirade of abuse, of the most scurrilous and vulgar character. Without my knowledge, she was sent some distance from home, to school. I learned her location in a few days, for she sent a letter to me, addressed under cover to Mr. Mackay. She had taken this precaution, because she feared that, if directed to me, her father might get possession of it. Here is the letter: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR ELWOOD,-You have learned ere this that I am away from home. My father, by some means, discovered ered our intimacy. O Elwood! you can have no idea how he talked to me; my heart rebels against him now. I did not think he could use such language to his own child,-his only daughter. He says that, if I marry you, he will disown and disinherit me; but I will, let the consequences be what they may. My blood is up now, and I never was so determined before. Don't despair, dearest, for all will yet be well. You must come and see me, but not just yet. * * * * I am pleasantly situated here, and enjoy myself as well as can be expected. New studies engross much of my time, but I cannot win my thoughts from you. Every night, before I close my eyes in sleep, my thoughts ascend to the dear God, asking his blessing and protection for the one who is dearer to me than life. 
                           "I know not what stratagems my father has taken; but, if you address your letters to me, they may be intercepted. Please superscribe to my chum, Nellie Wilkins, and then I think they will come safe to your own. 
                           
                              "MARION."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Never did a letter receive a fonder welcome. I was very anxious in relation to Marion, for I knew her father to be capable of mean and wicked deeds. I sent a reply immediately, and in a few weeks visited the town where she had been sent. I had written what day I should arrive, and agreed to leave the coach half a mile from the village, and wait for her. The coach had scarcely gone from sight ere she appeared. The ardor of our meeting may be left to the reader's imagination to picture. 
               When I left home, I did not design being absent more than two or three days; but the golden hours which we spent together were too precious to be relinquished so soon. Every evening was passed with Marion, and no one was aware of my presence, but Nellie Wilkins. 
               After a week, however, I returned to Dunfield. Letters now passed between us twice a week, and their contents were devoured with a pleasure such as lovers only can appreciate. 
               But we could not endure a long separation, knowing that no barrier was between us which might not easily be overleaped; and so, after a few months, I made Marion another visit. This time the fates were less propitious, for, Nellie Wilkins having made a confident who proved treacherous, the teacher learned of my presence, and informed Mr. Windsor. 
               He came on with all possible speed, ascertained where I boarded, and called upon me. I politely requested him to be seated. 
               "Why do you dog the steps of my daughter?" he asked. 
               "I do not dog her steps," I replied. 
               "But I contend, sir, that you do." 
               "And I contend, sir, that I do not." 
               "Well, young man, it is rumored that you are determined to marry my daughter, whether I am willing or not." 
               "Not an unpardonable sin, I hope, admitting the rumor to be true." 
                
               "But, sir, I despise you, and I utterly forbid you to speak to Marion again." 
               "If you had a right to command, and you were worthy of obedience, I should give some heed to your words; but, as it is, sir, you might as well spare your tongue and curb your temper." 
               "I will put you in prison, sir. This to me? Who do you take yourself to be, sir?" 
               "An honest man, Mr. Windsor; and you are aware, I presume, that Pope says such a man is 'the noblest work of God.' Do you ever venture to class yourself in that category?" 
               "No matter whether I do or not. Zounds, sir, I can't bear this impudence! You had the audacity once to strike my son, and I have a great mind to break my cane over your head!" 
               "Don't attempt that, I beg of you. I am attached to your daughter, and I desire no quarrel with her father. I would much rather be friends with you; but I notify you that I allow no man to strike me with impunity." 
               "Attached to my daughter! That's where all the trouble lies. You have succeeded, by your devilish arts, in making her think that she is in love with you. Why don't you seek a companion in the sphere where you belong? I would rather see her married to a town pauper than to yourself!" 
               "I don't think you can have your choice, sir. You may use as insulting language as you please. Better that you should heap your abuse upon me, than upon that sensitive being whom any man might well be proud to call his daughter." 
               "I should have been proud of her, I doubt not, if it had not been for your machinations, you cunning, low-lived knave! After I have been at all this expense and trouble, you must still follow her here, to discommode me still more. You sha'n't have her, you villain, if you try ever so hard! My daughter shall marry worthy of her parentage, and not some mean cub, who has hardly got a hut to stay in. Keep away from her,-let her alone,-and all trouble will be at an end. But, if you don't, as true as there is a God in heaven, I will make you repent of it!" 
               "Mr. Windsor, your threats I regard not. You have already injured me all that you could. I now fear you not in the least. I love your daughter, and she returns my affection. On account of a foolish pride, you would separate us forever. You have not the slightest regard for Marion's happiness, though you know her excellencies and virtues. Your heart is cold and hard and swollen with purse-pride. But you are fighting against true love,-against a wise and tender Providence, that favors constancy,-and you can't succeed." 
               "I am fighting a low churl, and I will succeed. Don't flatter yourself that you will ever accomplish your object. Marion knows better than foolishly to throw herself away. I had hoped to find you wise enough to give up this silly pursuit of my only daughter; but there is no reason in you, so I will bid you good-day, sir." 
               "Good-day," I replied, "and may God bring you into a better frame of mind." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Though all the world should crack their duty to you, 
                           And throw it from their soul; though perils did 
                           Abound as thick as thought could make them, and 
                           Appear in forms more horrid; yet my duty, 
                           As doth a rock against a chiding flood, 
                           Should the approach of this wild river break, 
                           And stand unshaken yours." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY EIGHTH. 
                   
                
               AS Mr. Windsor failed to wring a promise from Marion that she would see me no more, he compelled her to return with him to Dunfield. And now commenced a course of treatment which almost entirely alienated her affections from her parents. They took every occasion to mortify her. Bitter words of reproof were dinned in her ears from morning till night, and their every look repelled her. All her steps were watched, and if she corresponded with any one, her letters were read; and so she refused to write at all. At night she was locked into her chamber without a light. 
               I tried in vain for a long time to obtain an interview with Marion. One night, at twelve o'clock, I stood under her window. She had arisen from her couch and sat looking out, and she saw me. She noiselessly lifted the sash and said: 
               "Elwood, is that you?" 
                
               "Yes, dear Marion," I replied. 
               "I am so glad that you think of me enough to come here sometimes; but you must be careful, for it is dangerous. Do not run the risk often, will you?" 
               "No; but it seems good to be near you, even if I cannot see you. Alas! Marion, I know that you are a captive, a prisoner, now." 
               "I hear the maid moving,-you must away. Here is a letter (dropping it down): have you got it?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then good-night, dear Elwood." 
               "Good-night, dear, dear Marion." 
               She shut down the window, and I hastened home to read my precious epistle. I was so glad to receive it, and so much interested in the contents, that I have imagined my readers will thank me for allowing them the privilege of perusing it: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY OWN ELWOOD,-Father and myself came directly home from--; and, since then, I have been very closely watched. Would you believe it?-I am locked into my chamber every night, and the lamp taken away. All the windows have been fastened, a screw put through each; but, after all, they are baffled, for I have procured an old screw-driver, and have taken out one of the screws, or else I should be half-smothered in this close room. I take the precaution to restore the screw to its place every morning. As I can open a window, I hope to give you this. I have twice seen you, at night, from my window; but, as I could not then open it, I was unable to speak to you. Dear Elwood, how glad I was to know that you were so near. 'Tis love that draws you hither; but do be careful, dearest. My father's hatred towards you is fearful; I tremble when I remember what he has said. Should he see you here, in a moment of passion, I know not what he might do. It would not surprise me should he shoot you dead, under pretence that he took you for a house-breaker; for, although he is my father, I have learned that his anger is terrible when it is fully roused. Great caution must be exercised. 
                           "But I am glad to know that you are sometimes near. As I have seen you looking up to my chamber, I have fancied you my guardian spirit, who would keep all danger away. But these prison-like walls separate us. How monstrous that two hearts, that love so well, should have such barbarous obstacles between them. 
                           "I have secured a little night-lamp, but dared not light it until I had carefully put down both curtains, lest the reflection should be seen by some of the family. I shall keep it, and the implement that unfastens my window, carefully concealed. 
                           "My home is now a dreary place for me; it has been turned into a prison; and my jailers never give me a kind word, but many cruel ones. I try to keep up good courage, and my heart is brave. You can have no idea how terrible it is every day to face an angry father, and hear the cruel taunts of a mother who has outlived the memory of her young affections. But for your sake, Elwood, I can endure all things. I know that you love me, and that is the anchor of my hope. Let the cruel storm of hatred and malice rage on,-your love shall safely bear me up, so that, God willing, I may arrive at the haven of domestic peace at last. 
                            
                           "Are you ever fearful that I shall yield to the wishes of my parents, to escape persecution? If so, dismiss your fears, for I am not moved and shall not be. A clandestine marriage, you have told me repeatedly, is our only hope. It may be so; but I have believed that, when my parents saw my affections irrevocably fixed upon you, they would relent. Let me still cherish this faith. I am sure, Elwood, that all must be well at last, through God's blessing. 
                           
                              "From your constant 
                              "MARION WINDSOR."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               With peculiar emotions did I read this letter. I was indignant at the usage Marion received, while I admired her noble, brave spirit, that would not bend or break beneath the heavy burdens which were laid upon it. I kissed the letter again and again, and slept with it near my heart. What a treasure she was to me, and how closely were her heart-strings intertwined with my own! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Shot, by heaven! Proceed, sweet Cupid; thou hast thumped him with thy bird-bolt under the left pap."
                      
                     LOVE'S LABOR LOST. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I do oppose 
                           My patience to his fury; and am arm'd 
                           To suffer, with a quietness of spirit, 
                           The very tyranny and rage of his." 
                        
                      
                     MERCHANT OF VENICE. 
                   
                
               AS the "old homestead," which we had regained, was two miles from my place of business, I boarded at Mr. Mackay's. My host and hostess were deeply interested in my love affair, and anxious that I should defeat all the arts of the Windsors, and make Marion my own. In business, success continually crowned our efforts, giving me the assurance that I should ultimately win a competency. When I visited my father's house, which we now called the "old homestead," my heart was gladdened to witness the content and happiness there. Much pride was in my sire's heart, for he was proud of his wife, proud of his children, and proud of his farm. He cultivated the soil on scientific principles, and so he secured excellent crops. He was aided in his work by two men and a boy, the crops being sufficient to remunerate them for their labor, and enable him to live in comparative independence. He delighted to show me his corn, wheat, and fine fields of grass. My mother actually grew younger in appearance after she returned to her old home. How cheerful she was, and what a beautiful expression clothed her earnest, thoughtful face! And Lissy, too, the dear girl,-"the angel of the household,"-she filled our home with sunshine and song. 
               It was not often that Marion ventured to address me from her window, for she feared a discovery. Once a fortnight she dropped me down a most welcome letter. 
               Not long after her return from school, her brother came home from college, accompanied by a young Southern student, After he had been there a month, the following was the letter I received from Marion: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "DEAR ELWOOD,-My brother returned from college a month since, as you have probably been informed ere this. Very hard things has he said to his sister, since his return, because of her love for you. O! shall I never hear kind words or behold loving faces again? I am sometimes weary of this strife, as no hope yet glimmers in the future. 
                           "When you have read the above, will you think I am preparing to yield? I beg you not to harbor such a thought for a moment. While life lasts, I shall be true to you and you alone. Though I may be often weary, I shall not falter. 
                           "A young man from South Carolina, a college friend of my brother, came here with him. His father is said to be a very wealthy slaveholder. His name is George Washington Stanton. Very romantic, is it not? He is a high-spirited young gentleman, full of Southern fire, and not any too well stocked with brains. If he is not much superior to other people, he is woefully mistaken; but, whether mistaken or not in his estimate of his abilities and worth, he can never be made to think himself in the wrong, for he knows just little enough to suppose himself well posted on all subjects. 
                           "I wish he had spared us this visit, for, however much my parents and brother may like him, I greatly dislike him. Only think, Elwood, to what distinction have I arrived! The very first moment that the eyes of Mr. Stanton beheld me, he thought himself irrecoverably in love. Alas, poor me! I am now subjected to a new persecution. My family are delighted with the idea of my becoming the wife of such an honorable gentleman. Thomas especially favors the scheme, and speaks in glowing terms of Stanton's abilities, his father's wealth, and most aristocratic connections. To hear him talk, you would suppose that, by marrying Stanton, I should occupy a station equal to that of a princess,-being the mistress of hundreds of slaves, whom, of course, God created for no other purpose but to minister to my whims and capricious indolence. Now I have no ambition in that direction; and, if I had, George Washington Stanton would not be the chosen one through whom should flow such exalted distinction. But he is much in love, though, or fancies he is. All day long he is at my side, if he can possibly manage to keep there, while I vainly try to shake him off. Don't talk to me of the indomitable perseverance of the Yankees, after this. Let them look at this noble Southron, and hide their diminished heads. O, those leaden black eyes! they stare at me by the hour, like an owl's. They have a wonderful power over me, producing an effect which nothing else ever did, for they keep my eyes on my work or my book. If I do happen to catch their glance, the spirit of mortal heaviness immediately comes over me. 
                           "My father has informed me that Mr. Stanton would joyfully make me his wife, and he tried to show me the advantages of such a match; but, either from his lack of ability to present the subject in its most attractive light, or from my lack of wisdom to appreciate, he failed to make the desired impression. My father plainly perceived his failure; and, as usual, he was excessively angry. He drew a contrast between the wealthy slaveholder's son and the 'low-bred mechanic' (pardon me for writing the offensive words); and told me how proud he should be to see his daughter wedded to the former. Brother Thomas has expended all his sophomoric eloquence on the same topic, producing the same effect,-namely, nausea. The love-smitten swain has not yet formally proposed, but I expect every day that he will. My father has commanded me not to refuse him; but I shall, and in so decided a manner that even his stupidity will not fail to comprehend it. 
                           "How glad I was to receive the letter which you passed up to me. I shall expect another soon. The aspect of the present is hopeless, indeed; but something whispers that we shall yet be united, and I believe it, and in this faith find my only happiness. Don't despair, dear Elwood, and pardon me that I cannot now accede to your wishes. The hours are passing swiftly, and I must go to rest. Good-night, my own! may angels watch and guard you. 
                           
                              "MARION."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
                
               Not long after this I met Thomas Windsor, near the spot where I gave him the beating, when we were boys. We had not spoken to each other since the lesson in civility I administered to him. The expression of his face was one of mingled hate and haughtiness. 
               "I have the honor," he said, "of addressing Mr. Elwood Gorden, I believe?" 
               "My name is Elwood Gorden," I replied indifferently. 
               "And my name is Thomas Windsor." 
               "I am aware of that fact, sir." 
               "I am glad that you are. Do you remember, sir, the scene which was enacted on this spot many years since, when, assassin-like, you felled me to the earth?" 
               "I recollect it well. Even the most minute events which then occurred are as fresh in my mind as the transactions of yesterday; but I regret to perceive that your manners were not permanently improved by that deserved chastisement." 
               "Deserved!" he cried, swinging his cane menacingly. "Be on your guard as to what you say, sir, or I shall punish you for that ruffianly attack, and for your long list of offences since." 
               "Mr. Windsor, you have a weapon and I have none; but be assured that I do not fear you. I confess that, for various reasons, I have regretted striking you; your punishment, however, was well deserved, for your insults were sufficient to warm up the coldest blood. I seek no quarrel with you, sir, and, notwithstanding the past, would much rather be your friend." 
               "Friend! I choose my friends among my equals; and, had you always done the same, my parents would have been spared a vast deal of anxiety, mortification, trouble, and expense. Any one might know that you were a baseborn puppy, by your attempt to delude and separate from her family the sister of one whom you had so outraged as you have me. Your name is spoken only with disgust in our house; and yet you are plotting and contriving to bring our pretty Marion down to your own mean condition." 
               "Whether I am your equal or not, let the world judge. I see plainly that you want to pick a quarrel, and would provoke me by insults to lift my hand against you once more. Say what you please,-I shall not resent it with blows. For Marion's sake I will forbear, though my blood be on fire. Pour out, then, all the foul phrases which have been so long coining in your shallow brain. I can hear them, and it may be well for you to be rid of them. But, sir, let that suffice, for it will not be safe for you to go any further." 
               "What a cringing coward you are! From my soul, I despise you. Because of you, base ingrate, my sister is a prisoner in her own father's house. Why do you trouble her? what are your intentions? You can never marry her; and what satisfaction can you derive in causing such mischief?" 
                
               "My motives, sir, are honorable, as you know very well. Marion loves me, and the persecution to which she is subjected, because of her devotion to me, is monstrous. A brother should be a protector, while you are her worst enemy." 
               "It is false. In seeking to save her from a dishonorable marriage, I but manifest a brother's interest in her welfare. That interest I shall not abate." 
               "Would you force her to marry against her will? How would you like the same treatment?" 
               "I should deserve it, were I as foolish, inconsiderate, and blind. 'Monstrous,' sure enough, to act so unnaturally, forgetting not only the customs of society but the claims of blood. I have a friend, wealthy and honorable, who has proposed for my sister's hand. My parents greatly approve of him, and so do I. He is worthy of a princess, and my sister will marry him." 
               "She will not, so you may as well set your heart at rest." 
               "She will, for we are all determined upon it. Mr. Stanton is of gentle blood. His father is a wealthy, chivalrous Southern gentleman, owning a large plantation and hundreds of servants. The son is a true Southron, and will not brook interference. He has all the ardor and fire of the generous South. He knows not as yet the obstacle in the way of his happiness, but, sir,-and it will be well for you to weigh my warning carefully,-if you do not give me your word of honor that you will immediately write to Marion that the connection between you is broken off forever, I will inform him of all the facts; and then, woe be to you!" 
               "Ha, ha, ha! how considerate! how condescending! Really, sir, how shall I express my thanks? Should I not be a gallant lover to be thus frightened from my allegiance? Of all your insults, this is the most sneaking. Go speedily to your friend of gentle blood, and tell him, from me, that Marion and I have long been pledged lovers, and that only death can sever the sacred tie." 
               "I will, rash youth, and you will soon have cause to repent your hasty resolution." 
               "Don't be frightened, Mr. Windsor, for I am not. If your Southern friend is a gentleman,-which admits of a doubt, while he flaunts and blusters on the proceeds of oppression, inflicted upon innocent human beings,-if he is a true gentleman, he will no longer proffer his love where it is not wanted. But, if he follows the customs of the plantation, and supposes that woman was created merely to gratify his passions, then will he act as basely as the rest of you." 
               "He is not one to give up a valued object lightly, or hesitate about removing obstacles in his path, be assured of that, you dirty mechanic." 
               "If Marion tells him plainly that she does not want his love; that she cannot return it; that her affections are already bestowed upon another; and he continues to urge his suit, joining your whole family in their villainous persecution, then he is a scoundrel, and you may tell him I say so, if you like." 
               "If it were not that he will punish you as you deserve, you beggar's brat, I would this moment administer chastisement, in my friend's behalf. But the account will yet be settled amply,-no mistake about that," was the closing threat with which the young blackguard walked away. 
               The turmoil of my feelings was indescribable. O God! to what a pitch of frenzy was I wrought up, and yet I had preserved outward calmness. How slowly the fire burns when it is almost entirely shut from the air, and yet it still keeps eating away, spreading itself wider and wider, until it reaches the atmosphere, when it suddenly bursts into a flame. I had managed to smother most of my resentment at the gross insults which were heaped upon me by Tom Windsor; but, in a few moments after his departure, my passions burned like fire. 
               "No," I cried, "I will not submit to such indignity. I will punish the villain immediately. No man, whoever he is or whatever station he fills, shall spit out his venom at me unpunished!" 
               I made all haste to overtake young Windsor, intending to chastise him as he deserved. But I suddenly stopped, at the thought of Marion, and queried with myself thus: "Shall I strike her brother? Will she love me as well if I send him home to her bleeding from wounds caused by my own hands, because he has insulted me? Would it not widen the breach between her family and myself? Would it not cause the dear girl to suffer still more?" At that moment I seemed to see her beautiful eyes looking reproachfully into mine. 
               I sat down, and gave vent to my outraged feelings by weeping like a child. "God pity me," I said, "for all this is so hard to bear. Dear Marion, you have saved me; and, whatever your brother may say, I will not harm him. God grant that you may be my guardian spirit always." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The count he woos your daughter, 
                           Lays down his wanton siege before her beauty, 
                           Resolves to carry her; let her, in fine, consent, 
                           And we'll direct her how 'tis best to bear it." 
                        
                      
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Harsh rage, 
                           Defect of manners, want of government, 
                           Pride, haughtiness, oppression, and disdain; 
                           The least of which, haunting a nobleman, 
                           Loseth men's hearts." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FOURTH. 
                   
                
               A FEW nights after the meeting with Thomas Windsor, I received another letter from Marion. It ran as follows: 
                
                  "MY DEAR ELWOOD,-I am very anxious for you, lest you should be left to do what you will have cause to repent of, and what will add to the bitterness of my already too bitter cup. I know how insulting my brother can be when angry, and I know how high-spirited you are: dear one, do be careful, for my sake. 
                  "A few days since I fell asleep in my chair,-for I had slept but little the night previous,-and I dreamed that you and Thomas were engaged in a hot dispute. Because of the invective which he heaped upon you, your passions got the better of your judgment, and with burning anger you were about, as of old, to strike him to the earth. I sprang to hold you back, when I awoke, very glad to find that I had been dreaming. 
                   
                  "When Thomas returned, I looked curiously into his face, and it was so terribly dark that I feared you had met; but I was glad to believe that nothing worse than words had passed between you. Did he treat me as a brother ought, I would have asked him the cause of his trouble; but, as circumstances were, I thought it best to remain silent. 
                  "Mr. Stanton has very generously made a tender of his valuable person; and O how tender-ly (forgive the pun) he did it! I was alone in the parlor, reading, when he came in and seated himself by my side. He attempted to take my hand, but I recoiled from the touch as though he had been a snake. 
                  "'Do not be so coy, my lady,' he said. 'You certainly should know, by this time, what my sentiments toward you are.' 
                  "'How should I, when you have never told me?' 
                  "'Actions, miss, speak louder than words. But, lest you should fail to understand me, I will be plain with you.' 
                  "'Go on, if you please.' 
                  "'Having your parents' and brother's approval, I make bold to declare to you that I love you.' 
                  "He now attempted again to take my hand; but, failing,-"'Will you not let me take your hand, after all this?' he said, with an expression and manner of great condescension. 'I love you, Miss Windsor; I have loved you since the first moment we met. This will explain my subsequent conduct, I doubt not. My intentions, miss, are honorable, for I wish you to become my wife. By accepting me you will secure great happiness, I doubt not, for us both. I await your answer.' 
                  "'Mr. Stanton, I suppose that I ought to thank you for your proposal; but I cannot answer it favorably.' 
                   
                  "'Your answer surprises me, miss. Are you aware of my position in the world?' 
                  "'I am, sir.' 
                  "'You cannot be in your senses to slight such an offer as this. Why, think of all the advantages of being my wife! You will not be obliged to pour out the water to wash your own hands. You will not even have to dress yourself; servants will await your bidding in all things. You should reflect well before rejecting such good fortune.' 
                  "'I am so unfortunate, sir, as to have always thought my hands were given me for some good purpose. I cannot possibly persuade myself that they were made for idleness. To be in as helpless a position as a babe has no charms for me. This is a world of Divinely-ordered industry, and my desire is to do my share of work, and not compel other persons to do it for me in addition to their own. To place myself in a condition in which I can live on unrequited toil, and escape all labor, is what I have no desire for,-not the slightest. If I require the services of others, they must be amply compensated. I cannot even respect the man who, because he has the power, forces his fellow creatures to spend their strength for him for nought, while he is so utterly lacking in all the nobler traits of manhood, that he is content to live a lazy, slothful life, accomplishing nothing, and yet all the while fancying that he is a superior being to those who earn an honest livelihood with their own hands. These are plainly my sentiments, sir; and I trust you will be wise enough to heed them, and not again urge me to enter into a relation which should be holy, a union of souls.' 
                  "'You astonish me, miss. I perceive that you sympathize with those fanatics, the abolitionists. Your brother has the same opinion of the crazy, pestilent crew that I have. The major part of them are no doubt honest, though deceived; but, as for the leaders, if we ever catch the scoundrels at the South, we will hang them upon the highest tree we can find.
                        Senator H. S. Foote's threat to John P. Hale.
                      What are you Northerners, your factory girls, the large majority of your people, but slaves, hard-working slaves, more degraded than the jolly Africans, who so excite your sympathies? Could your hirelings exchange places with them, they would be the gainers. Once my wife, you would soon be rid of your false notions of society. Some were made for toil, while others were created for a higher purpose. To dig and sweat, from day to day, would degrade them to the abject condition of the slave. The dray-horse would be out of place on the racecourse, or the racer harnessed to the dray. You have been in bad company, evidently, and your head has been filled with foolish prejudice.' 
                  "'And it is of such strength that I shall not be rid of it soon, rest assured of that.' I here arose, went to my library, and selected that little volume of poems, by John G. Whittier (presented to me by yourself), which is so brimming with noble sentiments, love of justice, liberty, and right, with intentest hatred for oppression. Turning to 'The Yankee Girl,' I requested my aristocratic suitor to read it. 
                  
                      
                        "THE YANKEE GIRL. 
                        "She sings by her wheel, at that low cottage door, 
                        Which the long evening shadow is stretching before, 
                        With a melody sweet as the music which seems 
                        Breathed softly and faint in the ear of our dreams. 
                     
                      
                        "How brilliant and mirthful the light of her eye, 
                        Like a star glancing out from the blue of the sky! 
                        And lightly and freely her dark tresses play 
                        O'er a brow and a bosom as lovely as they! 
                     
                      
                        "Who comes in his pride to that low cottage door,- 
                        The haughty and rich to the humble and poor? 
                        'Tis the great Southern planter, the master who waves 
                        His whip of dominion o'er hundreds of slaves. 
                     
                      
                        "'Nay, Ellen,-for shame! Let those Yankee fools spin, 
                        Who would pass for our slaves with a change of their skin; 
                        Let them toil as they will at the loom or the wheel,- 
                        Too stupid for shame, and too vulgar to feel! 
                     
                      
                        "'But thou art too lovely and precious a gem 
                        To be bound to their burdens, and sullied by them. 
                        For shame, Ellen, shame! cast thy bondage aside, 
                        And away to the South, as my blessing and pride. 
                     
                      
                        "'O, come where no winter thy footsteps can wrong, 
                        But where flowers are blossoming all the year long, 
                        Where the shade of the palm-tree is over my home, 
                        And the lemon and orange are white in their bloom. 
                     
                      
                        "'O, come to my home, where my servants shall all 
                        Depart at thy bidding, and come at thy call; 
                        They shall heed thee as mistress, with trembling and awe, 
                        And each wish of thy heart shall be felt as a law.' 
                     
                      
                        "O, could ye have seen her-the pride of our girls- 
                        Arise, and cast back the dark wealth of her curls, 
                        With a scorn in her eye which the gazer could feel, 
                        And a glance like the sunshine that flashes on steel! 
                     
                      
                        "'Go back, haughty Southron! thy treasures of gold 
                        Are dim with the blood of the hearts thou hast sold; 
                        Thy home may be lovely, but round it I hear 
                        The crack of the whip and the footsteps of fear. 
                     
                      
                        "'And the sky of thy South may be brighter than ours, 
                        And greener thy landscapes, and fairer thy flowers; 
                        But dearer the blast round our mountains which raves 
                        Than the sweet summer zephyr which breathes over slaves! 
                     
                      
                        "'Full low at thy bidding thy negroes may kneel, 
                        With the iron of bondage on spirit and heel; 
                        Yet know that the Yankee girl sooner would be 
                        In fetters with them, than in freedom with thee!'" 
                     
                   
                   
                  "When he had finished reading the poem, my chivalrous admirer threw the book upon the floor in a passion. 'I don't wonder,' he said, in an irate tone, 'that your head is filled with false notions, and your heart with a sympathy which is uncalled-for, if you allow yourself to read such contemptible doggerel. The author ought to have a coat such as geese wear, and be driven from respectable society. Humph! what stuff and nonsense!' 
                  "'I don't allow a book of mine to be treated in this way,' I remarked, stooping to pick up the volume, 'nor do I like to hear a good poem denounced as doggerel. The author is my favorite poet, for his poems give evidence that his great heart beats for all humanity.' 
                  "'Perhaps I have been a little hasty, Miss Windsor. If so, I crave your pardon. We do not allow such books where I came from. It would be as much as a man's life is worth to write and publish verses like those. I don't doubt your honesty, in the least, but your sympathy is entirely misplaced, uncalled for, unnecessary. A happier people do not exist than the slaves; and this I know, for I have always lived among them.' 
                  "I doubt it very much; but, if I believed it, I should still sympathize with them, and labor to break their bonds, because realizing their terrible degradation. No people can be happy in bondage, unless all that is noble in them has been crushed out.' 
                  "'I tell you, miss, that you are mistaken.' 
                  "'You think so,-I think otherwise.' 
                  "'I am certain that one like you, although in an error now, may yet be made to see the eternal fitness of things. Let me be your loving teacher, and I will show you what is right and proper, in this slavery question.' 
                  "'You may rest assured, sir, that, were I your pupil, my progress would be too slow for your quick Southern blood.' 
                  "'O, never fear, miss! You are prejudiced, that is all; a few weeks in our beautiful clime, where you could witness the affection between master and servant, and see the contented, cheerful faces of the blacks, would remove it all. I am quite willing to trust your generous nature.' 
                  "'You have my answer, sir.' 
                  "'What! you-you don't-don't mean-that-that you re-reject me entirely?'
                   
                  "'I do, sir.' 
                  "'This is pretty well, I must confess. My friend's sister reject me thus, and without one word of apology to soften the blow? I had a right to expect something different, miss. I consider your conduct insulting.' 
                  "'I am sorry that you are offended, but I cannot help it. Your manner and your language, sir, are very ungentlemanly. One would suppose that you thought I was under obligations to accept you, whether I liked you or not. Sir, I was not born a slave. No man shall ever have the right to call me wife, unless I love him devotedly.' 
                  "'It may be that you knew such an one previous to seeing me.' 
                  "'I will be frank with you, sir, though you do not deserve it. My heart was given, long ago, to one who is every way worthy to have and to hold it forever; and to him alone shall I give my hand.' 
                  "'You talk as independently as a queen. Does your family approve your choice?' 
                  "'They do not, but are most bitterly opposed to it. I am a prisoner in my father's house,-all my steps are watched,-and I am locked into my chamber at night. You see how I am persecuted, and O! sir, if you have one honorable feeling in your heart, you will not add to my unhappiness by persevering in a suit which you now see must be hopeless.' 
                  "'Madam, I love you, and some mean churl has placed himself between me and the object of my desire. You know but little of Southern character, if you suppose we ever relinquish that which we have once undertaken to gain. Your parents and brother have consented, and you have no right, as a dutiful daughter and sister, to thwart their wishes. Their will should be your law. With their consent, I have a better claim than another can have. Be wise, then, and give me the right to call you my own, and this unnatural state of things will speedily cease.' 
                  "Thereupon he attempted to clasp my waist; but I repelled him, with a specimen of Northern 'free speech,' as follows: 
                  "'Stand back, sir, and never again lay one of your foul hands upon me! Know that I despise you from the bottom of my heart, and would sooner wed an Irish bog-trotter than you. Since you are so dull of comprehension, plain words are needed; and I trust that you now understand me.' 
                  "'You are exceedingly impudent, miss. My blood boils at such insults. It may be that I shall have the power and the right some time to avenge them." 
                  "'Never, sir, in the way you dream of. I can die, but I will not be your wife.' 
                  "'We shall see about that, mark me if we don't; and you may yet be glad to humble yourself in the dust, for what you have said to-day.' 
                  "Leave the room, sir, or I will; and don't flatter yourself that I shall ever place my happiness in the keeping of such a knave and ruffian." 
                   
                  "Giving me a look of baffled malignity, Stanton quitted the room. 
                  "In an hour from that time a scene was enacted here which would have astonished you, had you witnessed it. Once, I could not have borne it. My father, mother, and brother, found with difficulty words to express their outraged feelings. I had shamefully insulted a guest, a gallant Southern gentleman, who had honorably sued for my hand. I must make full reparation immediately,-on my bended knees beg his pardon, and assure him that I gladly yielded him my heart and hand, and was proud to receive his in exchange. 
                  "As I would do nothing of the kind, the storm of indignation and vituperation raged furiously. I bore up under it as well as I could. You must judge what I suffered. I tried to make them hear to reason, but in vain. Ah, Elwood, I am ashamed of my own flesh and blood! Why, they ought to have kicked the fellow out of the house,-it was what he richly merited, for his discourtesy and abusive threats toward a lady. But ah! poor me was wholly to blame. 
                  "When their wrath had somewhat cooled, father ordered me to my chamber, and I have not been permitted to leave it since. All this is terrible to endure, but I bear it cheerfully for your sake. I did not know, until the trial came, that I could be so brave. For all this suffering, I feel that you will love me an hundred-fold. Love for parents, love for my brother, has nearly all gone now. You are my only earthly reliance. 
                  "I tremble for you, Elwood, as Mr. Stanton has threatened vengeance on his rival, if he meets him. Be on your guard, but do nothing rashly. Remember that my weal or woe is in your hands. Stanton has no benevolence, no honor, no true manliness, though he is such a fine sprig of Southern 'chivalry.' If it were not for the restraints of the law, I doubt not he would be ready to imbrue his hands in your blood. As it is, he will harm you in any way he can. 
                  "I cannot tell when my father's anger will so abate that I may be allowed to go down stairs again. Probably not until he is satisfied that this is not the way to subdue me. 
                  
                     "Yours for time, and, God willing, for eternity, 
                     "MARION."
                   
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Conceit in weakest bodies strongest works."
                      
                     KING HENRY THIRD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "Kill men in the dark! where are those bloody thieves?"
                      
                     OTHELLO. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O vanity of sickness! fierce extremes, 
                           In their continuance will not feel themselves 
                           *   *   *   And his siege is now 
                           Against the wind, which he pricks and wounds 
                           With many legions of strange fantasies." 
                        
                      
                     KING JAMES. 
                   
                
               ALTHOUGH George Washington Stanton had been in Dunfield two months, yet I had not seen him. I had heard much of the vices of Southern character; of the peculiar influences under which boys were educated, that tended, instead of checking their passions, rather to excite them. I knew that the slaveholder looked upon the mechanic, the laborer, with contempt. From what Marion had written, it was evident that Mr. Stanton had no correct ideas of right and wrong; that, though I had long been engaged to Marion, he would not recognize my claim at all, but considered me an intruder, an obstacle in his path, to be got rid of by some "chivalrous" method, such as the bludgeon or the bowie-knife. 
                
               I regretted much the necessity that seemed to devolve upon me of preparing for self-defence. I procured a sword-cane and a revolver, determined-if it came to fighting-to sell my life as dearly as possible. I would not court a conflict, but resolved to defend myself. I had not long to wait for a rencounter. 
               I had visited the "old homestead," and was returning to Mr. Mackay's on foot, when I met Thomas Windsor and Mr. Stanton. Doubtless they were watching for me. 
               "Mr. Gorden," said Thomas, "I have the pleasure of introducing to you Mr. George Washington Stanton." 
               "Thank you," I replied. "Mr. Stanton, I hope you are well." 
               "I am very well, indeed," he answered. After a pause, he said further: "Excuse my abruptness and brief acquaintance, Mr. Gorden; but is it true that you claim the hand of Mr. Windsor's sister?" 
               "Mr. Stanton," I answered, "when you will prove to me that you have the right to ask that question, I will answer it." 
               "The proof ought to satisfy you. Having abundant means at my disposal, I have proposed to make the lady my bride. Her parents would rejoice to call me 'son,' while my friend, here, would be most happy to change the endearing term to one more dear, even that of 'brother.' Are not these reasons sufficient?" 
                
               "They are not, sir; and yet it suits my mood to answer your question. I do claim her hand." 
               "By what right?" 
               "The right which is conferred by the possession of her heart." 
               "O, that is all gammon! The silly girl may have fancied that she loved you; but let her look at the subject fairly, and she will see it in a different light. I take it, sir, that your station is too low to wed a lady like her." 
               "And I take it, sir, that my station is far above yours. I wrong no man, and wish that justice may be done to all. I honor merit in the palace or the cottage; intellectual culture has my homage; I earn with my own hands the bread I eat and the garments I wear; but I call no man master, and would not look up to a king." 
               "I told you he was a bold-spoken knave," said Thomas. 
               "I perceive that you were right," said Mr. Stanton. "You are well adapted, Mr. Gorden, I doubt not, for the station you occupy, and if you never attempted to step out of it, you would do well enough. But you seek to drag Miss Windsor down to your own level,-I would lift her up to mine: which has the better claim to her hand?" 
               "I would make her the wife of a man who recognizes the rights of all. I should not expect to lift her up, for she is already highly exalted. It would be making a fearful leap downward, for her to take your position, sir,-that of an oppressors sor of our race. But why bandy words, or make odious comparisons? The lady loves you not, and never will." 
               "Be not too sure of that. You are the only obstruction in the way of my success; and, by Heaven! that shall be removed. You must give up all pretensions to Miss Windsor." 
               "I must!" 
               "That is precisely what I mean, sir." 
               "Let me tell you, Mr. Stanton, that you are either a knave or a fool, to talk in this fashion. Who gave you the right to dictate my proceedings?" 
               "Mr. Gorden, I did not meet you to-day with the intention of inflicting injury, for I trusted you would hear to reason. I am not to be balked by you, sir. A 'greasy mechanic' shall not defeat a purpose which is as fixed as the everlasting hills. The contest may end peaceably, if you will do as I desire; but, if not, then be a fool, and take the consequences." 
               "You swagger, sir, as though you were my owner. Please to understand that in this portion of the land one man is as good as another, and that threats like yours are simply ridiculous. I am a man of peace, and despise brawls and duels; but I notify you that, if attacked, I shall defend myself and vindicate my honor." 
               "Your honor! Mr. Gorden, hearken a moment. I have told you that I had no wish to harm you; but, if you do not immediately remove your vile carcase out of my way, then I will do it myself, though I take your life." 
               "You are a chivalrous young gentleman, truly! I consider it beneath the dignity of an honorable man to hold further conversation with you." 
               At this moment Mr. Stanton drew a pistol from his bosom, and aimed it at my breast. Just as he fired, I struck it with my cane, and the ball cut through my clothes, and slightly wounded my side. The ruffian immediately fled. 
               Thomas Windsor remained long enough to learn that I was not dangerously wounded. When he was satisfied of that fact, he said: 
               "You had a very narrow escape, Mr. Gorden." 
               "I believe you, sir. And this cowardly assassin has been selected for your sister's husband, has he?" 
               "Not cowardly, sir. It is customary, where he was reared, to punish such fellows as you. I warned you in season of your danger, but you would not hearken and be wise. You have escaped death as by a miracle; and now it will be well for you to take heed. Another encounter, and you may sleep the sleep that knows no waking." 
               "The law will lay its hand upon your friend, my dear sir, and perchance place him where he cannot attempt to murder honest people." 
               "Come, come, now, that would be cowardly. A fair fight is my motto. Mr. Stanton is as generous and as brave a soul as I ever met. Had you killed him in the encounter, he would not have wished that any appeal should be made to the law. If you take that course, it may involve us all in difficulty." 
               "So far as I am concerned, Mr. Windsor, you are safe,-not on your own account, however, but because you hold the relationship of brother to one who is dearer to me than life. As for Mr. Stanton, he is guilty of an attempt to murder me; and, if caught, he must answer at the bar of justice." 
               "You had better let the matter drop where it is, and forever banish the notion that my only sister will become your wife. Come, take my advice, and thus the whole difficulty will be settled." 
               "I want no advice from you, sir, especially since you are the accomplice of a murderer." 
               "You wrong me there. I did not meet you for any such purpose." 
               "For your sister's sake, I hope you did not; but appearances are all against you. You have given me advice gratuitously, and I would not be in your debt: so now listen to me. Seek Mr. Stanton immediately, and inform him that his only safety is in flight, and then use your influence with your parents to have your sister set at liberty, and hereafter act toward her as a brother ought,-that is, be her protector and not her oppressor." 
               "From the past you may judge how much your advice will affect me, sir. Good-day to you." 
               I proceeded immediately to Mr. Mackay's, and related my adventure. He procured an officer, with great dispatch, to arrest Stanton, but the latter could not be found. 
               A fortnight after this I went to Mr. Windsor's, for the purpose of delivering a letter to Marion, and receiving one from her. It was about midnight when I approached the house. I perceived a dim light in her chamber. The dear girl was watching for me, and carefully lifted the sash when she saw me, and said: 
               "Elwood, is it you?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I am so glad to hear the sound of your voice once more. Strange things have happened here: Mr. Stanton has suddenly left us, and I cannot learn where he has gone. I was fearful that he had taken your life, and fled. I hope he will never return here again. Are you well, Elwood?" 
               "Yes, Marion. I have a letter here for you, that will impart all the news. Are you quite well?" 
               "I am. O, I would so like to talk with you longer; but it will not do. Who knows but that hated Stanton is listening now? I fear he is not far away. Pass up the letter, and I will throw you mine." 
               I tied the letter to a pole which I kept secreted for the purpose, and was just lifting it to Marion, when I heard a suspicious noise near by. I turned my head, and saw George Stanton. He held a gun, and almost instantly fired. I felt that I was shot. The murderous scoundrel fled, and Marion screamed in terror. The blood was pouring from my side; but, with the assistance of the pole, which I still held, I kept my feet for a few moments, and then fell to the earth. 
               I heard Marion cry out in great agony, "Elwood, my own Elwood! O, speak to me. He has killed you--" Her voice now sounded as though dying away in the distance, until I could not hear it at all. A moment longer, and I had lost all consciousness. 
               Many days elapsed before my senses were regained, and the events which transpired I subsequently learned. 
               As Marion addressed me in vain, she sprang to the door and made frantic efforts to open it; but, failing, she returned to the window and rashly leaped to the ground. She sprained one of her ankles badly, and was otherwise injured, but the poor child knew it not. Springing to my side, she addressed me in words of frantic endearment; she chafed my forehead, tore open my vest, and laid her hand upon my heart. Finding that it still beat, she cried aloud for help, and, tearing pieces from her dress, endeavored to stanch the wound. 
               Her parents, brother, and the domestics came out, and ere long many of the neighbors arrived, including Mr. Mackay. 
               "Who is injured?" inquired Mr. Windsor. 
               "Elwood, my own Elwood," said Marion. 
               "Your own Elwood!" he retorted, sneeringly. "Come away, girl. How came you out of your chamber?" and he tried to drag her from me, but she threw her arms frantically around me, and would not relinquish her hold. 
               When Mr. Mackay arrived and looked into my face, he exclaimed: "God's love! it is Elwood Gorden. I have feared this, Mr. Mason," he said to a near neighbor who was present. "Mount a horse, ride for dear life, and obtain a surgeon. Why is Mr. Gorden allowed to lie here, Mr. Windsor? Why have you not had him carried into the house?" 
               "I will have none of the Gordens in my house, Mr. Mackay," replied the brutal-minded man. 
               "I am astonished, Mr. Windsor, at your lack of humanity. If he is not mortally wounded, to remove him now might be the cause of his death,-it must not be done." 
               "I can't help it; my house shall afford no shelter for such low fellows as he." 
               "An attempt has been made upon his life once before, and your son was an accomplice. Mr. Windsor, beware, for there is such a thing as law. Thomas Windsor can be arrested for this and the former attempt." 
               There were now twelve persons present, and the cry was, "Open the door, you old savage, or your house will not be standing to-morrow night at this time!" 
               The doors were opened, upon this; I was carried in, and laid upon a bed; and soon the surgeon arrived. 
                
               It was found, on examination, that I had two wounds, one in the left side, and another through the right arm. I was not aware of the fact at the time; but the villain, to make sure of his purpose, shot at me twice in quick succession. The doctor declared that the balls had touched no vital part, and, by proper care and nursing, there was some hope for me. But I must remain undisturbed for many weeks, as immediate death would follow removal. 
               Mr. Mackay noticed that poor Marion, when she arose to follow me into the house, though so intensely excited, walked very lame. He called the attention of the doctor to the fact. 
               "Marion," said the doctor, "you are quite lame: have you also been wounded?" 
               "No, doctor," she replied. "I was so excited that I jumped from my chamber window. My ankle is very painful." 
               "No marvel, you rash child. If you are not injured more than that, you may thank your stars. A regular Sam Patch leap, upon my soul; and, perchance, a leap for life,-at least for his life,-for, had you not stanched the blood, his life might have ebbed away on the spot." 
               "O, Dr. Spaulding, don't think of me,-I am not hurt,-but save him. O, don't let him die, doctor!" 
               "I will do all that I can. You are not injured, eh?" Laying his hand upon her ankle, he asked: "How came this so swollen, then? If any persons will tell monstrous fibs, it is young girls when they are in love." 
               Dr. Spaulding remained until morning, attending to the wants of his two patients. 
               Mr. Mackay had a long talk with Mr. Windsor, and insisted that I should remain at his house until it was safe to remove me; and that Marion might be with me whenever she chose. Officers were searching for the assassin, whom people suspected of being Mr. Stanton. One word from Mr. Mackay, and Thomas Windsor would be arrested. Trembling for his son, Mr. Windsor dared not demur, but promised all that was required; and so I remained undisturbed, and Marion was my nurse, while life trembled in the balance and long after I was convalescent. 
               The wound in my side was fearful, and nearly caused my death. I should judge that I lay for several days utterly unconscious. The first clear remembrance I have was the fancy that I had been in the battle of Monterey, got terribly wounded, and was left upon the cold ground to die. I thought of my parents far away, and how they would mourn when they learned that their son was slain. And then I thought of our dear Lissy, my sweet sister, and wondered what she would say if she knew that I was lying thus, bleeding out my life. And it seemed to me there was another person who would probably mourn for me; but for a long time I was unable to make out who it was. By-and-by I realized that it was Marion,-that she was the dearest one of all. 
               As I lay there, expecting soon to die, a beautiful Mexican girl came, sat down by my side, laid my head upon her lap, bound up my wounds, and soothed me to rest. Looking up into her face with gratitude, I was surprised to see that she resembled Marion Windsor. 
               My doctor was something of a hydropathist, making frequent use of cloths wet in cold water; and once I imagined myself at sea, and shot in battle by a pirate who had a face like Stanton. I fell over the vessel's side into the water, and sank; down, down, down many miles I swiftly passed through the liquid element, and yet how long it seemed before I reached the bottom! But I was there at last, lying upon my back, looking far up at the great ships sailing above me. I felt that I must die soon of my ghastly wounds; and then I could not breathe; I felt as if stifling, dying. A mermaid now came to me, took me in her arms, and carried me swiftly to her cave, where she dressed my wounds, and sang me into delicious repose; and she, too, had the face of Marion. Thus my thoughts continually ran on, the scenes ever changing, pain and pleasure, hope and despair following each other rapidly. 
               One morning I imagined that I had fallen from a large factory which Mr. Mackay and myself were erecting in L--. My injury seemed fearful, for I could not arise from the ground. I must lie there until help arrived. I employed my thoughts in trying to account for the cause of my fall. Certainly I had worked on buildings for years, and never fallen before; why should I now? It struck me as a great mystery. Just then I heard a voice say, in tones of love and grief: 
               "O! will he never speak again? Will the wandering senses never return? O Elwood, dear Elwood! speak to your Marion once more. She loves you. Would God I had died for thee!" 
               She now bent down and pressed upon my lips one long, ardent kiss. After this she sat near me, and laid her head upon my breast, and wept long and bitterly. 
               On first hearing her voice, I half-recognized it as that of Marion, and tried to answer, but I could not. Any effort to move my limbs was equally futile. But the agony of her sobs and tears at last broke the spell. Reason returned once more to its deserted throne, and my scattered senses were speedily recalled from their wanderings. 
               "Dear Marion," I said, faintly, "is it you?" 
               With a startled cry of joy, she lifted up her head and looked into my face. 
               "O, Elwood! speak again,-let me hear that voice once more." 
               "Yes, dear Marion." 
               "There, that will do; I had forgotten. The doctor said I must have the most perfect command over myself or you might receive irreparable injury jury. In my anxiety, I had forgotten the caution. You will be quiet for my sake, I know, and then you will soon be well again." 
               "But I don't understand where I am. This is a strange room. Let me think. My arm and side. O, I remember, I was shot by Stanton." 
               "Yes, dear, and you have been so ill. But you will recover, the doctor says." 
               "Whose house is this, Marion?" 
               "My father's. You were so badly wounded that it was impossible to remove you elsewhere. I have been your nurse, dear." 
               "And shall you continue to be?" 
               "O yes, for I will persuade the doctor to keep you here for a long time." 
               "Dear Marion, this is almost worth being shot for. Where is Stanton?" 
               "He has not been taken, although a large reward has been offered. The bloody wretch will never show his face here again, and I am thankful for that." 
               "So am I. Why, he meant to kill me! Better be dead, Marion, than married to such a man." 
               "O yes; but I never could have married him. It is so pleasant to hear you talk once more. But I sha'n't let you speak another word, and so you must lie very quiet, and go to sleep." 
               I knew Marion was right; and yielding trustfully as a little child, I was soothed into the land of dreams; and now it was a lovely land, a land of health, of beauty, and pure enjoyment. 
                
               As before stated, I remained at Mr. Windsor's house long after I became convalescent. Marion, feeling some delicacy about urging the point herself, persuaded Mr. Mackay to request the doctor to forbid my removal, until I had nearly recovered. 
               "What shall I say to Mr. Windsor?" was the kind physician's question. 
               "O, hang it!" was the answer, "tell him that Mr. Gorden has an internal difficulty, which renders his removal, at present, dangerous,-and, doctor," added my humorous friend, with a smile, "you know that he has." 
               "As a professional man, Mr. Mackay, I am unable to deny it; and Miss Windsor's situation appears to me equally critical. But I suppose the pretence will be what is called a 'white lie.' Physicians often make use of harmless deceptions,-it is a part of their practice." 
               "But you know, doctor, that, if Mr. Gorden should be removed now, and Marion not allowed to visit him, his recovery would be retarded very much." 
               "Yes, I think you are right. He shall stay just as long as old Windsor will let him." 
               The plan worked admirably, and the hours which both of us had long sighed for were now our own. We improved them well; and more blissful moments mortals seldom know. The past was in a measure forgotten, and we thought little of the future. I have known joy since, but never greater than was then experienced. Every day served to unite us in closer love and confidence. 
               Mr. Windsor told Marion that he should perform his agreement with Mr. Mackay to the letter. He disapproved of it in toto; but, for Thomas' sake, he should submit to the curse for a season. He warned his daughter against giving me any encouragement, or allowing herself to become attached to me, for she should never be my bride. However, he well knew his blustering threats were all in vain, for our hearts were already wedded. Of this he was probably convinced before; but, the day after the last attempt upon my life, he had indisputable proof. It will be recollected that I had tied a letter to a pole, to reach up to Marion, and she was about to drop one down to me. Both these letters fell into the hands of Mr. Windsor, and from them he learned how devoted was our affection, and that we had partially succeeded in foiling his plans. It was useless to be angry then, for I was lying at death's door, and Marion, by his consent, acted as my gentle nurse. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "When we in our viciousness grow hard, 
                           (O, misery on't!) the wise gods seel our eyes; 
                           In our own filth drop our clear judgment; make us 
                           Adore our errors; laugh at us, while we strut, 
                           To our confusion." 
                        
                      
                     ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "If she deny to wed, I'll crave the day, 
                           When I shall ask the banns, and when be married." 
                        
                      
                     TAMING OF THE SHREW. 
                   
                
               A MONTH had passed, yet nothing was heard of George Stanton, though a vigorous and extensive search had been made for him. As he had twice attempted my life, it was thought that he deserved arrest and punishment. Though he was successful in eluding for the time the clutch of justice, his hiding-place will by-and-by be made known. 
               My presence was so offensive to Mr. Windsor, that he continually importuned the doctor to have me removed; but the latter had ever ready some plausible objection, and so I remained. That Mr. Windsor half-suspected advantage was being taken of the equivocal position of his son, I did not doubt; but he thought it impolitic to allude to it. 
               It was of course quite unpleasant for me to remain under the roof of a man who had done me such grievous injury; and only one consideration kept me there,-my attachment for Marion, and the certainty of our total separation again if I left. Perhaps it manifested a lack of self-respect for me to stop one moment longer than was necessary; but then, I was in love; I could have the dear one with me day after day; and who could blame me for resolving to remain? 
               The excitement had in a measure died away, and the officers of the law had relaxed their efforts to find the culprit, when Marion received a letter from him, written at sea, and sent by an inward-bound vessel: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "ON BOARD STEAMER ATLANTIC, Sept. 4th. 
                              "MISS MARION WINDSOR:
                            
                           "Dear Miss,-Feeling it to be unsafe to remain in my own country, I am now fleeing from it. Have you ever asked yourself the question, why it is that George Washington Stanton is hunted as a felon and driven to a foreign land? It is well worth your while to reflect, miss. I have a warm, brave heart, and laid it generously at your feet, and you spurned it. I had a right to be surprised, indignant I may say. There are noble ladies everywhere who would have gladly accepted the prize. Such would have thought you mad. 
                           "Why did I turn from them and worship at your altar alone? Need I tell you? A great many fair ones, and those in exalted stations, had bestowed their smiles upon me; but, until I saw you, I never loved; and when you rejected me with disdain and contumely, I felt unwilling to give you up. Are you not aware that, the more difficult an object is to win, the more the truly brave are incited cited to strive for it? Such was the effect of your rejection upon me. 
                           "You were candid enough to inform me that I had a rival; and judge of my astonishment, when I learned his station in life! With your friends' approval of my suit, I felt that he ought to resign his claims at once; but the unreasonable puppy very saucily refused. I attempted to punish his insolence in chivalrous Southern fashion; but failed, and under your fanatical Northern law became liable to fine or imprisonment for an assault. Good friends provided me with a sure retreat. 
                           "I still cherished the hope of gaining your hand. It seemed impossible to relinquish you to another. At night I often came out of my hiding-place, and watched near your chamber, believing that I had an exclusive right to guard and protect you. 
                           "It was my fortune, or misfortune, to detect you in a clandestine interview with the fellow who had caused all the trouble. I knew that your hand properly belonged to me; and, when I learned that you still had interviews with the low-born hireling, that letters passed between you, and heard you speak of the 'hated Stanton,' my blood was on fire. The event that followed was what ought to be expected of Southern boldness and honor, kindled by Yankee presumption. 
                           "An asylum was immediately provided me until I could with safety escape; and now I am in a noble vessel, on old ocean's swelling billows, swiftly speeding from my native land. 
                           "You are still very dear to me, and it is time that your heart was touched. All that I have done has been for your sake. For you I have broken the laws,-for you I am hunted like a wild beast,-for you I was confined in a very small room, during the most sultry days and nights of the season,-for you I am undergoing banishment from my country and friends. 
                           "Dear Miss Windsor, this is my last appeal. If all the efforts and sacrifices I have made cannot move your obdurate heart, nothing can. Learn to love me; and in a few months I will return, and bear you in triumph to my own sunny land, where you shall know every joy that heart can wish. 
                           "If your heart should relent, you can write me, for your brother will give you my address. Think no more of the base ingrate, Gorden, but love the one who can lift you up to the glorious heights of wealth, ease, and fashion. 
                           
                              "From your ever faithful 
                              "GEORGE WASHINGTON STANTON."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "Well," said Marion, when she had finished reading this precious letter, drawing a long breath, "could impudence and ignorant self-assurance go farther? Why! what does the fellow think? Twice he has tried to murder the man I love, and now, forsooth, he sagely concludes that I ought to love him, as a sort of remuneration. I did not suppose he was such a fool. Had he succeeded in taking your life, as he intended, he would have thought his claim perfect." 
               "It is very possible that he supposes he did succeed, though he may have learned his failure from your father or brother; for I doubt not one or both of them aided to secrete him." 
               "From what he writes, I should judge so. How sorry I am that they should aid in screening such a wretch from justice." 
               "It is lamentable, and I hope they may live to see their error. Strange that people can be so blinded." 
               "But you will not love me less on account of their sins?" 
               "No, dearest; rather will I love you more for being so faithful when their enmity is so deadly. What happy hours we have spent together since the assassin attempted my life. He little thought this would be the result." 
               "Such is often the righteous recompense of the wicked. The result which they would prevent, by any means, however vile, is accomplished through their aid. They peril soul and body to win a coveted treasure, and yet are doomed to see it snatched from them." 
               "And, if permitted to succeed in their base designs, the fruit they pluck is like the apples of Sodom, all ashes and bitterness. But, to pass from that: do you know that I must soon leave you?" 
               "O yes; and I fear that such blissful hours will not return again for a long time." 
               "So I fear, unless you will be persuaded. Marion, I ask you, candidly, what hope there is that your parents will ever consent to our marriage?" 
               "I fear the hope is faint. But circumstances may influence them. Once I could not have expected pected this. You are much beloved and highly respected, Elwood. Report says that you are rapidly gaining wealth. By-and-by, I doubt not, you will become a man of property and consequence, and then my father will consent." 
               "Marion," I said, sadly, "if I did not know how well you love me, I should think you were speaking in irony. If were are to wait for all that, I feel like giving up at once." 
               "I would not flatter you, Elwood; but all I have said, and even more, is probable. As to speaking ironically, there is too much of sorrow in the past, and of doubt and danger in the future, to admit of a jesting tone." 
               "Then why not be mine now?" 
               "O Elwood, I am both ready and willing; but I would not have the curse of both of my parents and my only brother." 
               "After all their wrong-doing, do you fear curses from them? To me, they would seem likely to operate by the rule of contraries." 
               "Forgive me, Elwood, if in so important a step I desire the approval of some of my own family. Let us wait for a more auspicious hour." 
               "It must be as you say; though I much fear that such an hour will never come. We have opportunities now which may not soon be ours again. We might be married in this very room, with due precaution. Put off the happy day, if you will; but God grant that you may not regret it." 
                
               "O Elwood," exclaimed she, tearfully yet tenderly, "I hesitate to be yours now, though I so much wish it. You know I desire no greater good, and that I have faith in you as I have in no other earthly being. I may soon feel differently, if my father persists in separating us." 
               "He will persist, for Mr. Mackay tried to frighten him into a promise that we should have his consent to marry. He yielded on other points, but was inflexible on that. O, there is no hope." 
               "Don't speak so despondingly, Elwood. Though we may be torn asunder for a season, brighter days will come." 
               "Thank you for the assurance, and so I will hope on. It will be harder than ever now to live without you." 
               "I know it; and, when I think of what has happened and of what may be before us, I am almost persuaded to consent to your proposal of a speedy marriage." 
               "Reflect upon it well, Marion, and you may see the subject in a favorable light. I cannot believe that it is right to separate two beings who love devotedly,-whose heart-strings are interwoven. Believing thus, my first duty is to you and yours to me. I honor my parents, I love Lissy; but you come first, and you always will. You are mine, Marion, and I am yours,-knowing this, I would overleap every obstacle." 
               "You are very much in earnest, dear Elwood, and of that I will not complain, if your warmth does not turn to vexation. Don't urge me any more now. While I would find my chief happiness in you, I would not separate myself from all of my own blood." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "What! we have many goodly days to see; 
                           The liquid drops of tears that you have shed 
                           Shall come again, transformed to orient pearl; 
                           Advantaging their loan, with interest 
                           Of ten times double gain of happiness." 
                        
                      
                     KING RICHARD THIRD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Ah me! how sweet is love itself possess'd, 
                           When but love's shadows are so rich in joy?" 
                        
                      
                     ROMEO AND JULIET. 
                   
                
               I LEFT Mr. Windsor's house soon after the foregoing conversation with Marion; I went to the "old homestead," much to the gratification of my parents and sister. The anxiety of a mother, when a child is in danger, is well known, and she feels that no one can do quite so well as herself. My mother, though deeply anxious on my account, came but seldom to see me. Mr. Windsor had caused us so much suffering that she disliked to enter his dwelling at all. 
               At twilight, the evening after I went home, mother induced me to sit on a low seat, and lay my head upon her lap, boy-fashion. 
               "O Elwood," she said, "how glad I am to have you at home once more! The past weeks of your illness have been very long indeed. It is wonderful that you escaped with your life. What a wretch was that Stanton, to make a second attempt to kill you! I tremble when I think of it. With all his boasted 'chivalry,' he is just as much a murderer as though you were cold and silent in the grave. He meant your destruction, and it seems like a miracle he did not accomplish it." 
               "I think so, too; but it was not decreed. I shall soon be well again, I hope. One good has been gained by this, I trust,-Marion is delivered from his hateful presence." 
               "That is a great mercy to her, certainly, the poor child. Only think of Mr. Windsor wishing to marry his only daughter to such a bloody villain, because he has wealth, and that wealth in human beings! Were it not a great crime to rob God's children of their freedom, to buy and sell them like cattle, severing forever the holiest ties, yet I should consider the position of the slaveholder a very dangerous one, and I would not willingly allow a child of mine to share his perilous lot." 
               "Mr. Windsor seems to worship wealth more than aught else, and the position of a slaveholder he actually covets. I have been told that, when a good farm was his only property, he was a very different man. Fifteen or twenty thousand dollars, coming to him so suddenly, wrought a marvelous change, and since then he has been anxious to see his children immensely rich. Wealth is the only good there is in the world. If a man has that,-it matters not in what it consists, or by what means he obtained it,-he is worthy of all honor. Property in human bodies and souls is just as good as in any shape. Whips and chains, groans and tears, or breaking hearts, appal him not, for the glory of Mammon overshadows them. If a man has a fortune, he is worthy of all honor; without one, merit is undiscernible, even with a microscope." 
               "Poor deluded man! His good fortune, as many call it, did change him, but not very much, I think. I knew him in my younger days, and he did me the honor to ask me to be his wife." 
               "He did? I never heard of that before. It accounts for some things which have seemed mysterious." 
               "To what do you refer?" 
               "His enmity." 
               "I have sometimes thought so; but, as he seemed not offended at the time, I feared the impression might be unjust. I did not like him then, for he seemed cold and heartless. The evil was in him, and the property he inherited brought it out clearly." 
               "Probably you are right; but I think the mainspring of his malignity was your refusal to become his wife." 
               "Very likely. He has been instrumental in causing us much sorrow, but has thereby only added bitterness to his own cup. No one need envy him his wealth, for he is not happy. His countenance gives no indication of blessings received ceived in thankfulness and truly enjoyed, but the reverse." 
               "So I have always thought. Verily, he has his reward." 
               "Indeed he has. I am very happy now, Elwood, and so is your father and Lissy. If you had been taken from us by the hand of violence, what could we have done?" 
               "Mourned for me, my mother; but still, confiding in a heavenly Father's love, continued on life's journey as before, performing every duty faithfully unto the end, and so found much even of earthly happiness." 
               "Well, I hope so; but it would have been an irreparable loss. It is delightful to possess our old home again; but for you, this would never have been effected." 
               "Possibly it might." 
               "O no. I saw hard times, Elwood, when you were a babe. How you used to cling to me when you thought I was about to leave you to be absent many hours. I was obliged, though it pained me much, to take your hands from my neck, and place you in your father's arms. My heart ached then to leave you so; but you have since well repaid for all my heart-aches." 
               "If so, I will be thankful and take courage, notwithstanding my position is so annoying, and my spirits so often depressed." 
               "Poor boy! and do you love Marion Windsor so much?" 
                
               "I do. O, life is worthless without her." 
               "I have regretted that you ever formed an attachment there." 
               "Why, mother?" 
               "Not because I object to her at all, but because you have suffered so much in consequence. There are better families where you would have been welcomed. Now, her parents, brother, and all her relatives, so far as I know, are bitterly opposed to you. If you ever marry her, this bitter feeling will be very unpleasant." 
               "I know it; but happiness in married life does not depend, in my apprehension, on the approval or disapproval of one's relatives. If the man and the woman whom the law declares to be one are not really so,-if they lack true affinity,-it matters little whether friends approve or not." 
               "I am aware of that; still, such approval is always very desirable." 
               "Very true; but, if it cannot be, give me that which is most desirable. If yourself, with father and sister, were as much opposed as Marion's friends, though I love you very dearly, I would marry her. Happiness in married life depends more on mutual love than on all things else. Without that, I would not give a fig for the favor of friends, or even boundless wealth. Where the husband and wife disagree, the question is often asked, which is to blame? If they are divorced, and one of the parties marries again, and lives happily, the inference is drawn at once that the fault lies mainly with the other party. Now this may be righteous judgment; but it is just as likely to be the reverse, for the great obstacle in the way of happiness was the lack of affinity." 
               "But do you not believe that a couple who marry for convenience, or family considerations, or who are mistaken in supposing there is congeniality between them, may live together without quarreling, and so be measurably happy?" 
               "O yes. The better educated class seldom quarrel; but they enjoy not the truest happiness of married life. When one requires sympathy, the other is cold, and thus it is from day to day. They are not one, but two; no union has been consummated except in the eye of the law." 
               "All you say sounds very reasonable, Elwood; but how came a bachelor to know this?" 
               "I learned it by observation, and from friends thus situated, whose hearts were so overburdened that they wanted my sympathy. When painful thoughts gather, it is a relief to pour them into some friendly ear. More than once have I been made a confidant, and so learned strange secrets." 
               "But if you should succeed in making Marion your wife, how do you know that there would not be a lack of affinity between you?" 
               "Perhaps I may not know it absolutely, but I think I do. We have loved each other from childhood, and, though separated much of the time, yet have we been together enough to know that we belong to each other. There was nothing in the circumstances of my childhood to attract the regard of a young girl; and since then, though an improvement has taken place, yet there is little to boast of. O! my mother, doubt not our fitness, and never for one moment suppose that I can marry any one else." 
               "I do not wish it, Elwood. Marion has always seemed like a daughter to me, and her faithfulness to you, under such harsh treatment, is worthy of all praise." 
               "So I think. She will yet be mine, for Heaven has so willed it." 
               I remained at home until entirely restored to health, and during that period I saw Marion several times. For some reason she was no longer kept a prisoner; why, I have never learned, but presume that it was on account of the indignation of the people. It was generally supposed that Mr. Windsor had secreted Stanton, and aided in his escape. Some thought that he incited the cowardly assassin to attack me. In the then excited state of feeling, a mere trifle might have caused Mr. Windsor's house to be mobbed, and himself and his hopeful son roughly handled. He was aware of this, and no doubt a temporary check was thereby placed on the working of his malignant passions. 
               I did not visit Marion at her father's, anticipating that he would order me away; but I saw her often in the little cemetery, where I vainly urged her to end the difficulty by at once giving me a husband's right to protect her. She still procrastinated nated, hoping ultimately to gain her parents' consent. 
               When I asked why she still hoped, she said that her father had certainly softened, for she was now free to come and go when she chose. I tried to convince her that but a slender foundation existed for her hopes, but the poor girl would not wholly dismiss them. 
               Mainly because of my wishes, Thomas Windsor was not molested, but returned to his class in college. When he graduated, he joined his friend Stanton in the old world. 
               During the winter I rarely enjoyed interviews with Marion; but, when spring came with its genial weather, we met as frequently as before. Our interviews were necessarily brief, but much of happiness was crowded into those stolen moments. 
               In the month of April of this spring, I gave Mr. Mackay a hint of some crude plans which had been forming in my mind for many months, of an improvement in machinery, which, if it could be effected, would be of great service in cotton mills. He was deeply interested, and questioned me at length, drawing out all my ideas, approving of some, and showing the fallacy of others. Our conference ended by a mutual agreement to give the subject a thorough investigation; which we did, putting our thoughts on paper, and comparing notes, until we were entirely satisfied that the scheme was practicable. 
                
               Mr. Mackay was intimately acquainted with one Joseph Gardner, an excellent machinist, and a man of original inventive genius. Such aid as he could give we must have; and, after the subject had been explained to him, he was more enthusiastic than ourselves. An arrangement was made that he should commence the model at once, each sharing the expenses and the profits of the enterprise. He entered actively upon the work; and, when seemingly insurmountable obstacles arose, they were overcome by mutual consultation. Thus for long months did we concentrate and direct our best thoughts and energies. 
               Mr. Mackay and myself still continued our regular business, taking contracts for building, employing many hands, and securing good returns. There was but one thing lacking to make my happiness as complete as I could expect to enjoy on earth. Entertaining no hopes that Mr. Windsor would relent, and receiving but little encouragement from Marion that she would consent to a union against her parents' wishes, I felt deeply anxious, and at times almost disheartened. It is remarkable how much one may sometimes endure. But for the pressure of business, and the excitement attendant on our new invention, my health might have been ruined. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Are not you moved, when all the sway of earth 
                           Shakes like a thing infirm? O Cicero! 
                           I have seen tempests, when the scolding winds 
                           Have riv'd the knotty oaks; and I have seen 
                           Th' ambitious ocean swell, and rage, and foam, 
                           To be exalted with the threatening clouds; 
                           But never till to-night, never till now, 
                           Did I go through a tempest dropping fire. 
                           Either there is a civil strife in heaven, 
                           Or else the world, too saucy with the gods, 
                           Incenses them to send destruction." 
                        
                      
                     JULIUS CSAR. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           King Edward. 
                           -What love, think'st thou, I sue so much to get? 
                        
                         
                           Lady Grey. 
                           -My love till death, my humble thanks, my prayers; that love, which virtue begs, and virtue grants. 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY SIXTH. 
                   
                
               MARION and I continued our clandestine meetings until September. The last time we met was on a beautiful evening at sunset. It was at our old place. The heavens were gloriously brilliant; the cool breezes, sweeping through the trees, produced rustling music, which calmed our unquiet hearts, and gave harmony to our thoughts. We wandered by the silent graves, and conversed of life in all its aspects. For an hour we were very happy; and then we noticed that a cloud was rising in the west. With the rapidity of enchantment it flung its dark masses into the heavens. Anon, forked lightnings leaped like angry gods from its bosom, and thunders rolled in awful majesty, seeming to make the whole universe tremble. Under its folds the winds gathered in ghostly armies, and rushed out, with their many shrieking voices, as though shouting in battle. 
               For some minutes the grandeur of the scene absorbed all other thoughts; but, realizing that the rain would soon fall, we quickly hastened away. Before we reached the street, I felt drops upon my hands; and, knowing that it was impossible to arrive at any dwelling-house in season, we sought shelter in a small building in the cemetery. The door was fastened; but, throwing myself powerfully against it, I broke the lock, and we entered. Not many moments after, the rain poured down as I imagined, when a child, it did at the time of the deluge. 
               In this building we found a seat attached to the wall, which we gladly occupied, for the tempest raged with unabated fury for more than three hours. It was the grandest storm I ever knew. A vast deal of damage was done, and many persons were killed by lightning. We heard terrific crashes repeatedly, as the thunderbolts were hurled to the earth; we saw the red sheets of flame, and listened to the mighty rushing wind and the madly-driven torrents; and yet our souls were unmoved. Folded in each other's arms, we feared not; and, though Egyptian darkness soon gathered about us, the time did not seem long. We sat some minutes in silence. I was the first to speak. 
               "Marion," I said, "I expected, when we sat down here, to find you greatly agitated, and your heart palpitating violently; but you seem very calm." 
               "I am very calm," she replied, "for I am with you. It is a fearful tempest, and once I should have been frightened at the thought of being caught in a place like this at night, and in such a storm. But your arms hold me, and there is peace at my heart. Are you content to be here?" 
               "Yes, darling. I am as calm as you. It is strange! Here we are, in the home of the dead; a terrible tempest is raging around us; the night is very dark; and yet we have no fears, no regrets that the suddenness of the storm prevented us from returning." 
               "No, dear; I have not one. I had much rather be here with you than anywhere else in the world without you." 
               "I could not better describe my own feelings. I cannot see you, but I can hear your voice and feel your touch, and so I receive joy which I should search for elsewhere in vain. Not such a storm as this, or such a place, do I dread, if I can be with you; but separation from you,-O! Marion, it has already been too long. I am so happy here, but so wretched when away from you. I beg of you to think of it well. Ask yourself seriously if it ought to continue much longer." 
                
               "I will, dear Elwood.-What a terrible crash! The lightning must have struck very near us.-I am well aware that you must suffer intensely, for I experience deep sorrow from the same cause. I scarcely know what to do, but I feel that matters should not remain much longer as they are. If my parents do not change soon, I must be yours, and end this cruel suspense." 
               "I like to hear you talk thus, for it gives me hope. We cannot love better than now, and our confidence is mutual. When separated, we are miserable; but in each other's society, we are crowned with happiness. We find joy here, in the midst of this terrible tempest. This should teach us that we may pass through the storms of life together, hand in hand, without fear." 
               "I did not require to be taught that, for I have long felt sure of it. Dear Elwood, such shall be our happy lot." 
               "I thank you for saying it; and God grant that your prophecy may prove true. Do not wait very long, Marion, for time is too precious. I want you now: the years pass so swiftly that we have but little time here, at most. What is to come I would spend with you." 
               "I feel that it should be so; and, after one more earnest plea with my parents, I will be yours, Elwood." 
               "Bless you, love; and, if you must make the plea, do it immediately, and communicate the result to me. If you fail,-as heretofore, and as I am sure you will,-longer delay will not only be useless, but dangerous." 
               "You are right, and I will do as you request." 
               When the storm ceased, I accompanied Marion home. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "What is done cannot be now amended; 
                           Men shall deal unadvisedly sometimes, 
                           Which after hours give leisure to repent." 
                        
                      
                     KING RICHARD THIRD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "But nothing alter'd; what I was, I am; 
                           More straining on for plucking back." 
                        
                      
                     WINTER'S TALE. 
                   
                
               A FORTNIGHT elapsed without my seeing Marion or hearing from her. I felt deep solicitude, on account of her father's probable anger when she asked his assent to our marriage. I feared he might separate us widely for a long period. 
               While in this state of anxiety, I received the startling intelligence that Mr. Windsor and his family had left town, and his house was closed. I sought immediately to learn where they had gone, but none of the citizens could enlighten me. Hoping soon to receive a letter from Marion, I bore up courageously under this new trial. 
               After a month of suspense, the much-desired epistle came. Marion had taken the precaution, as of old, to direct it to my friend Mackay. 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "BALTIMORE, Oct. 25.
                            
                           "MY DEAR ELWOOD,-Your poor Marion has repented when too late. Would that I had become your wife six months ago! During the long weeks since I was brought from Dunfield, I have suffered bitterly, and am now almost broken-hearted. When I have reflected upon your harrowing uncertainty about me, I have accused myself of cruelty in not acceding to your request. Well, it cannot be helped now, and repining is useless. 
                           "A few days after that eventful evening in the cemetery, I summoned sufficient courage to ask my father to consent to our marriage. I told him how well we loved; that you alone had my heart, and that I could not give my hand to another. 
                           "He was excessively angry; but, as I plead with all the earnestness of despairing love, he seemed to soften, and told me that he would think of it. His face looked dark, and I liked not its expression; but still I hoped that my wish would be granted. Foolish girl! how was I deceived. 
                           "Four weeks since, he informed me that I must be ready in two hours for a journey. When I reminded him of my request, he scowled hideously, but said not a word. From that moment my mother did not leave me until we were ready to start. We came immediately to Baltimore. Our journey was pleasant, and I should have enjoyed it very much under other circumstances. O, could it have been in your society alone, dear Elwood! 
                           "I found every thing fresh and beautiful in this city, for the frost-spirits do not come here early, but remain at the North until the leaves and flowers are all dead. Making our journey so speedily, spending a part of the time in sleep, the scene around seemed like magic. 
                           "Immediately on our arrival, my father, to my great surprise, rented a house with requisite furniture; and this is to be our home until next spring, and perhaps longer. In many respects I like Baltimore: it has elegant buildings, neat and pleasant streets, and many monuments; but its slavery I do not like. With the knowledge that liberty is but an empty name; that men and women are robbed of all God gave them; that they cannot call their limbs their own; that they are liable to be sold like beasts on the auction-block; that hearts, which are wedded as closely as ours, may be forever torn apart at any moment; that little children may be snatched from the maternal bosom, and consigned to men or devils, whichever will bid the highest; that men, ay, and women, too, may be subject to the whip and other indignities and abuses, with none to help,-in the lurid light of all these enormities, the city looks gloomy and forbidding, for what is it but a vast prison-house? 
                           "I have seen many of the slaves here, and, as a general thing, they are well clothed and appear comfortable. My father says that he is better pleased with the system than ever. Alas! I well know that slavery here is very different from that of the plantation, the cotton-field, and the rice-swamp,- 
                                  
                                    "'Where the slave-whip ceaseless swings, 
                                    Where the noisome insect stings, 
                                    Where the Fever Demon strews 
                                    Poison with the falling dews, 
                                    Where the sickly sunbeams glare 
                                    Through the hot and misty air.' 
                                 
                              
                            
                           "But even here many of the slaves apparently chafe in their fetters. I do not like to look into their faces, except to read their hearts, for bondage has left its cruel traces. 
                           "My father took an early opportunity to inform me what his object was in coming to Baltimore. 
                           "'Marion,' he said, 'I have commanded you, again and again, to dismiss Elwood Gorden from your thoughts; but you have refused to obey. To one whose position is worthy of you I have pledged your hand; and that pledge must be kept, and it shall be. I bade you cease all intercourse with young Gorden; but in this, too, you have disobeyed. Your infatuation is a marvel to me,-it is entirely unaccountable. I felt anxious to remove you beyond the fatal spell; to take you from the neighborhood of one who has not a spark of manliness, and no regard to decency, that you might have an opportunity, in the midst of new scenes, of being restored to your right mind. 
                           "'Our arrangement to comehere was made at great inconvenience and expense, but it was all for your good. It is high time that you learned to consult my wishes, and, if you begin now, I will cheerfully forgive the past. If you will do as I desire, I may yet have a daughter to be proud of, and my old age be cheered by seeing you in a position which will cause thousands to envy you. 
                           "'Mr. Stanton is hasty and inconsiderate, but he means well. He loved you too dearly to see you holding clandestine interviews with one so far beneath him. In a moment of frenzy, feeling it to be a duty to chastise the intruder, he went beyond what are deemed the rules of propriety at the North, and he thought it best to seize the opportunity for a foreign tour; but he has the most solemn and binding promise that he may yet return and claim you as his bride. It is useless for you to name Elwood Gorden to me in connection with marriage, for I would rather see you dead, than his wife.' 
                           "I have been watched very closely, so that I could not write or send a letter before; but I now attend school, and have an opportunity for writing and going to the post-office. I want to hear from you, Elwood, very much; but you had better not write now, for your letter would fall into father's hands, and I should not receive it. But I must hear from you in some way, for many months will pass before we can meet again. I have no acquaintance that I can trust, so you must direct to a fictitious person-age. O, I like not this deception, but it is cruelly forced upon me. I must baptize myself with a new name, and here it is: Ella Bowditch. I shall inquire for a letter soon. I long to see you, but it might not be prudent for you to come to Baltimore; yet you must do as you think best. O Elwood! I trust there is yet a happy future for us; but God only knows. Do write soon. Good-by. 
                           
                              "Ever the same 
                              MARION."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               When I had read this letter, I resolved to make a journey to Baltimore immediately; but, on further reflection, gave it up. Our business required every moment of my time for the present; and, when that should slacken, Mr. Gardner, the machinist, needed my assistance in perfecting our invention,-in fact, he could not dispense with it, as the idea had originated with me. To this, then, as the greatest enterprise of my life, did I apply closely during the winter months; but not until the next May was the machine completed. It fully realized our anticipations. We forthwith applied for a patent, which was not granted, however, until another spring. "The law's delays" are proverbial, and I fully realized them in this case; but I subsequently learned that many inventors fared much worse than we. Had we been poor, probably others would have reaped the benefit of our invention. 
               Marion and I corresponded during the winter, which was all the solace we had. Each sought to comfort and cheer the other. We loved devotedly; we had suffered much; we were cruelly separated; and consequently our letters were love-letters in reality. Many readers will call those which I have already given very silly, they so abound with endearing expressions; but the suppressed ones would be open to still harsher criticism. Let persons of colder blood sneer, if they see fit: we would not have spared one affectionate phrase. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                   
                     
                        "She is a woman, and therefore to be won."
                      
                     KING HENRY SIXTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Thy spirit within thee hath been so at war, 
                           And thus hath so bestirr'd thee in thy sleep, 
                           That beads of sweat have stood upon thy brow, 
                           Like bubbles on a late disturbd stream; 
                           And in thy face strange motions have appear'd, 
                           Such as we see when men restrain their breath 
                           On some great sudden haste." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FOURTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Withhold thine indignation, mighty Heaven, 
                           And tempt us not to bear above our power!" 
                        
                      
                     KING JAMES. 
                   
                
               IN the first month of summer Marion's parents returned to Dunfield. For three long weeks I sought in vain to learn whether she came with them. Exercising due caution, I went night after night to see if I could discover a light in her room; but none appeared, nor was there any sign of the chamber being occupied. What could it mean? Was she a prisoner in some other room in the house? I thought it very probable, as her father had such a wicked, cruel heart. After scanning all parts of the building for many successive nights, I became convinced that, if she was in it, great precautions had been taken to deprive her of a light, and prevent her from appearing at a window. The reader can surmise how wretched and weary I became, from continual nightly watching and disappointment. But, at the end of the period mentioned, I received the following letter from the object of my anxiety: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "CUMBERLAND, NEW YORK, June 27.
                            
                           "MY OWN DEAR ELWOOD,-You have doubtless been very anxious because I did not return with my parents. When I last wrote, I expected to do so. 
                           "We left Baltimore in May, and came immediately to this State. We spent one week at Niagara, which I enjoyed very much. O Elwood! as I gazed upon the mighty cataract, and heard the thunders of the rushing flood, how much I wished you were present! It is always so. If I behold any thing grand, beautiful, or soul-inspiring, I want you with me, and then my joy is increased an hundred-fold. God grant that we may yet behold Niagara together, with none to molest or make us afraid. As I watched the rainbows which played around the glorious scene, new hope sprang up in my heart, and I looked forward with a clear eye of faith to the happy day when we shall be all in all to each other. 
                           "From Niagara we journeyed to this town, Cumberland. My father's eldest brother, Horace Windsor, resides here. After a week had elapsed, my parents informed me that they were about to start for home, but that they should not take me with them. My uncle had engaged me-he having the requisite authority-to teach the school in his district, and I was to board with him. 
                           "I have made this arrangement,' said my father, 'for your good alone. It was never my intention to educate you for a teacher, being able to support you without a resort to any avocation; but I think the experience will be beneficial. Your mind will be occupied, and that is what you need. I have been well satisfied with your deportment in Baltimore, and I hope you have withdrawn your affections from the low-born fellow who is so unworthy of them. If I am not deceived, you now take a more reasonable view of the matter. If I was sure that all thought of becoming the wife of Gorden had been dismissed from your mind, I would not leave you here, for we shall miss your company very much. 
                           "'You have been the victim of a misplaced attachment, which fact is extremely mortifying to all your friends. The spell may not be entirely broken; and, should you return now, he whose arts once led your will captive might renew his presumptuous efforts; for some men, even though low and baseborn, have a wonderful power over female hearts. When you are entirely disenchanted, cured of your folly, restored to your right mind, the danger will be over, and then your parents will welcome you home. 
                           "'The past, my daughter, warns me that I cannot trust you. I would have you remain here, and continue teaching, until you are sure that every particle of affection for Gorden has departed forever. I venture to predict that, within a few months, he will marry some farmer's milkmaid,-which the Lord grant, for your sake and that of your friends.' 
                           "To this unfeeling speech, and many similar ones, I answered not a word, but my heart rebelled. I think it was well that I remained silent, for in the vexation of the moment I might have said that which would have been a sure cause of our continued separation. 
                           "I commenced my school just a fortnight since, and like the employment well. What can be more noble than to teach the young, and store their minds with knowledge; I look upon the good teacher as a public benefactor. Under other circumstances, and with the sensation of freedom, I could be quite content. 
                           "You will ask, if I am willing to marry you now? Yes, dearest, I am. All my scruples are gone, and I would have you come soon. Delays seem to me as dangerous as they do to you. Hoping soon to see you, I subscribe myself your own 
                           
                              MARION."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               At the earliest possible moment after receiving this letter, I started for Cumberland, having first informed my parents of my contemplated journey, and its purpose,-to rescue a distressed damsel from the twin demons, Mammon and Pride. 
               On my arrival in Cumberland, Marion was in school. I immediately called upon her, and we agreed to be married as soon as the session was through. The school closed at an early hour, when we repaired with much dispatch to the house of the only clergyman in the town, but he was absent on a journey. After a brief consultation, we thought it best to be married by a justice of the peace; and, having found one, the nuptial knot was tied. There was a good hotel in the village, and there we concluded to pass the night, Marion taking the precaution to send word to her uncle that she should stay with a friend. 
               Early next morning, I received a telegraphic dispatch that my father had been taken suddenly ill, and that, if I would see him alive again, I must instantly return. The cars were to start in a few minutes, and I told Marion she had better go with me; but she replied that, as all her apparel was at her uncle's, and there was no time to obtain it, she deemed it advisable to remain, and teach the school until some one could be found to take her place. There was no danger now, she gently urged, for we were married. I gave a reluctant consent, promising to return for her soon. 
               Reaching home just in season to receive my father's parting blessing, my presence was of great comfort to him in his hour of dissolution; and, in subsequent days of never-to-be-forgotten agony and doubt, the thought that I had cheered his last moments gave me much consolation. Had I known what two affectionate hearts were to suffer, I might not have gone to him; and had he known the same, he would hardly have wished it. And yet, with his great paternal love for me, and my strong filial regard, how could I refuse his last request? 
               After my father was placed in the silent grave, I remained with my mother a few days, to comfort her in her great affliction. Had I obeyed the impulses of my heart, I should have hastened without delay to greet the wife of my bosom; but my only parent was suffering from an irreparable loss, mourning for the husband of her youth, and she begged me to remain; and I could not, in such an hour, forsake her. She would not, she declared, detain me many days, for that would be unreasonably selfish. 
                
               The fifth night after my father's funeral, I had a dream which made a deep impression on my mind. I thought I stood before the altar, with Marion's hand in mine, and, just as the clergyman was about to pronounce us husband and wife, George Washington Stanton rushed in, caught her in his arms, and, with the speed of the wind, sprang out the door, leaped upon a horse held by Thomas Windsor, and fled. In a few minutes I had mounted a fleet steed, and started in pursuit. How rapid was his flight; but I followed him, determined to win back my bride or perish in the attempt. I repeatedly struck the spurs into my horse's sides, urging him on as if life and death depended on the result. We rushed through the forests, over the hills, and across the plains, with the same mad precipitancy, and still I did not gain upon him. At last, his horse, from the greater burden, fell exhausted to the earth. I now felt sure of triumph; but, when reining in my steed, the wretch drew a pistol and fired. I fell, severely wounded; but one foot caught in the stirrup, and my horse renewed his flight with me thus dangerously entangled. 
               Marion gave a loud shriek, and fainted; but the last sound I heard was the demon's loud, triumphant "Ha, ha!" as I was dragged swiftly from her sight. 
               In a few minutes I had lost all consciousness, and yet seemed to know when my foot was released, and I was left bleeding upon the ground. Lying there, fearfully wounded and bruised, it seemed impossible that I should ever recover. People, however, came, took up my apparently lifeless body, bore it to a place of shelter, and summoned physicians, who dressed my wounds. 
               I lay many days senseless, and long afterwards I suffered bitterly. I thought much of my lost bride, and longed for the hour to come when I could go in search of her. She was in the hands of a villain, and I must save her. 
               In dreams, the mind seldom acts consistently; and, as a necessary result, much is absurd and contradictory. At points of interest or danger, we suddenly break the thread, and all that is past is consigned to oblivion; ere long we commence anew, and perchance in the midst of some interesting or exciting scene, never querying at all how we got there. We feel that we are in the right place, and go ahead. 
               How long a time I slept without dreaming is not to be ascertained; but I suddenly found myself well, and was unconscious of having suffered injury. I realized that my wife had been stolen by the villain Stanton, and I was seeking for her day and night. I visited many strange, dark places, and witnessed awful scenes of woe and madness. I saw creatures, which resembled men and women, in chains, and their shrieks and wailings seemed to freeze my blood with horror. Their bodies were naked, their eyes sunken, fierce, and blood-shot, and their hair in frightful disorder. They foamed at the mouth, gnashed their teeth, lacerated their flesh, and howled all the while as though they were beasts of prey, or were experiencing the torments of the damned. 
               I was often in the wilderness, by night and by day, ever engaged in my weary and fruitless search. 
               Finally I learned that Marion was confined in a small cell, the prisoner of Stanton,-the sole condition of her release being submission to his will. I heard her utter my name in accents of fondness and despair. I knew that my hand alone could open her prison-door. I resolved to hasten to her relief; but, to my horror, found that I could not move a limb. I was bound, hand and foot, by invisible cords. And then I thought that Stanton, through the aid of the devil, had bewitched me. In the agony of total despair, I tried to break the enchantment, that I might give freedom to my wife. The effort awoke me from my dream. 
               I did not sleep again, and sought to throw off the painful impression which this horrible vision had left. On awaking, I was in profuse perspiration, and as weary as though I had been long engaged in the most exhausting labor. Conceiving that Marion might really be exposed to danger, I decided to start immediately for Cumberland. 
               At breakfast, I informed mother of my intentions. She gazed at me inquiringly, but did not object. While I was packing my trunk, she came in, looking deathly pale. 
                
               "What is it, mother?" I inquired in great agitation. 
               "O Elwood," she replied, "how selfish I have been to keep you here." 
               "Dear mother, do tell me what you mean." 
               "News has come that your wife is insane!" 
               "Insane! who told you that?" 
               "One of the neighbors, who heard it from her father. He said that she had a number of fits in succession, and, when they ceased, it was found that reason was dethroned, with no hope of a restoration." 
               "Mother!" I gasped, almost choking with anguish, "these are lies as black as hell. I left her happy and well, and I never saw so beautiful an expression upon her face as she had then. She felt that we were now united in bonds which no power but God's could break. I fear for her, because a dark game, worthy of fiends, has long been played. O! that I could go to her on the wings of thought; but no, I must wait for the lazy cars to take me there. Depend upon it, mother, there is foul play." 
               "Elwood, Elwood, don't talk so; do be calm. I pity you, but be assured that you require the most philosophical fortitude now. You must act with promptness, but yet with due deliberation. That Marion is in great danger, because of the wickedness of her relatives, there is certainly cause to fear. God grant you wisdom to defeat all their plans." 
                
               "Help me to get ready, mother, and I will start in the first train for Cumberland." 
               The carriage was soon at the door, when my mother bade me God-speed, and I was borne swiftly away. I arrived at the station just in season to take the express train, which carried me rapidly, and yet I thought very slowly, towards my destination. How much I wished the train would go with greater speed. I was impatient when we stopped for wood and water. I had read of an insane man acting as engineer, who finally resolved to make no stops at all, but crowd in the fuel, and attain a velocity such as was never known before. I almost wished our engineer would rush ahead with the same mad precipitancy. 
               I arrived at Cumberland the next morning, and went immediately to the house of Marion's uncle. My ring brought him to the door. 
               "Is Mrs. Gorden in?" I inquired. 
               "I have never had the honor of an acquaintance with a lady of that name," he replied. 
               "Is Marion Windsor here?" 
               "No, sir." 
               "Can you inform me where she may be found?" 
               "I cannot." 
               "When did she leave here?" 
               "A few days since." 
               "What was the cause of her leaving?" 
               "She was taken with a fit, and one followed another until she had six, which left her insane." 
               "Well, sir?" 
                
               "It was necessary to remove her to an insane hospital, which was done without delay." 
               "What hospital?" 
               "I am not at liberty to tell." 
               "Who removed her there?" 
               "Her friends." 
               "I will thank you to inform me which of her friends." 
               "That I don't choose to do." 
               "Was it her father?" 
               "I have once refused to inform you who it was; but you may be sure of one thing, whoever did it had a legal right." 
               "I doubt that, sir." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because no one has a legal right to do anything of the kind, excepting myself." 
               "And pray how came you by that right, sir?" 
               "I am her lawful wedded husband. I trust that is an answer to your question." 
               "It would be, were it true; but, sir, I don't believe one word of it." 
               "I see that you are in the plot. I have told you the simple truth, and therefore I bid you beware, for I will sift this foul conspiracy to the bottom." 
               "O, you may threaten as much as you please; nobody will be frightened. Have you asked all the questions you wish to, sir?" 
               "No-yes, as I only receive falsehoods in reply." 
                
               "You are no gentleman; so good-day to you." And, bowing very politely, but as though in mockery of my agony, he shut the door in my face. 
               I believed scarcely a word he uttered; so proceeded to make inquiries elsewhere. All I could learn was that an elderly gentleman had been seen in Cumberland, and that Marion left the place in his company. In a state of mind bordering upon distraction, I returned to Dunfield. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O conspiracy! 
                           Sham'st thou to show thy dangerous brow by night, 
                           When evils are most free? O then, by day, 
                           Where wilt thou find a cavern dark enough 
                           To mask thy monstrous visage? Seek none, conspiracy, 
                           Hide it in smiles and affability: 
                           For if thou put thy native semblance on, 
                           Not Erebus itself were dim enough 
                           To hide thee from prevention." 
                        
                      
                     JULIUS CSAR. 
                   
                
               IT is now requisite to go back, in my story, to the period when Thomas Windsor and George Washington Stanton were at college. These young men contracted the habits of drinking and gambling, but, as a general thing, indulged within bounds. They visited, not unfrequently, the gambling-hells in a neighboring city, sometimes winning and at other times losing small sums of money. The passion for play daily grew stronger. Now and then they were concerned in a drunken brawl, where blows were given, without regard to friend or foe; but still they did not take warning. 
               One memorable evening, before Thomas returned home in company with Stanton, the former won a thousand dollars soon after he entered the gambling saloon. His success greatly elated him, and he drank deeply. A few hours later he had lost all that he had gained, and was five thousand dollars in debt. Terribly excited, he applied to his antagonist-a son of the keeper of the saloon-the most insulting epithets, and when the latter retaliated, he struck him, and the blow was returned. The passions of both were now fully aroused, and they manifested their brutality by battering each other's heads, and finally Tom Windsor stabbed the young man-named Rand-severely with a sword-cane. The sight of blood, shed by his own wicked hand, sobered Tom very suddenly. He attempted to flee, but his associates in crime held him fast. One of the party was a surgeon, and dressed the wound, declaring that no vital part had been touched, though it was doubtful if the wounded man could ever entirely recover. It appeared that Windsor was more culpable than Rand; and, should a judicial trial take place, in all probability he would be sent to the penitentiary,-in any event it would be a terrible disgrace. 
               On conferring with the father of Rand, he expressed a willingness to hush up the affair for a "consideration." It was evident that the health of his son was ruined, and he might never recover from his wounds. The five thousand dollars which he had won from Thomas Windsor must be paid, and five thousand more in compensation for the injury. Mr. Stanton interceded for his friend, and finally Mr. Rand agreed to take three thousand instead of five. Stanton had inherited fifty slaves from his grandfather, and he gave his bond for the payment of the eight thousand dollars,-Thomas assuring him that his father would rather pay it than to see his only son exposed to the State prison, or deeply disgraced, even if he escaped. 
               Before the company separated, they all bound themselves, by a terrible oath, not to reveal the transactions of that night. They swore that, if either did reveal them, the rest would hunt him to his death. The bond was then signed, and the guilty parties went to their homes. 
               It was some days after Thomas returned to Dunfield, before he could summon sufficient courage to speak of the subject to his father. When the latter comprehended the whole of it, he was astounded, and he told Thomas that to pay such a sum, and the expenses of his education, would make them all beggars. 
               I have stated that Stanton soon became enamored of Marion Windsor; and when he learned that her father would have to make a forced sale of his property, at a great sacrifice, in order to raise the money, he offered to bear the burden himself, if he could have Marion for a wife. His proposition was deemed a god-send, truly, by the father and son. The only difficulty in the way was to gain Marion's consent. 
               Stanton's wishes had seldom been thwarted, and hence his self-conceit was enormously developed, and his habit of domineering had become second nature. Therefore, when Marion said "No" to his suit, he resolved that she should say "Yes." Whether she loved him or not, he would marry her. He fancied that he loved; and in a low, limited sense of the word, perhaps he did. 
               Finding himself spurned by the object of his desires, he held a long consultation with her father and brother. He told them plainly that, unless she married him, he should demand payment of the bond, or deliver Thomas up to justice. It was thought, if I could be disposed of, the path would be clear. My death was not desirable, if I could be frightened into a compliance with their demands. Stanton declared that, if I did not yield, he would take my life,-he thought he should be justified in the act. Was a "greasy mechanic" to stand in the way of a chivalrous planter's son? But, in case of an encounter, whether deadly or otherwise, a place of concealment for himself was requisite. 
               The three now entered into an agreement, and bound themselves by a solemn oath to abide by it while life should last. Stanton was to pay the bond, and Marion should be his wife. The eight thousand dollars made her his, body and soul. Force should not be used until other expedients had failed. 
               After this unholy and monstrous bargain had been formed, and their oaths had been taken with hands upon the Bible, they planned a hiding-place, in case of emergency. 
                
               The house in which Mr. Windsor lived was three stories in height, and, the year before, he had added a large L to it. A part of this was still unfinished. Two persons were present on the night of the affray in the gambling-house, whose services were very much needed; one was a carpenter, and the other a mason. They were sent for, the project was explained to them, and the work began. A large chimney was carried up as far as the second floor, then a room was constructed over it extending to the roof, as though the chimney had been continued on. To complete the deception, a wooden chimney of ample dimensions projected from the roof, with glass framed in near the top to shut out the rain and snow. This afforded sufficient light through the greater part of the day, excepting in cloudy weather. Means were taken for proper ventilation, also to warm the closet-like apartment from the furnace. This room was so constructed that the human voice could not be heard out of it,-even the most piercing shriek. 
               Two doors led into the room, both self-locking; the inner one two feet from the outer; and near the top of the former a part of the pannel could be removed, making an opening through which food and drink might be passed in. Both of the doors were unlocked with keys on the inside, but the person entering opened them by touching hidden springs. 
                
               On the first floor was placed a very large boiler, which frequently had water in it. The chimney contained an oven and a place for ashes. Lest there should be suspicion that it was not built for what it seemed, ashes and bits of wood were placed under the boiler. When the work was all done, they successively tried their voices in the apartment, to see if any sound could be heard within or without the building. They became satisfied that it was impossible; and were well pleased with their ingenious device. 
               The expense of this hiding-place for a criminal was shared between Mr. Windsor and Stanton. It was the design of the former, when he made an addition to the house, to erect a chimney in the place which the false one occupied; and, in fulfilling his part of the contract, he felt that it did not involve direct loss. 
               In this room was Stanton concealed after he made the two attempts upon my life, and so all the efforts to find him were ineffectual. The Windsors informed him that, in his last attempt, I had been wounded very severely and perhaps fatally; but they thought best not to let him know that I was under the same roof, lest they should be unable to restrain him from taking my life. In justice to them, I will here say that they had never counselled him to murder me, but only to frighten and mutilate me so effectually that I would gladly resign the hand of Marion. 
                
               As a large reward was offered for the arrest of Stanton, and many officers were seeking him, it was thought best for him to leave the country awhile, hoping time might modify Marion's dislike toward him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O monstrous treachery! Can this be so, 
                           That in alliance, amity, and oaths, 
                           There should be found such false dissembling guile?" 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY SIXTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "But neither bended knees, pure hands held up, 
                           Sad sighs, deep groans, nor silver shedding tears, 
                           Could penetrate her uncompassionate sire." 
                        
                      
                     TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Happy is your grace, 
                           That can translate the stubbornness of fortune 
                           Into so quiet and so sweet a style." 
                        
                      
                     AS YOU LIKE IT. 
                   
                
               THE instant Marion's uncle learned of her marriage, he telegraphed to her father, and the latter forthwith came to Cumberland. Marion trembled when she saw him approaching; but he seemed less angry than she had anticipated. As he signified a desire to see her alone, she led him to her room. 
               "Is it true," he inquired, "that you are married to Elwood Gorden?" 
               "Yes, father, it is." 
               "And so you have disobeyed my solemn commands!" 
               "I could not help it, father, for we had long loved each other dearly. Forgive me, for he was more to me than my own life." 
               "You are a foolish girl. I had fondly hoped, better things of you. Well, well, it can't be helped now, so we must make the best of it. Your mother and I would not be forever alienated from our only daughter. You must return home with me, and then I trust we shall be able to arrange matters satisfactorily." 
               "I would rather remain here, and continue my school until Elwood comes." 
               "It would not look well for you to teach, now that you are a bride; and then it will only cause your husband a journey here for nothing." 
               "Still, I would rather remain." 
               "Don't be obstinate, child, but, as you have married against my wishes, do now as I desire, and return with me, that every thing may be settled amicably." 
               "And will you go directly home, father?" 
               "Why, certainly; and I want to reach there before your husband leaves, and so save him time and expense." 
               "Well, father, I will go with you, since you so much desire it; but, if I consulted my own impulses, instead of giving heed to your wishes, I should remain until Elwood comes." 
               They set out for Dunfield without delay, and reached there the next evening. It was dark when they left the cars, and they were not seen, to be recognized. A domestic, according to instructions tions, had taken a carriage to the depot and left it, and Mr. Windsor and Marion rode home in that. 
               Mr. Windsor pretended immediately to send for me. Mrs. Windsor seemed very glad to see her daughter; and she, poor child, was happy because of their supposed readiness to forgive her, and restore her to their love. 
               While they were waiting for me, as they pretended, Mr. Windsor asked Marion if she had ever seen the place where Mr. Stanton was concealed while the officers were searching for him. She replied in the negative. 
               "It is one of the queerest little hiding-places ever made," said Mr. Windsor; "would you not like to see it?" 
               "I am not particular about it," she replied. 
               "Come, wife, suppose we all take a peep at it," Mr. Windsor said. "I presume you never saw any thing more 'cutely contrived in your life, Marion. The work was done when you were absent on a visit." 
               "How far is it?" Marion inquired. 
               "Why, child, it is here in the house, so you won't have to go far,-only into the new part and up stairs. It's one of Thomas' inventions, the cunning dog!" 
               Not suspecting treachery, my wife cheerfully went with them. The doors that led into the prison were open, and the whole interior could be seen. It contained a cot bed, one chair, a table, looking-glass, etc. Marion had suspected nothing, when formerly living at home; and the discovery that the chimney was a false one surprised her much. While she was gazing into the room in astonishment, her father suddenly pinioned her arms, pushed her in, and shut the inner door. In a moment she realized that she was betrayed, and she sank upon the floor, as pale as death. 
               "O my father," she exclaimed, "you cannot mean this!" 
               "Mean it!" he said, triumphantly, "you disobedient fool, I do mean it. You thought you could outwit your old father; but you will learn your mistake, by-and-by. I told you, long ago, that a child of mine should never marry a Gorden; but you did it, and now learn your fate. You shall not live with him. Never dream of seeing his face again, or at least until he has another wife. Word has been given out that you are crazy, and confined in a mad-house. The first statement is true; and as for the latter, I have provided an asylum for you which is perfectly safe, and where you will remain until you have amply atoned for your stubbornness." 
               "Father! father! O, do not shut me up here! Let me go to my husband, or I shall become crazy indeed. You cannot be so cruel. What will Elwood do when he learns that I am lost? I must go to him, I must-O, stay me not!" 
               "But you can't go. As to your husband," cried the old tyrant, sneeringly, "ha, ha! I want the whelp to suffer. I have got him now where I can hit him on the raw, and he shall feel the lash, and the blood shall run, until he learns the folly of braving the wrath of his betters. No, no; you shall not go to him." 
               "I will go, I will!" said the brave-spirited girl, springing at the door, and trying to open it. "I beg-I pray that you will not keep me here." 
               "You can try your strength on that door when-ever you please. You will find it excellent exercise, and I trust it may do you good. It will probably stand about as many efforts as you will care to make, and then be just as good as new." 
               "Mother, my own mother! will you not plead for me? Father will hear to you, I know. Can you consent that your own child, your only daughter, shall be kept a prisoner in such a place as this? Will you, mother, have the heart to let me be separated from my dear husband? O! say to father that you will not consent to this, and then he will let me go." 
               "You are my child," she replied, "although it is true that you have seldom acted toward me as a child should. I told you my wish that you should marry Mr. Stanton, and commanded you again and again to have no intercourse with Gorden. How well you have obeyed me! You deceived both your parents, and now take your reward. You must remain here until Gorden marries again, or until you are ready to sue for a divorce, and promise ise to become the wife of George Washington Stanton." 
               "O mother, you cannot be so cruel! A wife already, yet you would have me promise to wed again! Was such a monstrous thing ever heard of?" 
               "You are doomed to remain here until you do promise,-even until he comes to take you to his sunny home." 
               "I hope you are satisfied now," added Mr. Windsor. "Solitude will bring repentance. You are perfectly safe here, and had better not waste your strength in screaming or yelling, for it won't do a bit of good. When the doors are both shut, not a sound can be heard. I know, for we tried it thoroughly. In the house and out, it is just the same; so it will be well for you to husband your strength, having lost your husband. We shall keep you well, and you may write, or read, or sew, or do nothing, just as you choose. I don't see why you can't enjoy yourself finely." 
               "O, this is some awful dream!" exclaimed Marion. "If I could only wake and find myself with my own Elwood, all fears would depart. But it seems so real-ha, ha, ha! it must be a dream, though; and yet here I am; it is myself; and I am locked into this diabolical place. Those who hold the relation of parents have done it,-they now behold my agony unmoved. Have they human hearts?" 
               "There, there," said her father, "don't take on so. Dry up your girlish tears, or you'll make yourself sick. We do pity you for being so foolish, and bringing this great trouble upon us all." 
               "Pity! the pity of the wild beast for its prey,-of devils for their victims in hell!" 
               "Now that ain't pretty, my child. Such expressions are not at all becoming in a young lady. The ingenuity of this room I think will amuse you. The funniest part is the window, which is the chimney through the roof. It is very curiously contrived. We knew that, if we placed the glass upon the top, people would discover it, and become suspicious; so we put it six inches below. To carry off the water, there is a tube entirely hidden from view, which conveys every drop of it to the roof, and no one would ever suspect it, unless they went up to it, and that we don't intend they shall do at present. Of course, you are now aware that the chimney above is wood instead of brick. You never saw a window contrived in that way before; it will always let in the light, and you will not require either curtain or blind, for nobody can look in." 
               "You have said enough to insult your victim. Have you no mercy at all? I have called you father and mother heretofore, but I know you as such no longer. Those endearing terms shall never pass my lips again, in speaking of or to you, while life lasts. I am no longer your child, but your much-abused slave!" 
               "It is all folly to talk thus. You will feel differently ently, by-and-by. Reflection and solitude will do the work. I hope you will have a good night's rest after your long journey, and so much useless excitement. Make yourself as contented as you can, my child, and then you will be quite happy." 
               They handed her a light, and some water, and then replaced the pannel and shut the outer door. It made a heavy dull noise as it swung to, and seemed a death-knell to her hopes. She set the lamp on the table, threw herself upon the little bed, and wept long and bitterly. But one may not weep always, though the heart is breaking. She arose from her cot, took the light, and examined every part of the room. She was satisfied that escape was impossible. Standing under the false chimney, she looked through it, and saw a star in the heavens. She was instantly comforted by the thought that the eye of God was upon her, when there was none to pity or to save, and that He would have compassion. She kneeled down by her bed, and poured out her burdened soul in prayer. 
               "O! my Father and my God, thy poor, wronged child would seek thee in the hour of her desolation. If I have forgotten thee in more blessed moments, O forgive. Thou knowest how wickedly I have been betrayed by those who should protect me. Father, soften their hearts, and lead them to repentance, that they may speedily open my prison-doors. Teach thy despairing child resignation, and may she wait calmly for the hour of deliverance. And O, my God! comfort the husband of my love. The wife of his bosom torn from him, may he not be left to despair. May he never doubt my faithfulness, but live on, believing that we shall meet again. Let this faith abide in the hearts of both, to give us comfort. Father, I thank thee that, in this lone hour, new hope is born. The blossom shall come out; the ice shall melt and disappear; the cloud shall pass away, bearing a rainbow upon its surface. We shall meet again in thy good time, and sorrow shall be swallowed up in great joy. Let thy guardian wings be over thy children, to keep us safely for evermore. And thine, O heavenly Father, shall be the glory and the praise. Amen." 
               When the trembling captive arose from her knees, she felt more calm. She believed that deliverance would ultimately come, but how or by what means she could not surmise. She knew that I would not give up the search for her while life remained to me, and she trusted in my shrewdness and energy to find a clue to her prison. What she cared for most was separation from me,-a long incarceration,-and the agonies which I must endure in the tedious, fruitless search. 
               Marion now sat down, and planned some method of occupying her time. For one thing, she resolved to keep a journal of all that occurred, and of her own meditations from day to day. She began it then, and continued it for many weary days after. She wrote until past midnight; then went quietly and hopefully to rest. 
               A few hours' slumber refreshed her, and she arose at the summons of Mr. Windsor to receive food for the day. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "And is this all? 
                           Then, O you blessed ministers above, 
                           Keep me in patience; and, with ripened time, 
                           Unfold the evil which is here wrapped up 
                           In countenance!" 
                        
                      
                     MEASURE FOR MEASURE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "A true devoted pilgrim is not weary 
                           To measure kingdoms with his feeble steps." 
                        
                      
                     TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I count myself in nothing else so happy, 
                           As in a soul remembering my good friends; 
                           And as my fortune ripens with my love, 
                           It shall be my true love's recompense." 
                        
                      
                     KING RICHARD SECOND. 
                   
                
               ON arriving at Dunfield, I learned that Mr. Windsor had returned, but no one had seen Marion. The domestics were privately questioned, and declared that, if she came with him, they were ignorant of the fact. 
               Being fully aware that no one had the right to restrain my wife of her liberty, I called upon Mr. Windsor immediately. He saw me before I reached the house, and came out to meet me. 
               "Mr. Windsor," I asked, "where is my wife?" 
               "Your wife! how should I know where your wife is? This is the first time that I ever knew you had a wife." 
                
               "I don't like to accuse a man of your years of falsehood; but, sir, I know you to be guilty of it." 
               "You are an impudent puppy,-so, take that as a sufficient reply." 
               "Mr. Windsor, I married your daughter, against your will, it is true. I left her at Cumberland, and by some means you persuaded her to place herself in your power. You know where she is, and I demand information of her without delay. You have no right to restrain her of her liberty; and, if you continue to do so, it will be at your peril." 
               "You take for granted what remains to be proved, sir." 
               "And it will be proved. I have visited Cumberland in search of Marion; and, though your brother would tell me nothing but lies, I became satisfied that she left with you." 
               "I should think you would doubt your wife's fidelity, from her taking 'French leave' when so soon expecting you." 
               "No, sir, I doubt her not at all. You deceived her: that was the reason she left, and no other. Being married, she fancied it would do to trust you. Now, sir, I require you to lead me to her presence!" 
               "Modest, upon my soul! I deny that Marion has ever been married to you, and so I have a right to secrete her from you, if I choose. The girl is insane, and has been sent to an asylum, where she is properly cared for, and may in time be restored; though that is somewhat doubtful. She had dangerous fits, to begin with, of which she was relieved by the use of very powerful remedies. If you speak the truth in relation to your marriage,-which I deny,-it was undoubtedly the cause of her illness; and so you have to thank yourself for the great evil that has come upon her." 
               "Mr. Windsor, how can you stand there and utter such outrageous lies? You know Marion is not insane, and she has not been ill unless your cursed deception and cruelty have made her so. This is a terrible business, sir, and it had better stop where it is. How could you, old as you are, and with hair already whitening for the grave, engage in such a hellish plot as this?" 
               "Well, Mr. Gorden, if you know more about the matter than I do, you should not come to me for information. As to your profanity, it is worthy of you." 
               "Mr. Windsor, you are my wife's father, and I would not injure you, or make this matter public, or at all events any more public than it is already. But, if you do not tell me where my wife is secreted, I will use legal means to compel you." 
               "Do your utmost and your worst, Mr. Gorden,-I fear you not!" And thereupon, the hard hearted man returned to his house. 
               As there was no other alternative, the legal measures which were requisite to obtain the end desired were immediately adopted. Mr. Windsor came into court, and denied that I had ever married his daughter. The burden of proof was thus thrown upon me. I had given the marriage certificate to Marion, and so it was necessary to send to Cumberland for the deposition of the justice, for no witnesses were present. Judge of my dismay when news came that the man had closed his business in town, and gone to parts unknown. I lost no time in making another journey to Cumberland; but the search was fruitless. 
               So, then, the plot was deeper than I had supposed. It was at present impracticable to prove my marriage, and therefore I could not compel Mr. Windsor to bring my wife into the presence of the court. Alas! I had made two fatal mistakes. The first was in allowing her to remain at Cumberland on any consideration; and the second, in giving the marriage certificate into her hands. Thus she seemed lost to me, beyond recovery. 
               I had doubted the story of her being sent to an insane asylum, and was half convinced that she was a prisoner at home; and so I went, night after night, and frequently during the day, and scanned the building on every side, to see if some signal would not be shown to let me know that she was there. 
               While watching, one afternoon, I saw Mr. Windsor leave home in his carriage. I resolved at once to call upon his wife; so I went to the door and rang the bell. A servant appeared, and I requested quested to see Mrs. Windsor. When she came, I bowed to her and said: 
               "As you are a woman, possessing, I hope, in some degree a woman's heart, I have come to see if you will not give me information respecting my wife." 
               "Well, sir," she replied, "you have made us a great deal of trouble; and, now that you have driven Marion insane, I did hope that you would keep away, and mind your own business." 
               "I have not made the trouble, madam, but you have made it for yourselves. Marion and I loved each other from early childhood, and we have been legally married. Now I have the right to protect her." 
               "If Marion's senses are ever restored, and she wishes to see you, she will send for you, sir; and until then your company can be dispensed with." 
               "Mrs. Windsor, you know, as well as I, that the story about Marion's insanity is false. I will agree to abide the test if you will take me to her. If she says that she never desires to see me again, crazy or not, I will be governed by her wishes." 
               "It would not be best to excite the poor child any more. I could not answer for the consequences, were she to see you again. When a child has been guilty of a great act of disobedience, the remorse is terrible." 
               "Remorse! will not the time come when Mr. Windsor and you will feel remorse? Marion does not feel it, though. That she is suffering intense agony I doubt not, but not from remorse,-she mourns her last fatal mistake. Had she consulted me, whether, in any contingency, to confide again in her parents, I should have counselled her against it." 
               "You have too long given her such counsel; and you see what the result is. As you have been the sole cause of this irreparable mischief, you ought to be satisfied, and forever dismiss my daughter from your mind." 
               "If you expect me to be guilty of such desertion, you are greatly mistaken. I shall never give up the search for Marion while I live. I believe she is a prisoner in this house; and, if you have a heart of flesh, take me to her! You know, Mrs. Windsor, how fearfully she is now suffering because she is restrained of her liberty, and separated from her husband. Think, O! think what your own feelings would be if you were thus wronged! I beg of you not to harden your heart, but let mercy and kindness enter it, and then I shall not plead in vain." 
               "Such talk is entirely useless, Mr. Gorden, and worse than useless; for, if I had the power to take you to her, I would not do it. Rather would I separate you as widely apart as the poles." 
               "And you are a woman! a wife and mother! O my God! can it be possible? Poor, dear Marion, Heaven protect you in this dark hour, and strengthen your Elwood to bear up bravely to the end. Mrs. Windsor, may God give you space for repentance." 
               "And you too, sir, for you greatly need it. You had better go now, and not trouble yourself to come again." 
               "Madam, if Marion is in your power, beware what you do to her! If you are determined to keep her a prisoner, beware that you go no further! I believe that you are accessory to a crime as black as perdition,-the kidnapping of my wife, and the hiding of her from her legal protector. To cover up your wickedness, the vilest falsehoods are coined and circulated. This conspiracy would disgrace pirates; but let it not go too far. I am on the track of the conspirators, and shall yet learn all!" 
               Marion's insanity was not generally believed in, although the report had been widely circulated. A very few persons, however, professed to credit it; they affected to understand the whole matter, and, when the subject was mentioned, vaguely hinted that Marion had found me so different from what she anticipated, that the thought of having become my wife drove her to madness. 
               But the people of Dunfield were becoming so much incensed against Mr. Windsor, that he expressed himself willing to have his house searched, with this stipulation, that I should not be one of the party, though Mr. Mackay might act in my stead. Without informing him of the day or the hour they would come, a number of gentlemen made him a call, and examined every room, from the attic to the cellar, but without discovering any ground for suspicion. My disappointment was great, for I had fondly hoped they would detect Marion's place of concealment. The search convinced them all that the lost one was not there, and so I felt it was useless for me to continue watching the house. 
               Being now quite weary and almost ill, from anxiety and nightly vigils, I went home to my mother and sister. O! how grateful I was for the sympathy which they poured into my desolate and aching bosom. My mother had become reconciled to her great bereavement, and there was returning sweetness and beauty in her countenance. 
               I learned for the first time that Lissy was engaged, and had been for some months. It was a case of love at first sight, but she acknowledged having acted hastily. I perceived that she was not happy; and, as her welfare for life depended on this step, I counselled her to break the engagement, if her betrothed proved unworthy, or if she could not bestow upon him her whole heart. Others might regard such an engagement as sacred; but, to me, marriage, without perfect confidence and affection, was a sacrilegious thing. Her intended did not visit her while I was at home, for he had gone-so he wrote-to the South, on business. 
               I remained at home for two weeks, and was urged to tarry longer and recruit my strength, I looked so pale and grief-worn; but I could not,-I must go in search of my lost bride. After having made an arrangement with my partner, to be absent an indefinite period, with an aching and desponding heart, I left Dunfield. 
               The report had gone abroad that Marion was insane, and had been sent to a hospital. The former story I believed to be a vile falsehood; the latter I thought might be true. I had often heard of persons being confined in insane asylums, who were not mad at first, but were finally made so by imprisonment in such places. The overseers of lunatic hospitals had in some cases been deceived by the rascality of relatives, and sometimes they were bribed to become parties to the horrible barbarity. If Marion was confined as a lunatic, the latter course alone had been resorted to. That her parents were capable of such malignant cruelty, I had ample reason for believing. 
               I determined to visit the lunatic hospitals throughout the country, for where else could I seek her? I was admitted, with very little difficulty, into a large number of lunatic asylums, and witnessed scenes of the most painful description. Some of the insane appeared very refined and intelligent, and seemed to be in full possession of their reason, unless one happened to touch on a particular subject. One man announced himself as the Hon. Daniel Webster; and he "supposed he might say, without giving offence, that he was the greatest of living statesmen." He wanted me to hear a speech which he had prepared, with much care, respecting the northeastern boundary question; and immediately commenced his harangue. A woman, to whom I was introduced, said it must not be supposed she was a lunatic, for she owned the hospital, and was there for the sole purpose of taking care of her property, having learned by experience that it would not do to trust to hirelings. Many of the patients in the hospitals, however, were so imbecile or so frantic as to have but few traces of humanity remaining. Alas! that God-like reason should ever be so crushed out. 
               After I had visited the hospitals in New England, it occurred to me that, in the dream before related, I had witnessed these harrowing scenes, and that Stanton, aided by Thomas Windsor, had stolen my bride. Possibly they had returned from Europe, and had succeeded, by chicanery or violence, in taking Marion to South Carolina. Acting upon this idea, I immediately started for that State; but there my search was as fruitless as elsewhere. I learned that the young reprobates were in Italy, when last heard from. 
               It was now spring, and I received a letter from Mr. Mackay, stating that I had been elected to represent the town in the General Court, and I must return speedily. Our patent was also secured, and it was important that my voice should be heard before the enterprise proceeded further. Mr. Mackay advised me not to decline the office which my fellow townsmen had honored me with. In relation to my wife, her whereabouts continued unknown, but he believed the mystery would be solved by-and-by. He advised me to wait watchfully but patiently, and not ruin my health and waste my energies by continuing a useless search. If Marion was in a lunatic asylum, the officers had been bribed, and I should not be allowed to see her, for they knew it would be unsafe for them to admit any one to her presence who was not concerned in the plot. 
               All this appeared very reasonable, and, as duty called me, I decided to return. I arrived home in due season, and was heartily welcomed by my numerous friends. That night I was serenaded by a number of the citizens, and their sympathetic songs brought tears to my eyes. Ah! when in trouble, the voice of friendship is sweet. 
               We made immediate arrangements to dispose of our invention. A large manufacturing company became the sole purchaser, and I soon found myself worth fifty thousand dollars. 
               I took my seat in the legislature, and performed the duties pertaining to the station to the best of my ability. Through my instrumentality, a committee was appointed (of which I was chairman) to investigate the condition of the insane hospitals in the State. We performed our mission thoroughly, but I obtained no clue to my lost bride. 
               After the adjournment of the legislature, finding no rest at home, I again travelled over the country, in search of the missing one. In order to obtain ready admission to the hospitals, I carried with me a certificate from the Governor and Council of my own State. This was of much service, in securing prompt admission and civil treatment. 
               After spending six months in futile wanderings, I returned once more to Dunfield, where I was again chosen to the legislature. But for the entreaties of friends, I should have declined the honor, for I was broken in spirit and ambition. 
               My success greatly mortified Mr. Windsor, and he tried by every means in his power to defeat me; but he helped far more than he hindered. He was heard to say that he would rather sacrifice a thousand dollars, than I should be chosen to represent the town. 
               A short distance from Mr. Mackay's was a lot of land which I had often admired, uttering to him a strong desire to purchase, and build a house upon it. When I returned this spring an elegant dwelling had been erected on the spot by Mr. Mackay, and was nearly finished. He invited me to examine it. I expressed myself delighted. 
               "But why have you built this?" I asked. "You don't intend moving here?" 
               "By no means. My poor friend, you have searched in vain for your wife, and from the depths of my soul I sympathize with you. I would not have you cherish bright hopes only to be disappointed; but I believe she will yet be found." 
               "God grant, my ever faithful friend, that you may prove a correct prophet," I said with much emotion. "Through your aid I have risen from poverty to affluence, and have the confidence and esteem of my townsmen; but how readily would I sacrifice all,-yes, all,-if Marion could be restored! O my friend, God only knows how I have suffered since she was so cruelly stolen from me! But, thank Heaven, I am still sustained by hope, and by the consciousness of rectitude." 
               "It is well that you are; and something tells me that you will not be kept long in this cruel suspense. I have built this house, Elwood, as a gift to your bride, with the firm belief that I should yet have the privilege of presenting it to her in person, and for many years witnessing her happiness while dwelling here." 
               This announcement filled my eyes with tears, and I replied in a broken voice: "O, I thank you, and, in the name of the dear lost one, I bless you. Most noble, generous friend, may God grant that your faith shall be crowned with fruition." 
               At times, indeed, I was almost overwhelmed by despair; but this incident cheered my heart and brightened my hopes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The pleasantest angling is to see the fish 
                           Cut with her golden oars the silver stream, 
                           And greedily devour the treacherous bait." 
                        
                      
                     MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Dark night, that from the eye his function takes, 
                           The ear more quick of apprehension makes; 
                           Wherein it doth impair the seeing sense, 
                           It pays the hearing double recompense." 
                        
                      
                     MIDSUMMER NIGHT'S DREAM. 
                   
                
               ON a cloudy afternoon in the autumn of 1847, two gentlemen, named Henry Morrison and Charles Edmonds, were angling on a pond ten miles from my home in Dunfield. They were very intimate friends, and were travelling around the country, partly for pleasure and partly for business. In order to enjoy themselves best,-journeying or stopping, just as they pleased,-they procured a horse and buggy in preference to "riding on the rail," or in a stage coach. Being fond of sporting, they took their guns and fishing-tackle, having wisely determined to recruit their jaded physical powers by hunting and angling. For a number of days they had rare sport; but, on the afternoon alluded to, their luck was almost unprecedented. 
               "How plentiful the fishes are here, Charles," said Henry Morrison. "And they are as ravenous as sharks. You have only to drop in your hook and lo! out comes a fish; and what fine, handsome fellows they are. By Jove, I like this." 
               "So do I, and all the better that we did not anticipate such luck," said Charles Edmonds. "But I'm the victor so far, for I have caught the most. I tell you what: I am fond of pickerel, and mean to try for some." 
               "So do; any thing in the shape of fish will bite to-day. We'll have a feast when we get to the hotel in Dunfield. My! you have caught one quickly, and a noble one, too. Something big has taken hold of my hook,-there he is, the largest fish yet. Well, perch is good eating." 
               "And there is another pickerel, larger than your perch, Henry. This is fun. I have gained a pound a day since we started, and probably I shall gain two pounds to-day." 
               "I hope so, for you are lean enough now. Here comes another. Hurra! a trout, of all things." 
               "So it is. I had no idea we should find trout here; I suspect they must have been manufactured for this particular occasion. But here is another pickerel, larger than either of the others. What glorious fishing!" 
               Thus engaged, the two friends became so excited that the "feathers from the wings of night," to use Longfellow's expression, were shook thickly around them before they observed it. 
               "I say," said Henry, "it is growing dark fast, and we have a trip of ten miles before us." 
                
               "So it is. We must be off in double quick time." 
               "And have a ride in darkness and rain, or I am no weather prophet." 
               Hastily pulling for the shore, the young men put their fishes in the carriage and drove rapidly towards Dunfield. The wind now blew briskly from the south, and ere long the rain began to fall in torrents, beating into their faces. The moon was not out, and soon it was so dark that all the world seemed one wide waste of blackness. Not an object could be discerned; the hand held close before the eyes could not be seen. 
               In a brief space of time, the clothes of the travellers were completely drenched. As they had never been in that part of the country before, they pursued their way with difficulty and uncertainty. Having rode a sufficient length of time, as they thought, to reach the village, they stopped at a house to inquire, and learned that they had gone four miles out of their way. Receiving very minute directions, they continued on, the storm increasing rather than abating. Morrison was driving, or rather holding the reins, for he let the horse take his own course in the more than Egyptian darkness. 
               Edmonds finally saw a light glimmering in the distance, and pointed it out to his companion. They had travelled some miles without being aware of passing a single house. 
               "That looks cheerful," said Henry. "I wish there were a hundred of them." 
                
               "And then you would suppose Dunfield to be close at hand," Charles observed in reply. 
               "Certainly, or some other village, which would be quite as welcome, if I could only find shelter from this terrible storm." 
               "It's a severe one, truly. What a long ten miles we have travelled, and no sign of the village yet." 
               "We may have missed our way again." 
               "Shouldn't wonder if we had, it is so very dark. The wind and rain are sufficient to blind any one, without the darkness." 
               "That's a fact. But I am glad you have found your tongue once more. I never yet rode with anybody who could talk worth a copper in the dark. Just at the time when one feels the need of a friendly voice, all is still as the grave. Had not yonder light come in view, you would have kept silence for half an hour longer, I presume." 
               "And you likewise. The fact is, Henry, you feel just as little like conversation, when taking such a gloomy ride, as anybody else." 
               "You may be right; but why is it? I have been in company with young girls, everlasting chatter-boxes, equal to talking down six lively fellows like you or me, who were as speechless as statues when riding in the dark. I confess, I don't understand it." 
               "I shall not try to enlighten you when it is so confounded dark as it is now. The storm is increasing, and in my view, Henry, it is exceedingly dangerous riding. I am tired of it. We have been on the road two or three hours, and no sign of Dunfield yet. What do you say to applying to yonder dwelling, for entertainment for man and beast?" 
               "I agree, provided you will make the application, Charley." 
               "Why will not you make it?" 
               "Me! I would ride till doomsday before asking for entertainment at a private house, perfect strangers as we are." 
               "It might be dooms-night to us, if we should keep on. You are too ceremonious, Henry." 
               "I can't help it, Charles. Confound those fishes! if they hadn't been so greedy, we should have avoided this." 
               "Better say, if we had not been so greedy." 
               "Just as you like, Edmonds. But if you don't fancy appearances there, we won't stop, even if they are willing to accommodate us." 
               "You are too particular, on such a night as this. 'Any port in a storm.' I should not marvel at all if that house contained a bright-eyed damsel, whom you will be very loth to leave." 
               "Nonsense, Charles! I never saw a woman yet that I would snap my fingers at." 
               "You would be an unmannerly dog if you did. We are both considered incorrigible bachelors. Thirty years old, and no bright eyes have shot Cupid's arrows into our hearts yet. I don't believe you will always live a bachelor. I know you too well for that. If there is a man on earth designed by nature and education to make a woman happy, you are that man. Now, Henry, wouldn't it be decidedly romantic if our buggy should be overturned near that dwelling, and one or both of us half-killed, which would detain us days or weeks; giving you an opportunity to get bewitched by the only daughter, whom by-and-by you shall marry?" 
               "What nonsense, Charley! You don't catch me to marry a country hussy. I sha'n't expect to find female attractions under that roof. Now, mark my prediction of the family there: an old couple of seventy-five, whose faces have forgotten that such things as soap and water ever existed; a promising youth of forty, who knows just enough to go in when it rains; and three squint-eyed, cross-grained, wrinkled old maids." 
               "Fie, Henry! you are a false prophet, and always were. I am certain that we shall find the right kind of people, and be cordially welcomed. Any way, we can't possibly go any farther tonight, Morrison. The storm grows more furious, and the darkness can almost be felt." 
               The house they were approaching stood on a spot slightly elevated above the road; and the lights gleamed out very brightly, for the window-blinds were open. It had the appearance, in the darkness, of a country hotel, and, to the wet, jaded horse, it promised shelter and a full crib. Instantly he quickened his speed into a fast trot,- a little too fast for safety,-and the result was, an overturn of the buggy. 
               Charles was speedily on his feet, and held the horse by the bridle; and his presence of mind saved his friend, whose legs had become entangled with the reins, endangering his life, perhaps, if the animal, which was very high-spirited, had ran away. Morrison escaped, however, with a few slight bruises, while Charles was not injured at all. Dark as it was, they soon learned that both shafts of the buggy were broken. 
               "This is most wretched luck," said Henry, despairingly. 
               "You wicked wretch!" replied Charles, "to speak in that way after such an escape. For my part, I think we have abundant reasons for thankfulness. Heigho! we shall have to stop with the old maids now, whether they wish it or not." 
               The people in the house had heard the crash, and some one appeared at the door with a lantern. Henry held the horse, while Charles went to the house and procured the welcome light. The frightened beast was soon released from the broken carriage; and, having removed it from the road, Charles went into the house. To his surprise, he found only an elderly woman and a beautiful girl, seemingly her daughter. 
               "Good evening, ladies," he said. "We have had the misfortune to overturn our carriage, breaking both shafts; and, if it is not too much trouble, we should like to remain here till morning." 
                
               "How many of you?" inquired the woman. 
               "Only two,-one besides myself," he replied. 
               "Another gentleman, I suppose." 
               "Yes." 
               "Are either of you injured?" asked the young lady. 
               "My friend is slightly bruised," he answered. 
               "What say, Lissy," asked the woman, "shall we bid them remain, or send them to the next house? It is not far, you know." 
               The young lady looked into Charles' face inquiringly. "O, let them remain, by all means, mother, for they are wet and cold, and perhaps injured severely." 
               "I only hesitated," said her mother, "because all our men folks are absent. Yourself and companion shall be very welcome. You will have to attend to the horse, however. There is plenty of fodder in the barn. Have you taken tea?" 
               "We have not," was the answer. 
               "Can we remain?" asked Henry Morrison, as soon as Charles had shut the outer door. 
               "Certainly,-all right. No signs of the three vinegar-faced old maids, either." 
               "Heaven be thanked for that. What sort of folks are they, really?" 
               "You are too bad, Henry. Had you been injured as seriously as people sometimes are by such accidents, you would have been thankful for the tender care of one of that much-abused spinster class." 
                
               "Well, I suppose so. I am always sinning, in your estimation, and shall have to repent, one of these days. Who knows but that I may make atonement by marrying a regular spinster?-A capital barn, this. Where are the men? They might have furnished us with a boy, at least." 
               "For shame, you fault-finder! You are not half so thankful as the horse: see how pleased he acts." 
               "You chide sharply. Here am I, bruised, soaked, chilled, and hungry, and yet you won't let me complain at all." 
               "I will not give you a chance to complain much longer, be assured of that." 
               Having provided well for the horse, the gentlemen took their valises and basket of fish and entered the house. Charles introduced his companion, and he in return introduced Charles. 
               "Our name is Gorden," said the elderly woman. "For a wonder, we two are alone to-night, which I very much regret, on your account. Why, you have been a-fishing. What a noble mess! I never saw a finer one. Doubtless you are very hungry. How should you like some fried fish for supper?" 
               "Exceedingly, if it would not be too much trouble," responded Charles. 
               "No matter for the trouble," promptly observed the daughter. "I feel just in the mood for cooking fish. But first I will show you to your chamber." 
               Every thing in the room allotted to them was in the most complete order, and not a speck of dirt could be seen. They found soft, pure water, and a pile of towels. 
               "How are you pleased?" asked Charles, as soon as they were alone. His friend had seemed to be in a state which might be deemed psychological ever since they entered the house. 
               "A beautiful home," he replied, "and what charming ladies! How motherly seemed the elder, and how very lovely the younger. I tell you what it is, Charles, I never saw a woman who struck my fancy as she does. What a treasure she will prove to somebody, one of these days." 
               "You surprise me, Henry. I had not thought your heart so very susceptible. Would she answer to snap your fingers at, d'ye think?" 
               "Don't banter me, Charley; for really I apprehend that I am in dangerous company." 
               "How should you like to exchange it for three snappish old maids?" 
               "I would not exchange for anybody whatever." 
               "I predicted that you would find a wife here. 'Ah Henry! it is I who am the prophet; but, then, you despise a 'country hussy.'" 
               "Pooh! But she's engaged ere this, I'll warrant you. Such a peerless gem could not have been overlooked till this time,-the idea is preposterous." 
               "Ha, ha, ha! You are in love at first sight. Hark! she is singing as merrily as a red-breast; singing and frying fish at the same time. 'Dat's goot,' as a Dutchman would say. I tell you what, Henry, she is a regular fish-woman." 
               "Come, come! it is scandalous to speak thus." 
               "So it is; but we may learn more of her before we shall be able to leave here. I think she is heart-whole yet, and you have my gracious permission to win and wear the priceless jewel, provided her market is not made, and you are adroit and agreeable enough to gain her favor." 
               Having renovated their wardrobe, they went down stairs. Mrs. Gorden invited them to take seats in the kitchen. 
               "You must feel very much chilled," she remarked, "after getting so wet. Our stove was removed in the spring, and so we have an old-fashioned country fire, which at present will be all the better for you." 
               They gladly accepted the invitation, and sat down near the blazing fire, feeling that there was not such another comfortable place in the whole world. Here the fish was being fried, and O! delicious for such hungry stomachs, potatoes also. 
               Lissy Gorden was flying around nimbly as a squirrel; but she suddenly stopped, and gazed anxiously into Henry's face. 
               "You look very pale, sir," she said. "Are you not injured more than you supposed?" 
               "I am not much hurt, thank you," he answered. "I don't wonder that I am pale, though, for to be overturned on such a night is sufficient to blanch the cheek of the bravest." 
                
               "So it is. Your escape was very fortunate. And are you not hurt at all?" she continued, turning to Charles. 
               "Not that I am aware of," he answered. 
               "How glad I am," was Lissy's exclamation. "I regret your misfortune, but am thankful that the accident happened so near our house." 
               "Had it occurred elsewhere, you would have been saved all this trouble," said Charles. 
               "I beg of you not to call it 'trouble,' sir, for I assure you that it is a pleasure,-only I shall claim my share." 
               "What, of the fried fish?" asked Henry. "If you will partake with us, we shall be very happy." 
               "I do not approve of late suppers," said Mrs. Gorden; "but it is a long time since we have had any fish. Lissy and I sat down to the table alone to-night, and the result was, we ate but little. The excitement and exercise have sharpened our appetites, and so we have concluded to aid you all that we can, with a due regard to health." 
               Both gentlemen expressed themselves much gratified at this condescension. 
               The repast was soon smoking upon the table, and Charles and Henry did ample justice to it, the ladies aiding as much as could have been expected. After tea they sat by the cheerful fire and conversed until twelve o'clock. The strangers thought both mother and daughter were very intelligent and entertaining. The former told them that her husband was dead; that she had one son who resided in town, but his business did not permit him to visit them often. On inquiring, they learned that they were within two miles of the village of Dunfield. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O, and I forsooth in love! 
                           I, that have been love's whip; 
                           A very beadle to a humorous sigh; 
                           A critic; nay, a night-watch constable; 
                           A domineering pedant o'er the boy, 
                           Than whom no mortal so magnificent." 
                        
                      
                     LOVE'S LABOR LOST. 
                   
                
               WHEN they had retired, Henry Morrison was more disposed to converse about Lissy Gordon than to address himself to sleep. To this Charles demurred. He declared that he should not submit to it, for he was weary, and required sleep, and there was little time before morning, at best. Henry would never confess how long he remained awake; but Charles was soon in a profound slumber, from which he was aroused by the breakfast bell. Contrary to their expectations, it was still raining very fast. 
               Mrs. Gorden and Lissy-or, if the reader pleases, my mother and sister-greeted the strangers cordially. 
               "You will not be able to leave us to-day," said my mother, "for the storm increases rather than abates." 
               "We can go to the village to-day and have our carriage repaired," said Henry. 
                
               "I would not do that," said Lissy, "unless it is absolutely necessary. After getting so wet last night, further exposure would be hazardous. No matter if it storms a week,-you are welcome to remain." 
               "I thank you," said Henry, giving the fair speaker a grateful look. "I know that what you say is not merely idle compliment; so we will stay contented." 
               The day was spent in reading, conversation, and playing various games. It continued to rain until noon of the third day, when the two gentlemen went to the village, to have their carriage repaired. The only wheelright in town was absent; therefore they must procure another carriage, or wait till he returned. After a talk with my mother and Lissy, they decided to remain. A week passed before the carriage was repaired, and they improved it well. They hunted or fished nearly every day; and, as they obtained plenty of game, and had excellent cooks, they lived like princes. 
               If Henry Morrison was smitten when he first saw our Lissy, he was deeply in love when he bade her good-by. But "the course of true love never did run smooth," for, alas! he learned that she was engaged. That she was pleased with his company he could not doubt, though he thought her needlessly shy, even of a stranger, unless peculiar reasons existed for it. Charles was desirous that his friend might win Lissy, and he watched her demeanor in Henry's society. It evinced a mingled feeling of pleasure and dread, which seemed mysterious; but the matter was explained the following Sunday. 
               On Lissy's return from church, a gentleman came with her who was introduced to the travellers by the name of Robert Bruce. He was a tall, kingly-looking man, with a large head, high forehead, and a handsome, voluptuous face. His hair was very dark, his eyebrows thick and black. His manners were exceedingly pleasing, and yet there was an indescribable something about him which they did not like. He conversed with great fluency and sprightliness, but his knowledge was evidently more for show than for use. Notwithstanding some of his remarks were bombastic, he was well qualified to make a deep impression upon a susceptible woman's heart. 
               As soon as he came, Henry was very unhappy. He rightly divined that Bruce was Lissy's accepted suitor. When he and his friend went to their chamber, they left Bruce and Lissy in the parlor. Henry's disappointment was intense. He could not bear the thought that Lissy Gorden was forever lost to him. He sat down and leaned his head very dejectedly upon the window-sill. 
               "My friend," said Charles, "you are very unhappy." 
               "Yes, Charles, I am. O! she is the only woman I have ever seen that I can love. She is promised to another, and I cannot honorably sue for her hand. You will think me weak, foolish; but the world has lost all its charms for me. What a dear girl she is. But am I too late? Can it be that she is engaged?" 
               "I will be frank with you, even though it pain you much. I believe she is." 
               "Then all is lost!" 
               "Yes; and yet perhaps not." 
               "But where is the hope, Charles?" 
               "She has promised to marry him,-granted; but he will never make her happy. She may marry from a mistaken sense of duty, thinking she cannot honorably withdraw; but, if she does, she will sacrifice herself without benefiting him." 
               "You have spoken my own thoughts; but, being interested, I thought myself liable to entertain prejudices against him. What are the grounds of your opinion?" 
               "She has a large, warm heart; he has but a little, cold one. He is more in love with himself than with her. He affects great knowledge, but it is all on the surface. I am convinced, also, that he is a decided male flirt. She pleases his fancy; he thinks he should be proud of her beauty, proud to exhibit her to his acquaintances. His love for her is made up of pride, vanity, and passion, but there is no soul in it. After they have been married awhile, he would tire of her, and she of him, and then her lot would be lamentable indeed." 
               "It is all too true, Charles. O! this ought not to be; would that I could save her. But it is too late, too late!" 
                
               "Don't despair, my friend, for I think she now sees the matter in its true light. The thought of acting dishonorably cuts her to the heart; but the meshes he has woven about her will be broken, if possible, and then-" 
               "And then,-well, what then?" 
               "You may win her." 
               "O! that it were possible." 
               "Keep up a brave heart, my friend. You are worthy of each other. He is not true to her, and that she will learn, by-and-by; though I doubt not he intends to marry her. When she is convinced of his unworthiness, she will dismiss him." 
               "And should it be so, will she think of me?" 
               "She thinks of you now, if I can read her thoughts. Were it not for her entanglement with Bruce, as soon as she could learn your true worth she would pledge you her heart." 
               "I thank you for such cheering words, and yet I have but little hope." 
               The last Charles recollected that night, Henry was walking the chamber in great distress. In the morning his tell-tale face showed that he had scarcely slept. 
               "How have you rested, Henry?" Charles inquired. 
               "But very little. Charles, we ought to leave here to-day." 
               "O no, we cannot do that, and besides, it would not be best. Lissy ought to see more of you before the separation." 
                
               Lissy was pale and seemingly wretched when the family met at the breakfast-table. As she looked inquiringly into the face of Henry Morrison, the expression of her own softened, changing to one of interest and sympathy. Charles thought, as he watched her intelligent countenance, that she perceived Henry's unhappiness, and more than half-surmised the reason. The meal was the saddest, most unsocial they had partaken of in that house. A shadow had fallen and obliterated the sunshine from their hearts. 
               After breakfast, the two friends took their guns and went to the woods. They were very successful, and returned in season for dinner; and now the shadow had fled, and the conversation flowed easily and naturally, and so the repast was eaten with zest. 
               They remained two days longer, and then Charles was satisfied that Lissy Gorden, even though engaged to Robert Bruce, was yet as much pierced by Cupid's arrows as was Henry Morrison. 
               When the two friends took their departure, Henry and Lissy bade each other a sad "good-by," but not "farewell," for Mrs. Gorden had invited the gentlemen to visit them again, which they both agreed to do. 
               Having to transact business with Mr. Mackay and others in town, they were detained a day or two longer at the village. I had the pleasure of an introduction, and they seemed gratified to know me. They spoke in grateful terms of the kindness and hospitality of my mother and sister. I judged them to be excellent, noble-hearted fellows, and I have never had cause to change the opinion then formed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O bid me leap, rather than marry Paris, 
                           From off the battlements of yonder tower; 
                           Or walk in thievish ways; or bid me lurk 
                           Where serpents are; chain me with roaring bears; 
                           Or shut me nightly in a charnel-house, 
                           O'ercovered quite with dead men's rattling bones, 
                           With reeky shanks, and chapless skulls; 
                           Or bid me go into a new made grave, 
                           And hide me with a dead man in his shroud; 
                           Things that to hear them told have made me tremble; 
                           And I will do it without fear or doubt, 
                           To live an unstained wife to my sweet love." 
                        
                      
                     ROMEO AND JULIET. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Though all the world should crack their duty to you, 
                           And throw it from their soul; though perils did 
                           Abound, as thick as thought could make them, and 
                           Appear in forms more horrid; yet my duty, 
                           As doth a rock against the chiding flood, 
                           Should the approach of this wild river break, 
                           And stand unshaken yours." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY EIGHTH. 
                   
                
               INCARCERATED in so small a room, seeing no one but her parents, and seldom speaking to them, time seemed to pass very slowly to Marion. She did not, however, augment her sorrows by yielding to despair, but kept her mind employed as much as possible. She wrote in her journal every day, read interesting books, and occupied many hours with her needle. Once a week she wrote a long letter to me, inditing her thoughts as though she fondly believed I was soon to peruse them. 
               One source of consolation was the belief that I was continually searching for her, and that I would not relinquish the search until she was found. And yet there was little probability that I should find her. No one knew where she was hidden but her parents, and they had resolved to imprison her until a most wicked object was accomplished. If the law would protect me in searching the house, still it would be in vain. She could not see any mode of deliverance; and yet her faith in my final success never wavered. 
               A week after she had been in durance vile, her father went into her room. 
               "I have come, my daughter," he said, "to have a candid talk with you." 
               "Don't call me your daughter, I pray," she replied. "Say what else you please, but spare me that." 
               "I had hoped to see you become more reasonable, after spending a week in this place." 
               "If you suppose such treatment will change me, by-and-by you will learn your mistake." 
               "And you are unwilling that I should call you my child?" 
               "You hold the relation of father to me, I well know; but you have forfeited all claim to my love, respect, or obedience." 
               "I have not been able to secure obedience heretofore, though a very indulgent parent; but I have you now where you cannot disobey as formerly, and here will I keep you until you learn to do as I wish." 
               "Then I shall remain here while life lasts. But, Mr. Windsor, the hour will come when you would give worlds if this had never happened." 
               "O, never fear that! I am but doing my duty. You have married against my positive injunction, and in the sight of Heaven the wicked covenant is null and void, and I mean it shall be so by the laws of the country. When that contract is ended,-as ended it shall be,-then Mr. Stanton will return and receive you as his bride." 
               "A dark plot this, very dark, and one that will only bring shame upon yourself and my mother. I will never consent that my marriage shall be annulled, and I would not, though the assassin's knife were at my heart. And if it were annulled,-hear me, Mr. Windsor, and mark it well,-yes, if it were annulled, rather than give my hand to the villain Stanton, I would spend a long life in this horrible place, or endure the agonies of a protracted death. Like the lepers of which we read in the New Testament, I would rather live in a tomb and sleep with the dead. I could bear poverty, imprisonment, sickness, with my husband, for I love him; but Stanton is a wretch, a murderer. I have vowed at the altar to be true to Elwood while life lasts, and I will be true, ay, and I would be, did I know that the next hour wild beasts would tear me in pieces. Better that this crime cease at once, and then I will try to forgive you. But, if you feel that you must continue it, do so; yet don't flatter yourself that you will succeed." 
               "You speak very bravely, after one week's experience of this proper restraint. I should have waited longer, I now see plainly. When weeks shall have been protracted into months, and months into years, I fancy you will talk more humbly." 
               "Never! Have I no sense, think you, of right and wrong? Am I utterly destitute of principle, that I should submit to foul dishonor in order to obtain my liberty? If I were free, if I had never taken the vows of a wife, I would choose this room for a home a thousand times rather than be wedded to the assassin Stanton." 
               "I repeat it, you have tried this life only one week; so I shall wait for time to do the work." 
               "And you will wait until you witness the utter destruction of all your unholy plans." 
               "We shall see,-we shall see." 
               A month after this interview, Marion was visited by her mother, who inquired if she would then submit to the wishes of her parents. The brave girl replied that she never would submit. They might make that prison her abode for life, or withhold food, and drink, and raiment; still, she would remain faithful to the husband of her love. 
               As Mrs. Windsor could not move the unflinching bride, she gave her a history of the quarrel in the gambling-house between Thomas and young Rand, speaking eloquently of the services of Stanton in rescuing an only son and brother from the clutches of the law. 
               "And now, my daughter," said Mrs. Windsor, when the story was ended, "I trust you will see our conduct in a different light. Your father knew that he must sacrifice his property, his son-" 
               "Or his daughter," interrupted Marion. 
               "You are mistaken, there, for he had no thought of sacrificing you. A wealthy gentleman desired your hand, and, if the difficulty had never occurred, we could not have expected a more eligible match. It was just what we had always wished, and we readily gave our consent. Had you married him, as you should have done, all would have been well." 
               "And there you greatly err, Mrs. Windsor, for I should have known endless trouble and shame, had I been married to such a base-hearted wretch." 
               "You do him injustice, Marion, for he is a very gallant, chivalrous gentleman. True, he was inconsiderate, but not base." 
               "He had murder in his heart, Mrs. Windsor, for he did his best to kill Elwood, my dear husband. Providentially he was thwarted." 
               "You now understand, Marion, the position in which your father is placed. How can you hesitate a moment longer?" 
               "If you have told the truth, the danger to which Thomas is exposed is not half as great as that of Mr. Stanton, and one may be offset by the other. If your husband loved his child as a parent should, he would willingly sacrifice a part or even all of his property, rather than force such an alliance upon her." 
               "We had become accustomed to the luxuries of life, and we were growing old, and how could we manage without property?" 
               "Every thing should be sacrificed to principle; but you would only have been obliged to relinquish half your worldly possessions, and the remainder would be a competence." 
               "We desired to do something for Thomas and for you also. If we had paid the eight thousand dollars, we could not have given any thing to either of you while we lived." 
               "And so I was to be sold 'down South,' like thousands of other young women. The bargain was cunningly made, but it will never, never be fulfilled!" 
               "Don't say that, when so much depends on its fulfillment. You were not to be sold, my daughter, but you were to be the wife of an honorable gentleman. We never could have given our consent to your marrying Gorden, under any circumstances." 
               "I know it, though he is so worthy, and I love him so dearly. But we are married, thank God, and we shall yet live together in peace." 
               "Banish such thoughts, for they can never be realized. Will you not consent to journey to the South with Stanton, and there sue for a divorce, and, when it is obtained, marry him, to save your old father's property, and your brother from disgrace and a prison?" 
               "No! I would not be guilty of such a crime, for any conceivable object. What have you all been to me that I should make such a terrible sacrifice, and turn my young life into a living death? Parents and brother I have none." 
               "What base ingratitude is this! You have forgotten who cared for you when a child; who supplied all your wants with a liberal hand; who clothed, fed, and educated you,-yes, you have forgotten it all. It is the way with children, and parents should not be surprised." 
               "What I received at your hands every child has a right to claim, because of the relation which exists between parents and children. The former are in duty bound to protect and provide for the latter. This is the law of God and the law of man. In doing thus by me, you only did your duty; you would have been inhuman had you done less. I felt your kindness before I knew of your cruelty, and I loved you and was thankful. Since you have so wronged me, I feel no gratitude because you performed merely your duty in my childhood." 
               "You are very obstinate, and I fear that only long imprisonment will subdue you. Your mother would have gladly opened your prison-doors, but you will not hearken to her counsels." 
               "My mother? I have no mother. You hold that relation by blood, and that is all. Love and parental regard for you have been crushed out by your cruelty; so talk no more of being my mother. I am your prisoner, but not your daughter." 
               "I regret that I must leave you in such a mood, but it is vain to talk more." 
               "Very well. Continue your foul treatment, but rest assured God will give me freedom!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "We men say more, swear more: but, indeed, 
                           Our shows are more than will; for still we prove 
                           Much in our vows, but little in our love." 
                        
                      
                     TWELFTH NIGHT. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O then, give pity 
                           To her whose state is such that cannot choose 
                           But lend and give, where she is sure to lose." 
                        
                      
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "A man in all the world's new fashion planted, 
                           That hath a mint of phrases in his brain; 
                           One whom the music of his own tongue 
                           Doth ravish like enchanting harmony; 
                           A man of compliments, whom right and wrong 
                           Have chosen as umpire of their meeting." 
                        
                      
                     LOVE'S LABOR LOST. 
                   
                
               MY sister had attended school in a neighboring village, and there she became acquainted with a young lady by the name of Jenny Bruce. A friendship-as is often the case with young girls-suddenly sprung up between them, which for a time was very devoted. One was seldom seen without the other. They occupied the same room, pursued the same studies, dressed alike, and loved each other dearly. Such intimacy is very interesting, but seldom very lasting. 
               Jenny often spoke in glowing terms of her brother Robert, whom she regarded with all a favorite sister's partiality. She told Lissy that she loved her better than anybody else in the world, except this model brother. As Lissy had a very susceptible heart, she became anxious to see him. "I hope you will love him," said Jenny, "for he is so noble and good; and then I should be supremely happy to have you for my sister." 
               During vacation, Lissy made her school-friend a visit, and was thrown into Robert's dangerous company. He walked and rode with her. He descanted eloquently of poetry and romance, sculpture and painting, for he had an excellent memory. Was it any wonder that the young, ardent girl became his captive? He liked her, and from the first felt sure of his prize, for he had often tried his fascinations with entire success. Many a bosom had ached because of his perfidy; but it gratified his vanity to feel that he had such power over the female heart. 
               When he made a proposal of marriage, Lissy accepted him unhesitatingly. She was quite happy for a time, but the more she saw of him, the less was she pleased. She learned that he was vain, egotistical, his knowledge shallow, and his love mostly concentrated on his own precious self. 
               The moment Lissy saw Henry Morrison, she felt that he was a man to be loved and trusted. And yet, she thought, were she free to choose, she would be less hasty than before. She desired to be released from her engagement; but she stood in so much fear of Bruce that she hesitated to mention the subject. 
               On the Sunday night that Henry Morrison was so unhappy, as soon as he and Edmonds had left the room, Mr. Bruce arose and took a seat upon the sofa with Lissy; and, putting his arm around her, he pressed passionate kisses upon her lips. She endeavored to turn her head away. 
               "What is the matter, love?" he inquired. 
               "I am unhappy, Robert," she said. 
               "Unhappy, when your lover's arm is around you? That is not very flattering to me, my angel." 
               "Don't call me such extravagant names, if you please. I do not like them." 
               "Why, you are out of sorts to-night, Lissy. I must call you what I believe you to be, my peerless one." 
               "There it is again, O you flatterer." 
               "What, do you object to that, too? What a strange woman! In all my experience with-the world, I have not found one just like you. And I am glad that I have not, for you are as much in advance of them as light is more attractive than darkness." 
               "Flattery still. Robert, I am tired of it, and, besides, I want to have some serious talk with you." 
               "What can my charmer have to do with serious things? Now I don't like serious things. Are the flowers serious, the birds, the streams, or the sun-shine? No, no, 'away with melancholy.'" 
                
               "And yet you must listen." 
               "O certainly, if you say so." 
               "Robert, in a thoughtless moment I pledged you my heart and hand--" 
               "In a 'thoughtless moment'? Lissy, I am astounded!" 
               "Don't be angry with me, for I can't bear it." 
               "Go on, my love, but refrain from such cruel expressions as those." 
               "I have promised to be your wife." 
               "Well?" 
               "But I fear I shall never make you happy." 
               "O, pooh! you mean that you fear I shall never make you happy?" 
               "I doubt whether our natures are adapted to each other." 
               "Why, Lissy, what can have turned your head?-one of those bucks up stairs?" 
               "That is disrespectful, Robert. I wish to be plain-hearted with you; and, with my present sentiments, it would be wrong to marry you." 
               "Miss Gorden, I am angry with you, for uttering such cruel words after we have been plighted lovers a whole year. In all my experience with-the world, I have never been used so before." 
               "Pardon me, Robert. I would not do you wrong; but should I give my hand without my heart?" 
               "Then you have been practising deception for twelve long months?" 
               "You should not say that, for I thought I loved you, and that we could be very happy; but I have had many doubts recently." 
               "O well, dear one, all have doubts. Forgive me if I have said aught to wound. I will wait until the doubts are all removed. Think not that I would lead you to the altar while you had doubts. O no! I love, worship you, Lissy,-your beauty, purity, good sense, refinement--" 
               "There, there! Mr. Bruce do stop, for such flattery I cannot endure. You did not flatter me so formerly, or else I was blind. You must now talk with more sense, or forfeit all my respect." 
               "I never saw a woman before who did not like to be praised. Well, if it don't suit you, I will desist; though it is pleasant to say beautiful things to those we love." 
               "It is more pleasant to speak truly, and to be above flattery. O Robert, I once had all confidence in you." 
               "And you must continue to have confidence. Why, it is the star of love, the very poetry of wedded life." 
               "I declare, you grow more extravagant every time I see you." 
               "You are very hard to be suited to-night. Well, I will forgive you. If my language seems extravagant, you must charge it to my great affection. I love nature, dear Lissy, very much. I watch the clouds, as they sail in the immense airy ocean above me, until my heart is full. I see the sun when it mounts upward in resplendent glory. The shining hosts of heaven I worship. But from them all my thoughts turn to you, and there they ever remain, like a fixed star." 
               "I see that you are incorrigible,-it is of no use to remonstrate." 
               "I think you must be ill to-night, and so my wild love does not touch your heart. Why, you once hung with rapture upon my words, did you not?" 
               "Alas! yes, but your words seemed noble and true then, and not so much like high-sounding flattery." 
               "They are just as sincere now as they were then." 
               "Perhaps they are." 
               "They were religiously so then, and they are so now." 
               "I could better believe it were they less extravagant." 
               "Then I will try to use language more suitable to your taste." 
               "Would it not be well for you to discontinue your visits for a while, and in the mean time let our engagement cease to be binding? We could then make up our minds whether we loved each other or not." 
               "By no means; we must not think of it. Lissy, I can't give you up!" 
               "Well, well, don't stay any longer to-night. I am very weary." 
               "I knew you were ill. Yes, I will go; but, when I come again, I shall expect to learn that the doubts have all been scattered by the light of love, as the clouds by the morning sun, and as the wind scatters the shadowy mists. Good-night, dearest," and he clasped her fondly to his breast. 
               "Good-night, Robert," she said, with secret gladness. She soon retired, more displeased with him than ever; she almost despised him; and the poor girl wept over her precipitate pledges to him. 
               Soon after this interview, Lissy became acquainted with the young woman who acted as teacher of the district school. Being mutually pleased, the pair were soon intimate friends. She was some years older than my sister. 
               Calling at my mother's one Sunday evening, she met Mr. Bruce. Their mutual embarrassment was extreme. The teacher soon took her departure. Lissy now demanded an explanation, when Robert said that they had been acquainted some years before, and, becoming offended with each other, they had not spoken since. 
               The explanation seemed plausible, and yet Lissy did not believe it. An opportunity soon occurring, she asked Julia Hines-the school-teacher-if she was ever much acquainted with Mr. Bruce. 
               "I have been," she replied. 
               "You seemed to be mutually embarrassed when you met: are you not friends?" inquired Lissy. 
               "We are not." 
               "Were you ever so?" 
                
               "We were." 
               "Will you tell me the cause of your estrangement?" 
               "You question me very closely, Miss Gorden; and, if you think that I ought, I will inform you of every thing." 
               "I would not be too inquisitive, Julia, but is not the knowledge which I desire requisite for my own welfare?" 
               "Perhaps it is; but, should I disclose to you the whole history of our acquaintance, it might pain you much." 
               "I had rather bear the pain now than here after." 
               "That is wise. Holding the relation I once did to Mr. Bruce, and as my friendship with you has been brief, possibly you may find it hard to credit all I shall say; yet you shall have nothing but plain facts, which it is a duty to make known to you, since you wish it done. 
               "Many years since, when I was only fifteen, Mr. Bruce came to our village to study law." 
               "To study law! Why, I thought he was educated expressly for a merchant." 
               "In that you are mistaken. When quite young, he was thought to have brilliant talents, and so was sent to school and fitted for college." 
               "But he never went to college, did he?" 
               "Yes, and was expelled at the end of a year. It was then decided that he should study law; and for that purpose, as I have told you, he came to our village. 
               "I was then considered very beautiful, and my head was filled with romantic ideas. When I first saw Robert Bruce, I thought him a splendid-looking man, just the one to make me supremely happy through life. What a handsome face he had! how intellectual and kindly. He was, or pretended to be, equally pleased with me. He came to my father's house often, and I learned to love him with all the ardor of an untutored heart. He professed the same affection for me, and we were soon affianced. I own it to my shame, that I was so ignorant, so blinded, as to consider the pompous words he uttered almost god-like. I never saw a person more fluent in conversation. He had but to open his mouth, and the long words flowed forth as freely as water, and they had about the same strength. Many an hour have we sat, with his arm around me, my face upturned to his, drinking in all the fine things he uttered, as greedily as though they had been the essence of wisdom. 
               "The year I passed in his company was a very happy one, for I believed in his excellence, with scarcely a doubt. One thing I heard of him, and observation confirmed it,-he was very indolent, and neglected his studies. He had been told in his younger days, and fully believed the flattering tale, that he had great genius. Everybody praised him, and the young girls were bewitched with him. He was thereby spoiled, and rendered vain, egotistical, and a devout worshipper of himself,-self has his first love now, and always had. 
               "I was ambitious for him, and believed he had talent to stand at the head of his profession. Being a student myself, I gently chided him for his remissness. He replied that his own genius must be his guiding-star,-it was hard to bring it down to poring over old musty law-books,-they were decidedly too dull and heavy for him to chain his soaring intellect down to continually,-he must have relaxation and amusement. By-and-by he informed me that he had concluded to relinquish the study of law, and should return home to follow in the footsteps of his honored father, and become a merchant. The latter, he said, was growing old, and required his assistance; and as a dutiful son he ought not to withhold it. 
               "This scheme sadly disappointed me, dissipating at once all my dreams of Robert's brilliant career as a lawyer. I parted with him sorrowfully. He held me closely to his heart, and poured honeyed words into my credulous ears. He declared that he loved me devotedly, and in due time should return to claim me as his bride. I requested him to write frequently, and he promised to do so. Kissing me again and again, he bade me good-by, and departed. 
               "He had spent much of his time with me for a year, and I now felt very lonely. Day after day I went to the post-office, but no letter came. You may judge of my disappointment. After the lapse of six months, a servant tossed one into my lap." 
               "And did he neglect to write for that length of time?" 
               "He did. I have the letter with me. Would you like to see it?" 
               "I should." 
               "I thought of returning it, but finally decided to keep it, as a literary curiosity. You will recognize the handwriting." 
               Julia handed the letter to my sister, who eagerly perused it. It is so characteristic that the reader shall have the same privilege: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "FRIEND JULIA,-Pardon me my long silence, for business of a pressing character has rendered it impossible for me to write before. While stopping in your romantic village, I became enamored with your peerless beauty; and honestly, if you will believe me, I thought my impressible heart was wholly yours. To live and die for you was the aim of my ambition. While within the direct witchery of your wondrous power, I was led on, step by step, my whole being completely under the control of your beauty and transcendant graces. At your altar I worshipped, and, had you been a goddess, I could not have adored you more. 
                           "On the day I left you, I tore myself from your arms, my heart-strings all bleeding from the violence of the rupture. You remember what a beautiful day it was; but, separated from you, I felt that chaos had come again; the music of the heavenly songsters was all discord,-the blue sky looked like brass,-the fleecy clouds were huge misshapen monsters, ready to drop down and prey upon the world,-the sun was an immense ball of fire, hateful to look at,-the breezes scorched instead of cooling my fevered brow,-and I was sunk in the lowest depths of despair. 
                           "When I arrived at home, business at once claimed my closest attention. In due time I was enabled to reason with my thoughts calmly, and then I found that my love had all been an illusion,-my ardent nature had deceived me,-a diseased imagination had led me captive, until I stood on the brink of a precipice. Thank Heaven! I awoke in season to save you and myself. It would have been a fearful thing to marry without love; we should both have been wretched, Julia. 
                           "You will understand it to be imperative, my friend, that our intimacy should end at once. I trust the disappointment will not cause you much pain. You have an affinity somewhere in the world, and at the appointed moment you will find it, and then your peerless head will be crowned with ecstatic bliss. 
                           "Adieu, once wildly adored Julia; and believe me ever your friend, 
                           
                              ROBERT BRUCE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "How very like his conversation," said Lissy, as she finished reading the letter. 
               "I am surprised to hear you. Is that letter like Robert Bruce's conversation now?" 
               "It is, very much like it." 
               "And yet you keep his company, and are his promised bride?" 
               "Yes, I regret to confess it." 
               "I admire your candor; but, had I known you understood him so well, I should not have made the confession which I have." 
               "Why not?" 
               "I thought you a very different person,-one who would despise such bombast. I had hoped, as Mr. Bruce possessed talent, that ere this he might have learned to write and speak without inflating himself like a balloon. He is the same man, then? I regret it; but what pains me most is, that you, being aware of his empty character, should continue the engagement. I am afraid that you admire his person so much as to overlook the defects of his mind and heart." 
               "In that you are mistaken. To be sure, I was as much fascinated with him once as yourself; but I have completely grown away from him. I saw the truth only by degrees, but I saw it clearly at last. You will censure me for continuing our intimacy so long; but I did not wish to do any thing hasty or dishonorable. He does not always talk so extravagantly, and his letters to me have been as free from fustian and bathos as the speeches and sermons of many popular men; still, they have been sufficiently inflated to disgust me at times. You will be less inclined to censure, Julia, when I inform you that I had pretty much made up my mind to dismiss him previous to this disclosure." 
               "I am glad to hear you say so. For a person of your mind and heart to marry him would only work woe for you both. You have indeed promised, but a bad promise ought to be annulled." 
                
               "So I think." 
               "And so act. When I read the letter you have seen, I was surprised. Not because of the avowal that Robert had ceased to love me, for I expected that; but because of its inflated nonsense. Could it be possible that I had so wildly loved a man who could write such sickening, unfeeling bombast? But there it was before me, in his own handwriting. His handsome face and form were not near to distract my attention; his rich voice did not charm me with its music, so that I forgot the substance in listening to the sound. 
               "Robert is not always so inflated, for sometimes he converses with much good sense; but I am told that he has a fondness for wine, and that two or three glasses will so stimulate his organ of self-esteem as to cause him to imagine himself wholly unrivalled in the use of eloquent, graceful words in his conversation. The ignorant listen with wonder, the wise with pity and disgust." 
               "You say that he drinks wine, and a few glasses will excite him?" 
               "I have it from good authority." 
               "That accounts for the flighty phrases which he now and then utters, for the purpose of deepening my affection, and manifesting the greatness of his genius." 
               "His whole letter to me, Lissy, was false, as I have since learned. The day after he left me, he met, in his father's store, a young lady who was very beautiful; and from that moment I no longer had a place in his fickle heart. He won her love, and, alas! it almost proved her ruin. She loved him with an ardor such as you and I have not known. Mr. Bruce's letter made me very wretched for a time; but the frivolous spell was broken by his rigmarole. Lissy, I have been truthful toward you, because you wished it." 
               "Thank you, dear Julia, for this revelation. See if I don't profit by it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Abhorred slave; 
                           Which any print of goodness will not take, 
                           Being capable of all ill." 
                        
                      
                     KING RICHARD THIRD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "The loose encounters of lascivious men."
                      
                     TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Why, what a wasp-stung and impatient fool 
                           Art thou, to break into this woman's mood." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FOURTH. 
                   
                
               AFTER Marion had been imprisoned a few months, Mr. Windsor wrote to Thomas an account of our marriage; of the events which subsequently occurred; and how Marion was a prisoner in Stanton's old hiding-place. 
               The following spring, the two friends sailed for America; and, using much precaution, the oppressor, who had thriven by robbing human beauty and strength of their rights, arrived at the house of Mr. Windsor. He came for the purpose of taking possession of the woman for whom he had bargained. Her father informed him that it was many months since he had conversed with Marion; but, as she had been a close prisoner so long, he believed that, for the sake of regaining liberty, she would joyfully accept his protection, agree to journey with him to South Carolina, and there sue for a divorce, and when it had been obtained, become his wife. 
               "And you say," said Stanton, "that her husband received a dispatch to the effect that his father was dying, before the ceremony was completed?" 
               "Yes, that was what the justice told me," replied Mr. Windsor; "but I have never questioned her in relation to it, for I thought she might be tempted to deny it." 
               "How did you manage to get the justice out of the way?" 
               "He owned some real estate in Cumberland, which he had been anxious to sell in order to go to California. My brother made him an offer for it, as if in joke, on condition that he would start for the land of gold, without informing any one of his destination, within three days, as a steamer was to sail ere that time. 
               "The justice immediately exclaimed, 'It is a bargain.' 
               "My brother is a cunning dog; and he protested against it, declaring that he only meant the offer as a joke, as he would have to sacrifice too much to raise the necessary funds. But finally the papers were drawn up, and the business settled." 
               "Handsomely done! Your brother was certainly designed for a lawyer. But what became of the fellow?" 
               "He sailed for California as agreed, and that was the last I have ever heard of him." 
                
               "He may return, and then all the fat will be in the fire." 
               "The fear of that induced me to write to my son. However, I don't think there is much probability of it, as it was his intention to settle down there for life, and, for aught we know, he may be dead ere this." 
               "Very possible. And so you say that Gorden left, on the reception of the telegraphic dispatch?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Well, I am glad that he did. What a little minx your daughter is. She ain't like the girls off South; they give right up at once. A few tears and sighs, and then all is sweetness and fair weather. Marion is both saucy and spunky; but I'll bring her round." 
               "Certainly; but don't act with too much haste, or you will ruin the whole plan. You must curb your impetuous nature, and keep your hot blood down a little." 
               "O, never fear, sir, I understand her like a book." 
               "Yes, yes, but be very gentle, cautious, affectionate, and try to win her; for, if she can be induced to go with you willingly, it will be so much better than to be under the necessity of using force." 
               "You are right, old fellow. Egad, I am impatient to see her, for she is devilish bewitching. She must be mine, you know, whether willing or not." 
                
               "O yes, but use all your arts to win her consent, for I can't bear the idea of using compulsion." 
               "Nor I; but, once out of this accursed abolition hole, and in my power, she'd soon consent to take the necessary steps for a divorce from Gorden, I can tell you." 
               "And could she obtain it?" 
               "What is to prevent? I have rich, influential friends, and besides, just let it be known that she wishes to be freed from a miserable dog of an abolitionist,-from a greasy Northern mechanic,-and the road is easy." 
               "Strange that I had not thought of that. It will all come out right yet." 
               "Here's the whole thing in a nut-shell. A beautiful, accomplished girl is yoked to a vulgar abolitionist, one of the white slaves of the North, whose condition would be vastly improved if he were sold 'down South.' She wishes to be free. Think you there is so little chivalry in the Palmetto State that her bonds would not be broken? I tell you they would be shivered, and thundering quick, too. I know it." 
               "So you do, boy. I long for the time to come when my wife and myself can go to see you, and stop on your plantation through the winter months." 
               "You shall come every winter, sir. Don't say 'No,' for I'll bear the expense. What I have not got father has, and the old chap is as free with his chink as grandfather was with his nigger babies; and he gave away ten, just to spite their mother, who was a handsome wench." 
               "Why did he do that?" 
               "He took a fancy to her, and she did not like him. You can guess how it was. He wanted to sell her away from the man she called her husband, as a punishment; but she was such a capital seam-stress that my grandmother did not like to part with her,-though she would have consented mighty quick, had she known what was in the wind. The girl was clear grit, and persuasions and whippings were all in vain; and so the old fellow gave away her babies as fast as they were born. Capital fun, wasn't it?" 
               "Rather expensive, I should think." 
               "Yes, but he gave them to his children. He had such a devilish temper that he wouldn't have cared a straw for the lass' feelings, if he could only punish her. She used to take on about her lost brats awfully. I never saw a prettier piece of furniture in my life than she was. She was almost white; had only enough of the nigger to give her a rich, creamy sort of a look. Had she been mine, I wouldn't have sold her for three thousand dollars." 
               "It must be pleasant living at the South in the winter?" 
               "You are right there, old boy. You shall try it, and we'll have such times as you never dreamed of. A cellar full of wine; cigars of the first quality in profusion; ham and sweet potatoes; blood horses at your command, fast but gentle; and slaves to heed your every wish." 
               "I shall be most happy to accept your hospitality, and spend the winters under the spacious roof of my son-in-law." 
               "You shall be most welcome, also Tom, brother Tom, as big a scamp as I am, but a devilish good fellow,"-hitting Mr. Windsor some hard slaps upon the shoulder,-"he shall go, too. I like Tom. He's not one of your puritanic, whining, long-faced Yankees, but a gentleman. He ought to have been born at the South, for the North is not worthy of producing gentlemen." 
               "I wish he had been." 
               "Do you? So do I. I'll tell you what: he shall marry one of our Southern girls, and a good plantation, with niggers to match." 
               "Better and better," exclaimed the old man, rubbing his hands. "Do you think you can bring it about?" 
               "I am sure of it. There are plenty of rich damsels who would jump at the chance to nab him." 
               "Tom is rather fascinating." 
               "Exactly so. He's just the man to take a woman's heart by storm, and he shall do it." 
               "Then I shall have two children at the South, to spend my winters with. Now I like that." 
               "A merry old age, I say. But when can I see that pretty bird who has been caged for me so long? I'm getting impatient." 
                
               "Will to-morrow do?" 
               "I suppose so, as I must be guided by you for the present." 
               Stanton, it will be perceived, felt sure of his victim, and experienced much pleasure in anticipations of his final triumph. The poor fool had no principle himself, and supposed Marion would be perfectly pliant under his irresistible address. 
               Next day he went to her prison. She had hoped never to behold his face again, and did not expect to, unless she succumbed to her parents. Had he been a ghost, the poor captive would not have been more surprised and alarmed. 
               "How do you do, Miss Windsor?" he said. "I am happy, very happy to see you." 
               To this salutation she answered not a word, but stood regarding him with fear and loathing. 
               "Have you no word of welcome, Miss Windsor?" he continued. 
               "Were you addressing me, sir?" she asked. 
               "Certainly. Who else is there here that I could address?" 
               "No one, sir; but, as you uttered a name which I relinquished long ago,-at least it seems very long ago to me,-I thought I would make the inquiry." 
               "I have heard something of the kind; but, as it was a very hasty, inconsiderate step on your part, I supposed the old name would be kept until you could change it for a better." 
               "I have already made the better change, sir." 
                
               "An act of disobedience which should forever render it null and void." 
               "You are impertinent, sir." 
               "Well, then, I withdraw the remark. I hope I now read you aright. The moment your eyes fell upon me, you must have felt that I could deliver you from this hated prison." 
               "Since through your means I was placed here." 
               "Miss Windsor, I-I-protest, you wrong me there." 
               "You may protest, Mr. Stanton, as much as you please; but it will not avail you, for I know that I owe these months of cruel suffering to you. I have been torn from my husband, and incarcerated here, where I could be safely kept for you; and now I am insulted by your presence and your words." 
               "You will persist in doing me injustice. I have never ceased to love you from the first moment I beheld your matchless charms; and, though you married my enemy, I love you still. That marriage is not binding, because it was consummated against right,-against the commands of all your family,-against my will and my claim; for you were promised to me." 
               "Mr. Stanton, I have suffered enough, the last year, without having to endure your presence and your ill-breeding. I pray you, sir, leave me, and never come here again." 
               "Leave you? I cannot leave you, though you treat me so ill. Learning that you were a prisoner oner here, I straightway forsook scenes of interest and pleasure, flying on the wings of love, that I might give you freedom." 
               "Your words are treacherous. You have no desire to see me free, unless you can make me your slave." 
               "There you are mistaken again. That I would have you leave this hated place and fly with me to my Southern home, is true, but not as a slave, nor to become a slave. I would have you go there to enjoy true freedom, and to have measures adopted to break your disgraceful bonds, when I will honorably make you my bride." 
               "I told you long ago, Mr. Stanton, that I did not and could not love you. It is insulting to talk of love to a woman who is wedded to the man of her choice. But, were I single, I would remain here a century rather than marry an assassin and a kidnapper." 
               "You talk sweetly, my lady bird. It is evident you have been studying the blackguard's dictionary, and have made wonderful proficiency. Know that you are in my power, and that I shall remain here as long as I choose, and come and go when I please. As to the offensive epithets which you heap upon me, I shall pay you for them all in good time. You are destined to be mine, and from that destiny you cannot escape. So, madam, beware what you say and do. Your father and brother consigned you to me, and sealed the agreement with a terrible oath. I will never, never release them from it. I have matters so arranged that they cannot escape my just vengeance, if they evade the bargain one iota, and they know it. I can come to this room by day or night, and they will not lift a finger to prevent it." 
               "I know that I am in your power, Mr. Stanton, but that shall not prevent my giving utterance to the language befitting the occasion, if you obtrude your vile presence here. I wish to be left to myself. If you had any mercy or manhood, I would beg you to depart, and never insult me by showing your face again; but mercy or manhood you have none to be appealed to. Stay, then, as long as you will, and come when your black heart bids you; but your only greeting shall be such language as you have heard to-day, or my contemptuous silence." 
               With a most demoniac expression in his face,-a mingling of ruffled pride, thwarted passion, and vengeful fury,-the "chivalrous Southern gentleman" left the room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I am sorry for thee; thou art come to answer 
                           A stony adversary, an inhuman wretch, 
                           Uncapable of pity, void and empty 
                           From any dream of mercy." 
                        
                      
                     MERCHANT OF VENICE. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O, let me not be mad, not mad, sweet Heaven! 
                           Keep me in temper; I would not be mad!" 
                        
                      
                     KING LEAR. 
                   
                
               WHEN Mr. Windsor carried Marion her food, the next morning, she said to him: 
               "Mr. Stanton, whom I had hoped never to see more, has obtruded his hateful presence here, and threatened to come again soon. Is it with your permission, sir?" 
               "Why, of course," he replied. "Your mother has informed you of our contract, I suppose. Mr. Stanton has a right to visit you." 
               "A right! Good God! is your daughter's honor nothing?" 
               "Then I have a daughter? If I mistake not, you once disowned the relationship; but I am glad to see returning wisdom and submission in you. Your honor is much to me, my child, and therefore I would have you cease your disobedience at once. Mr. Stanton does not wish to harm you in the least, but would make you his wife. I know that his character is somewhat impulsive; but if you use him fairly he will deal gently with you. Don't be obstinate any longer, Marion, and your old father will love you as he did when you were a little, dutiful child." 
               "How strange to hear you talk of loving. If you have any mercy, or if you hope for it hereafter, don't let that miscreant come here again. He is utterly debased, and he threatens me shamefully." 
               "O, he won't harm you; only consent to break those hateful bonds, and he will make you happy. We are all miserable now about you, and how easily you can remove our sorrow. Your parents have commanded, and it is your duty to obey. 'Children, obey your parents,'-that is the divine command, and woe to those who heed it not." 
               "O, deliver me from such Satanic perversion of God's word." 
               "There 'tis again. You learn very slowly." 
               "Don't flatter yourself that I shall ever learn to welcome such degradation as you urge upon me. Once for all, are you determined to let Stanton come here again?" 
               "Why, how can I help it?" 
               "Surrender him to justice, as you should." 
               "And so have your only brother sent to prison, to the disgrace of the whole family? Are you aware that the young man whom he wounded is a cripple for life?" 
                
               "No, sir; but Thomas is not in the country, and so there is no danger." 
               "You are mistaken. He has returned, but has not been home as yet. What sisterly regard you manifest, in this willingness to see him a fugitive forever, from his friends and his native land!" 
               "I ought to have sisterly regard, he has been so unspeakably kind to me." 
               "That is true, though you speak ironically. Thomas has always sought your good. He would be proud to see you the wife of his friend." 
               "Out upon such pride! O God! why am I thus forsaken, thus foully wronged by my natural protectors? I rejoice that I have a heavenly Friend, a sympathizing Father. I will plead no more with you, but put my trust in Him." 
               "May He teach you to obey your parents. I will see Stanton, and tell him to be more gentle, and not to worry you too much, but to wait patiently as I have done. Good-morning, my child. May you soon come to your senses, and be a blessing and a comfort to us all." 
               When her father had gone, Marion thought of her wrongs, and the hopelessness of relief, until her brain grew wild with indignation and anguish. She walked her little room in a state of intense excitement. 
               "O! I shall go mad," she said. "When is all this to end? No light dawns upon me, but all is dark as the grave. How shall I escape? How find deliverance? That scoundrel will be here again,-he will not relinquish his purpose. O horror! that I must endure his presence. I once supposed I had a mother, but her heart is harder than flint, or she would save me. O! how this poor brain aches; and I can see nothing before me but dishonor or death." 
               The terror-stricken girl now sank upon her knees, and poured out her soul in prayer. Long did she supplicate the God of the oppressed, and on arising she was calm and comforted. 
               At the earliest convenient opportunity, Mr. Windsor said to Stanton: "Marion complains that you are rather harsh with her; that you threaten to take unwarrantable liberties." 
               "Well, I did get a little excited, I own, she was so deuced saucy. She is enough to provoke a saint." 
               "I know she is, but you must bear with her, as we do. She'll come round right, only be patient." 
               "I don't see any signs of it. Hang it all! I am tired of waiting." 
               "Be patient, be patient, my son, and she will love you all the better for it, by-and-by. She is my daughter, and you must not go too far." 
               "O, never fear. I thought, if coaxing would not work, threatening might." 
               "I wouldn't try it, but wait a while, and in the mean time be very loving, and you'll win her. I want to see her your wife, but it pains me much to be obliged to keep her a prisoner. I wish that miserable Gorden was dead,-he has made me trouble enough. How nicely every thing would have worked, but for him. Now do be gentle with her." 
               "Well, I will, but I like not this procrastination." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Muse not that I thus suddenly proceed, 
                           For what I will I will, and there's an end." 
                        
                      
                     TWO GENTLEMEN OF VERONA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Think'st thou that duty shall have dread to speak, 
                           When power to flattery bows? To plainness honor's bound, 
                           When majesty stoops to folly." 
                        
                      
                     KING LEAR. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Pray be counselled: 
                           I have a heart as little apt as yours, 
                           But yet a brain, that leads my use of anger 
                           To better 'vantage." 
                        
                      
                     CORIOLANUS. 
                   
                
               MY sister took an early opportunity to write to Mr. Bruce. She chose not to await another visit from him, having learned still more of his unworthiness. The letter is worthy of being given in full: 
                
                  
                     "DEAR SIR,-
                   
                  "In the last conversation we held, I told you that I did not feel willing to become your wife, for the reason that we were ill adapted to each other. Since then, the conviction has been rapidly growing upon me. I must now tell you plainly, sir, that I have not sufficient affection and respect for you to make you happy, or to be happy myself, in the matrimonial relation. Under such circumstances, though in an unguarded moment, without due consideration, I promised to be yours for life, yet I feel the promise ought to be broken. 
                   
                  "That I do not love and cannot respect you as a wife should, would be a sufficient justification for the step I now take; but I have other very potent reasons. I have been informed of the scandalous treatment which Julia Hines and others suffered from you. Have you no conscience, that you thus wound and crush hearts with impunity? Does remorse never trouble you, when you reflect upon the anguish you have caused to the innocent and confiding? 
                  "You are too selfish, sir; your worship of self is your great sin. I know how vain you are, how self-confident; but let me assure you, in all kindness, that were you less so, you might be more of a man. At this moment your self-assurance is so complete, that you fancy yourself a model of manly beauty, while every grace sits enthroned upon your brow. But, sir, though you have a handsome form and face, what are you in reality? Reflect for a while. Turn the current of your thoughts backward to the days of your boyhood, when such torrents of flattery were poured into your ears by injudicious friends. What glorious hopes you had then,-what glowing anticipations of the future. You were to be renowned for your scholarship, your genius, your eloquence and power. Your young heart leaped, and your bright eyes flashed, when you thought of your pleadings at the forum, and your efforts in legislative halls. Why have not these anticipations been realized? Why is it, Robert, that you have accomplished so little? 
                  "Mr. Bruce, that I once loved you, I will not deny; but it was when I believed you to be all you seemed. No one doubts that your natural abilities are good; but a knowledge of the fact, in early life, together with the beauty of your person, have proved the ruin of your bright hopes, and disappointed all your friends. This language may seem severe, but it is the severity of truth; for in this last communication to you I wish to write what shall be to your profit. While I admit that your mental powers are superior to those of men in general, yet it is equally true that you often manifest far less than common ability. Your language being large, also self-esteem, approbativeness, and ideality, your conversation is often ridiculously inflated. I am satisfied that, notwithstanding your natural gifts, you think but little, and read but few books of real merit. Your mind has been so long inactive that it has far less vigor and clearness than in youth. Your intellect has sadly deteriorated, and so have all the holier emotions of your being. And, as much as you have prided yourself on the possession of a handsome face, that also obeys the same general law. The powers of the mind cannot be allowed to run to waste, the voice of conscience be stifled, the soul be dwarfed and beggared, without the countenance bearing testimony to the general decline. The eye loses its fire from heaven, while it catches that of hell; the lines of the face do not indicate thoughtfulness and purity, but the reverse; and the original beauty disappears. The intellectual, the spiritual qualities no longer light up the features, but they reflect the selfish, animal traits only. 
                  "Heaven bestowed uncommon gifts upon you, Robert, and you are responsible for them. You received fully ten talents, but how have you used them? Think for a moment, where are the fruits? where the increase? Ah! Robert, the reflection must be sad, but let it teach you a lesson. 
                  "From this time, cease to live such a vain, idle life, put your powers to some use, and you may yet be an estimable man. Wherein you have done wrong, apply the remedy ere old age overtakes you. 
                  "Before I close, I must reluctantly mention one thing more. I have learned of your former career from two persons,-the last one an old friend of May Appleton, the young lady whose beauty so quickly won your fickle heart from Julia Hines. Because of your treachery May's heart was left desolate. She is now an orphan, and destitute. You know you solemnly promised to marry her, and that promise is binding upon you now. It cannot be that your sister, who praised you so much to me, is aware of your treachery. Miss Appleton lives in a distant city, and with her needle supports herself and a young brother. She has loved you with true devotion. O Robert! call back to your heart the nobler emotions which once throbbed there, and then you will be impelled to seek the forsaken one. I pray you, hasten to her; and, if she will forgive the past, make her your wife. Do not misunderstand me. I would not have you marry her for form's sake alone,-better that she should continue lonely and dependent,-but marry because you can love her, if you will. By gentleness, kindness, and sympathy, teach her to forget your cruelty, and to smile again; and she will repay your affection with all the freshness of her youth. Here is where atonement should be made. 
                  "From this moment all communication must cease between us. Should you wish to learn the residence of May Appleton, you can write to Ida Mason, whom you know well. I desire not to see you again until repentance and reparation-those twin angels from heaven-have found a place in your heart. 
                  "With best wishes, I subscribe myself your friend, 
                  
                     "LISSY GORDEN."
                   
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O God, defend me! how am I beset! 
                           What kind of catechizing call you this?" 
                        
                      
                     MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "He hath out-villained villany so far that the rarity redeems him."
                      
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Disloyal? No: 
                           She's punished for her truth; and undergoes, 
                           More goddess-like than wife-like, such assaults 
                           As would take in some virtue." 
                        
                      
                     CYMBELINE. 
                   
                
               THE unprincipled knave and miscreant, George Washington Stanton, had no idea of relinquishing the prize which had been pledged to him by unholy oaths. So, in a few days after his first visit, he went again to Marion's prison-chamber. 
               After reflection, and to avoid becoming dangerously excited again, she resolved not to notice or reply to any thing the ruffianly fellow might say. He remained upwards of an hour, trying to draw her into conversation, and gazing impudently into her face, which was still beautiful, though it had lost its plumpness and color. He attempted to take her hand, but it was withdrawn with such dignity, while withering scorn flashed from her eyes, that he did not repeat the aggression. Becoming weary at last, the vile persecutor told her he should call again very soon, bade her good-day, and departed. 
               About this time he wrote the following letter to a college friend in South Carolina: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "MY DEAR JOHN,-You wished to know, in your last, how I am succeeding with the pretty Marion. I must answer, not swimingly, as the boys used to say. She is a spunky piece, and deucedly impudent; but I like her all the better for it. She has been in confinement a whole year, and yet she will not yield in the least, and was saucy enough to tell me that she thought it would be degrading to receive deliverance at my hands. There's grit for you. 
                           "In one thing, I believe I have been deceived by her rascally old fool of a father. He wrote to his son, while we were in France, of her marriage to a fellow by the name of Gorden; and said that the sickness of his father called him from her before the ceremony was finished, and the marriage consummated. Since I came here he has repeated the same thing; but I believe he lied; and so I no longer desire her for a wife. If I can manage to persuade her to go south, or take her there by stratagem, she shall be my mistress, and that is all. Old Windsor hasn't any idea that such is my purpose; but he couldn't help himself, if he had. I have him in a tight place. That young gambler, Rand, is crippled for life, and he and his father would like the chance to make Tom fork over about five thousand dollars extra. 
                           "As to the girl in question, I believe she suspects my intentions, for she is as sharp as a weasel. You see, dear John, that I am in for it, and I intend to win. If I cannot coax her to go south, or get her there by some cunning trick, why, there is only one course left. In war, all stratagems agems are justifiable, you know. The victory once gained, no matter how, then all will be plain sailing. 
                           "I am almost as much of a prisoner as the contrary witch whose fascinations drew me here. You see, when I was here before, I made the meddlesome, vulgar workingman, Gorden, who has since married the girl, feel cold lead,-I believe I bled him handsomely. The miserable Yankee sheriffs tried to arrest me, but I outwitted the whole gang. A large reward hangs over my head, so I have to keep confounded shady. I am here under an assumed name, for fear of the domestics, and those who might inquire respecting the stranger. I wear a wig, and a large pair of false whiskers. These, of course, I take off when I visit my charmer. 
                           "Hoping soon to be able to assure you that I have won a bloodless victory, I remain, yours, 
                           
                              "GEORGE WASHINGTON STANTON."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Thomas Windsor deemed it not prudent to return to Dunfield while his brother scamp, Stanton, remained there, lest suspicion might be aroused. As it was, no one supposed that the foppish stranger was the guilty assassin. I met him once, but no thought of Stanton entered my mind. His disguise was complete. It was a marvel to my wife that he was not arrested; but she saw him only in his ordinary dress. 
               Stanton still continued his visits to Marion, trying his utmost to coax or drive her to accede to his wishes. She had resolved that he might obtrude when he chose, and say what he pleased, and she would hold her peace; but he was sometimes times so insulting that she would forget her vow, and then he had a new revelation of her scorn and hatred of him. 
               One night, Marion awoke from a startling dream, and she was soon aware that some person was entering her room. With a fearful shriek, she sprang to the floor, when Stanton caught her in his arms. 
               "Now, my pretty one," he said, "you cannot escape me." 
               "Unhand me, wretch!" she answered. 
               "Not until I see fit, you beautiful tigress. Ah, struggle as much as you please! I can hold you tight. You have the real grit, and no mistake." 
               "You are a vile ruffian to come here to-night. Have you no sense of decency at all? Are you not aware that I hate, detest, and abhor you?" 
               "Gently, gently, you vixen, for you are now in my power. It is time that you had learned to act like a reasonable being. I am willing now to be honorable with you, if you will let me; but, if you refuse, why, then take the consequences of your folly." 
               "What is your insolent purpose, sir?" 
               "You know what I desire. I would make you my wife." 
               "I am another man's wife now." 
               "But in my State I can obtain a divorce for you, and then make you my own. Just say the word, and I'll be as gentle with you as a lamb." 
               "I beg of you, Mr. Stanton, leave me to-night. I want time to think, to reflect. This is too sudden." 
               "Ha! my haughty damsel, you can beg now, can you? You can call me something besides 'monster, wretch, assassin?' I knew you would come to it. I shall humble you, yet. You require more time, but you shall not have it; so now decide, my charmer, will you be mine honorably?" 
               His arms were relaxed somewhat, when Marion, summoning almost superhuman strength, sprang from him; and, snatching a pair of sharp-pointed scissors that lay upon the table, she plunged them into his breast, inflicting a severe wound. The scoundrel fell to the floor as though he had been shot. Marion raised her hand to strike another blow. But the dread of taking human life-even the life of such a miscreant as Stanton-restrained her. Just then she thought of the keys which unlocked the doors on the inside, and surmised that they were in Stanton's pockets, and that she might obtain them and escape. As she was trying to find them, her persecutor suddenly sprang to his feet, pushed her from him, opened the door, and fled. 
               "You have baffled me this time, you she butcher," he said; "but you are still in my power, and I shall secure a sweet revenge. The blood of a Stanton is not to be shed without recompense." 
               Marion was deeply mortified, to have the means of escape so nearly within her reach and yet see them vanish. 
                
               "Why did I not kill him?" she cried. "I had the power to rid myself of as vile a wretch as ever the sun shone upon; and yet I could not do it. His life would have brought me freedom, but how could I have his blood upon my soul? Thank God, for a time he is powerless to injure me. O, when shall all this end? Elwood! dear Elwood, are you seeking the lost? Merciful Father, guide him to me, that I may be saved from utter despair!" 
               Stanton immediately washed his ugly wound, and bound wet cloths upon it. In the morning, he informed Mr. Windsor that he was unwell, and must take a journey for his health; but would return ere many weeks. In the mean time he would advise the parental jailers not to hold any communication with Marion, but leave her to quiet reflection. 
               Mr. Windsor promised that Stanton's wishes should be complied with; and the dastardly villain took the first train for a neighboring city, where he placed himself under the care of a surgeon. His physical habits were so bad, however, that he recovered very slowly. 
               Several days after Stanton's felonious assault, Marion's mother brought her food, when the heroic girl asked: 
               "Where is Mr. Stanton?" 
               "In Boston," replied Mrs. Windsor. 
               "When did he leave here?" 
                
               "A week ago or more." 
               "Are you aware that he came to my prison at night?" 
               "Yes, he has just written us all about it, and regrets his imprudence very much. He said that you, supposing his intentions to be evil, got so excited as to strike him with some sharp weapon, and inflict a dangerous wound." 
               "So I did." 
               "Did he insult you, that you committed such an act?" 
               "Insult me! The wound I gave him was all that saved me from a hellish outrage. Will he return here again?" 
               "I presume he will; but we have written to him that he must show you due respect hereafter. He says, however, that he only meant to frighten you into a compliance with his wishes in regard to a divorce, though he pretended worse things. We have sent him a letter of sharp reproof, and he will understand that his course must be totally different when he returns." 
               "Mrs. Windsor, you are a woman, and I beg of you, as a woman with some sentiments of virtue remaining, never to let Stanton enter my prison again." 
               "I have not the power to prevent it." 
               "You have. O, I am in danger, and you can save me!" 
               "You can save yourself. The die is cast, and you must give up Gorden, and marry Mr. Stanton,-it is vain to contend against fate. He would be kind to you, for he loves you with true Southern ardor; all his acts show it." 
               "I may die, Mrs. Windsor, but I shall never be Stanton's wife. I shall not give up my husband, come what may." 
               "Foolish child, how obdurate you are! I am almost out of patience with you myself, and I wonder not that George, with his hot Carolina blood, should sometimes forget himself, and proceed to extremes." 
               "O! it is all in vain to appeal to those whose hearts are petrified by pride and mammon-worship. I must depend on myself, and trust in God." 
               In the ensuing spring, Stanton again came to Dunfield. He had resolved to adopt such measures, this time, that his victim should not escape him. 
               Unannounced as formerly, he again entered Marion's prison. His appearance threw her into an agony of fear. He talked as insultingly as ever, while she, with recovered calmness, treated him in the most contemptuous manner possible. Telling her that he had no wish to push matters to a great length then, but would give her two or three days for reflection, as she had formerly desired, he left her. 
               The unfortunate girl was now in extreme terror, for she had little hope that her parents would afford her any protection. What could she do? Her strength and endurance, she knew well, were vastly inferior to the fierce, slave-driving Stanton's; but she was inflexibly determined to meet the peril with Yankee spirit and promptness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I know no ways to mince in love, but directly to say, 
                           I love you; then if you urge me further than to say, 
                           Do you in faith? I wear out my suit. Give me your answer; 
                           In faith do, and so clap hands and a bargain." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FIFTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "O, gentle Romeo, 
                           If thou dost love, pronounce it faithfully, 
                           Or if thou think'st I am too quickly won, 
                           I'll frown and be perverse, and say thee nay, 
                           So thou wilt woo: but, else, not for the world." 
                        
                      
                     ROMEO AND JULIET. 
                   
                
               THE impression made upon Henry Morrison, by my gentle sister Lissy, did not prove transitory. Charles Edmonds sought to convince him that he was allowing his feelings to captivate his judgement; that it would be the part of wisdom to wait until he could learn whether her affections were irrevocably plighted to another. If they were, it was folly to think of her in any other light than as a friend. 
               To this good advice Henry listened with impatience, declaring that he could not help loving Lissy, even if he knew she was betrothed to another. She was the only woman that had ever touched his heart in the least. 
               Edmonds replied to his friend by quoting from Hamlet as follows: 
                  
                      
                        "This is the very ecstasy of love: 
                        Whose violent property foredoes itself, 
                        And leads the will to desperate undertakings, 
                        As oft as any passion under heaven, 
                        That does afflict our natures." 
                     
                  
                
               Lissy was much interested in Mr. Morrison. Her acquaintance with him, though brief, had caused her to feel that his nature coincided with hers,-that their souls were congenial. What his sentiments toward herself were, she often wondered. 
               Henry Morrison and Charles Edmonds did not visit Dunfield again until the following spring. Henry had urged his friend to take the promised excursion, while the sleighing was good,-the ride would be so exhilarating, and then he was certain that my mother and Lissy were expecting them during the winter. Charles told him that he hadn't a bit of fancy for a long cold ride; he should certainly freeze if he attempted it. As for Henry, he was so warmly in love that an Arctic winter would have had few terrors for him, provided he could see Miss Gorden again. 
               As soon as the roads were in a passable condition, Henry again commenced his importunities; but Edmonds was not ready until the middle of May. When the two friends set out, it was a delightful time to travel, especially by private conveyance, for the weather was charming, and nature was undergoing her vernal change. The hill-sides and valleys were becoming greener every day; the young leaves were bursting, to clothe the trees with matchless robes of beauty; many-colored flowers were springing up on every side; and the melody of birds gushed forth all the day long. 
               "We have chosen our time well," said Charles Edmonds. "The weather is just warm enough for comfort; and how many beautiful scenes we are continually meeting! I never saw the fields look greener so early in May. The aspect of the woods is peculiar. Some of the leaves are fully grown, while others are but half-formed. Don't urge the horse rapidly, or I shall miss many scenes which are very lovely." 
               "I am not fond of riding slowly. It seems to me this horse has deteriorated since last year. I don't like to be forever in making a short journey." 
               "It is you that have changed, Henry, and not the horse. A few months since, you were as fond as anybody of passing along quietly and comfortably; now, the fleetest nag is too slow for you. 'Country hussies' have a terrible effect upon some people." 
               "Nonsense, Charles! You know I never was fond of riding slowly, unless engaged in an interesting conversation." 
               "Granted; but I fail to introduce any subject now which is interesting to you, and, if I ask you to lead in talking, I succeed no better. Drive on at full speed, seems to be your motto just now." 
               "Pooh! I am as willing to talk as I ever was, only I want to journey at a good pace." 
               "But what say to a little sporting, on our way? 
                
               I am sure there is game in these woods, and we might find trout in some of the creeks." 
               "We'll shoot and fish to your heart's content after we arrive at Dunfield; but I am decidedly opposed to it before." 
               "Well, just as you say, for I see that the loadstone draws astonishingly. I really hope Lissy has dismissed Mr. Bombastes, ere this, and that she will consent to make you as happy as you deserve to be." 
               "Thank you, Charles; but I never expect to be very happy again, for I must content myself with her friendship merely." 
               "Don't be down-hearted. I have never believed she would marry Robert Bruce." 
               "Why not?" 
               "Because she has too much good sense." 
               "Therein lies my only hope. If Bruce had a mind and heart equal to his person, I should never expect her to give him up. I think he has been flattered too much. There was originally material enough to have made a superior man, but he has wasted and perverted it." 
               They arrived at my mother's about eight o'clock in the evening,-having rode sixty miles,-and were cordially received. 
               Charles Edmonds had not an envious or jealous disposition, but he was satisfied that Lissy felt more pleased to see Henry Morrison than himself, though her greeting to him was frank and sincere. 
               Charles went gunning and fishing every day, for he was passionately fond of the sport; but generally he was compelled to go alone, or with some neighbor, for Henry seemed to find no pleasure except in the society of Lissy. He conversed with her much, drawing out her thoughts on a variety of subjects. The knowledge which he gained of her mind and heart served to confirm his previous impressions, and to teach him her true worth. And she had her former favorable opinions of him strengthened; and resolved, should he now propose, to accept him. 
               Henry was by no means diffident, in matters he had set his heart upon; but now he hesitated, for fear the engagement between Lissy and Bruce still existed. 
               One pleasant morning, he invited her to take a ride, and obtained a cheerful assent. 
               In a casual way, Henry inquired for Mr. Bruce. 
               "I have not heard from him for some months," replied Lissy. 
               "You have not? That is surprising," he said. 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because I thought the relationship between you was very near and dear, and might become more so." 
               "Possibly that state of affairs did once exist between us." 
               "Pardon me, Lissy, if you deem my questions impertinent; they are assuredly not meant to be so. I confess, though, to being actuated by interested ested motives. Can I make further inquiries without giving offence?" 
               "O certainly; I have no objections at all, and will answer you candidly." 
               "Thank you. If I were rightly informed, you have been engaged to Mr. Bruce?" 
               "I have." 
               "And has that engagement ceased?" 
               "It has." 
               "Are you now free to bestow your hand upon another?" 
               "I am." 
               "Have you no regrets, no wishes which cause you pain, in relation to your former engagement?" 
               "None. Feeling that it should not continue longer, I took the responsibility of ending it. The act was mine, not Mr. Bruce's." 
               "Just as I desired. Lissy, I will be as candid with you as you have been with me. I told you I was actuated by interested motives. Since the first moment I met you, on that stormy night, I have not ceased to love you. When I learned that your affections were plighted to Mr. Bruce, I suffered keenly; but I doubted his capacity to make you happy. I have known more of the heart-ache since than I had ever experienced before; but still have cherished the faith that all would turn out happily. You are now free. My sentiments towards you are most honorable, confiding, and sincere. I desire to make you my wife. Lissy, I have spoken plainly." 
                
               "Thank you, Henry, for this candid avowal. It was not altogether unexpected. If you can accept a heart so foolish as mine,-foolish as you know it to have been,-I joyfully bestow it upon you." 
               "For which I bless you! I desired such an assurance, coming from a frank and generous nature. Ah! Lissy, I shall be delighted to repay your affection with lifelong constancy." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I am giddy; expectation whirls me round; 
                           The imaginary relish is so sweet 
                           That it enchants my sense." 
                        
                      
                     TROILUS AND CRESIDA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Great business must be wrought ere noon; 
                           Upon the corner of the moon 
                           There hangs a vaporous drop profound; 
                           I'll catch it ere it come to ground." 
                        
                      
                     MACBETH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "There appears much joy in him; even so much that joy could not show itself modest enough without a badge of bitterness. A kind of overflow of kindness. There are no faces truer than those that are so washed. How much better is it to weep at joy, than to joy at weeping."
                      
                     MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. 
                   
                
               ALTHOUGH I no longer travelled about the country, seeking for my lost bride, yet I was not idle or unobservant. 
               One afternoon, while sitting in the dining-room at Mr. Mackay's, perusing a newspaper, the Irish girl living with Mr. Windsor called upon Katy, our domestic. They were in the kitchen adjoining, and the door was slightly ajar. My attention was first arrested by hearing Katy say, "And are ye shure, Madge, that they niver use it at all at all?" 
               "It's jist that I am, now. Haven't I been there better nor fourteen wakes, and niver a fire have they put under it? Yis, mum, I have; and I b'lave if it's a chamney at all, Katy, it's choked up intire o' doin' nothin' so long." 
               "Well, thin, it might, shure; but have ye iver tried it, Madge?" 
               "Ah! be gorra, I did. Ye see, Katy, I thought it a powerful shame that the big blaggard of a kettle should be a-sittin' there so lazy, whin it might hate the wather so iligant. Miss Windsor tould me I nadn't use it; but one day, when master and mistress had gone away, I jist put the shavins and the wood under it, and touched a match to 'em, to hate all the wather there was in it. But, by the powers! what a smoke I did make!" 
               "Wouldn't the chamney dhraw at all at all?" 
               "Is it dhraw that ye say, now? Well, thin, I should say it did; but, fath, it dhrew the wrong way intirely. The fire, and the smoke, and the sparks, and the canders, all came a-flyin' out into the room, as though the divil was behind a-blow-in' them with all his might. Murther! how I did scrame. But, yer see, I had the prisence of mind, as they cahl it, Katy; and I throwed on the wather, and put out the fire. Och! you should have seen the work that it made. But I claned it all up before master and mistress got home." 
               "Why, Madge! you liked to have set the house afire." 
               "And shure I did. You see, Katy, if it hadn't a-been for the prisence of mind, I niver should have put it out at all at all." 
                
               By this gossip I became much excited. Why was the chimney never used? If it was actually a chimney, why should not a fire burn under the boiler? I now remembered that I had never seen any smoke issuing from the new chimney. 
               When Madge set out on her return, I followed and accosted her: "I heard you and Katy, this afternoon, talking about the boiler at Mr. Windsor's," I said. 
               "And did ye, now?" she asked. 
               "Yes, Madge; and is it true that they never use it at all?" 
               "Thrue as the blessed book itself." 
               "And you tried it, and it would not draw, I heard you say." 
               "Dhraw! Och! you should have seen it dhraw, thin. Murther! it dhrew the smoke and canders all out into the room. Fath, now, it was as thick and black as Agypt! Ah! Misther Gorden, I was nearly burnin' the house up." 
               "I should think so. Madge, I suspect something terrible." 
               "You do, now? What is it that yer afther suspecting, Misther Gorden?" 
               "Can you keep a secret?" 
               "A sacret? Sure, I'm dumb intirely, if that's what you mane." 
               "Madge, if I may trust you, you can aid me very much; but, should you utter one word, or even give a hint, it might be the ruin of all my hopes." 
                
               "By the Hooly Vargin, I'd not be exposin' ye at all at all." 
               "I don't think you will, for I believe you have a heart." 
               "And shure I have: what would I be doin' widout it?" 
               "I mean, a kind heart, loving and faithful." 
               "Thank ye, sir," curtseying, "for the praise ye're afther givin'. Shure, thin, the ould mither of me always said that me heart was as tinder as a boiled haddock; and I think it is, for I niver could be hurtin' the laste thing, not even a fly, in all me born days, batin' the 'skeeters, the blood-suckers. Many's the time I would be blubberin' when I saw any crathur a-sufferin'. Once, whin I lived in Coork, our Tommy-ye didn't know Tommy? it was the black cat, shure-well, ye see, Tommy came home, and some murtherin' spalpeen had cut his tail off, and there 'twas, all bleedin', and Tommy lookin' so sorrowful that I blubbered about it till I'd almost broke me heart." 
               "I perceive, Madge, that you are just the person I want; but you must be very discreet and silent." 
               "An' shure I will. I'll be as close as ould Mother Mulligrubs, and she has niver spoken but once these twice ten years." 
               "Is there any place where you can secrete yourself-hide so as not to be seen-in the chamber which the chimney that would not draw passes through?" 
                
               "No, sir, shure there's not." 
               "Is there a key-hole in the door that leads into that chamber?" 
               "There is none, sir. The door is fastened with a bit of a stick stuck over the latch, with a corkscrew through it." 
               "You do the cooking, mostly, do you not?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "Has any food disappeared that you could not account for?" 
               "Well, thin, it has,-mate and praties, bread, pies, and cakes." 
               "What do you suppose became of it?" 
               "Shure, I don't know. The ould woman said they gave it to the poor." 
               "Have you ever known an instance where Mr. or Mrs. Windsor gave any food to the poor?" 
               "Shure I niver have, now; and, upon my sowl, I don't b'lave they iver gave a morsel,-they are so very close, sir." 
               "Nor I either, Madge." 
               "Shure, but what thin would they be doin' wid it?" 
               "Madge, I believe that chimney is a false one." 
               "That's just what I was tellin' Katy. I said I didn't b'lave any chamney was there at all." 
               "I suspect that between the chamber-floor and the roof a small room is constructed, which serves for a hiding-place or a prison." 
               "And what would they have that for, now?" 
                
               And Madge opened her large eyes very wide with wonder. 
               "What would you say, Madge, if my wife, your young mistress, was a prisoner there?" 
               "What would I say? By the powers! I would say that her father and mither were a couple of murtherin' ould divils! What would I say, Misther Gorden? I would say that the miserable spalpeens should be shut up there and starved to death, the cruel ould blaggards." 
               "Well, Madge, I told you that I suspected something terrible, and that was it. I may be mistaken, but I think she is there." 
               "Ah! shure, Misther Gorden, you're right, thin. And there's where the victuals all went to. O cruel, cruel Madge! to be stayin' there all this while, and niver thinkin' at all that the young leddy was there. O! me beautiful young mistress, that used to be so kind to every body, shut up there all these long months, and I so stupid as niver to be findin' it out." And Madge wept and lamented, manifesting great distress and honest indignation. 
               "Ah! such a good young leddy," she said. "The ould crocodiles, to be trating her so,-may the divil burn ye both! I'll break the ould chamney down this very night, and let her out, before I slape." 
               "No, no, Madge, you can't do that; you must do as I say." 
                
               "And shure I will, Misther Gorden, for you know better than I." 
               "I want you to watch for a couple of days, and see if any food is carried up stairs." 
               "I will, sir." 
               "You must be vigilant, keep your eyes always open, and yet not seem to notice any thing in particular." 
               "But how can I slape, sir, if I keep my eyes open all the while?" 
               "I mean, all day long and in the evening, you must be on the watch, and yet not appear to be." 
               "I understand, sir, 'cause they would be suspectin' me. I'll smoke out the ould rats for ye be sure o' that, sir." 
               "After two days you must tell me what you have discovered." 
               "Yes, sir, I will." 
               "Madge, be very cautious, and you may be the means of giving your young mistress her freedom." 
               "Shure, sir, I will,-I wouldn't have them suspect me for the world, sir. Shure, I pity ye, Misther Gorden; but don't be feelin' too bad about it, and we'll find her yet. Wait a while, and whin I make the diskivery I'll be comin' and tellin' ye." 
               "That's right. Good-night, Madge." 
               "Good-night, yer honor; and may the Hooly Vargin pertect ye, and the swate crathur whom the murtherin' wretches have shut into an ould smokin' blaggard of a chamney." 
                
               The next forty-eight hours hung heavily upon my hands. I was fearful that the new-born hope of discovering Marion might be blasted,-anxious lest Madge should be imprudent, and so defeat my plans. As to her faithfulness, I had not a doubt. 
               At the appointed time, I saw Madge approaching, and hastened to meet her. 
               "Och! Misther Gorden," she said, with great earnestness, "I have found it out." 
               "What have you found?" I asked, much excited. 
               "She's there! the young leddy is there!" 
               "How do you know that, Madge?" 
               "Ye see, sir, the night afther I left ye, afther they had all gone to bed, I went up into the room by the chamney." 
               "Well?" 
               "I squat down there in the dark, and staid two or three hours, but I didn't hear nothin', sir. Jist as I was thinkin' of goin' to bed, I heard somebody a-comin', but I couldn't get out of the room at all." 
               "You did wrong to go there, Madge,-it was very imprudent." 
               "Shure ye'll pardon me, for I wanted to find her so much. Well, ye see, in came Mr. Windsor, the ould tyrant." 
               "He did?" 
               "Yes, sir, and he had a basket in his hand, with some victuals in it. Whin he saw me, he looked mighty scared. 'What in the world are you doin' here, Madge?' said he. 
               "'Shure, sir,' said I, 'I thought I heard the cat a-bouncin' round, and I came afther her.' 
               "'I thought I heard the dog,' said he (what a big lie), 'makin' a racket up here, and I recollected that I did not give him his supper,' said he (the ould chate!-he did, for I saw him do it), 'and so I brought some food up for him. Go to bed, Madge. I have told you before not to sit up so late o' nights.' 
               "'Yes, sir,' said I; but I didn't, though, for I watched until he went up into that chamber again wid the same basket. I tried to peep in to see what the ould curmudgin was a-doin', but he shut the door afther him." 
               "You did well, Madge. What next?" 
               "Well, ye see, this mornin' I thought I heard the cruel ould chap in that chamber again; and, to make shure, I watched until he came down, and brought some dishes and scraps o' broken victuals." 
               "I am greatly obliged to you, Madge. Now you must give Katy a short call, and then go home; but don't breathe a word to any one." 
               "Shure I won't, Misther Gorden; so good-by to ye, sir, and may ye get her out this very night." 
               "Good-by, Madge. You shall be well paid for this." 
               "Is it the pay ye are spakin' of? Bother on it for the pay! Jist show me the young leddy under your own pertection, and that will be pay enough, shure." 
               I now sought Mr. Mackay, and reported to him what I had learned through the shrewd house-maid. 
               "And what inference do you draw from all this?" he inquired. 
               "That the chimney is false, and my wife there a prisoner." 
               "It may be so, though it don't seem probable." 
               "Probable! what is there probable in relation to the whole of this infernal business?" 
               "You are very much excited, Elwood; but I wonder not. You need your best thoughts now, so they must be kept cool and in good working order. A misstep, and all may be lost. As for me, I am ready to assist you in anything you desire, and to encounter peril, if necessary." 
               "Thank you. I knew that I could rely upon you, and your invaluable aid I must have. I believe Marion is there. Now what shall we do?" 
               "In the first place, we want to learn, if possible, whether you are correct in your surmises. If there be a room, through the chimney-which of course is false, and most likely of wood-the light must pass in, for there is no window upon the roof." 
               "But a great deal of rain would beat through such a large chimney." 
               "Very true; that's what puzzles me. Let me think. I have it. Admitting our surmises to be correct thus far, it follows that glass is the protection against the rain. If your wife is there, we have only to reach the chimney to learn the fact." 
               "And that we will do this very night." 
               "By all means, for delays are sometimes dangerous. If we find a window in the chimney, what shall we do,-break it?" 
               "Yes-no, for the noise might cause an alarm. We will cut the glass." 
               "I had not thought of that. I see that your senses are all on the alert; but, Elwood, a word of advice: be not too sanguine." 
               "Caution me not, my friend, for, before the clock shall have struck the first hour of another morn, I shall have heard once more the voice of my own long-lost Marion." 
               "Which may God grant!" 
               At midnight, we were at Mr. Windsor's house with ladders. As noiselessly as possible, we placed one from the ground to the eaves, and the other from thence to the new chimney. The latter, Mr. Mackay, standing on the former, steadied while I went up. O, how my heart palpitated at this moment! What hopes and fears were mine! 
               Upon touching the chimney, I knew it was constructed of wood, and in a moment after I was aware of another fact, which we had surmised, that within it a window had been made, for my hand lay upon the glass. I was now so excited and indignant that I had half a mind with one powerful blow to dash it into a thousand pieces; but, realizing that such a course would be unwise if not dangerous, I took my diamond and carefully cut out part of a square of glass, which fell in. Marion heard the noise, and asked, "Who is there?" 
               As her voice came through the chimney, it had an unnatural sound; yet I recognized it, and was so overcome as nearly to fall. 
               "Marion," I said, "is it you?" 
               A wild, joyous cry was her answer. I have never heard such a cry before or since. "Elwood! my own dear husband! Speak again!" 
               "Elwood comes to save you! poor, wronged one," I said, as soon as able to command my voice. 
               "I hear you, dearest; I know it is you!" she exclaimed, very brokenly. "I was sure you would come! O, thank God! thank God!" 
               "Thank God!" I repeated with fervor. "Have you been here all the while, Marion!" 
               "Yes, such a dreary while. When can you take me away?" 
               "In the morning. If this had been known, the house would have been levelled to the earth." 
               "Don't delay, my husband, for Stanton is here, and I am in extreme danger." 
               "Stanton here! What next? And does he come to your room?" 
               "Yes, when he pleases. O! he is a villain of the blackest dye. Do save me from him!" 
               "I will, never fear. We are in peril here, my love; but you should keep a brave heart, for ere many hours this hand shall break open your prison-doors." 
               "I will be brave; but God speed you, dearest." 
               We descended immediately, and having removed the ladders some distance from the house, I went for a constable to arrest Stanton, while Mr. Mackay remained to watch. 
               It was about sunrise when I returned with the officer. Mr. Windsor had arisen, and answered our summons at the door. We told him our business, and he denied that Stanton was there. We informed him that we had good reason for disbelieving the statement. At this, he stepped toward the chamber-stairs. Surmising that his object was to go before, and give Stanton the alarm, so that he could flee to the room where Marion was confined, I told him that, wherever he went, we should accompany him. He then attempted to frighten us by bluster; but soon learned that he was spending his breath for nought. As a last resort, he raised his voice to a very loud tone, and declared with an oath that the person we were in search of had not been inside his house since the day I had the first altercation with him. 
               Believing Mr. Windsor meant to speak so loud that Stanton would hear him, we mounted the stairs without delay. We soon entered the room of the culprit, who sprang from the bed the moment we opened the door, and grasped his pistols; but before he could use them they were struck from his hands and he was speedily handcuffed. 
                
               While on my way for the officer, I had called up a good friend, and requested him to invite certain persons to meet me at Mr. Windsor's, to witness an event which would utterly astonish them. Some twenty persons had now arrived, and we made our way to the part of the house where Marion was incarcerated. 
               "What do you want here?" inquired Mr. Windsor. 
               "We wish to examine this chimney," replied Mr. Mackay. 
               Mr. Windsor trembled. "These are high-handed proceedings," he said, "and, if the law is adequate to meet them, you shall all feel its power." 
               "You had not better threaten any one with law, after screening a felon. It seems to me this chimney is remarkably spacious; I don't see the object of it." 
               "I designed keeping a large number of swine when I built it." 
               "O, you did? But you changed your mind. Thought it would not prove a good speculation, as you have not a forest of oak trees to supply acorns. People out West have the advantage of you. Is there not a door that leads into the chimney somewhere here?" 
               "A door to a chimney!" exclaimed a number in concert. 
               "Mr. Mackay is evidently crazy or drunk," said Mr. Windsor, in great trepidation, however. 
               "And you seem to be afraid of me, and well you may, for you have abundant reason. You will oblige me very much if you will show me where the door is, Mr. Windsor." 
               "I know not what you mean, or what you want here; but I command every one of you to leave this house instantly." 
               "I am interested in the style of building you have adopted, Mr. Windsor. You employed an ingenious workman. It deceives the most practised eye. I have a sharp axe here; and, in time, can make a hole as large as a door,-at least, I will try to do it." Suiting the action to the word, he struck into the wall. 
               Mr. Windsor sprang forward to stop him, but several stout arms held him back. Nearly every person present was filled with amazement at this strange proceeding on the part of my friend; and yet they would allow no one to interrupt him. After striking a few blows, Mr. Mackay commenced sounding for the door, which he soon found. 
               He now handed the axe to me, remarking that it was my right to break open the prison. This was what I wished; and with desperate energy I struck the weapon into the hard plank, and after a few blows the spring was broken, and the door flew open. The people present, not in the secret, uttered an exclamation of astonishment, and began now to comprehend our object. 
               The inner door soon yielded, and my wife, with a wild cry of joy, sprang into my arms. O! what an embrace was that. So long separated, and by such hellish means, we clung to each other in indescribable transport. Words we uttered not, but our tears fell like rain. 
               There were stout hearts among the men present, and eyes that had seldom been moistened with tears; but they now wept freely. As to Madge, she talked, cried, and laughed, all in the same breath. She caught Marion in her arms, as soon as I gave her an opportunity, and talked to her as though she had been a little child. 
               "Ye poor crather!" she said, "darlin" little lamb, to be shut up here! Didn't I help to find ye, ye blessed one? Shure I did. They niver would have known it at all, but for Madge, ye darlint. Ye are safe now, ye purty bird; yer cursed ould cage is broken, and the mate of ye has come, and he'll pick out the eyes of the murtherin' ould hawk that got ye, so he will, ye dear, little, sufferin' babby!" 
               And then turning to Mr. Windsor, who stood as though transfixed to the spot, and shaking her fist at him, she poured forth a torrent of objurgations: 
               "O! ye ould baste, didn't I outwit ye? Wasn't I looking for the cat while ye was looking for the dog, ye lying ould thafe of the world? Don't ye feel purty nice now, ye botherin' spalpeen? I'd like to shut ye up here, and feed ye on bread and wather for rest of yer days, and starve ye to death afterwards, that I would." 
               And then, addressing my wife again, in a gentle, sympathizing tone, she exclaimed: "Ye tinder lamb, to be caged up here so long, and yer darlin' mate not finding ye at all. We've got ye now. Madge will pertect the darlint, so she will, and her mate will too, ye purty little dove!" The faithful girl now resigned Marion to me, and danced about the chamber in a perfect ecstacy of delight. 
               Marion was very pale,-as white as the new-fallen snow. Her cheeks were much sunken, her eyes unnaturally brilliant, and her whole countenance indicative of severe mental suffering. 
               "The hidden bride is found at last," said Mr. Mackay. "Give her joy. Three cheers for Mr. and Mrs. Gorden!" cried our enthusiastic friend, and they were given with a will. I now led Marion to a seat, and Mr. Mackay approached and shook her hand and kissed her. To each one present she gave her hand; and then, as a carriage was ready, she tearfully bade all good-by, and we were soon conveyed to the house of Mr. Mackay, where my bride received a welcome as warm and hearty as though she had been an own child. 
               Some persons, who were present when my wife was set at liberty, resolved to arrest her father, as soon as we were gone; but when they searched for him, he was missing. Seeing that attention was withdrawn from him by their interest in the discovery, and fearing the wrath of the citizens, he seized the opportunity to escape to Canada, where his wife soon joined him. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
                
                   
                     
                        "I do much wonder that one man, seeing how much another man is a fool when he dedicates his behavior to love, will, after he has laughed at such shallow follies in others, become the argument of his own scorn, by falling in love."
                      
                     MUCH ADO ABOUT NOTHING. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "A contract of eternal bond of love, 
                           Confirmed by mutual joinder of your hands." 
                        
                      
                     TWELFTH NIGHT. 
                   
                
               WHEN Henry Morrison and Lissy Gorden returned from their ride, it was easy to perceive, by their countenances, that something very agreeable to both had happened. Two happier, better-satisfied faces never were seen in Dunfield. That night, at tea, my mother remarked that she was expecting another friend on the morrow. 
               "O yes," said Lissy, "I had forgotten to tell you. The lady who taught our school last season, Miss Julia Hines, is employed to teach it this season also, and she is to board with us." 
               "What sort of a person is she?" asked Henry. 
               "I think her very interesting," said Lissy. "I hope you will both be pleased with her, for my sake." 
               "Or rather for her own," remarked Edmonds. 
               "Yes," she answered, "for her sake, and for mine, too. I almost know that you will like her, she is so good." 
               "An estimable young woman," said my mother, "and an excellent teacher. I think you will be pleased with her." 
               "I am sure he will," observed Lissy. "I had made up my mind that he would be interested, from the first." 
               "Very likely," responded Charles. "I am generally interested in those who are interesting." 
               "And sometimes an interest is awakened that is lasting," Lissy said. 
               "No reason for alarm in his case," remarked Henry Morrison, "for he has got beyond feeling a particular interest in any woman." 
               "Cool, upon my soul!" said Charles. "Well, some folks do feel their position. How long is it, pray, since a certain gentleman of my acquaintance had a perfect horror of 'country hussies?'" 
               "Don't, Edmonds," implored Henry. 
               "What does that mean?" inquired my mother, smiling good-humoredly, while Lissy blushed scarlet. 
               "I beg for mercy, Charles," Henry petitioned. 
               "Don't show him a particle of mercy," said my mother, "for I doubt whether he deserves it." 
               "I have no such intention," Edmonds replied; "but, as in duty bound, will make a clean breast of it. On the night when Henry and I met with that unlucky-lucky accident in front of your dwelling, as we were slowly riding hither in the darkness ness and storm, we saw a bright light, and at once concluded that it came from a dwelling-house. We decided to request entertainment for man and beast. Henry, as you know," bowing to Lissy, "is very particular; and he proposed that we should continue on, if things were not to our liking. He seemed to imagine that the house contained some half-dozen old maids, more or less, and of such he has, or had, an especial horror. I told him, in a bantering manner, that most likely he would find a wife there. He saucily replied that he did not like 'country hussies.'" 
               "Very good," said my mother. "He has only manifested a little inconsistency, which we all do at times, and suddenly changed his mind." 
               "Not a bit of it," said Henry, "for I have no especial liking for the article now." 
               "As you do not partake of your friend's prejudices," said Lissy, addressing Charles, "there will be no obstacle in the way of your becoming interested in Miss Hines." 
               "And if the interest should be mutual?" said my mother. 
               "Why, then, the next thing would be something else," Charles remarked, laughing. 
               That night, when Charles Edmonds retired, he could not dismiss Julia Hines from his mind. Though the conversation respecting her had been carried on in a half-jesting tone, he was curious to behold a young lady so highly esteemed by his kind hostesses. 
                
               Miss Hines, being detained by unforeseen causes, did not arrive at Dunfield until three days after the time specified. She was a tall, finely-formed girl, with soft brown eyes, hair glossy as silk, white teeth, and very handsome mouth. Her lips were literally ruby in hue. Notwithstanding it bore the impress of sorrow, her countenance was very engaging. 
               It was the intention of Charles and Henry, when they left home, to be absent one week; but, at the end of that time, Henry declared that he should stay some days longer. Charles by no means regretted this decision; for his long-checked affections now found an object in Miss Hines. She was not easily won, however. Her heart-experience had been so painful that all she would consent to, in response to Charles' remarkable assiduity and earnestness,-making up for lost time,-was to hold a friendly correspondence with him. But frequent visits from Charles, accompanied by Henry, during the summer and autumn, and an observation of the happiness of the affianced pair, dispelled Miss Hines' coyness, thawed the icy fetters of her love. When Thanksgiving came, there were extraordinary preparations at the "old homestead," for a double wedding took place. 
               Charles and Henry were partners in trade in an inland city; but they now dissolved, in accordance with the wishes of my mother and sister, and Henry bought out a store in Dunfield. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Never came reformation in a flood, 
                           With such a heavy current, scow'ring faults: 
                           Nor ever hydra-headed wilfulness 
                           So soon did lose his seat, and fall at once, 
                           As in this king." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FIFTH. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The tide of blood in me 
                           Hath proudly flowed in vanity till now; 
                           Now doth it turn, and ebb back to the sea, 
                           Where it shall mingle with the state of floods, 
                           And flow henceforth in formal majesty." 
                        
                      
                     KING HENRY FIFTH. 
                   
                
               WHEN Robert Bruce had read my sister's letter of dismission, he was very angry. 
               "Upon my soul," he exclaimed, "this is the most insulting epistle I ever received. And so she thinks me almost a fool,-my language ridiculously inflated? Well, I never was jilted before; and then how aggravating to have it done with such impudence, as though Miss Gorden was vastly my superior! Curse me, if ever I'll doubt again that women are everlasting tattlers. What miserable luck to have her fall in with one of my old sweethearts, who was ready to blab every thing, as though a gentleman of genius must always be as correct in his deportment as a parish priest. What a saucy jade is Miss Gorden, to write thus to me! All communication must cease, eh? In that she shall be gratified. But I'll be revenged upon her, somehow, for I won't stand such insults!" 
               Mr. Bruce, having thus vented his spleen at being paid off in his own coin, went to his store, and scarcely thought of the matter again until evening brought an hour for reflection. He felt less bitter than at first; and, as he pondered upon his past career, he asked himself if Lissy's rebuke was not just. Had he made good use of his talents? Had one of the hopes which blossomed with such promise in his boyish days ever brought forth fruit? Had not the glowing predictions of his friends respecting his future career all failed? Had he not drank in praise and flattery until his head was turned, and he neglected the studies which once he speedily mastered? Had he not worshipped himself, regardless of the praise and service due to his Maker? Had he not wrapped himself in the garment of selfishness, and lived for his own gratification? Had he not made promises of affection only to break them, causing untold anguish, and leaving one heart utterly crushed and desolate? "Ah, yes!" he thought, "Lissy's letter is all too true." He had no desire now to seek revenge, for he felt himself justly punished. His own sister had often pronounced his language very extravagant; and, as he reflected upon the past, and reviewed what he had said and written, the conviction of his folly could not be resisted. What was he now, and what might he not have been? Even Lissy Gorden had conceded to him the possession of superior natural abilities,-which he had been a thousand times complimented for,-and yet what did these gifts avail him? 
               His retrospections finally settled upon May Appleton. He remembered how beautiful and light-hearted she was; how charming and graceful; how full of vivacity and innocent fun. He realized that he had loved her as well as his heart was capable of loving. He had really intended marriage, and by the most devoted attentions had won her heart, and she had trusted him as only such warm-hearted, enthusiastic natures can trust. He had pledged himself to May by the most solemn vows, and she had believed him; and then, growing weary of her, he had forsaken the too-confiding girl, and left her to desolation and shame. This greatest sin of all his frivolous life now began to weigh upon his mind. He wondered if May would forgive him, and accept again the heart which had been so cruel, so faithless toward her. 
               The parents of Robert Bruce, from his boyhood, had desired him to become a lawyer; and they were sorely disappointed, he well knew, when he ceased studying for that profession. He queried whether he could succeed now. If he might not become pre-eminent, could he not in a measure redeem the past? He resolved to attend a good school for six months, and again commence the study of law. Ere many days he mentioned the subject to his father, who had made him a partner in trade, and obtained a reluctant assent. During that half-year he bent his energies to the acquirement of knowledge, with undaunted perseverance and remarkable progress. It was tedious at first, his mind had lain torpid so long; but every day saw obstacles overcome and triumphs achieved. 
               At the end of the specified time, Robert signified his desire to again study law. This his father had not anticipated; but, having been apprised of his son's success at school, he willingly consented, and engaged to furnish the requisite means, if there was no more trifling. 
               When Robert Bruce learned that May Appleton had removed from Albany to Boston, he decided to pursue his studies at Cambridge. Without unnecessary delay, he repaired to that time-honored seat of learning, and commenced his studies. He devoted his mind steadily to the task, and soon won the respect of the professors and of all his classmates. The most severe criticism which he experienced was in relation to his inflated style. The tree was vigorous and gave good promise, but it required thorough pruning. All his besetting sins he battled with manfully, and ere long had them under his feet. He regarded his past life with regret and penitence, while the future held out vivid hopes, beckoning him on. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Read not my blemishes in the world's report: 
                           I have not kept my square; but that to come 
                           Shall all be done by rule." 
                        
                      
                     ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The rarer action is 
                           In virtue than in vengeance: they being penitent, 
                           The sole drift of my purpose doth extend 
                           Not a frown further." 
                        
                      
                     TEMPEST. 
                   
                
               OUR scene will now change to a pleasant little chamber in a retired street of the city of Boston. Every thing in this room shows the most perfect taste. It contains a bed, table, looking-glass, half a dozen chairs, a neat stove, a piano, a few choice books, and sundry little nick-nacks, such as persons of refinement like to have around them. 
               Near the table sits a young woman, sewing, her fingers flying nimbly, while at her feet is a beautiful boy, gazing fondly into her face. She is still very lovely, though her countenance shows traces of grief and suffering. She is small in stature, active in all her movements, and graceful as a fawn. Her hair is of a soft brown, and curls naturally; her complexion is very light; her expression is animated and full of soul. As the reader has probably surmised, this is May Appleton. 
                
               She had naturally a very sweet voice, and early learned to play and sing. Being passionately fond of music, and having saved a small sum by the rapidity with which she made up men's garments, she purchased a piano, which was sold at auction for less than one quarter of its actual value. This was a great source of enjoyment to her, and she sung and played to her little brother, who was never so happy as when listening to her music. But in another respect she had secured still greater advantage. The neighbors heard her, and sent in their daughters to receive lessons; so that now, for the first time in her life, she was a music teacher, having four pupils and expecting more. 
               "Henry," she said, addressing the little boy, "I want you to practise a while now." 
               "Yes, May," he replied; "but it is so very hard! I wish I could play as you can. Why can't I?" 
               "You will, child, when you have practised as much." 
               "Did you have to begin when you were no larger than me?" 
               "I did not commence so young, but the practice was just the same." 
               "I wish I was older." 
               "You wanted to learn now, Henry. It would be just as hard if you were older. You must brave it out, and by-and-by you will play very sweetly." 
               "Shall I, May?" 
                
               "Certainly; you improve very fast." 
               "Do I? Well, then, I will try, and so learn to play to you when you are tired." 
               "Yes, darling. It will be a great comfort to me." 
               "You are a dear good sister;" and he kissed her, and went to the piano, and commenced that drumming on a lesson which new beginners find so tedious. 
               Robert Bruce thought every day of the forsaken one, but it was a long time before he could summon courage to make her a visit. He had, of late, lost much of his self-assurance, and in May's presence was convinced he should have none at all. He realized that she would serve him right if she drove him from her presence in scorn; but, for all that, he determined to see her once more. If it were possible to make reparation for his dishonorable conduct, he would do it. 
               When Robert arrived at May's chamber-door, on the afternoon of a pleasant summer day, she was playing and singing. He stopped to listen, and the tones of her voice were as sweet as of yore. He heard her distinctly, and it cut him to the heart; but he knew that she had not forgotten him. Sweetly but sadly her voice sounded, as she sung those touching lines: 
                      
                        "Thou hast learned to love another, 
                        Thou hast broken every vow, 
                        We have parted from each other, 
                        My heart is lonely now. 
                         
                        I have taught my looks to shun thee, 
                        When coldly we have met, 
                        For another's smile hath won thee, 
                        And thy voice I must forget. 
                        O, is it well to sever 
                        This heart from thine forever? 
                        Can I forget thee? Never! 
                        Farewell, farewell, forever! 
                     
                      
                        "We have met in scenes of pleasure, 
                        We have met in halls of pride; 
                        I have seen thy new-found treasure, 
                        I have gazed upon thy bride, 
                        I have marked the timid lustre 
                        Of thy downcast happy eye, 
                        I have seen thee gaze upon her, 
                        Forgetting I was by. 
                        I grieve that e'er I met thee, 
                        'Twere folly to regret thee, 
                        Fain, fain would I forget thee,- 
                        Farewell, farewell, forever! 
                     
                      
                        "We have met, and we have parted, 
                        But I uttered not a word; 
                        Like a guilty thing I started, 
                        When thy well-known voice I heard. 
                        Thy looks were stern and altered, 
                        And thy words were cold and high; 
                        How my traitor courage faltered 
                        When I dared to meet thine eye. 
                        O, woman's love will grieve her, 
                        And woman's pride will leave her, 
                        Life has fled when love deceives her,- 
                        Farewell, farewell, forever!" 
                     
                  
                
               When the singer ceased, Robert rapped gently upon the door. May opened it, but sprang back, almost fainting. He tried to speak, but the words choked him, and he could not utter them. 
                
               As soon as she could master her emotion, she said, "Mr. Bruce, why have you come here?" 
               "My motives, Miss Appleton, are good," he replied. 
               "I would that I could believe it, sir." 
               "That you doubt me is not surprising. But shall I come in?" 
               "Yes, and be seated. Now I will listen to you." 
               "Miss Appleton, I have cruelly wronged you." 
               "You have, indeed, sir." 
               "I called to see you because I would make all the reparation in my power." 
               "What reparation can you make?" 
               "I know not, and yet I can never be happy again unless atonement is made for the evil I have wrought." 
               "Mr. Bruce, are you sincere in this?" 
               "I am, though it may be difficult for you to believe it. I am not what I was." 
               "It rejoices me to hear you say so; but O! sir, attempt not to deceive me again." 
               "God is my witness that I have no such idea." 
               "Tell me, Mr. Bruce, if this change be actual, what has produced it?" 
               "You shall hear the whole history, though it be somewhat mortifying." He then informed May of his engagement to my sister; of her dissatisfaction with and dismissal of him; and, having her letter with him, read it aloud. He told May of his subsequent career, and what he was doing now. 
               She listened to the whole with great interest. "Much of this," he said, "is very humiliating to me; but I have shown perfect candor. Now how can I atone for my baseness to you?" 
               "I don't know. Once I needed pecuniary aid so much that I would have accepted it, even from you; but I require it no longer. For a while after your desertion I was in the depths of dejection; but, summoning self-respect and religious hope, and nerved by love for my dependent little brother, I have triumphed. I almost ruined my health by arduous toil; but I am now expecting a sufficient number of music scholars to enable me to give up sewing entirely." 
               "You are a noble girl, and worthy of a better lot. Will you pardon me my treachery?" asked the penitent man, sinking on his knees before her. 
               "Arise, sir; kneel not to me, but to God." 
               "But will you forgive me, Miss Appleton?" 
               "Urge me not to-day. I had not expected this." 
               "Where is your little brother?" 
               "At school; you will not be able to see him to-day." 
               "And may I come again?" 
               "Yes, but not too soon." 
               "Well, I will not. Good-by, and may God bless you." 
               "Good-by, sir." 
               When he had departed, May meditated long and intently, not without tears. Should she forgive him? O yes, she could not find it in her heart to say, Nay. He had repented, she was sure, for his whole appearance was nobler and less conceited than when she formerly knew him. 
               In two weeks Robert visited May Appleton again; and now she extended her hand and bade him welcome. He sat down, took little Henry in his arms, and conversed with him in a familiar manner. Soon after, Henry went to school; when May, with much emotion, said: 
               "Since you were here, you have scarcely been out of my thoughts, Robert, waking or sleeping. I never prayed for revenge because of your treachery, and have always hoped, even though you sought me not for pardon, that you would become a better man. I have reflected well on what I am about to say, and I forgive you,-forgive you all." 
               "O blessed words!" he exclaimed, "how I rejoice to hear them. Your nature is most gentle, May, and your heart full of goodness. You have said that you forgive me: shall I offend if I ask to be fully restored?" 
               "You shall be my friend always, if you are what you seem. O! I need a friend sometimes. I am nearly alone in the world, having no relative except my little brother, and he is entirely dependent upon me. I would gladly repose such confidence in you that I may seek you for advice, as there are times when I sorely need it,-at least, there have been in years past, and may be again." 
               "May, pardon me, but I would be more than a friend." 
                
               "I don't know as I comprehend your meaning. Would you be as a brother?" 
               "More than that, May." 
               "You surprise me. How can you be more than that?" 
               "I would have the right to protect you always. I-shall I say it plainly?" 
               "Yes, if you think best." 
               "Well, then, I would marry you,-make you my own dear wife." 
               "O Robert! your words sound strangely. Remember that I have heard them oft before, and O! I had such faith in them, and was so deceived; how can I credit their sincerity now?" 
               "I cannot find it in my heart, May, to blame you, in the least. And, if you think I manifest too much presumption, don't hesitate to say it, for I shall not be offended." 
               "You should not, for every promise which you made to me you broke, leaving me when you knew my only hope was in you; and now you come, in hot haste,-pardon me if I seem severe,-and ask complete restoration, ask me again to confide in your honor and your love." 
               "O! I believe I am always doomed to sin, and shall never do just right, though I so much wish it. I now perceive that I should have waited until you had ample reason to trust me, before asking so much; and yet I meant well." 
               "I shall try to believe you; though in this matter I think you have been very hasty." 
                
               "I have." 
               "You say that you would make me your wife. You have made the proposal, wishing my assent. Robert, you have prided yourself, in days gone by, according to your own confession, on your power over the heart of woman; and now you wish me again to trust you implicitly, to yield up, without a doubt, the heart you lost by your own folly. Will it surprise you if, under the circumstances, I infer that you still consider yourself irresistible?" 
               "No, it does not surprise me at all, for what I have now done justifies the inference; and yet it would be an unjust one." 
               "Possibly it would; but, admitting so much, will it be safe for me to rely upon your constancy, when you have been so notoriously inconstant?" 
               "May, you have not forgiven me." 
               "Yes, I have, Robert; and, if I reject your love, I do not your friendship." 
               "And perhaps the latter is more than I deserve." 
               "Of that you can judge. I see you think me unkind, and yet I would not be so. But, nevertheless, I must press the question home to you: can I confide in the steadiness of your purpose to make me your wife and love me always, when you have proved yourself untrue to many, and have once cruelly deceived me?'" 
               "Your words strike home, May, and they wound severely; but I will be candid and confess that you have abundant cause to regard me as unworthy of confidence." 
               "True, and yet I pardon it all, and would retain your friendship; but seek not a nearer relationship, for I cannot grant it." 
               "Your decision is just, and yet it dashes to the earth all my hopes. Will you hear my justification for such hasty action?" 
               "Most gladly." 
               "My first thoughts of amendment were associated with you; and, as I have pursued my purpose steadily since resolving upon it, you have grown more and more into your old place in my heart,-ay, you have a firmer position there than you ever had before. From day to day, from month to month, I found myself hoping and longing that you would forgive all, and consent to crown me with happiness, though I so little deserved it. I did not intend to make you weep, dear May. You have pronounced my doom, and I bend my neck to the blow, and acknowledge its justice." 
               "O, this is painful, Robert. I wish it had not been." 
               "Well it has been my fate to make you unhappy, and I must leave you, for a shadow ever comes with me." 
               "You will not leave me in anger?" 
               "No." 
               "Will you not come to see me as a friend?" 
               "Is it best?" 
               "And why not, when I am so often lonely?" 
                
               "I will come, if you wish it." 
               "Thank you; and be not too much grieved by my words to-night, for I have not intended to do or say aught that was uncalled for or unjust." 
               "I believe you, May; and yet it is hard, for God knows that I love you dearly." 
               "So you told me long ago." 
               "I did; but, if I know myself, I am a very different man now." 
               "I believe you are; and, if I fail to discern the whole truth, let it not discourage you, but remember that, though your reformation commenced many months since, and has gone steadily forward, I heard nothing of it until a fortnight since, and only then from your own mouth." 
               "I perceive that the matter must appear differently to you from what it does to me. I would say one thing more, and beg you to believe it." 
               "Say on, Robert; for, since I have begun to trust you, it seems as natural as it did of old." 
               "Thank you. I knew that my whole treatment of you had been very culpable, and I wished to make you all the reparation in my power. I respected you too much to offer you gold, and I knew no method of fully atoning for my falseness except to devote my life to your happiness; and, in order to do that, and have the devotion acceptable to you, if acceptable it might be, I must love you, and feel indubitably assured that my love would be inflexible forever. I had few doubts when I met you a fortnight since,-subsequently not one. I offer this to you as my justification." 
               "I shall not doubt your words, my friend, and beg you to pardon whatever has seemed harsh or unjust in me. We part friends?" 
               "O yes, May. Not otherwise, for the world." 
               After this interview, Mr. Bruce visited May Appleton quite frequently, inviting her to places of entertainment or recreation, which gave variety to her monotonous life. He became much attached to her little brother Henry, went with him to various places of interest in the city and vicinity, and made him presents well designed to gain the heart of a child; and the boy loved his noble-looking friend next to his devoted sister. 
               May soon realized that she was more and more drawn towards Mr. Bruce,-that he was becoming requisite to her happiness. 
               He did not forget that May had forbade his seeking a nearer relationship than that of friend, for she could not reciprocate it; and months passed away before he alluded to the subject again. 
               One day May had been singing and playing to him, while he stood near, turning over the leaves of the music. When she paused he took her hand, while he laid his other caressingly upon her head. She lifted her eyes to his, with an expression which was very beautiful, tender, and confiding. 
               "O May!" he said, passionately, "is it always to be so? Am I to be debarred forever from your heart as a lover?" 
               "Will it make you very happy if I say, No?" she asked. 
               "Yes, dear May!" 
               "Robert, I was cruel to you one day; but my heart removed the interdict long ago, and now I confide in you without a doubt." 
               When Robert Bruce had sufficiently advanced to open an office as a counsellor at law, he married May Appleton, and a happy couple they are. He is rapidly acquiring practice, though one fault still clings to him,-in moments of excitement his language is apt to be extravagant; but, on the whole, his oratory is good, and the impression which he makes in court is favorable. May is very beautiful now, and justly proud of her husband, who had the conscience to repent, the heart to atone, and the energy, after having long wasted his powers, to nobly redeem and elevate himself. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "All friends shall taste 
                           The wages of their virtue, and all foes 
                           The cup of their deservings." 
                        
                      
                     KING LEAR. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Gifts then seem 
                           Most precious, when the giver we esteem." 
                        
                      
                     SHAKSPEARE'S POEMS. 
                   
                
               ON the day after the liberation of my wife, Mr. Mackay came home much excited. He said a large crowd had gathered around Mr. Windsor's house, and he feared they were determined to tear it down. 
               We immediately rode to the scene of disturbance, where we found some hundreds of men and boys of Dunfield, and the neighboring towns; they had assembled for the purpose of leveling the building to the earth. 
               As soon as they learned that I was present, they gathered around me; and I addressed them for a few minutes, thanking them for their sympathy and good will, but earnestly requesting them to go peaceably to their homes. If they destroyed Mr. Windsor's property, it would be against my wishes, and my wife, though she had long been a prisoner within those walls, would be much distressed. 
                
               At the mention of my wife, cheers were called for and given with a will; and, when I had finished my remarks, I was likewise honored. The crowd voted unanimously to proceed no further with the contemplated work of destruction; but sent for a band of music, and marched to Mr. Mackay's house, and called for Marion until I led her out upon the balcony, when the wildest shouts went up from the excited multitude. The dear girl was so affected as to be compelled to lean on me for support. 
               I was now informed that in our county convention I had been nominated for the State senate; and, as I was sure to be chosen by an overwhelming majority, I must make a political speech. Willing to gratify the wishes of the people, I addressed them on political topics for an hour, when they were served with a hasty collation, and in the best of humor departed. It is only requisite to say that their prophecy about the result of the election was fulfilled to the letter. 
               A few days after this, Thomas Windsor returned to Dunfield, where he was immediately arrested for the assault on young Rand, the gambler. He had been sent for, and knew not of the events which had subsequently occurred. Stanton was the cause of his arrest. He had made an agreement with Rand, that, if he lost Marion, her brother should be taken into custody immediately. In order to insure its fulfilment, he withheld a part of the "hush-money." Thomas Windsor was sent to jail, under heavy bonds, where he remained three months, and was then set free by taking a poor debtor's oath. Rather than expose the secrets of their gambling house, the Rands did not prosecute him for assault, but rested their claim solely on a pecuniary basis. On being released, the exemplary young man immediately joined his parents in Canada. In the mean time they had disposed of their property in Dunfield, at a great sacrifice. It was sold at public auction, and I was the purchaser. 
               Stanton spent large sums of money during his trial, in vain, for he was convicted and sentenced to the State prison for fourteen years. But the influence of rich, slave-holding relatives was potent upon a doughface Executive, and he served but a moiety of his time. 
               Marion rapidly improved after her liberation, and her old aspect of health and beauty returned. When she was thought to be entirely restored, Mr. and Mrs. Mackay invited us to visit the new house before alluded to. We found it, not empty, as we had anticipated, but elegantly furnished. When we had sufficiently admired the dwelling, its arrangement and its fixtures, Mr. Mackay placed a deed of the premises in Marion's hands, stating that it was his free gift to her. This was so unexpected that she could not for some minutes find words to express her gratitude for the munificent present. 
               "I always believed," said Mr. Mackay, "that you would be restored to your husband, though the whole affair was so veiled in mystery. With this conviction, I erected this house, and now I have the pleasure, as I anticipated, of presenting it to you. You are pleased with it, and in drafting the plan, my great aim was to suit your taste. I am glad to know that I have succeeded. It is a good house; it stands in a pleasant location; and here may you know many years of happiness." 
               "Doubtless I shall, and so all the weary days of my imprisonment will be recompensed. It was hard to stay in that little room so long, and I suffered at times very bitterly. But the night has passed and a glorious morning is ushered in. O! I am so happy now. How good you all are to me! I would manifest my gratitude, if I only knew how. Mr. Mackay, the best thing that I can say to you is, may you be as happy you are generous." 
               "I am much obliged, Marion, for the compliment. No trouble for you to manifest gratitude, because you feel it. If you are happy, we shall all attain the end we desire." 
               "Then you will not fail. There are shadows long after the morning breaks, and some of the gloom of the past still clings to me; but, for all that, my heart is half wild with joy. When I think of my parents and brother, I am very wretched,-I am ashamed of them, they have acted so basely,-but I am not to blame." 
               "Certainly you are not. Don't let the recollection tion of their conduct change the sunshine into shadows." 
               "Indeed I will not. But it is a sad thing to feel that one's heart is orphaned: I told my parents I should never acknowledge them as kindred again." 
               "And no one should blame you for it," I remarked. 
               "True," said Mr. Mackay; "but, after all, it is better to forgive. Their sins against you are black as midnight, manifesting a most culpable lack of parental and fraternal sympathy and interest. They have built up, if I may be allowed to use such a figure, 'a wall between themselves and you,' which it will be impossible for time entirely to remove; but, perchance, the hour will come when it may be overleaped for brief periods. My daughter (I trust you will let me call you so, as I have no children excepting Elwood, and he's my boy, you know), I would have your heart soften towards your parents, and, should they ever see the evil they have done, and repent of their crime, then ought you to receive them as the good father receives the prodigal son." 
               "Dear father," said Marion, addressing Mr. Mackay, "you are so kind that your words shall be heeded. Should my relatives ever be brought low by misfortune, suffering, or disease, my heart will open to receive them, will forget and pardon all, while my hand shall seek to smooth their pathway to the grave." 
                
               "You are a good child," said Mr. Mackay, "and the spirit which you now manifest is like the Master's." 
               "I have felt most bitter toward your family, Marion," I said; "but, if you can forgive them, I will do likewise." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Fortune is merry, 
                           And in this mood will give us anything." 
                        
                      
                     ALL'S WELL THAT ENDS WELL. 
                   
                
               WE immediately took up our abode in the new house, and the delighted Madge came to live with us. As Marion had shown me the journal which she kept while a prisoner, I requested her to read it to me. We decided to devote two evenings a week to it until finished. It was interesting, and many portions of it very affecting. 
               Marion had read but a few pages of the manuscript, when there was a knock at the door. Upon opening it, Madge appeared. 
               "Well, Madge," said my wife, "what do you wish for?" 
               "Please, mum," said Madge, "may I come in?" 
               "Yes, be seated." 
               "And did I hear you radin' jist now, mum?" 
               "I suppose you did." 
               "And is it what ye were writin' yerself, now?" 
               "I shall have to confess that I was so immodest as to actually commence reading to my husband a production of my own." 
               "Yis, mum, and so I thought; but ye shouldn't be tellin' its immodest, mum, to rade it to the prisident, mum." 
               "I see that you have a very exalted opinion of my abilities, Madge." 
               "Shure I have, now. And is it what ye was writin' when ye were shut up in that ould blaggard of a chamney?" 
               "Yes, Madge." 
               "Well, mum, I wanted to axe ye if ye would let poor Madge hear ye rade it?" 
               "Certainly, Madge. Elwood and I shall both be pleased to have you here." 
               "May the hooly Vargin bless ye both, ye dear crathers. Now, mum, begin again, if ye plaze." 
               Marion commenced the journal again, and we had occasion to laugh as well as cry, for Madge was frequently so indignant, or felt so sorrowful, that she would give utterance to her thoughts, and some things which she said during our readings were very comical. Here is a specimen of the way we proceeded. 
               "I have been most terribly deceived by my father. He came to Cumberland with a lie upon his lips and fiendish wickedness in his heart. O! I am the victim of a dark conspiracy. Why did I give heed to his smooth words, spoken only to deceive? He promised to take me to my husband--" 
               "Did he?" said Madge, "the murtherin' ould villain! He desaved ye? Och! wouldn't I like to desave him?" 
                
               "I reluctantly consented to come with him, but have learned what a fatal mistake I made. I should have waited for my husband--" 
               "So ye should, now. And, if ye'd jist asked Madge, she'd a tould ye. Shure, he would have desaved Ave in the garden of Aden, as did that ould wily sarpent!" 
               In this way we went on for a number of weeks. When the journal was finished, we told Madge she must not speak disrespectfully of Mr. and Mrs. Windsor any more, and she soon understood the impropriety of it. 
               My mother is not willing to leave the "old homestead," and so Lissy and her husband reside there with her. Not unfrequently she spends a week with us, and Madge is never so happy as when she is our guest. Mother has a face all sunshine and a heart all goodness, and so it is always pleasant to be with her. Not long since we had the pleasure of a visit from Charles Edmonds and his wife, Henry Morrison and Lissy, Robert Bruce and his charming May; and, in spite of the peculiar relations which had existed between some of the parties heretofore, the meeting was very pleasant, and the visit highly agreeable to all. It is seldom that we meet a more entertaining couple than Mr. and Mrs. Bruce. Nobly has he redeemed the past; and, since he has come to himself, he most devotedly loved her whom he once so heartlessly forsook. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "My conscience has a thousand several tongues, 
                           And every tongue brings in a several tale, 
                           And every tale condemns me for a villain." 
                        
                      
                     KING RICHARD THIRD. 
                   
                
                
                   
                     
                        "The end crowns all."
                      
                     ANTONY AND CLEOPATRA. 
                   
                
               ONE day, as I sat in my study,-the place where the reader found me on commencing this book,-Madge knocked at my door, and said that a man was waiting in the kitchen to see me. I ordered her to show him up. He came reluctantly, as though he had no right to enter my pleasant retreat. I bade him be seated; and, as he seemed to hesitate in speaking, I looked curiously into his face, as though inviting him to proceed. It was very pale, the eyes glassy and cheeks sunken. 
               "Is your name Elwood Gorden?" asked the man. 
               "It is," I answered. 
               "Was your father's name James Gorden?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               "My name is Beverly, Francis Beverly. Through me, your father was once greatly wronged." 
               "How?" 
               "I sold him a farm, and received the full value, when I knew that he could not hold it." 
                
               "And were you the man? Ah! sir, that act caused a vast amount of suffering." 
               "I do not doubt it, for it stripped him of all his property. But I have also suffered. Look at me, and see what a wreck I am. Consumption has fastened its fangs here," striking his breast. "If I did not know the grave would soon receive this tottering frame, I should not now be making this confession." 
               "What was your motive, sir,-gain merely?" 
               "Yes, in part; but I was not the only guilty one. In fact, I was instigated to commit the fraud, or I never should have done it. I was tempted, and for a consideration I joined in a scheme which the law would regard as a conspiracy to cheat an honest man out of all his hard-earned property." 
               "You say that you were instigated to this; who was the instigator?" 
               "Mr. Windsor." 
               "Mr. Windsor! Are you certain of that?" 
               "I am. I was owing him money; and, meeting him soon after your father came to look at the place, I informed him that I had fully made up my mind to sell, and that your father would probably be the purchaser. He remarked that I ought to make something handsome out of the business, as I was compelled to dispose of a farm upon which I had bestowed so much labor and money. Everybody would take the advantage when they could, and, if I followed the example of all the world, and paid myself in part for my losses, nobody ought to blame me. At first I did not comprehend him, for I had no thought of fraud when I commenced bargaining with your father. Mr. Windsor approached the point at which he was aiming very cautiously, but by-and-by I understood him. I hesitated for some days; but, the whole matter having been arranged by a rascally attorney, the temptation overcame my better nature, and cupidity triumphed. I pocketed my ill-gotten gains, and, having announced that I was about to emigrate to the 'far West,' I immediately went South and settled in Mississippi." 
               "Was Mr. Windsor a gainer by the transaction?" 
               "I should judge that he was, but the amount could not have been large." 
               "Why should he have wished to ruin my parents?" 
               "He was moved to it mainly by the desire for revenge." 
               "And for what cause?" 
               "He loved your mother previous to her engagement to your father, and sought her hand in marriage." 
               "So I have been informed. But are you sure that was the cause?" 
               "I know of no other. The sum which he received by the transaction ought not to have had much influence, and I don't think it did, though he is close-fisted, and hard upon a poor debtor, and loves money as well as any man I ever saw. When I consented to the deed, I did not know what reason he had for urging me to it, unless it were the few hundred dollars which he would gain thereby; but, meeting him in Baltimore a few years since, I pressed him to tell me why he so much desired the ruin of Mr. Gorden. He finally disclosed his motive, and said that, when your father married the only woman he ever loved, he formed the resolution to be revenged. He watched long for the opportunity; it came at last; and he had the satisfaction of seeing the woman who jilted him beggared." 
               "A wretched satisfaction, that. Revenge may be sweet; but, like the book eaten by the author of Revelation, the end thereof is bitterness. Really, sir, I blame you not for telling me this; and yet, for another's sake, I wish the confession had never been made. The blow was a terrible one to my father, but he had the good fortune to win back the lost home, and thither he joyfully returned, and there he died, and now, I trust, he has been received into the better home." 
               "I crave your pardon, sir, but I could not die with this burden upon my soul. I knew your father was dead, and so I have come to you. I would have made the disclosure to your mother; but how could I look her in the face? I have wronged you and yours much, Mr. Gorden, but, sir, look upon me,-I am a dying man,-O! pity me, sir! I came a long distance to make this confession, and now I return to die. Will you not pardon me ere I go?" 
                
               "Most freely, sir, and I am certain you can also take with you the pardon of my mother." 
               "You have my thanks, and that is all I can offer. The fraud which I committed for gain, opened the way for further crime; but, though I often wronged my fellow creatures, it has not brought me wealth, and I shall die a poor man." 
               The broken-down creature looked so wretched and careworn that I urged him to remain, and rest himself, and partake of some refreshment; but he positively refused, and said he should return South as soon as possible. 
               When he had gone, I queried if it was my duty to relate our conversation to Marion. Not the least thing of importance had I as yet withheld from her; but was it best to tell her this? Should I unnecessarily harrow up her feelings with the information that the early misfortunes of my family were caused by the wickedness of her father? But, should she ask me, I felt that I could not, by deception, evade the subject. 
               The stranger had not been gone many minutes when she came into the room. 
               "Who was that, Elwood?" she asked. 
               "He said his name was Beverly." 
               "What a cadaverous face! how utterly woe-begone!" 
               "He did look wretched, and his looks did not belie him." 
               "The sight of him has thrown a gloom upon my spirits such as I have not known since my deliverance ance from prison. What could be his business with you?" 
               "Ought I to tell you?" 
               "You know best; but I shall be unhappy if you have secret business with such a man." 
               "I have but one object in withholding it,-your happiness." 
               "I do not doubt your motives, Elwood, in the least; I have too much confidence in you for that; but, even though the revelation which you make may cause me pain, I had rather not have it withheld." 
               "Then I will tell you all, though it is with deep regret." I now related the conversation which had passed between Mr. Beverly and myself, palliating the statement of her father's villany as much as the ugly facts would allow, which was but little. 
               As I had anticipated, the disclosure caused Marion much suffering, for a time. 
               "O Elwood," said she, "the thought sometimes comes into my mind, that my parents and brother have so sinned against you and yours that I ought never to have become your wife." 
               "A wicked thought, that," I replied. "You must never harbor it again." 
               "And can you still love me?" 
               "O, never doubt it, Marion. Believe me, you never were dearer than at this moment." 
               "You have never deceived me, so I believe you. That thought shall not trouble me again, if I can prevent it, for I know that our union is no mockery, but a life-long marriage of the heart." 
               "And if the shadows should return, dearest? You know that they may." 
               "There is no earthly home so blessed that they do not now and then find an entrance; but, where love is, they tarry not long." 
               The reader has probably guessed, ere this, that the elegant dwelling in which he found me, in the outset, was the one which Mr. Mackay presented to my wife, and that he was the friend who desired me to write this autobiography. Since I commenced the task, he has visited my study every few days, and, with the authority which he assumes as a right, commanded me to read what I had written; and I have cheerfully obeyed, for has he not been more than a father to me? The suggestions which he has made from time to time have been valuable to a novice in book-making like myself. I have just finished reading the last chapter to him. The work, he says, has some faults,-and don't critics always say that?-but, as a whole, he likes it very much. Of course he would-but, reader, do you? 
             
         
       
   
