
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The League of the Miami .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5796
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE LEAGUE OF THE MIAMI. 
             
            BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "THE BANDITS OF THE OSAGE," "TRAITOR," "UNKNOWN COUNTESS," "PRAIRIE FLOWER," "THE HYPOCRITE," &c., &c. 
            A NEW AND STEREOTYPED EDITION, ENLARGED, REVISED, AND CORRECTED BY THE AUTHOR. 
            
               PUBLISHED BY LORENZO STRATTON, 
               131 MAIN STREET, CINCINNATI. 
               STEREOTYPED BY A. C. JAMES. 1851.
             
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE following story; one of my earliest productions, was written a number of years since; and was originally published in a daily paper. The space then allowed for it, not being sufficient to carry out my design in full, the story appeared in a rather abbreviated form. Its popularity then, even as it was, and the continual call that has been made for it almost daily ever since, has induced its present publisher to re-issue it in its present shape, and have the missing portion supplied. In consequence of this, it appears enlarged to double its former length. In revising it, I am sorry to say I have found many of the sentences very faulty. As far as I could, conveniently, I have corrected them; but still they are by no means perfect, nor altogether such as I should construct were I to write the tale anew. Such as it is, however, I give it to the public, with the additional remark, that many of its scenes are founded on real occurrences. 
            
               THE AUTHOR. 
               MONSON, Mass., Dec. 1850.
             
          
       
      
         
            The League of the Miami 
             
             
            THE LEAGUE OF THE MIAMI. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               THE NIGHT AND THE MAN. 
               WHOEVER has attempted to trace through its various windings, or plunge into and divine the mysteries of that mysterious, inexplicable thing, the human heart, has ever found himself perplexed-lost in a mazy bewilderment. Well sung one of England's greatest poets, 
                     "The proper study of mankind is man,"
                   for man is a strange, strange being; his life is a medley of inconsistencies-his heart a labyrinth of good and evil. There is in our nature a propensity, a desire for concealment, which may be termed somewhat hypocritical, and which gives the outward, and the inward man, two strong contrasting aspects. Were it not for this, we should not see the gentle smile upon the surface, while the death-worm was gnawing at the core. We should not be daily told that such an one is happy, such an one enjoys all the beauties of life, while he, or she, is looking forward to the cold and silent tomb to end the misery of a life of woe. Why is this? Why do we seek to seem other than we feel-than we are? Ah, there is the mystery. 'That it is so, none will deny. Were it not for this-were our features the index of our thoughts-where would be the sacredness of grief? or the holy charm of love? And is not one sacred to us? Does not the other seem holy in our eyes? Do we not hoard them in our heart of hearts, as the miser hoards his treasures from the gaze of the world? And do we not, like him, feel a secret pleasure in brooding over them in silence, alone? Could we not do this-did the world know us as we know ourselves-not all the terrors of death, not all the terrors of a great hereafter, would be sufficient to hinder thousands from rashly plunging into the mystic, UNKNOWN BEYOND! In this do we not behold an All-wise ordering? 
               This may, in part, account why hundreds do and say what we consider the very antipodes of our nature. This may, perchance, be developed in the course of our tale. Be this as it may, reader, we do not set up for an 
                     essayest
                     essayist
                  -we did not intend an essay-and deeming this apology sufficient for what we have said, we shall, without further preliminary, enter at once upon our story. 
               It was a winter's evening in the year of our Lord 1798, and in a private apartment of a building then standing on Front street, in the village of Cincinnati, were two individuals, who, destined to figure largely in our narrative, must be brought into notice. 
               The room, of moderate size, was well furnished. The floor was covered with a carpet, on which stood, in one corner, a high-post bedstead, the bed of which was screened from view by calico curtains falling around its front and end. At the foot of this was a trundle-bed, on which lay a sweet little girl, some ten years of age, apparently asleep. There was something beautifully serene in her open, guileless countenance, as she lay there, heedless of the dark world before her-heedless of the unknown future that was destined to try her soul. There she lay, a gentle being, expressive of hopeful, thoughtless innocence. By a table, near a fire that was blazing in the chimney, sat a man, over whom some thirty years had not passed without leaving the marks of conflicting passions. He was sitting with his hand clasped on his forehead, his elbow resting on the table, in an attitude of deep study. His face was partly turned toward a lamp standing on the table a little distance from him, which served to throw his figure into bold relief, and light the apartment. Between him and the light was a roll of papers, carelessly tumbled over, which he had, evidently, been examining. Raising his head at length, he fixed his eyes upon the light with that vacant stare which told his mind still seriously occupied. His features were not handsome, strictly speaking, neither were they ugly. His face was rather oval, stamped more with the marks of thought and care, than years. In the whole expression of his countenance, there was nothing decidedly sinister, and yet there was something dark-something mysterious. His forehead was high, pale, and full of thought, from which his dark, or rather black, hair fell off either way in striking contrast. His eyes were black and piercing, very fiery, and almost incapable of a soft, or languid expression. His cheekbones were high and rather prominent, and the cheeks themselves a little concave. His nose might be classed between the Roman and aquiline, bordering, as it did, slightly on both. His mouth was medium in size, with thin lips, close drawn over a full set of teeth. His chin rose prominently from a curve below the mouth, was round, full, and, combined with the rest of his features, gave him a character of decision and firmness. If we take the whole expression into consideration, we find a singular mixture of good and evil struggling for the predominance. A mind peculiarly sensitive on some points, on others as peculiarly hardened. It was this, undoubtedly-this struggling of his soul between good and evil-this inward war of two mighty, opposing passions-that, as before said, had stamped his face with the look of thought and care-had given to his skin a pale, cadaverous cast. 
               For a few minutes he sat in the position last described, while something within seemed agitating his soul, which exhibited itself in certain quivers of his features, as the bottom of a well, when disturbed displays itself in gentle wavelets directly upon the surface. 
               "I see no other way," said he, at length, in a deep, heavy voice. "I see no other way. Yes, yes, it must be so," continued he, after a pause, during which a more settled look came over his countenance, and his lips closed tightly over his teeth, with a firm, determined expression. "Could it be otherwise-but no! no! it cannot be-there is a fate, a destiny that wills it. Some contend that every man can be honest; I admit under 
                     certain certain
                     certain
                   circumstances it may be true; but can man shape the circumstances which govern him? If so, why is one wallowing in filth and wretchedness, starving for bread-bread the staff of life-bread the support of famishing nature-while another, born like him of woman, is rolling in all the pomp, the aristocracy of wealth? Why is one a slave, another a lord? Is it not the combined force of circumstances? Is it not destiny? and can man alter his destiny? Oh! that I could look into the future and read my final end! and yet, and yet, methinks I should fear to do it. And wherefore fear? what must be, can I alter? End, end," continued he, solemnly, "the end is death! Ah! that is a fearful thing to contemplate-death-and-a hereafter! Is there a hereafter?-fearful thought!-I pause. But no! no! I'll think no more, lest I waver-lest I shrink with the thought. Born perchance to evil, I must in evil follow out my destiny. Alas! alas! what will become of Cicely, poor Cicely-sweet girl, I tremble for, I pity her. The oath! the horrid oath! thank God, I did not keep that oath; for she, sweet angel, shall in the balance weigh against my sins. And is it not for her I now plunge on to other deeds? She-she must live-must live in innocence. Money is wanting-my stock is exhausted-I go but to gain money-and for her-for her. Will such an act be written down against me? Will God-why do I pause? there is a God!-will he not pardon me the deed in the intent? A thought strikes me-yes, I will, this night. Ha! those papers-but I must make her swear to keep them close." 
               As he spoke, he wrapped the papers, before mentioned as lying on the table before him, closely together, and placed them inside his vest; then rising from his seat, he commenced pacing the floor. His form was tall, commanding, and in proportions, beautiful. There was strength, grace, and elasticity combined. He was dressed in black, which became his figure well. There was nothing decidedly mean, nor sordid, in his appearance. 
               For some minutes he paced the room with a quick, elastic step; sometimes running his fingers through his hair, sometimes striking his hand against his breast with an uneasy, nervous motion, that told all was not right within; while his brow contracted, and a dark shade rested on his features. At length he paused near the gentle sleeper, and gazed tenderly upon her: then his brow relaxed, and a smile, for the moment, chased away the shade, and his features settled to a quiet calm. 
               "How innocent she sleeps," sighed he, in an altered voice. "Did I ever sleep thus innocent? The gentle, the lovely Cicely! How I love that child; and who doth not that ever saw her?-she is a being to be loved. Alas! I fear she is a flower too beautiful to last. And she calls me father-I taught her that. O how sweetly it rings out in her silvery voice. And we must part; ah! that, that wrings my soul! I go to-to-I will not name it-I will not mar more sacred thoughts by the contaminating sound; I go, because it is my destiny. Some day she will know what now she little dreams. And will she despise me then? No! no! I could not bear that; she will pity, she will pity me. Her pure, gentle spirit will not despise-that would be contrary to the law of angels-and she is one. Ah! she smiles-she is dreaming-sweet, sweet Cicely!" and bending gently over, he pressed his lips upon her clear, white, ivory forehead. "If I am ever saved, it will be by thee, sweet one. But I must think no more of thee, or I shall be a child, and weep;" and he drew his fingers quickly across his eyes. 
               At this moment Cicely awoke, and, fastening her soft, deep blue eyes mournfully upon the other, she, in a sweet, sad, heart-touching voice, inquired: 
               "What is the matter, dear father?" 
               The other started, for he supposed her asleep. 
               "Nothing, my child," said he, hastily, "nothing." 
               "Nothing," repeated Cicely; "you always answer so when you are sad, as if I couldn't understand. Nothing-I know that isn't it, dear father." 
               "I was merely thinking of something long ago, my child. Do not let it trouble you, Cicely. I have forgotten it already; see! I smile again." 
               "Ah! that smile is to please me," sighed she. 
               "Well, well, be a good girl, and go to sleep again; I must be gone now-a few minutes' business calls me away." 
               "But you will return soon, father?" 
               "Soon? Ay, ay, I will return soon. There, good-bye." As he spoke, he pressed a kiss upon her rosy lips, and, turning, left the room. Cicely composed herself, and was soon asleep; for sleep comes quickly to the young and innocent. 
               Meanwhile the other passed into the street, descended a steep hill to the river, unfastened a skiff which was there, entered it, and shot directly across the Ohio. The object, and adventure, will be shown in the following chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               MOLLY MAGORE. 
               SOMEWHAT back from the little village of Covington, there stood, at the time of which we write, a rude log hut, owned and tenanted by a single person, a woman some forty years of age. On the evening in question, she was seated on a rough made chair, before a fire, which, blazing on the hearth, threw flickering shadows upon her weather-beaten, strongly-marked countenance. She was bent a little over-her elbows resting on her knees-her fingers interlocked-gazing upon the flame with a listless, half sleepy look. The inside of this cottage exhibited much cleanliness, but was rough and homely. A bed stood in one corner, covered with a patched quilt. In another corner was an old fashioned dresser, on which were ranged a few pewter dishes, some crockery ware, and at the foot of which were a few pots and kettles. Along one side of the wall hung various articles of female apparel, a rude broom, one or two willow baskets, &c., &c. Over head, suspended by two wooden hooks, was a very neat rifle, one of the hooks also sustaining a pouch and powder-horn. We must not forget to mention a clock, then a much rarer piece of furniture than now, which adorned one portion of the apartment, and whose steady, solemn tick, was the only sound now audible. The floor was plain, but very white, from being often scoured, and was graced with an old arm-chair, just such a piece of furniture as we never see without being reminded of the couplet, 
                      
                        "I love it, I love it, and who shall dare 
                        To chide me, for loving that old arm-chair." 
                     
                   One or two other chairs, a rough loom, a foot-wheel, a spinning-wheel, a deal-table, a sort of stand to work by, on which was a candle, a stocking half knit, evidently just laid down, completed the general appearance of the place. This, by the way, was the only room in the house, if we except a rude half attic, entered by a ladder at one end. 
               The only tenant of this building-that is the only human tenant (for a large cabby cat lay dozing on the hearth)-was the individual seated before the fire, and whom we shall designate by the appellation of Molly Magore. 
               Molly Magore, as before said, was about forty; but for the matter of that, she might have been taken for sixty, so much so had trouble and exposure, amused themselves by drawing furrows upon her countenance. There was in the expression of her countenance nothing of greatness, but a great deal of goodness. Her features were decidedly ugly, and, but for this expression of goodness, might have been pronounced hideous. Her hair of a tow, or flaxen color, was combed up and back from the sides and front of her head, was twisted together, and was then quirled round and fastened on the top by an old three-toothed comb. By this operation many of the hairs had been pulled out, especially in front, above the forehead, giving it a rather rough, stumpy appearance. Her eyebrows were light like her hair, and very thin; but her skin was dark and bronzed from exposure. Her eyes were oblique, of a pale blue, and of that peculiar cast which requires something very extraordinary to make flash. Her face, from the forehead to the chin, formed a half semi, or quarter circle; and the lower part of the nose-which, by the way, was short, and turned up-found its position about half way on the arch. She was a little sunken about the mouth, for most of her teeth had decayed. Add to this a rather wrinkled skin, rough and coarse, and you have a pretty good idea of her features. But ugly as they were in form, there was something about them that would at once interest you. Her eyes looked mild, and a softened expression seemed to rest on her countenance. Her dress consisted of a frock of coarse, red woollen, with short sleeves, which left the lower part of her brawny arms bare. A large check apron was fastened around her waist by a tow string, and her feet were covered with thick brogans. 
               Molly Magore, in some respects, was a very singular woman. In the first place, she took great delight in doing good secretly, but seemed to take an equal delight in openly appearing in the worst light possible. Her manners to a stranger were rough and boorish; and it was only when excited by some tale of suffering, that the feelings of her heart were truly displayed. She was also very eccentric, and would sit for hours in the position we have introduced her, without noticing external objects. To account for this singularity, we must leave to those, if there be such, who can account for the various workings of the human heart; we merely state the fact. 
               It now becomes necessary for us, before proceeding further, to give a brief history of this woman, which we shall make as brief as possible. 
               Poor, humble, and ugly as she looks, Molly Magore had been raised in affluence. Born of wealthy parents in the State of New York, she had had, in early life, all the advantages of society and education which such a position could bestow. Life, with her, until arrived at the age of sixteen, had glided sweetly along, like the even current of a beautiful stream. Every wish of her heart had been divined and gratified. Her father, formerly a merchant, had retired from business, rich. He was a stern, morose man, who said but little to any one, and who disliked his daughter because she was not handsome. This he never openly avowed; and as he was ever willing to gratify her slightest wish, she rarely ever gave it a thought. Her mother was a very different being. She was mild, gentle, affectionate, and loved her daughter tenderly. She was, besides, a pious lady; and she instilled into her daughter's mind those noble precepts of christianity, which come up, in after years, from the wells of memory, and shed a hallowed influence around the soul. How many who have launched into the wide, stormy sea of dissipation, have been checked in mid-career, have been saved, by the recollections of a pious mother's prayers and holy teachings. How much, mothers of our country, depends upon the training of your children! To you is consigned a nation's welfare! To you will posterity turn with blessings or reproaches, as you in good or evil dispose of the sacred trusts the Almighty has consigned to your charge. Let this solemn truth be impressed upon you, that you may thereby act in righteous judgment! 
               At the age of sixteen, the mother of Mary Ellington (otherwise Molly Magore) closed her accounts with time, and passed to the abodes of the blest-first blessing and giving her only child much parental advice-advice which she treasured-advice which bore her up in after years through many heart-rending trials-advice which finally saved her from the dread abyss of crime. 
               We have said that her father was stern and morose in his disposition while his wife was living; after her death he became still more so; and his daughter, whom he never loved, he now as much as possible avoided; and she wept for her mother in silence, alone, without sympathy. Thus a year passed in dull, gloomy monotony with the daughter, at the end of which time the father married, and brought his new wife home. This seemed for Molly a final blow; for her step-mother was a woman proud, tyrannical, and jealous of authority; and being persuaded by a young man who often visited there, whom she held in good esteem, and who in return professed to love her with true devotion, she finally eloped, and they were married. This was a sufficient plea for her father to disown her, which he accordingly did; and her husband, who was seeking money only in this alliance, finding himself disappointed in his high expectations, abused, and at last deserted her. Thus at the age of eighteen, without friends-without money-without hope-she who had been reared in affluence was thrown upon the world, a creature to be pitied. We say without friends, for she was too proud to let her former associates know of her degraded condition. 
               Had she been like many of her sex, she would have drooped under the blow, or have plunged into crime, and ended her life in miserable dissipation. But hers was the spirit of the oak which defies the storm. She remembered a mother's teachings-she sought consolation in the God of the friendless, and grappled with the world without a repining thought. She hired herself to a farmer, and though unacquainted with the business, she, with ready tact, soon learned all the useful occupations appertaining thereto, and worked with an honest zeal that won her high regard. Her former history she kept a secret; and though the persons with whom she lived would gladly have known more of her, yet they never ventured to question her on that point. Thus years rolled on, and thus Molly Magore (for such the name she had assumed, and ever after adhered to,) passed her time in her daily routine of business, laying aside her hard earnings for a future period. 
               At length she concluded to leave the farm, and visit the great emporium of the western continent-the city of New York. Accordingly she packed her few things together, took a friendly leave of the good people with tears in her eyes, while they, as much affected, wished her a happy destiny. Arrived in New York, she soon procured a situation in one of the most wealthy mansions of the city, as governess, and future instructor of a then little girl. A short time after, the child, about two years of age, was missing, and had never been heard of since, although the strictest search had been instituted and kept up for a long period. Molly was at once arrested as the murderess, or accessory kidnapper of the child, while the parents themselves went nearly crazy in consequence of the loss. She was tried, but as nothing could be proven against her, she was finally acquitted; not, however, (as generally happens in such cases,) until her character had been ruined. This was another terrible blow to the poor creature, for we scarcely need inform the reader she was innocent. Molly had borne many trials with fortitude and patience; but to be accused of crime, and such a crime-to be dragged to the bar of justice-upheld to the world-pointed at with the finger of scorn-was too much; her reason tottered, deserted her, and for several days she wandered about the streets of New York a harmless maniac. But the strength of her constitution saved her-gave her reason an ascendancy; and falling in with some emigrants soon after, she, in company with them, journeyed to the West. Here, after much additional suffering and privation, she at last succeeded in settling down in the little cottage just described-having purchased it, and some ten acres of land adjoining, with the hard-earned money of former years. 
               Thus, by suffering, had she learned to feel for the unfortunate; thus, by suffering, one by one had those wrinkles been traced in her countenance: and, thus, reader, have we made you somewhat acquainted with her history, which, to the development of our tale, was important for you to know. Now to proceed. 
               Molly sat in the position we have introduced her for an hour, without showing any signs of life, other than by her breathing, while the old clock ticked on, and finally struck nine; about which time a loud rap was heard at the door. 
               "Come in," said Molly, gruffly, without looking up. 
               The door opened, and the stranger introduced in the preceding chapter entered. Molly turned her face partly round, measured him from head to foot with a half contemptuous look, as one would measure an inferior antagonist, and then mutely pointed to a vacant chair. 
               The stranger obeyed the gesture, and as he seated himself, said: 
               "Your name, I believe, is Molly Magore?" 
               "You can believe what you please, sir." 
               "Am I not right?" 
               "If you are, what of it?" 
               "Why, then, I have particular business with you." 
               "Say on." 
               "I have heard you represented as a woman who is ever ready to do a good action." 
               "Umph! People lie often without cause." 
               "But are they not right in this respect?" 
               "That is for you to find out." 
               "You answer strangely." 
               "You question likewise." 
               The stranger mused a moment, bit his lips, and seemed puzzled how to proceed, while a half angry look partly clouded his features. At length he resumed: 
               "I have called to know if you will take charge of a young girl?" 
               Molly suddenly started, turned her face full upon the stranger, and eyed him steadily some moments before making a reply. 
               "Take charge of a young girl, sir," repeated she, slowly, "take charge of a young girl! are you mocking me? Do you know-but no, no," continued she, lowering her voice, "what could he know?" and her whole features underwent a singular change. 
               The stranger noticed this, but without appearing to do so, again resumed: 
               "Yes, I have a young child, a very interesting little girl, about ten years of age, whom I wish to consign to your care, as I have business which calls me away. She is a beautiful being, you will love her, you cannot help it. Alas!" sighed he, "poor child! save myself, she is without a protector, I may say without a friend." 
               "No, no, no! not without a friend," cried Molly, energetically, her rough, ugly features glowing with a compassionate look, truly wonderful to behold; "not without a friend, sir-say not that-I will be her friend. I feel I love her already-the poor unfortunate!" and Molly passed her hand across her eyes. 
               "Ah! now I know you for the being you have been represented," said the stranger, joyfully; "now I shall have no fears for her safety; you will be a mother to her." 
               Molly made no answer; but rising, she paced the floor with rapid strides, repeating to herself, "The poor unfortunate!" Suddenly she made a halt. 
               "Your name, stranger?" 
               "Vandemore." 
               "The child's?" 
               "Cicely." 
               "Your daughter?" 
               "She calls me father." 
               "Cicely Vandemore-'tis a pretty name-I love the name," said Molly, again resuming her walk. "Cicely, Cicely," repeated she, musingly, "'tis the same, 'tis the same-singular coincidence." 
               "Well," said the stranger, or Vandemore, rising, "I suppose it is settled; you will take the child?" 
               "I will." 
               "But how about the pay?" 
               "What pay, sir?" inquired Molly, again halting. 
               "For taking care of the child." 
               "I ask nothing." 
               "But I shall be gone a long time; perchance years-perchance"-he paused, as if loth to repeat, and then added-"forever!" 
               Again Molly looked at him steadily. 
               "Forever, said you? can you leave your child forever?" 
               "But I know not what may happen." 
               "True, true; rest easy, then, while I live she shall share with me; and yet," added she, "if you have money to spare, a little would not come amiss." 
               "I have none at present-I go to gain money; fear not but that you shall be rewarded." 
               "Rest easy for me." 
               "Can I confide to you a secret?" 
               "You can act your pleasure." 
               "Will you swear to keep it?" 
               "I never swear." 
               "Well, well," said Vandemore, smiling, "you are a singular woman; a very singular woman." 
               "You echo others." 
               "Well, I am not afraid to trust you, at all events; to-morrow, at the hour of nine, I shall be here with Cicely. I shall then place in your hands a sealed packet, with the request that you will deposit it in some secure place, and not open it, nor allow Cicely to do so, save one of these three provisos shall come to pass: First, her death. Second, your death. Third, her arrival at the age of eighteen, which will occur on the 13th of June, 1806." 
               "Your request shall be adhered to." 
               "Thank you! and now I will take my leave, To-morrow I shall be here at nine, precisely. Adieu." 
               "Good night," returned Molly; and as the stranger disappeared, she resumed her position before the fire, muttering to herself-"the poor unfortunate child!" 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               CICELY. 
               PUNCTUAL to his agreement, on the following morning at the hour of nine, precisely, Vandemore appeared before the cottage of Molly Magore, leading little Cicely by the hand. It was one of those mild winter mornings not unusual to this climate, which come, as it were, to give us a foretaste of the spring; and the blooming cheeks of Cicely told she felt that joyous gushing of the soul-that vigorous elasticity of youth-which, in the young and innocent, such mornings rarely ever fail to inspire. As yet she knew nothing of the object of this visit, and all with her was hope and gladness. 
               "What a queer old house, father," said Cicely, as they neared it, looking up to the other's face with a laughing sparkle in her eyes. "See! those old logs; O I wouldn't like to live there, would you, father?" 
               Vandemore turned away his head a moment, and then said: 
               "Why not Cicely?" 
               "O because it isn't pretty, like the place where we live. Are you going in, father?" continued she, as he rapped on the door. 
               "Yes, my child, a friend lives here." 
               At this moment the door opened, and Molly very civilly bade them enter. 
               "This then, is to be my sweet, little girl," said Molly, approaching Cicely, who drew back rather suddenly, and looked at Vandemore with an inquiring, half startled air. 
               "She tells you true, Cicely," said Vandemore, seating himself, evidently much affected. "I shall have to leave you, my child-at least, for a time." 
               Cicely stood for a moment looking first at one and then at the other, while her eyes filled with tears. Suddenly, by an impulsive movement, she sprang forward, threw her arms around Vandemore's neck, and giving him a kiss, cried: 
               "No, no, no! dear father; you will not leave me? you will not leave your Cicely?" and nestling close to him, she buried her head upon his breast, and wept convulsively. 
               Vandemore fairly shook with emotion-his lips quivered-his eyes dimmed-his heart seemed to rise in his throat-and it was with the utmost difficulty he was enabled to speak; while Molly was scarcely less agitated. 
               "My child! my Cicely! look up-do not weep-what must be, you know, must be," said he, in trembling tones. "I must go, but I will come back again. Molly will be a mother to you; she will take the best care of you; she will see that you have every thing you need." 
               "Indeed I will-the poor unfortunate!" burst forth the noble-hearted woman, in a voice of tenderness, wiping her eye with the corner of her check apron. 
               Cicely, at this tender strain of feeling, raised her head, for it had touched a secret chord in her breast; and raising her soft, blue eyes, still moist with tears, which hung like pearls on azure balls, full upon Molly, who had just placed the apron to her eyes, she, in a simple, touching strain, said: 
               "You must not cry-I don't like to see you cry." 
                
               Molly dropped her apron, and gazed upon Cicely in pleasing astonishment-her rough, weather-beaten features animated with a joyous glow, that made her look almost beautiful. 
               It was a beautiful picture, that group, as all three for a moment remained mute, as if held enchained by some inward power. But the most beautiful of all, was the beautiful Cicely, as she sat on the knees of Vandemore, in a careless, negligent manner, her head just raised from his breast, on which one hand still rested to sustain her position, and, turned partly round, her blue eyes fastened on Molly with a sympathetic, languid, tender expression. There was the grace and beauty of youth combined in every expression of her guileless countenance. It was the grace of nature-it was the beauty not only of formation, but of a softened, exquisite refinement, which we never see, save in superior, sensitive beings. Youth, not the least of her charms, had thrown its rosy flush over all, while the soul was beaming there to give all that sweet animation of expression untold in description. The features, the form of Cicely, were moulded in the depths of earthly perfection; and, although not fully developed, were yet of that peculiar cast, that to see her was to love her. Her hair was of a bright, golden yellow, and, with a natural curl, clustered around her face and neck in a delightful profusion of most tasteful ringlets. Her eyes were full, of a sparkling, vivacious blue when mirthful; when sad or thoughtful, more soft and languid. Her skin was fair and smooth, clear as pearl, and delicate in texture. Her teeth were white, pearly, visible when she smiled, and were enclosed by two half-pouting, rosy, tempting lips. Thus at all times was she an interesting being; for with the beauty of person, we must combine a beauty of mind-a gentle, affectionate disposition, which is ever sure to win its way into the deep recesses of our hearts. Interesting as she was, Cicely never looked more interesting than at the moment we have described her, seated in that negligent attitude of sympathetic sorrow. Vandemore gazed upon her with a look of sadness; his usually stern, dark countenance was relaxed, and was lighted by a look of tender admiration, almost child-like simplicity. We have said this man had two strong opposing passions-good and evil: good was now predominant. Molly stood before her for a moment, gazing on her with animated, joyful surprise; while a thrill, a sudden thrill, shot through her frame like an electric spark-a thrill of instinctive love for the child before her; and, involuntarily, she reached forth her arms as if to clasp her. Something like this must have passed through the frame of Cicely; for she leaned gently forward, extended her beautiful hands, and the next moment was clasped in the other's arms. Was this impulsive feeling-this sympathetic yearning of soul for soul-this vibration and unison of two hidden chords-a species of magnetism?-who shall say? 
               "You will love-you will love rough old Molly, will you not, sweet Cicely?" said she, pressing a kiss on her smooth, ivory forehead, while the latter cast down her eyes with a modest blush. "Will you not, my pretty Cicely?" continued Molly. 
               A half audible "yes" broke from the lips of the little girl; but so simple, so touching, so full of the purity of truth, that Molly, as she pressed her to her bosom with a woman's warmth, could not repress the rising tear. 
               "O, you will make an old fool of me," said she, placing Cicely on the floor, and wiping her eyes. "I shall be a complete childish old fool." 
                
               "Said I not that you would love her?" put in Vandemore, at the same time catching her up in his arms and imprinting a kiss on her glowing cheeks, his own features animated with a joyful look. "Said I not that you would love her?" 
               "And you said well," returned Molly. 
               "Now, Cicely," continued Vandemore, "I know you for the little angel I ever supposed you. You will not weep and grieve for me, when I am gone, will you?" 
               Cicely looked at him long and earnestly; her features grew sad-melancholy; her large blue eyes beamed on his with a tender, heart-touching gaze; her lips parted-her voice trembled, as she inquired: 
               "Where are you going, father?" 
               Vandemore started-a sudden paleness ran like a flash athwart his features; even his lips whitened; deep furrows could be traced in his forehead; dark livid lines were round his eyes; his soul was in agony. Suddenly he buried his face in his hands, while his whole frame shook like an oak in the whirlwind. Cicely was frightened, and Molly looked on in silent wonder. By an effort-a mighty effort-Vandemore recovered himself, and his features assumed a severe, death-like calmness. 
               "You asked where I was going, did you not, Cicely?" said he, at length. 
               "Yes, father; but as it pains you, do not answer. I know you will do nothing but what is good and right, father." 
               Again Vandemore became painfully affected; again that strong, dark man was shaken by the voice of a child; again good and evil were struggling for the mastery. 
               "Thank you, my child-thank you, Cicely, for those kind words," said he, in a voice of forced calmness. "Ever believe that I will do what is good and right; and if-if-" his voice faltered-"if it should chance I never come back-you never see me more-" 
               "Oh, father!" burst forth Cicely, clasping her little hands. 
               "Promise me," said he, in continuation, "you will never curse my memory!" 
               "Curse you father?" returned Cicely, shuddering, looking at him in wonder. 
               "Ay, Cicely, promise me that whatever may befall me-let what may ring in your ears in after years concerning me-promise me you will never curse me." 
               "Oh! no, no, no! father," cried Cicely, "I could not-would not-never will do that, dear, dear father!" and the next moment she was clasped to his heart. 
               "This may look dark and mysterious to you," said Vandemore, turning to Molly, "but you will some day, most probably, know the meaning." 
               "I seek to know nothing," replied Molly. Your affairs, whether good or evil, must rest with yourself and God!" and she turned her eyes upward, and her voice was solemnly impressive. 
               "Farewell, Cicely," said Vandemore, reverently pressing a kiss upon her forehead and lips, placing her on the floor and rising from his chair, while her eyes filled with tears; "farewell, my child! promise me you will not grieve!" 
               "I cannot promise, but I will try my best to be good," said she, sweetly, the tears rolling down her cheeks. 
               "I know-I know-I know you will;" and Vandemore turned away his head. "Here, Molly," said he, in a low voice, drawing a parcel from his breast, "here is the packet. Remember, death, or the 13th of June, 1806." 
               "I shall remember," returned Molly, as she took the papers. 
                
               "Farewell, Cicely," exclaimed Vandemore, suddenly catching her up in his arms, and covering her face with kisses. "God bless you!" and again placing her on the floor he turned to Molly-grasped her hand-"farewell-protect-love her-God bless you both! Farewell! farewell!" and he rushed from the house. 
               Both sprang to the door, and saw a tall, splendid figure moving rapidly toward the river. Soon it was lost behind a hill, and Vandemore was seen no more. 
               Sad and gloomy were the hearts of Molly and her little protege, as they turned back into the house after the final disappearance of Vandemore. Cicely was sad, because she feared her father would never come back. Molly felt for the child, and consequently she was sad; but she endeavored by the best of her abilities to cheer and comfort her "little unfortunate," as she termed her; and gradually, as time wore on, she, by unceasing care and attention succeeded; so much so, that Cicely, who at first took it very hard, and for several days looked pale and careworn with grief, at last resumed a fresher color-bloomed out like a rose-while the brilliant sparkle once more danced in her eye. She soon began to look up to Molly as to a mother, benefactor, counsellor, and instructor; while old Molly in turn called her daughter, darling, unfortunate, and the like. She moreover took great pride in instructing her in all the various branches of housewifery, together with those belonging to a good English education, which she found had been sadly neglected; for it will be recollected by the reader that Molly was a woman of superior education herself. 
               Thus days, weeks, months, and years rolled on, and Cicely grew up under the care and instruction of Molly into a beautiful, blooming, rosy-cheeked damsel; moulded in grace and beauty of person-moulded in truth and virtue of intellect. Molly was a religious woman, and yet she professed no creed. She believed in doing all that was conscientiously right; she believed a person could worship and call upon the Supreme Being beneath his or her own roof, be it never so humble, as well as in marble halls on velvet cushions; and these views, these principles, (which perhaps a few bigots will sneer at, but which will not alter them, thank God!) she instilled into the mind of Cicely, gently, and unperceived, as falls the dew upon the flower; and with these holy feelings Cicely awoke to all the charms, the beauties of nature, and of Nature's God, whom she worshiped, not through fear, but because she believed him the perfection of existence, the full embodiment of love. 
               Cicely, as she ripened in years, became more and more poetic; her imagination became enlarged; her eye more fully developed to her mind the beauty, the harmony of creation; while the mind in turn gave the eye a more delightful appreciation of the real, by connecting it with the enchanting ideal. 
               Thus lived she, as it were, in a world of her own; sometimes sad, and sometimes merry, but always affectionate, grateful, and kind to all. She grew to love Molly with an earnest affection, which not only lasts through life, but carries its remembrance even into the solemn solitude of the tomb. Cicely had loved Vandemore as a father; but, be it said, she had never loved him with that pure affection which she felt for Molly. She had loved him as the vine the oak-its protector; she loved Molly as the flower the dew-its nourisher. The one was the love of respect-a something to cling to; the other the love of affection-a something to revive. The one of the head, the other of the heart. We would not infer by these remarks, that she had thrown off Vandemore-had forgotten him-far from it. She often thought of him with wonder and regret: wonder, that he had left her, and where he could have gone, for she had never heard of him since he left: regret, that, if living, he did not return. He had ever been kind to her-had given her her will-had gratified every wish in his power to please the outward eye, the carnal sense; Molly had turned her thoughts inward and upward-had gratified her mental vision-had opened to her soul a new existence, more charming, more holy, more beautiful. She delighted to wander alone on the banks of the silvery Ohio, and would sit for hours listening to its gentle ripple-and gazing upon its blue, placid bosom; while a soft summer breeze, stealing past, would gently kiss her rosy cheeks and wave her golden hair. Again she would wander farther-climb some rugged peak-plunge into the shady forest, and listen with delight to the song of birds and humming insects. Again she would sit at night in the door of the cottage-old Molly near with her sewing, or knitting-and gaze at the stars, and wonder what they were-whether they were balls of fire, or worlds of human beings like ourselves? And then, when wearied with the day, she would throw her arms around old Molly's neck, give her a hearty kiss, and retire to her pillow, to dream sweet, pleasing dreams. 
               Thus summer rolled on summer, for all seemed summer with her, and Cicely Vandemore numbered seventeen-an airy, graceful, beautiful being. All, thus far, had been of the child-pure and simple; but now she began to feel new sensations; she began to experience feelings she had dreamed not of before; her mind seemed to expand; she began to feel the calm dignity of woman; she began to conceive that youth, bright, joyous youth, could not always last. She grew sad, constrained; she felt not that desire of wandering alone as formerly; she felt there was a void-a something wanting in the pleasures that had once been her sole delight. Did Cicely love? Had you questioned her, she would have simply answered "no!" for Cicely had yet to learn the powerful meaning of that word. And yet, we may venture to say, there was one with whom, in holding converse, Cicely felt a strange, a sweet delight. Reader, for the present you must draw your own conclusions-our task now calls us to another scene. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE LEAGUE. 
               WHOEVER is versed in the history of the Great Miami Valley, at the date we again open our story, 1805, will, most probably, recollect the league of bandits, or horse thieves, who then infested this region of country, forming a grand chain from below Lawrenceburgh, Indiana, and running in a north-easterly direction, terminating somewhere near Urbana, Ohio. Never, in the annals of Western history, has there been found a more bold, secret, and daring combination of men, for outlawry purposes, than this same League of the Miami. Composed of persons of wealth and influence-moving, many of them, in the best circles of society-living in a state of lordly luxury-they were, as a matter of course, the last ones on whom suspicion would fall as being connected in such nefarious designs. Bound by a solemn compact, which was death to the traitor who should dare to hint or breathe a word, be it never so light, that should in the least manner draw down suspicion on the aggressors-scattered through the whole region of country we have named-living, most of them, with their families-and, as before said, moving in the best circles of society-is it a matter of surprise that they should carry on, undisturbed for years, their secret depredations? 
               As the settlers in the great Miami valley increased, so increased the plunder of the League, until their actions, still becoming more and more daring, were so annoying to the more honest citizens, that they, in self-defense, were obliged to organize a band for their final extinction; during which some rough scenes ensued, and several of the League were shot, wherever found; ay, shot down like dogs! Having given this brief preliminary as an index of the times, we shall again proceed with our tale. 
               It was a calm, beautiful evening in June; and the sun, as he gently sank behind the western horizon, threw his soft, golden rays, on to many a hill and tree top, and lingered there as if loth to bid the day farewell. On the brow of one of these hills, one hand resting against the trunk of a leafless tree-whose sap had ceased to flow, whose bark had crumbled to decay-his face turned westward, watching the sun's decline-was the tall, graceful figure of a man, some thirty-seven years of age. On his features could be traced those marks of care and thought, interspersed with lines of passion, that told his had not been a life of indolence and ease. His hair was black, and fell in profusion far down around his neck and shoulders. His face was somewhat shaded by a hat of broad brim; but still, by scanning closely, his features could be traced. His skin was of a pale, sallow cast, forcibly contrasting with dark, piercing eyes, and a large, black mustache on his upper lip. His cheek-bones rose again in contrast with his cheeks, which, naturally hollow, seemed a little sunken. The expression about his mouth, and features generally was one of unwavering firmness and quick decision. But there was the soul beaming through all, giving that forcible stamp of intellect, that, good or bad, you would pronounce him a man of no ordinary capacity. His dress was a little singular; and yet a casual observer might, perhaps, have seen in it nothing uncommon. It consisted of a check shirt, fitting closely to his shoulders and breast, as if to develope their fine formation; for his breast was rounded up full-his shoulders were broad-back hollow-all denoting great strength and agility. Around his waist the shirt was enclosed by pantaloons of dark, coarse cloth, secured by a belt, in which were carelessly stuck two pistols and a long hunting knife. His feet were encased in high-top boots, which were drawn on over the lower part of his pantaloons. Around his neck was a black silk neckerchief, loosely tied, the ends hanging in a negligent, graceful manner on the bosom of his shirt. Such was his dress and personal appearance. 
               For some moments he stood gazing at the west, with a thoughtful brow, while occasionally a shade of melancholy would deepen on his features, and then seem to clear up with a brighter thought. In the meantime the sun gradually became more and more obscured, until a silver rim only could be discerned, and then disappeared altogether. 
               "As sinks the sun behind you western hill," said the stranger, in a musing tone, "calm and peaceful, so sink the spirits of the good and great into eternity. Happy, happy lot is theirs. Oh! that my spirit could thus pass away forever, and open upon a purer, holier existence. Death to the good is a happy change; when tired with the follies and vexations of life, they pass to the rest of the grave without a repining thought. Not so with me; I long for that sleep, yet dread the awful change-dread to think of death and what may follow after. I have a strange presentiment of my end, and I shudder while I contemplate. I have done some good acts, and yet the evil placed in the balance would weigh me down. Well, well, one year more and I am free. Oh! that the time were now! Little do those I govern know what feelings try my heart! Five years have I been to them a leader, bold and daring as they could wish. In one year more my time expires; and then I will away-away with one-no, no! she will be too pure for me-no, I must alone wander forth, and I will never see her more, for fear I could not keep my resolution, and tear me from her; but she shall feel my bounty. Gods!" exclaimed he, suddenly striking his clenched fist against his head, "I have forgotten; the time, the time has run over three months! I will attend to it this night. Ha! some one comes! Now am I Gerolstein, Captain of the League, muser no more." 
               As he spoke, a figure might be seen nearing him. 
               "How now, Jarvis?" said he, sternly, as the other approached. 
               "The League await their Captain," replied the other, bowing with deference. 
               "'Tis well. Have they all assembled. 
               "Enough for the ceremony, Captain." 
               "Lead on!" 
               The other, a short, thick-set man, with a full, round face, large gray eyes, turned at the word, and descended the hill in an easterly direction, followed at a short distance by the Captain. In this manner they proceeded some considerable time, until they reached the foot of the hill, which, being sloping, extended a goodly way, when the foremost struck a sort of path, turned short round to the left, and presently entered a deep, flat wood, heavily shaded. By this time it had grown very duskish without the wood, while within it was already night. Moving steadily on without speaking, like men well acquainted with their ground, Jarvis and Gerolstein at length paused in a little, open space, some thirty feet in diameter, which had, apparently, been cleared of brush and trees for some particular purpose; when the latter, placing his fore and middle fingers into his mouth, gave a low shrill whistle. 
               In an instant, as if by magic, the surrounding wood seemed suddenly alive; for dark figure after figure stalked quickly forward into the open space; softly, and mute, as the spirits of tradition, until the Captain stood in the center of a solid phalanx. 
               "Sezmond!" called out Gerolstein, in a deep, heavy voice. 
               "Here, Captain," was the answer. 
               "How many are here?" 
               "Seventy-five." 
               "I bade thee notify seventy-nine, Sezmond, and specified, by names the persons." 
               "One I did not find, sir! Three are away in attendance upon the stranger, who wishes to become a member of our fraternity." 
               "Whom did you not find, Sezmond?" 
               "Melven." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed Gerolstein, "I fear he is playing treacherous!" 
               "Then shall he die!-death to the traitor!" shouted a chorus of voices, while the bright blades of fifty knives gleamed in the air. 
               "Gentlemen, you have said," returned Gerolstein-"this must be looked to. If Arnold Melven be suspected of treachery-and he is-he must clear all points in his character, or by our laws suffer death. Jarvis! I charge you to arrest-secure him in the cave-and await further orders." 
               "It shall be done, Captain." 
               "Our slightest laws," continued Gerolstein, "must be enforced to the strongest penalty, or our band will become disorganized. We have been almost too lenient of late, and already have our bold deeds struck terror to the hearts of many of the citizens of the valley-who, I learn, are making preparations to resist-to attack us. If we are true to ourselves, we are safe: but if one proves treacherous, our case will become desperate-we shall be lost. Yet shall he not escape-no! by the eternal gods! I swear to follow him through fire, and water, till my knife shall drink his heart's blood!" 
               A murmur of applause ran through the crowd, with cries of, "Long live Gerolstein, Captain of the League!" 
               "Have those last horses been disposed of, sir treasurer?" 
               "They have, Captain," answered a voice. 
               "Well disposed of?" 
               "Middling, only." 
               "How much funds have you undivided?" 
               "Eight thousand dollars." 
               "'Tis well; there must be a division this night!" 
               "This night! Captain?" said the same voice, in a tone of surprise; "I thought it was to have run till next quarter." 
               "Silence! Roberts; I have said. Ha! do you grumble?" added he, quickly, in a voice of thunder-as the other muttered something in a low tone. "Silence! or by heavens I'll make an example of you! Where is the stranger who wishes to join us?" 
               "Waiting your pleasure, without the grove," answered Sezmond. 
               "Pottenger!" 
               "Your will, Captain." 
               "Inform him, speedily, we are ready." 
               "Ay, ay, Captain"-and, with the bound of the antelope, the last speaker left the group. 
               "I have learned," continued the Captain, "from the messenger who has just left us, that there are several fine horses in the vicinity of Venice, and so up along the Miami to Hamilton, which, from our being of late employed in another quarter, had nearly escaped our observation. With the news of this, Pottenger also informs me, that in, and about the vicinity of Venice, we shall have to move with great care and prudence, or we shall get troubled; for many of them have not forgotten the trick we played them last year; one in particular-living on the bottom, near the river, a new settler, late from the East, by the name of Butterman-swears he will have revenge for the horses he was so unceremoniously deprived of at the time in question. However, I fear not such an idle threat; having mentioned it, merely, to put you on your guard, and that you may move with greater caution. I think the first dark, stormy night, we had better commence operations, each one having first been assigned his post. Is this your mind?" 
               "Ay, ay," responded fifty voices. 
               "'Tis well. But hush, here comes the group with the stranger." 
               As he spoke, one part of the ring opened, and five persons marched into the center; and as it again closed, Gerolstein called out: 
               "Light!" 
               In an instant four lights, from dark-lanterns-from four different parts of the crowd-flashed full upon the stranger, who was standing alone, blind-folded, in the center; all having moved back, leaving, for a short distance around him, an open space. In stature he was only middling-graceful in formation; his features undiscernable by reason of the bandage over his eyes. His dress was very coarse and plain; and, to judge from the soft hand on which was a heavy gold ring, it was a dress of disguise. Such thoughts, most probably, entered the mind of Gerolstein; for he scrutinized the hand and ring very closely, and then put the following interrogation: 
               "Sir stranger! do you wish to join the League?" 
               "I do," answered the stranger, in a calm, firm voice. 
               "Do you know who, and what we are?" 
               "I do. Gentlemen of honor, without the law, daring and brave." 
               "'Tis well. Your age?" 
               "Forty-five." 
               "Your name?" 
               The stranger hesitated a moment, and then replied: 
               "I decline answering." 
               "'Tis our law!" said Gerolstein, sternly. 
               "Then call me Burrand." 
               "Your whole name, sir?" 
               "Aaron Burrand." 
               Gerolstein, and several of the party, started; they had divined the man. Being bandaged, Burrand did not see this sudden movement, and Gerolstein cooly continued. 
               "Your former occupation, Burrand?" 
               "A tiller of the soil." 
               "'Tis false! that ring and hand belie you, sir!" 
               Burrand started-he had not expected this-and then quickly made answer: 
               "A gentleman at large." 
               "'Tis better, though an indefinite term," returned Gerolstein, dryly. "Your object in joining us?" 
               "Because I like your mode of life." 
               "False again, I say, Colonel Burrand!" 
               "Ha! you know me then!" exclaimed the other, quickly, in a tone of surprise, raising his hands to tear off the bandage. 
               "Hold!" exclaimed Gerolstein, springing forward and arresting the action; "remove that, and you are a dead man! You divine rightly; we do know you." 
               "Then I am lost," sighed the other. 
               "Not so; you can be reconducted whence you came, by first taking a solemn oath never to molest us, or you can join us still." 
               The other paused a moment, and then replied: 
               "I choose the latter." 
               "'Tis well. Proceed, men, with the ceremony!" 
               In an instant the three men who had conducted the stranger (or Burrand) hither, sprang forward, and, ere he had time to comprehend their design, he was completely disrobed-in a state of nudity-and his arms pinioned to his body. We say in a state of nudity-we except the bandage around his eyes, which still remained. Raising the body carefully, placing it on their shoulders, the trio started forward into the wood, followed next by the light-bearers, who held, as before said, dark-lanterns, which, throwing their light far ahead, enabled the foremost to see their way clearly. Next came Gerolstein, Captain of the band, followed by the officers in single file, and, lastly, the whole party, two by two. In this manner they proceeded some quarter of a mile, in a westerly direction, when they emerged from the wood into an open field, the ground of which was undulating, and stony. The stars threw down their twinkling light on to their dark, shadowy forms, as in silence, with slow, solemn, steady pace, they still moved onward. At length the foremost entered a cluster of bushes and disappeared in a cave, near the bottom of the hill-followed by the light-bearers, the Captain, and all the civic officers-the others remaining without. This cave, somewhat large, was used by the League for various purposes-among which, coining money was not the least-and was known by the name of Hamilton's Den. On one side was a large flat stone, on which they now deposited the body of Colonel Burrand, requesting him to take a kneeling position, which he did, with his back to the wall. Placing the lanterns in a manner to throw as much light as possible on his face, and the upper part of his body, they ranged themselves in due order around him-the Captain standing directly in front. At a signal from him, each drew a knife and pistol from the belt around his waist-for each on an occasion like this, wore a belt-and holding the knives, the points of which were painted red, in their right hands, in an attitude to strike, the points all turned toward the kneeling man's breast-their heads turned away from him-their left hands grasping pistols, pointed in like manner-like statuary, they awaited their Captain's administration of the oath. Holding in his left hand a scroll, which he had received since entering the cave, in his right a pistol, the muzzle about two feet from Burrand's breast, Gerolstein thus proceeded: 
               "Aaron Burrand! in the name of all you hold dear, in the past, in the present, in coming time; by all you hold sacred on earth, in time-in heaven, in eternity-or dread in hell!-by the help of God! by Mary the mother of God! and by all the holy angels! you freely, sacredly, solemnly swear to become a true, a loyal member of this League; swearing to assist and uphold them, right, or wrong; to pay due allegiance to the leader, or captain, in all he shall command not contrary to the constitution; doubly swearing never to betray, or attempt to betray, by word, or thought, or deed or sign, collectively or separately, the band, or any individual of the band; on the contrary, to assist in screening them from the oppression of the civil law, if in your power, to aid them in every manner to the extent of your abilities wherever placed-to the full and final staking of your life on your integrity in this-and forfeiture in failure-you swear! by kissing this scroll, now held to your mouth, and signing your name within it in your own blood! Amen! 
               As he concluded, Burrand pressed his lips to the scroll, in token of his assent to the oath. At the same instant Jarvis sprang forward-cut the cord which bound his arms-cut the bandage around his head; and, as it fell, Burrand started in amazement, while the strong light flashing in his eyes, for the moment completely blinded him. Well might he start in amazement, to see those stalwart forms around him; their faces turned away-their knives and pistols gleaming in the light, all pointed at his heart. 
               "Emblem is this, you see," said Gerolstein, "that if you prove false to your oath, each man will turn from mercy-from pity-while his knife shall gleam in the light, dripping with your heart's blood. The constitution-sign!" 
               As he spoke, 
                     Gerolstoin
                     Gerolstein
                   gave his arm a sudden fling, and the parchment, held in his hand, unrolled-displaying to the eyes of Burrand the constitution of the League, written in red-each man's name signed in his own blood. Jarvis again stepped forward, and taking the left hand of Burrand, suddenly pricked it on the back, with a small instrument made for the purpose; and as the blood started forth, caught sufficient in a pen, which he then handed to the other, and peremptorily repeated, "sign!" Burrand took the pen, and bending forward to the stone on which he still knelt, with a pale cheek, and slightly trembling hand, wrote his name upon the scroll. "'Tis done!" said a heavy voice, while a gong struck in another part of the cave, echoed through its vaulted chamber with such a 
                     terriffic
                     terrific
                   sound, that Burrand fairly sprang to his feet in terror. He had, in the moment, fancied it the echoes of Hell itself. 
               The Captain now took the right hand of Burrand in his own-shook it heartily-welcoming him as a brother of the League; while each of the others, in regular succession, did the same. This through, the clothes of Burrand were passed to him, and in a few minutes he was habited as before. The secret counter-sign was now explained to him, and he was told he could remain and join in the coming revelry of the night, or was at liberty to go where he pleased; he chose the latter, and disappeared. In the course of our story we shall have occasion to speak of this individual again, when his personal appearance will be more fully described. At a slight tap on the gong the party without entered the cave; and after some business transactions (unnecessary to detail here, among which was the division of the spoils, or money,) had taken place, wine was brought, and the whole company united in a scene of boisterous merriment. During this time Gerolstein placed a purse in the hands of Jarvis, whispered something in his ear, and then added, aloud: 
               "Remember Melven-secure him here!" and, seating himself at a little distance from the rest, he gazed, in a sad, absent mood, upon the revelers, who kept up a half drunken, hilarious excitement, till the first streak of morning bade them disperse to their several places of abode. 
             
             
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE LOVERS. 
               THE same evening on which we have introduced the League, on the bank of the beautiful Ohio, about a stone's throw westward of Molly Magore's residence, on an old log half buried in the ground, were seated two lovers. We say lovers, for in this opinion we should have been borne out by any who had seen them; for there is a look about true lovers not easily mistaken. 
               The lady was a beautiful being of seventeen-airy and graceful in formation. Her skin was clear, smooth, of a pearly cast, and of the very finest texture. Her hair was silken, of a rich golden hue, and flowed in long, handsome ringlets adown the sides of her head, and around a neck of that exquisite symmetry we so much admire in sculptural display. But the most charming of all were her features; so divine of mould-so full of a soul of purity, and truth-so full of intellectual power. Her eyes, large, and blue, or rather of a color between the gray and blue, were very expressive; and, through the silken fringes of long lashes, had a soft, modest, languid expression. Above these, on a finely-shaped forehead, were brows penciled to correspond-rounded gently over toward a nose of middling size, bordering a little on the Grecian-below which was a mouth, classic in shape, surmounted by two very tempting lips. Her cheeks were soft as the down of a peach; very slightly tinted with an intellectual flush-which comes and departs as 'twere the tale-bearer of the soul. Her dress was white, and suited well her form and complexion. Her attitude, at the moment introduced, was one of graceful ease. Her bonnet held in hands whose pretty tapering fingers were unconsciously toying with the ribbons-her face turned a little round-the fringes of her eyes lifted, and the eyes themselves gazing earnestly, yet modestly, upon the other, who was pointing out the thousand beauties around them-her countenance richly animated with the description-all taken together made her look interestingly lovely. 
               Her companion was one of Nature's noblemen; so stamped by her, there was no mistaking him. To judge from his appearance, as he sat there, he was some twenty-four years of age, some six feet in stature, and handsomely proportioned. His features were open, bold, and manly, expressive of a soul full of high thoughts and generous deeds. It was one of those countenances we ever love to gaze upon, as giving us the strongest assurance we are in the presence of a man. He was one of those who are brave in the hour of danger, yet never boast; one who would do a noble, generous action, without seeking the reward even of gratitude; one who could love, love with his whole soul, yet could not betray; one who feared not an enemy; one who would give his life for a friend. His hat removed, exhibited a large, well shaped head, clustering with curls of dark brown hair; a forehead high and broad, seemingly pressed with impulsive thought, if we may so be allowed the expression. His large, fascinating, hazel eye gleamed and sparkled with the true poetry of an impulsive soul. The whole shape of his features inclined to the oval, and were very striking-devoid of all sinister, or deceitful expressions; yet connected with a truthful look of firmness of purpose when roused, that might be classed as a species of headstrong hardihood. His mouth was well shaped, and, when animated, there lingered around it a very pleasing smile. He was one of old Kentucky's noble sons-(and, with all due respect to other States, we will say Kentucky has produced many), full of fire, and fight-life, and love. He could be as stern as a despot, in the presence of a foe; mild as a lamb, in the presence of a friend. His eyes could flash fire, or gleam tenderly with love. Such was Edward Langley. 
               Born of one of the first families in Kentucky, he had early been sent to school, and had received what is termed a liberal education. With a mind naturally strong-an ardent temperament-a bold, manly air-a great flow of language-he was one well calculated to meet with success among the fairer sex. He had admired a goodly number of ladies, but had never loved any until, in one of his occasional rambles, he had chanced to meet with the gentle being now by his side. He had seen her first on the very spot, seated upon the very log, where they now were; and had gazed with admiration-delight-ay, even with love upon her; had sought her acquaintance; and had found in her all he had hoped-all he had wished to find in woman. For some months he had strictly paid her his addresses; and, as may be divined, not without success-for Cicely Vandemore was one to love. Deeming this explanation sufficient to throw a little light upon matters as they stood, we shall again proceed. 
               The sun was slowly sinking beyond the western verge, and his soft, golden rays dipped gently into the silvery bosom of La Belle Riviere-still, and sweetly flowing along a few feet below the lovers. Everything around lay in a dreamy, enchanting light. Far, far away to their left, stretched the green wooded hills, softly fading into blue. Around them Nature had spread her velvet robe of green, and flowers had sprung up and scented the breeze which gently fanned them. Before them, smoothly gliding along, its little prow scarce making a ripple, was a small skiff, in which was seated a young man, whose oar, as he lazily raised it, sparkled brilliantly in the lingering sunlight. On the opposite side of the river lay the pleasant little town of Cincinnati, with here and there a lounger to be seen, who had strolled down to the river's edge, to partake of the calm beauty of the evening, and gaze into the Ohio. It was a night, and an hour for love. 
               For some moments Edward Langley had held the attention of Cicely enchained by his rich voice, and eloquent discourse; when, suddenly noticing the little skiff which seemed to near them, half intentionally, without showing any design of landing, he changed his discourse, and said: 
               "O, look at that beautiful, tiny boat, Cicely; how pleasantly, how gracefully it rides on the silvery water! See how the oars, that propel it, flash in the dying light of day! Is it not beautiful?" 
               "It is," answered Cicely, her features glowing with pleasure. 
               "May I not make an emblem, Cicely?" 
               "Why do you ask me, Mr. Langley?" 
               "There, there it is again; Mr. Langley! Why will you not call me Edward? Mr. sounds so formal. Come, sweet one, call me Edward, will you? 
               "I will, Edward," replied she, modestly looking down. 
               "Ah! thank you-thank you! Always call me Edward, I pray. But come, the emblem, do you consent?" 
               "I do, Edward." 
               Edward gazed at her earnestly, and tenderly, for a moment, and then replied: 
               "The stream before us, I shall call the stream of time; you little boat gliding peacefully along, is life; the voyagers-for there should be two-ourselves; while thus may the oar of Hope-which softly propels us onward-flash in the light of Heaven, as we near the shadows of eternity, as does the oar of yon boatman flash in the light of closing day, which is soon to be lost in the shadows of night." 
               "O beautiful emblem!" exclaimed Cicely, with animation; and then, suddenly recollecting she formed one portion of it, she paused, and hung her head with a modest blush. 
               "Ah! why do you look down, my pretty one? Have you changed your mind thus suddenly?" inquired Edward with a smile. 
               "I-I was not thinking of my forming one portion of it," replied Cicely, with hesitation, while the color deepened on her features. 
               "But would you object, sweet Cicely?" asked the other, in a calm, tender tone. 
               Cicely was silent. 
               "O, why should I not tell you?" exclaimed he, suddenly-impulsively-"the scene, the hour is fitted for it! I will-I will unburden my soul! Cicely Vandemore, I love you! love you with a heart that never loved-never can love another." 
               "Nay, Edward," said Cicely, starting, her features paling, "do not talk of this, now I beg of you!" 
               "I must, Cicely-I must! my soul is full: I must give vent to my thoughts, my feelings; they are like the pent-up waters of a mighty stream-which, having found a little release, rush on with an overwhelming force! O, Cicely Vandemore, I repeat, I love you! I loved you when first I saw you; and I love with no idle, school-boy's passion. Mine is the love-deep and seated-of one who has read mankind as a book; ay, read their very souls. If I loved when first I saw you, how much has my love been deepened since; you have become the very essence of my being-my second existence; so that life, without you, would be robbed of all its charms: for a mind, like mine, that has reveled in the gorgeous halls of the future-created by Fancy and Hope-cannot survive their illusions being destroyed, save in the gloomy dungeons of dark despair. I have never before spoken to you of love, and the future; but now I ask, sincerely ask, will you be mine? I am rich; I have wealthy connections; you shall have every thing you desire. Slaves shall be at your command-your life shall be watched as the tenderest flower, and not a chilling blast shall blow upon you. I will guard you as a trust, to me consigned, from heaven. O, say, Cicely Vandemore, speak with a whole soul, and say you will be mine! I listen to the first tones of your sweet, sweet voice, with the trembling anxiety of a criminal to his jury." He ceased; and his features glowing, his eyes sparkling, turned full upon her. 
               Cicely, for some moments, did not, could not answer. Pale and trembling had she listened to his rapturous, passionate bursting forth of a noble, impulsive soul in a torrent of love. She would have checked him, but she could not-his words held her spell-bound. They went to her soul, and stirred up within her new thoughts. A thrill-a wild, passionate thrill-shot through her. Her features paled, and flushed; her heart wildly palpitated. She was struggling between duty and love. It was a terrible struggle-a delicious agony. But Cicely had a strong, well formed mind; she believed that duty strove rightly against love, and though it should rend her heart-make her miserable for life-she must yield to the former. She had never before thought of this so seriously. She had loved Edward Langley, without knowing she loved him. Pleased-charmed with his society-she had thought not where it would end. But now a crisis had come, and her eyes were opened; she felt she was a poor orphan girl, and her sensitive mind told her it was not mete for her to mate with one so much her superior in riches, and connexions. Had he been poor, she would have rushed to his arms-clung to him forever; he was rich-she must reject him. Such were the thoughts, and feelings, that rushed with lightning rapidity through the mind of Cicely, in those few moments, as we have before called them, of delicious agony. But her resolution was at length taken; her mind gradually settled to a quiet calm; and, rising from her seat, in a firm tone, she replied: 
               "Edward Langley, this must not, cannot be!" 
               "How!" exclaimed he, suddenly, turning pale as death-his features quivering with the force of something that seemed to crush his hopes-"you reject me, Cicely?" 
               "Listen, Edward." 
               "No, no! I cannot-cannot, Cicely; I cannot listen to a refusal from you," and his features writhed in agony. "You do not know me, Cicely; better strike a dagger at once to my heart! Oh! great Heaven! must I bear it?" and he buried his face in his hands. 
               Cicely-as white as a sheet-trembling like an aspen-summoned all her moral courage, and again proceeded: 
               "Nay, nay, dear Edward, hear me!" 
               "Ha! you called me dear, did you not-dear Edward?" cried he, looking up, wildly. "Say that again, Cicely; it came to my soul like the light of a pharos to the mariner in a storm. O, say it again!" 
               "And why should I not? for, frankly, I will say, I love you!" 
               "Heavens! what do I hear? love me! have I then foolishly been repining for nought? O, Cicely, do I understand you aright?" 
               "Will you listen to me calmly?" 
               "I will, I will; go on!" 
               "Frankly, then, I say I love you, but can never be yours!" 
               "Never be mine?" repeated he, in trembling tones-"never be mine! I cannot comprehend-I cannot understand you! one moment you raise me to the pinnacle of hope-the next, engulph me in despair!" 
               "If you will listen to me," said Cicely, much affected, "I will explain. You love me, I believe-I know; but Edward Langley, you are wealthy; you move in the best circles of society; you have rich, influential connexions: I, on the contrary, am poor; I have no friends, save good old Molly, whom God preserve, for she has been to me a mother," and the tears started to her eyes. 
               "But why do you mention this, dearest Cicely? the very obstacles you think you have raised, but serve to endear you to me. Be mine, Cicely-be mine, and you shall never want for friends. Had you been rich, perchance I should not have loved you; at least, I should never have plead for you as I now plead. I apprehended your almost too sensitive mind would lead you into these reflections; but cast them aside, I pray. What are wealth and connexions to me, if through them I be made unhappy? better far had I been born a beggar. Come, dearest Cicely, make me happy, by one word, will you-will you not?" 
               "It cannot-no! it cannot be," gasped Cicely, and she sank upon her seat. 
               "Oh God!" cried Edward; and he clasped his head in his hands, and swayed to and fro like one in severe pain. 
               "Oh! do not-do not let my words so grieve you, Edward," said Cicely, tenderly, gazing upon him in an agony no less than his own; "be calm, dear Edward-be calm, or you will unnerve me. You will find some other more worthy of you, per-perchance, Ed-" 
               She could say no more-her voice faltered into silence, while the tears rolled down her cheeks. 
               Edward, for some moments, made no reply; and both sat buried in agonizing reflections. 
               In the meantime, the sun had disappeared, and the shadows of evening were softly creeping over the surrounding landscape. The boat they had been watching a few moments before, had shot in to the shore, and lay concealed a few rods below them, in a cluster of bushes; while the individual occupying it, had crawled stealthily up the bank, and, in a place of concealment, was anxiously watching them-for what purpose will be shown hereafter. 
               Edward, at length, raised his head. His features were white, but rigid as marble-save the slight quiver of his bloodless lips-both of which were compressed with a stern, fixed determination. He spoke, but his voice was changed-more hollow. 
               "Cicely, you have decided my fate. We part-part, perchance, forever; and all my hopes, my dreams, are crushed and faded. Night shadows are stealing over the earth, let us return." 
               Cicely looked at him in wonder; she could scarce comprehend the fearful change; but, without daring to trust her voice in reply, she arose-gave him her arm-and both walked, in gloomy silence, to the residence of Molly Magore; where, as they parted, in a sad, constrained manner, the farewells of both trembled on the air, in mournful tones. 
               The figure, who had watched them on the bank of the river, watched them to the house, then hurriedly returned to his place of concealment; and, directly after, a boat might have been seen shooting swiftly across the river to Cincinnati. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               AARON BURRAND. 
               ON the evening succeeding the events last detailed, in a room of a public house, standing on the corner of Front and Sycamore streets, were seated two individuals. The room was the same which had been occupied by Vandemore and Cicely, some seven years before, and was furnished much as then, with the exception that the old carpet had given place to a new and more costly one, and but one bed remained. The room opened with a view upon the river, and the windows being thrown up, the soft breeze of a beautiful summer's evening stole gently in, and rustled the white banging curtains. Without, the scene was enchanting. At a little distance, down a declivity, rolled gently past the Ohio; the rays of the sun flashing on its broad bosom, as on burnished steel. On the opposite side could be seen the village of Covington-its few pretty cottages softly peeping forth from a delightful grove of trees. Far in the distance could be seen the green wooded hills of Kentucky, reposing in the soft, dreamy quiet of summer. No steamboats were then plowing their way, as now, through the waters; and, consequently, there was not that bustle and life on the levee, which marks the great advancement of the present day; but all was quiet-all was lovely. 
               Seated in a careless manner, before the window, was one of the individuals mentioned, apparently gazing at some object on the opposite side of the river, which the other, who stood by him, was pointing out. 
               The former was a man of middling, or, if anything, a little below the middling stature-well proportioned. There was something very singular and very fascinating in his countenance. His features were regular and handsome, but strongly marked with a powerful intellect. His head was surmounted by a large wig, clustering with curls, and powdered white. Below this was a high, broad forehead-full, and even prominent, particularly toward the eyes, where were exhibited perceptive faculties too large to belong to an ordinary man. The features below the nose were regular, and singularly expressive of decision and command. But the most singular of all were his eyes, of which the pen must fail to convey an adequate idea. To use the words of a modern writer, in speaking of this individual, "his eyes resembled the sharp light of lightning imprisoned, and forever playing in a cloud as black as night." To sum up, there was something terribly fascinating in his gaze, which none, who had come directly beneath his notice, had ever been able to resist. To this might be added a voice, soft and luring as the tones of a Siren. He was one who knew and understood every chord of the human heart. 
               His dress was of the old English fashion-not uncommon, at that day, with people of note. His coat came down nearly straight in front to the waist, and then suddenly turned off at an angle, forming wide skirts, in which were large pockets, covered by lapels. His waistcoat came low, and joined with breeches, which were united at the knees with long hose by means of large silver buckles-the latter serving as well for ornament as use. His feet were encased in curious made shoes-mounted, likewise, by silver buckles. Around his neck was a white cravat, tied with a studied grace, which seemed to add more dignity to his general bearing. He was sitting in an attitude negligent, and graceful-partly sideways on his chair-his feet crossed-his left elbow resting on its back-his head, in turn, partly resting on his forefinger and thumb-and gazing, as before said, at some object on the opposite side of the river, which the other was pointing out. 
               The latter individual was small in stature, rather plainly dressed, and very ugly in appearance. There was, in every expression of his features, a look of deceitful cunning. His forehead was low, covered by black matted hair; and his eyes, small and black, peeped out from under heavy brows, with the half-startled, cunning, ferocious look of a cowardly villain. His features were sharp and long-particularly his nose-and were of a deathly, sallow hue. He never laughed, because he could not; but he often grinned, displaying a decaying set of teeth, which added to his otherwise hideous aspect. He was a villain, for nature had stamped him so that there was no denying it; but then, he was a petite villain. He would not plot against a government, because he did not know enough; but if there was any mean, or underhanded work to be done, he was your tool. He was one of those peculiar beings who would fawn around you like a whipped dog, with his sickly whining voice, if he feared, or wished a favor of you; if, on the contrary, he had you in his power, he was a perfect tyrant, and would delight in tormenting you, even to the death. At the moment introduced, as before said, he was pointing out something in the distance. 
               "There, there, right off there to the right, where the smoke's coming up; jest kinder behind yon hill, your honerable excellency can just see the top on 't." 
               "That is where she lives, then, is it?" 
               "Yes, your honerable excellency," returned the other, with a low bow. 
               "Are you sure she is perfectly virtuous, Mr. Melven?" 
               "I'd swear my life on 't, Colonel-I mean your honerable excellency-fore I've seen her close to." 
               "How did you find her out?" 
               "Why, ye see, arter your honerable excellency said you'd give me a hundred dollars, besides making me a great-man, if I'd entrap a virtuous woman for ye-" 
               "Hush! man, not so loud." 
               "I beg your pardon, your honerable excellency," continued Melven, lowering his voice, "you see, the subject excites me. Well, arter that, you see, I set myself a thinking, and I thought of all the young ladies as I's acquainted with; and, 'pon my honor, your excellency, there wasn't one on 'em as would do." 
               "I anticipated as much," said the other, with a smile. 
               "Fact! by the holy hokey!" returned Melven, grinning, for he fancied he had said something very witty. 
               "Well, well, how then?" 
               "Why, I set to thinking agin, and I thought of this ere gal. I'm telling ye about; says I, 'she's the one-she'll do-she'll suit his honerable excellency,' I did, by Jupiter!" 
               "How knew you anything of her?" 
                
               "Why, ye see-but that's a secret." 
               "Ah! a secret!" thought Burrand. "A secret! I must know it." 
               "Well, friend Melven," said he, in a soft voice, with a bland smile-turning his head a little round, and resting his dark, fascinating eyes upon the former-"I suppose you are not afraid to confide to me your secret? Friends should be open to each other; is it not so, Mr. Melven?" 
               "I-I suppose it is, your excellency-but then-" 
               "But then"-repeated the other, interrupting him-"do you doubt my honor, friend Melven?-I, who am secretly doing so much for you?-I, who, some day, intend to make you my private secretary, with an enormous salary; can you doubt me? this is not right, Melven-it is not, indeed;" and he carried his handkerchief to his eyes. 
               Melven was deceived. Elated at this show of friendship-his mind not being strong enough to comprehend deeper villainy than his own-he was drawn, at once, into the net. 
               "O, well then, seeing as how we're such warm friends, your excellency, I don't mind telling ye." 
               "Make a clean soul, my dear Melven." 
               "I will, your excellency. Well, ye see, I belong to the League, and-" 
               "The League!" exclaimed the other, with a slight start-"what League?" 
               "The League of the Miami, your excellency." 
               "So, so," mused Burrand, "this grows interesting. Well," said he, turning to the other, "proceed; but first, tell me if there are any of my name among them?" 
               "Never heard of any, your honor." 
               "'Tis well," thought the other, "he is not aware that I am a member; he could not have been present last evening." 
               "Go on, Mr. Melven," he resumed, aloud; "tell me how you came to join them." 
               "Why, ye see, your honor, it might be a long story, but I'll jest make it a short one. Ye see, jest arter I come out o' jail-" 
               "You were in jail, then!" interrupted the other. 
               "Ye-yes, yo-your honor," stammered Melven, confusedly-"some false witnesses-" 
               "O, ah! I understand: you were innocent, of course." 
               "Yes, your most honorable excellency"-said the other, greatly relieved-"in course I was. Well, jest arter I got out of jail, I took a tramp into the country; and somehow, I don't 'xactly know how, I run right agin a whole squad of fellers; and they said I'd found out their secret; and some was for killing me, right straight off; but I begged for my life like fun; and then one of 'em-a tall stern man-said if I'd jine 'em, and take the oath, I might live; so, you see, I jined; for I'd ha'jined the devil for the sake of my life." 
               "I believe you," said the other. 
               "Fact-by the holy hokey!" and again Melven grinned. 
               "Well, well, what then?" 
               "O, then I had fat living among 'em; you see we used to buy hosses"- 
               "Buy them, did you?" 
               "Yes, your honor, we buy'd 'em; only it didn't take but one on us to make a bargain." 
               "Exactly-I understand. But concerning this girl; how came you to know of her?" 
               "O, 'zactly-the gal-I'd forgot. Why, ye see, one day the tall stern man, the Captain, comes to me, and says he, 'Arnold, can you keep a secret?' 'Well, I reckon,' says I. 'Well,' says he, 'I've saved your life, for you'd ha' been killed as sure as guns,' says he, 'if it hadn't been for me.' 'I know it,' says I. 'Well, now,' says he, 'I want you to do me a favor. Here are a hundred dollars I want you to carry and give to an old woman as lives in Covington, Kentucky, whose name is Molly Magore, and then come right away, and don't answer no questions. Mind if you see a young gal, as is there:' he did, by Jupiter!" 
               "Ha! here is mystery," thought the other. "Well, you went and delivered the money, of course?" 
               "I went, as your honor says, but I didn't deliver no money." 
               "How so?" 
               "Why, I managed so I could see the old lady, and thinks I to myself, 'she's getting along well enough, so I'll jest keep this ere money, in case I should want it:' I did, by the holy hokey!" 
               "Well, did the captain learn of it?" 
               "Not he! I's not green enough for that; no indeed, by thunder!" and again he grinned. 
               The other turned his head away, a moment-while his lip curled in evident disgust-and then said: 
               "Were you sent again?" 
               "I reckon-a number of times; so, your honor sees, I had a good chance o' seein the gal; and arter your honor made me that fine offer, I thought she was the gal for you." 
               "How will you succeed in securing her?" 
               "Why, last night, I's thinking 'bout it, and I come down to the river, and I looked across, and I thought I seen her, with her lover, sitting on a log; and so, your honor, I got a boat, and paddled over there; and I hearn her say she was 'too poor to marry him,' and all that; and I watched 'em to old Molly's, and saw 'em part; and, 'by the holy hokey,' says I, 'he'll never trouble her agin; and she'll git sad; and she'll come and sit on the old log agin, at night; and then I'll fix it, and nab her, your honor, and take her wherever your excellency says: "I will, by Jupiter!" 
               "But if you should be followed?" 
               "O, your honor, I'll put 'em on the wrong track; I'll tell 'em 'the robbers have got her;' and then I'll turn and blow the whole party, and get a great reward for it; and then they'll be caught and hanged; and then I'll come and serve your honor." 
               "Well, go on," said the other, with a singular smile; a smile, which, had Melven comprehended, he would have trembled ere he did; "go on-execute your scheme; it is well laid-it must succeed. When will it take place, think you?" 
               "I think I can manage it to-night, your honor." 
               "So soon?" said the other, rising-"well, be it so. Now mark me: have a boat in readiness, and so soon as you have conveyed her to it, row directly down the stream, where I will meet you, with another boat, a mile below. Do you understand?" 
               "Yes, your honor." 
               "Fail me, and your life shall answer!" and that dark eye turned its fiery gaze upon him-burning, as 'twere, his very soul. 
               Melven started-turned pale-trembled like an aspen; such a look he had never seen before. 
               "Wha-what means your honerable excellency?" cried he, sinking upon his knees, in abject terror. 
               "The League-your oath-broken!" said the other, in a terrible voice; terrible from its calmness, and deep gutteral sound; while those burning eyes were again fixed upon the other, as he gave the counter-sign-"I am a member!" 
                
               "Oh! save me! save me! dear, good, kind sir!" cried the abject wretch, in pitying tones, laying his head at the other's feet. 
               The other looked at him for a moment in perfect contempt-the contempt a brave man feels for a coward-and then said, peremptorily: 
               "Up, fool! and get thee gone! but remember-the girl-this night-remember!" and, as the other disappeared, he muttered to himself, "He will comply, for he dare not disobey. When he has done my bidding, then the fates may have him. O, man!" continued he-"weak, foolish man! with the more mighty minds thou art as toys-as playthings-which we use, and throw aside at pleasure. The day will come-I see it in the future-when I shall be a king, and ye shall be my slaves. Then will I ride upon your necks, and ye shall servile be unto your mighty master. Woman, thou weak and simple thing, whom half the world adores and prizes for thy virtues, which exist but in a name!-thou, too, art made, as lesser men, the playthings for great spirits. Thy virtues all are but as frothy mushrooms, which spring up in the night, for goodly outward show, but cannot bear the scorching light of day." 
               And musing thus, we leave one, for a time, whose bold and startling deeds did make a nation tremble-whose name stands black upon the lasting page of history. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE ABDUCTION. 
               IN the afternoon of the same day, Cicely Vandemore was seated on an old stool in the doorway of Molly Magore's cottage, pale and dejected. Old Molly herself was seated at a little distance, gazing upon her with a look of sorrowful anxiety. Years had made but little alteration in the appearance of Molly, save that some of her flaxen hairs had changed to a more silver white, and here and there a furrow was a little more deepened. For some moments she sat, watching Cicely with the tender expression of a mother. 
               Cicely, different from usual, was sitting with her head bent a little forward, apparently gazing on the ground with a thoughtful look, while her left foot was, unconsciously, tapping the floor. 
               "Why are you so sad, dear Cicely?" inquired Molly, affectionately. 
               Cicely started, and a crimson flush sprang quickly over her features. 
               "Sad, mother?" 
               Cicely had learned to call old Molly mother. 
               "Yes, my child; your head has drooped all the day, and you often sigh-sigh as though it came from the heart." 
               "Do I?" returned Cicely, simply, in a musing manner. 
               "There is something that weighs heavily on your spirits, my child; will you not tell me what it is?" 
               "I do not feel well, mother," and she pressed her hands to her temples. 
               "Ah! my child," said old Molly, shaking her head, "your disease, I fear, is not of the head, but of the heart. You love!" 
               "Mother!" 
               "Nay, my child, I have watched you long, and well; you love Edward Langley." 
               Cicely held down her head, in silence. 
               "I trust he has not abused your confidence?" said Molly, inquiringly, with a painful look of apprehension. 
               "O, no, no, no! mother, dear mother," said Cicely, quickly, energetically-her features glowing with a noble enthusiasm; "do not, do not, for a moment, let such a doubt rest upon him! He is all that is noble, generous, and manly." 
               "Thank God! Cicely, you relieve me of a painful thought. But why are you so sad then? Come, dear Cicely, you should confide in me, will you not, my child?" and old Molly's voice assumed the tone of entreating tenderness. 
               Cicely could not bear this unmoved; and rising, she approached old Molly-threw her arms around her neck-buried her head upon her breast, and burst into tears. 
               "Mother, you say truly," sobbed she, "I do love, and have rejected him I love." 
               "Rejected him, Cicely, and wherefore?" 
               "Because he is wealthy, and I am poor." 
               Molly mused a moment-passed her hand across her eyes-and then said, with a sigh: 
               "You have done right, my child, very right; though it is hard, very hard. I can now perceive your feelings. May God, in his mercy, aid you to bear it nobly. But come, had you not better go forth and take the freshening breeze? The soft shades of evening are beginning to be felt. Go, my child, perchance they will inspire you with a holy calm. It is the hour to think of love." 
               "I will," said Cicely, with a deep drawn sigh; and, placing on her head a light summer bonnet, she disappeared. 
               Molly watched, and saw her wend her way to the old log, before spoken of, where she seated herself in a state of gloomy abstraction; and then, with a sigh, Molly seated herself on the chair Cicely' had just vacated. 
               Cicely had been watched by another-we premise more than one; but the individual in question was a man of low stature, apparently of great strength, with a face broad, round, and full, and large gray eyes. He was one of those peculiar beings we never know where to place; and of whom, to convey an idea, we shall designate a man of circumstances. By this we mean a man who will yield to the circumstances which surround him, without seeking or caring to know whether they are right or wrong; thus honest, or dishonest, as is best adapted to the time being. 
               Gazing at the young girl for a moment with a look of admiring curiosity, this personage immediately proceeded to the cottage of old Molly, and thus accosted her, in a gruff voice: 
               "Is your name Molly Magore?" 
               Molly started from her musing attitude, with an angry flush on her furrowed cheek, and gave the other a scrutinizing look of contempt, without deigning an answer. The reader will bear in mind we have before described Molly as being an eccentric character, and, in the presence of strangers, inclined to be boorish. 
               "Look here, old woman," said the other, still more gruffly, "you needn't put on any of your false airs, nor turn up your nose any more than nature has done for you; because, my old darling, you ain't a beauty no how; and I'm just as good a man as any other." 
               "What do you wish?" inquired Molly. 
               "First, answer my question, is your name Molly Magore?" 
               "It is." 
               "Well, here's something which I'm commanded to deliver to you;" saying which he tossed to her a well filled purse. 
               Molly caught it, and her features brightened as she said: 
               "Who are you? and who is this from?" 
                
               "I'm not here to answer questions," replied the other; and he turned to go. 
               "Stay-stay a moment," said Molly, as she emptied the purse of some twenty sovereigns. "Ha!" exclaimed she, suddenly, as a paper caught her eye, bearing the single word "Vandemore." 
               "Where is he-where is he? O, pray, good sir, tell me!" 
               "Whom mean you, woman?" 
               "Vandemore; whom else should I mean?" 
               "I know no such person, madam." 
               "How, sir! you do not know him! Who gave you this purse?" 
               "I shall not tell; old lady. It was not Vandemore." 
               "Heavens! here is mystery." 
               "Then you must solve it," and the other walked away. 
               "Not Vandemore who gave it to him! not Vandemore!" said Molly, musingly, as the other disappeared; "strange-strange-it bears his name," and she relapsed into thoughtful silence. 
               Meanwhile, the other rounded the corner of the old cottage, and disappeared in a cluster of bushes, which were growing in the rear; and, pausing there for a few minutes, he contemplated the charming beauty of the lovely Cicely, who could be seen some hundred paces distant-seated upon the old log-gazing upon the waters of the Ohio, apparently unconscious of everything around her. As old Molly had before remarked, the shadows of evening were gathering fast; for the sun had now sunk behind a thick, dark cloud, and objects at a short distance were becoming gloomy, and indistinct; while, at a greater distance, they were scarcely perceivable. Occasionally a flash, with a low, distant rumble of thunder, announced the approach of a shower; while a cool, invigorating breeze blew steadily from the west, stirring light waves on the bosom of the river, which rippled against the shore with a pleasing sound. Still Cicely sat, unconsciously gazing on the water-unconsciously listening to the rumbling of the thunder, and the music of the waves-her whole thoughts absorbed with one-one whose name had become to her a sacred relic, enshrined in the casket of memory. 
               "Yes," sighed she at length, "he is gone-gone; he will never see me more. Well, well, it is for the best;" and again she sighed. 
               At this moment two large, dark figures, stole cautiously forth from the covert of bushes below, (which the reader will recollect as being the place where was screened the figure of Melven the evening previous,) while a third person-a man of small stature-might be seen, peeping cautiously out. The individual whom we noticed as having the interview with Molly, and who still remained in the position we left him-gazing at Cicely-seemed to notice the two who first made their appearance, with evident curiosity; but when he saw the head of the third, which he was barely enabled to do, he ground his teeth together, muttering-"Hell, to thee, thou perjured wretch!" while his hand instinctively, as it were, sought a pistol, which was confined in the coverings of his breast. 
               The two dark figures now glided stealthily forward, until within some two or three paces of Cicely-who still sat, in a thoughtful attitude, unaware of their approach-when, suddenly springing forward, they threw a heavy mantle over her; and, ere she could comprehend what was taking place, or had time for more than a single scream, they caught her up in their iron arms-leaped the bank-and rushed with rapidity to their boat, which was concealed just below, behind a cluster of bushes. All this was the work of an instant. 
               "Quick, men, quick-by the holy hokey!" said the third one, leaping from the bushes, and joining the kidnappers. Into the boat with her, by -" 
               A heavy blow on the head cut his speech short, and felled him to the earth; while the others, who had already leaped into the boat, pushed from the shore with the rapidity of thought; and, concentrating all their force on their oars, rowed swiftly down the stream. 
               "Too late to save her," said the deep voice of the fourth-the one who had been watching the proceedings-"but, by the holy virgin! I have got the one I want." 
               "Where am I?" said the one on the ground, recovering his senses, and attempting to rise. 
               "Where the powers of hell cannot save you! in the hands of Jarvis of the League." 
               "Oh! mercy! mercy! dear, kind, good Jarvis!" said the abject wretch, clasping him around the legs, and whining like a dog. 
               "Up, groveling fool! and follow me!" said Jarvis, spurning him with his foot. "Up, I say; or, by the gods! I'll send a bullet through your head!" and he drew from his breast a pistol. 
               The other sprang to his feet, still piteously whining-"Have mercy, oh! sir, have mercy!" 
               "Cease! prating fool!" ejaculated Jarvis. "I tell you, Arnold Melven, hell itself could not save you." 
               At this instant, to the astonishment of both, a manly form sprang over the bank, and stood beside them, exclaiming: 
               "Where is she? what have you done with her? Speak! speak! for God sake, speak!" 
               "Oh! save me, sir!" cried Melven, suddenly springing forward; "the robbers have got her-the League of the Miami-and they want to take me too, oh!-" 
               He had not time for more; for, quick as thought, Jarvis rushed forward-knocked him down-caught him up in his arms as though he were a child, and, ere the other was fully aware of his intentions, he was fast speeding on to a boat, which was drawn partly on to the sand, a little distance up the stream. Langley, for such was the last comer, darted quickly forward in pursuit; but he was too late. Jarvis, who was a man of great strength and fleetness of foot, had reached the boat and shoved into the stream, ere the other had arrived at the spot. A moment more, and he was lost to view; for the darkness had gathered thick and sudden, and it was already night on the bosom of the Ohio, which was rolling past in sullen grandeur. An occasional flash of lightning discovered, to the almost frantic Langley, the form of Jarvis, standing erect in the boat, and, with long sweeps of his oar, fast gaining the opposite shore. 
               "The League! the League!" cried Langley, nearly frantic-"Cicely taken by the League, for some foul end! Oh, God! it is too much;" and he smote his head with his clenched fist. "The League!" continued he, a little more calmly-"I have heard of these outlaws before; they infest the valley of the Miami. Ha! a thought strikes me,-a party is already organized for their extinction! I will join them; I will have vengeance on those who dare such deeds. Hear it, Heaven!" said he, suddenly kneeling-"witness earth! and record it, fiery elements! I swear to take not peaceful rest until I have rescued her I love, and drank revenge in the heart's blood of those daring fiends who have torn her from me!" 
                
               Springing to his feet, he rushed frantically up the bank, and soon was holding converse with Molly. A few words sufficed to explain all. Desirous of gazing upon her he loved-and rightly divining she would seek their old retreat-he had, unknown to Cicely, so stationed himself that he could see, and not be seen-until, hearing her scream, he had sprung forward to divine the cause, (for being at some distance, it was already so dark he had not seen the approach of the two figures)-when, unluckily, his foot became entangled, and he had fallen to the earth with a stunning effect. When he recovered, and had reached the spot, as has been shown, it was already too late. 
               Molly, at the recital of this, became wild, almost insane; pacing the room, and wringing her hands in an agony past description. It was a terrible night to her. 
               Langley immediately started for his residence-distant some five miles-to prepare to fulfill his oath. 
               In the meantime, the two who had borne away Cicely, rowed in silence down the stream; while the lightning flashed, the thunder roared, and the rain poured down in torrents. About a mile below, they were met by another boat, carrying a dark-lantern, and containing a single individual; when, by his direction, they immediately rounded to the shore, mounted horses which were in waiting, and rode swiftly away, bearing Cicely with them. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE QUARREL. 
               ABOUT ten o'clock on the same evening that Cicely was made a prisoner, there was an assemblage of a portion of the League at the cave-or, as it was more generally termed, Hamilton's Den. The preceding night, after the initiation of Burrand, as we have shown, had been one of revelry; but the present one was to be devoted to business only. In the farther part of this cave, a chimney had been constructed, by boring a hole through a solid rock, that extended up to the open air above. To this chimney was fixed a furnace for melting the composition of which the bogus or spurious coin was manufactured; for, as we have said, this band of horse-thieves was also a band of counterfeiters. This farther portion of the cave was separated from the other by a wall of masonry, through which was entrance by a stone door, hung on heavy iron hinges-so that those at work within could be completely shut off from those in the first or larger compartment. On the evening in question, some five or six individuals were collected in the front eave-as we shall term it, by way of distinction-and, as they were to await the arrival of others, before proceeding with the business they had on hand, they had concluded to amuse themselves with cards till a sufficient number should arrive. Accordingly they divided themselves into two parties, and seating themselves on the large, flat stone, already mentioned, forthwith commenced the exciting game of poker. The division of their ill-gotten gains the evening previous, had placed in the hands of each a snug little sum, which, with many of them, was soon to be squandered in gambling and dissipation. At first, as is usual in such cases, the bets were small; but as they proceeded, each began to venture a little more, and the games grew more and more exciting. They had gambled in this manner something like an hour, when one of the party, a tall, sharp-featured, sinister individual, some thirty years of age, arose, and in an indignant tone exclaimed: 
               "I'll play no more." 
               "Why, Roberts, what's the matter now?" asked one of the two with whom he had been betting. 
               "Matter enough!" answered the other, surlily; "I have no desire to be swindled." 
               A hearty laugh from the others was the only response to this bitter insinuation against their honesty. But this only tended to aggravate the dissatisfied player, whose countenance flushed with anger, as he continued, in a savage tone: 
               "Ay, laugh, and be-to ye!-but when I play again, I am inclined to think it will be with gentlemen." 
               "You're inclined to think so, are you?" rejoined one of the party, carelessly. "Well," he continued, in a cool, cutting, sarcastic tone, "I'm inclined to think that when you play again, there'll be one in the party, at least, whose pretensions to the honor of a gentleman will fall considerably short of what such a person should be;" and he closed with a laugh, which was echoed by his companion. 
               "What do you mean, sir, by this insinuation?" cried the one called Roberts, clutching, with a nervous grasp, the haft of a knife that was sticking in his belt. 
               "What do I mean?" said the other, rising, and boldly confronting Roberts: "what do I mean? Why, I mean exactly what I said." 
               "Do you dare to insinuate, sir, that I am not a gentleman?" 
               "You? I said nothing about you; but if the coat fits, you may wear it. At all events, I suppose I have as good a right to insinuate that you are not a gentleman, as you have to insinuate that my friend here and I are swindlers." 
               "And if I did so insinuate, I was not far from the truth, I'm thinking." 
               "Come, come," said the third one, rising also, "don't let us have any quarrelling to-night; for the captain will soon be here, and you know he has strictly forbidden us to fight among ourselves." 
               "I shall fight whom I please, nevertheless," rejoined Roberts, sullenly. 
               "And get your brains blowed out for disobeying orders, eh?" returned the other. 
               "If my brains are not disturbed till the captain blows them out, they will remain in my head as long as I shall want to use them," was the reply. 
               "You don't know that-for the captain is a man of strong passions, and when once they are roused, he is apt to make rather short work." 
               "Better not try his hand on me!" said Roberts, somewhat savagely. 
               "You didn't care to tell him so last night, when he called for a settlement, and you had some words together," was the rather nettling response. 
               "I didn't tell him, that's certain; but if I live, and he lives much longer, I may tell him something he will not be overjoyed to hear," returned Roberts, biting his lips with vexation. 
               "And pray what will you tell him?" 
               "That is my business, Henry Morford." 
               "And it may be mine, John Roberts," rejoined the other, "if you make free with any more of your insinuating threats." 
               "Make it your business now, if you dare!" cried Roberts, with a burst of fury, whipping out his knife as he spoke, and throwing back his arm to give the other a mortal blow. 
               But ere he had time to strike, the arm was seized by a tall, dark figure, who had just entered the cave, and the next moment the knife was wrenched from his hand, and Roberts was sent staggering forward into the center of the cave. With a yell of fury, the latter turned to grapple with the bold intruder, when to his astonishment, he beheld in him the commanding person of Gerolstein, who stood erect before him, his dark eyes fixed piercingly upon him, as if to read his very soul. The other players, who, during the dialogue just recorded, had paid little heed to it, being intent upon their game, now sprang to their feet, with faces expressive of amazement, if not alarm, on beholding the menacing looks exchanged between their captain and Roberts. 
               "What means this?" demanded the chief of the League, in a stern tone. "What means this, John Roberts? Why was your hand raised against Henry Morford?" 
               "Because he insulted me," replied the other, sullenly. "How is this, Morford? Did you insult him?-and if so, for what cause?" 
               "He insulted me first, Captain," answered Morford, respectfully. 
               "Explain yourself." 
               "Why, we were seated on this stone, here, taking a friendly game of poker, when Roberts, not having as good luck as he anticipated, and being a few dollars the loser, suddenly started to his feet, and declared he would play no more; and on being questioned wherefore, he replied that he had no desire to be swindled; and on our laughing at his remark, he made use of an oath, and said when he played again it would be in the company of gentlemen, or words to that effect; to which I retorted by saying, that in the event of his playing again, there would be one in the party, at least, whose pretensions to the honor of a gentleman would be apt to fall short of what such a person should be. Well, Captain, one word brought on another, until my friend Billings here started up, and begged us to have no quarrel, as it was expressly against your orders, Captain. To this Roberts replied, that he'd fight whom he pleased; and during the conversation that ensued, he threw out some rather dark hints respecting yourself-or, at least, we so construed them." 
               "Ha! what did he say?" demanded Gerolstein. 
               "That if you both lived much longer, he might tell you something that you would not be overjoyed to hear. I asked him what he would tell you, and he replied, that that was his business; and on my rejoining it might be my business if he made free with any more of his insinuating threats, he made the exclamation you heard, drawing his knife upon me at the same time." 
               "Yes, and if the Captain had stayed away a little longer, I should have used the knife to some purpose," rejoined Roberts, savagely. 
               "Silence, sir! how dare you talk in this manner?" cried Gerolstein, a dark, fierce expression sweeping over his, countenance. 
               "But I'm not going to be insulted without being revenged," muttered Roberts. 
               "Silence!" again roared the Captain, drawing a pistol from his belt. "Silence, I say! Dare to speak again, till you are addressed by me, and, by -! I'll send a bullet through your brains! It is well for you, sir, you did not use the knife, or I, in duty bound, should have made a startling example of one who has been elevated to the office of Treasurer of the League. Your conduct, sir, has been unbecoming to that degree, that, as a punishment, I shall not only declare you no longer an officer, but I shall insist that you crave pardon of the present company for having disturbed that social order which it has been my desire to have maintained since it has been my fortune to be your commander." 
               "And suppose I refuse?" inquired Roberts, in a low, dogged tone. 
               "Then, by heavens! will I have you arrested and tried for mutiny!" replied Gerolstein, sternly. 
               "There is no alternative, then?" 
               "None, sir, none-nor shall I wait here long in dalliance." 
               "Gentlemen, one all," said Roberts, smothering his rage as much possible, but almost choking in the effort, so that his utterance was thick and harsh: "Gentlemen, one and all," he continued, "I humbly crave your pardon for being the cause of a disturbance here this evening;" and he made a low bow, as if in mockery, and which all who saw, felt to be intended as such-though, no one, of course, had any right to find fault therewith. 
               As Roberts raised his head, after making that low obeisance, his small, black, piercing eyes for a moment encountered the eyes of Morford; and a terrible expression of sinister intent passed over his features; and muttering something to himself, he turned away; and retreating to the farther wall of the cave, he leaned against it, and gave vent to his feelings in curses too low to reach the ears of any of the party. 
               Gerolstein paid no further attention to Roberts, than to eye him somewhat suspiciously for a moment or two; and then calling for the register, he opened it to the place where John Roberts was recorded as treasurer, and drew his pen across the name, inserting that of Henry Morford just below-thus giving Roberts a deadly insult, not only by turning him out of office, but also by appointing the man he now bitterly hated in his place. True, this appointment amounted to nothing unless confirmed by a majority of the band; but Gerolstein felt confident this would be done, as the new candidate was very popular with the League whereas the suspicious conduct of the ex-treasurer, of late, had lost him many friends, and rendered him out of favor generally. 
               While this was taking place, the company present was fast augmenting by new arrivals; and in the course of half an hour, not less than thirty members of the League were present. As twenty constituted a quorum, Gerolstein mounted the platform, called the company to order, and declared the meeting open for the transaction of business. The first proceeding was for the secretary to read the minutes of the last meeting, and the second to elect Henry Morford treasurer, in the place of John Roberts, removed. This done, the Captain called the name of Ira Pottenger. 
               "Here," answered a voice; and a man, some thirty years of age, of small stature, symmetrically formed, with every limb well rounded and lithe, and of a fair countenance, that for want of beard looked youthful, stepped forward, and waited to be addressed again. 
               This personage was called the Runner of the League; and his business was to spy out horses that could easily be captured, sketch on paper the position of the place, the manner of proceeding, and minutely note down all the danger attendant thereupon, and forward the same to the Captain with as little delay as possible. And well might he be called the runner; for he seldom rode; and for fleetness of foot and endurance, he could only be matched by the animals on which he bestowed so much attention. Moreover, he was refined and polished to a high degree, and had the confidence of nearly all the settlers throughout that region of country; and being considered an excellent judge of horse-flesh, was often commissioned by them to purchase just such animals as they wanted. He rarely failed to please in the exercise of his judgment in this manner, and never failed to give the League such information afterward, that the beasts so procured for others became their stolen property. 
               "Well, Pottenger," said the Captain, addressing him, "what news in the way of business?" 
               "I have just come down the Miami, Captain," answered the runner, "and have the good fortune to inform you that a drove of a dozen horses will lodge this night in Wilden's barn, about fifteen miles above here, and near what is called the Old Fork. These horses, I understand, belong to as many different settlers, who have commissioned Wilden to take them off and sell them, for fear they may be stolen. They first applied to me; but I declined, on the plea that I had more business on my hands than I could attend to. The fact is," continued Pottenger, with a peculiar smile, "I had much rather buy horses for them, than sell; for there is this difference: that whereas in buying I bring the horses into the country, so in selling I would have to take them out of it; and as taking them out of the country is a particular feature of the association to which I belong, I had much rather the society would do it on their own responsibility-more especially, as in lieu of a small commission, I thereby get a share of the proceeds." 
               "Bravo! bravo!" cried several voices. 
               "Well," pursued the Captain, "you say that a dozen horses are this night stabled in Wilden's barn-now tell us how we are to manage to secure them!" 
               "We shall have to work cautiously," replied the runner; "for without doubt, the barn will be closely watched. There are Wilden, his two big-fisted, Herculean sons, and one or two others-all of whom will pass the night either in the house or the barn, to my certain knowledge; and how many more there may be, is more than I can tell. As I am acquainted with all these persons, I have thought that the better way would be for me to go there myself to-night, and manage the matter according to circumstances. If there is any one stationed in the barn, I will find it out, by applying there first; and in that case, I will withdraw them for a few minutes, on one pretence or another, during which time two or three of our party can slip into the barn and plug the touchholes of their rifles, so that they will be perfectly harmless. Then they can hide themselves in such a manner as to be ready to overpower the guard, or not, as circumstances may dictate. Perhaps it will be as well to gag and bind the watchers, and then lead off the horses quietly; but in case this can not be effected, the party that enters the barn must cut them loose, and turn them out, and let those outside catch them as best they can." 
               "I am a little fearful this is too bold a move," rejoined the captain, "and may excite the settlers too much against us. Already they begin to be troublesome; and one, in particular, swears vengeance against us." 
               "You allude to Butterman, I presume?" said Pottenger. 
               "I do." 
               "He must be silenced!" put in another of the party. "We have already poisoned his cattle; and as this only makes him worse, by -! I am for poisoning him also." 
               "I do not like to resort to such extreme measures, if it can possibly be avoided," replied Gerolstein. "Murder is horrible enough on its own account; but the death of a settler, by poison, would make all the others furious against us; and ten to one, but it would be the means of breaking up the League." 
               "There would, of course, be one enemy the less," answered the other; "and he, too, one of the most energetic and vindictive. I am for strong measures; and such as cannot be silenced by threats, I am for having silenced in some other way." 
               "What say you to this, comrades?" asked the Captain; "for of course I shall be guided by the will of the majority-though I warn you that I think the poisoning of Butterman will be dangerous to our safety as a body." 
               "Why, I'm of the opinion," growled a harsh-featured ruffian, "that when a man openly sets himself up as our enemy-'specially when such a man's as dangerous as this here one-that the sooner he's stopped off the better. Besides, if we pizen his well, and he dies, I don't see no way as how anybody can prove who done it; and as long as nobody can't do nothing but suspect us, why, I don't see as how we can be any woss off 'an we is now. As for thar breaking on us up-why, that's something I don't believe in, no how; for git us all together, we could lick a regiment." 
               "I'm jest o' the opinion o' Ben Thrasher," spoke up another hang-dog looking ruffian, who measured six feet four inches in stature. 
               "Well," resumed Gerolstein, "I will put it to vote, whether we shall poison Butterman's spring or not." 
               The vote being taken, was decided in the affirmative, and Ben Thrasher was duly deputized to put half a pound of arsenic in the spring from which Butterman was known to procure water for himself and family. 
               "This point being carried," said the Captain, "we will proceed with the other business, and have it settled immediately; for if we do anything to-night, in the way of procuring horses, (stealing he thought to be too severe a term to use,) it is high time we were on the move. You have said, Pottenger," he continued, again addressing that individual, "how you would manage the affair, in case you found a party in the barn-now tell us what you will do in case you do not." 
               "Why, if there are none on the watch," returned the runner, "the affair can be managed easily enough. I will go to the house to procure lodging for the night; and ten minutes after I have entered, if all remains quiet, the party in waiting can open the stables, lead out the horses, and be off with them." 
               "This matter being settled, then, let us set out forthwith," rejoined the Captain. "Is this to your minds, gentlemen?" 
               "Ay! ay!-yes! yes!" cried some twenty voices, in chorus. 
               At this moment a voice outside of the cave was heard saying: 
               "Come along with ye, I say! or, by -! I'll make short work with ye." 
               "Oh, don't! don't! good Mr. Jarvis!-don't!" whined another speaker. "Jest let me go now, and I'll gin ye all I'm worth-every cent I've got-I will, 'pon my honor!" 
               "Ha!" exclaimed the captain, "whom have we here?" and as he spoke, Jarvis entered the cave, dragging Melven along with him. "So, then," continued Gerolstein, "my order has been obeyed, and you have secured the traitor;" and he fixed a piercing and significant glance upon the latter. 
               "Oh, good Mr. Captain!" cried the wretch, looking fearfully around, and sinking down on his knees, in abject terror, before Gerolstein. "Oh, good Mr. Gerolstein! I ain't no traitor-'pon my sacred word and honor I ain't-if-" 
                
               "Silence, sir!" thundered the chief, with a look of pitiful contempt. "If you are not a traitor, you are a coward, and I hardly know which of the two is the worst. Well, Jarvis, what think you of Arnold Melven?" pursued Gerolstein, addressing that individual. 
               "I boldly pronounce him a dastardly traitor, and I stand ready to bear witness against his perfidious acts!" was the prompt reply. 
               "Enough! his case shall be attended to so soon as we get time. Other important business calls us away to-night. Secure him in the inner cave, charge the molders to guard against his escape, and then come with us, for we have work on hand for all!" 
               Five minutes later, the whole party issued forth from the cave, and, separating, so as not to be seen in a body, each took a different course, but with the understanding that all should rendezvous in the vicinity of Ralph Wilden's. 
               Roberts was the last to quit the cave; and having seen all the others depart, he moved slowly away, in a different direction, muttering: 
               "Disgrace and treat me with contumely, eh? Oh! but I will be revenged! revenged!" and clenching his hand, and making a gesture of indignation, he entered a dense brushwood and disappeared. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE FAITHFUL WIFE AND MIDNIGHT WARNING. 
               SOME quarter of an hour after his disappearance, Roberts emerged from the opposite side of the brushwood into a clearing, and, crossing this, he entered a deep wood, in which he continued till he came to a log cabin, near which stood a barn, made of the same rude materials, though with more open crevices. In the dwelling a light was burning, the rays of which penetrated through a small window and some cracks in the door. 
               "Confound her!" muttered the ex-treasurer-"why will she always sit up for me, as if to see whether I come home drunk or sober. I have told her a hundred times not to be uneasy on my account, but to go to bed, and sleep as soundly as if I were by her side. But, somehow, I cannot find it in my heart to scold her for disobeying me, for I am satisfied she does it because she loves me; and, really, she is a good creature, and never makes a word of complaint. Well, well, I must not let her know I am here now, or she will plead to have me stay, and it comes hard to refuse her so simple and natural a request." 
               Saying this, the ex-treasurer cautiously approached the rude barn, and opening the door of a stable, he entered and led forth a coal-black horse. Tying him to a ring in the logs, he re-entered the stable, and brought forth a bridle and saddle; but just as he came out again, the horse, from some cause, gave a loud whicker. In a moment the door of the dwelling was thrown open, and a female came rushing out, bearing a light in her hand, which she held above her head, so as to enable her to distinguish objects before her. We have said the house was near the barn, and almost the first thing her eyes fell upon, after leaving the former, was the coal black horse. Roberts, on seeing her, dodged within the stable; but she caught a glimpse of his person, and immediately called out, hastening forward at the same time: 
               "John, dear John, is that you?" 
               "Yes," replied the ex-treasurer, finding he was discovered, and issuing forth; "yes, wife, it is I; but what are you doing up this time of night?" 
               "Rather let me ask what you are doing in the middle of the night, with that horse. You know I never go to bed till you come home, John; and I am really hurt that you should come so near, and think of setting off again without letting me know of it." 
               "Why, the fact is, wife, I am in a great hurry, my business is very urgent, and I was afraid that if you saw me, you would detain me too long-perhaps seek to prevent my going at all." 
               "I would to God I could!" responded the woman, with deep emotion. Then approaching the other closely, she added, in a soft, plaintive tone of true affection: "Oh, John-dear John-my dear husband-why will you not quit this terrible life you are leading? I think of nothing when you are away, but that I shall see you brought home a corpse, or hear that you have fallen into the hands of justice. Oh, my God! my God! just think, my dear husband, if such should be the case, what would become of me and our little child, that now lies sleeping so sweetly in yonder dwelling!" 
               "But I am going to reform," said Roberts, turning his face away to conceal his emotion. 
               "Ah! so you have said an hundred times; and yet here you are, now, as ready as ever to plunge on into new vices. This will not endure, John, you may depend it; and, oh! how I tremble for the finale. Even now, the settlers are arming against you and your party, and ere long blood must flow. Oh! why cannot you leave the party, and start at once for some unknown region, where we shall at least be safe! Oh! I would fly with you, cheerfully, this very night-would travel far, and endure every privation-rather than remain here, with such a terrible fate hanging over me! But we should not have to suffer privation; for we have money enough to last us for a couple of years, even provided we found nothing to do to get an honest living; but-" 
               "Cease, wife," interrupted the ex-treasurer, "and you shall soon be gratified. I have done with the League forever," he added, in a low whisper, glancing cautiously around, to be certain there were no listeners. 
               "Oh, this is glorious news!" cried his wife, joyfully; "but whither are you going, then, to-night?" 
               "To do a good deed." 
               "What is it?" 
               "To save a fellow creature's life." 
               "What mean you?" 
               "You know that Butterman, whom I mentioned as the worst enemy of the League." 
               "Yes, I know of him. Well?" 
               "Well, it has been decreed that he shall be murdered." 
               "And you, John?" 
               "I am going to warn and save him." 
               "Are you sincere?" 
               "I am." 
               "God bless you, then, John, for the-noble act! Oh, you know not how happy it makes me feel, to hear you talk in this manner! And then will you leave this part of the country, John?" 
               "I will leave as soon as I can accomplish one thing," whispered Roberts, drawing his wife into the stable, so as to render it certain that no one might by any possibility overhear him. 
               "And that one thing?" asked his wife breathlessly. 
               "The destruction of the League." 
               "Good heavens! what mean you?" 
               "I mean," said the other, savagely, "that I have been shamefully treated, and that I will be revenged. I have been abused, Mary, insulted and broke of my office; and now, by the living Power! I swear to have deep and lasting vengeance on the accursed scoundrels!" 
               "Oh, John, do not talk so! If you attempt to betray them, you will be killed, I know you will; and then what will become of me and our dear little child? Oh, John, I beg you, I implore you, to attempt nothing rash! Warn Mr. Butterman of his danger, and then let us fly together to some place of safety; but do not attempt to turn traitor, or you will certainly be killed!" 
               "I will not be cheated of my revenge," said Roberts, doggedly; "no I will not be cheated of my revenge; so do not urge me to relinquish my present purpose-for all your prayers will prove fruitless. Come, Mary, you are delaying me, and I may be too late. Go into the house, wife, and when I return, we will talk this matter over more calmly." 
               "But you are not going to betray the League to-night, John?" said his wife, inquiringly. 
               "I am going to Butterman's to-night, I told you," answered the other evasively. 
               "But promise me you are not going to betray the League to-night." 
               "Well, then, I will not betray them to-night," returned the other. "There, now, set your heart at rest, and go into the house, for you have delayed me too long already." 
               "One kiss, first, John," said his wife; and bending down, he pressed his lips to hers; when, as if fearful to remain longer, lest her feelings should get the better of her resolution, she tore herself away, and, hurrying back to the house, entered and closed the door behind her. 
               The ex-treasurer now hastened to bridle and saddle his horse; then mounting him, he was just on the point of riding away, when he heard his name spoken in a low, tender, melancholy tone. He turned on his saddle, and beheld his wife standing in the door. 
               "What is it, Mary?" he inquired. 
               "I shall sit up till you come home, dear husband." 
               "But I may not be home to-night, my dear wife," he replied, touched by her devotedness. "I pray you retire and get rest! I will come back as soon as I can." 
               "No, John, I touch not the bed till you return-you know this is my invariable rule." 
               "Well, I will endeavor to be back before morning," replied the other; and touching his horse with the spur, the fiery animal bounded away, and the next moment both horse and rider had disappeared from the tearful eyes of the devoted wife, who, retiring into the house, took a seat by her sleeping child, to await, in lonely watching, the return of a criminal husband and father. 
               Oh, the devotion-the patient, untiring devotion of woman! God bless her! She may have faults, and frailties, and vices; but her virtues more than cover all her defects, and leave her second only to the angels. 
               Not far distant from the Great Miami, and about a mile below what is now a little village called Venice, there stood a log house, surrounded by woods, which were only separated from the dwelling by a few acres of cleared land. A rude barn stood some ten rods away from the house, and some ten rods beyond this was a cluster of bushes, in the center of which bubbled up a spring of clear, cold, excellent water, forming a little run, or rivulet, which rolled away across the clearing, and at last mingled its waters with those of the Miami. From the dwelling to this spring was a path, formed by persons passing over the ground to get water; and from the barn to the rivulet, farther on, was another path, made by the cattle of the settler, as they passed to and fro to quench their thirst. This dwelling, barn, clearing, spring, cattle, &c., was the property of Butterman, the same person whom the League had decreed should be poisoned, on account of the hostile attitude which he had assumed toward the outlaws. 
               Up the valley of the Miami was a horse-path-it could hardly be termed road-which led through a long, level, dense forest-the trees being cut away the width of a rod or more, but with the stumps still protruding some two feet above the ground. This horse-path ran past the dwelling of Butterman; and on the night in question, about two o'clock in the morning, a solitary horseman, pursuing this path, came to the clearing, and reined his animal to a halt. Then dismounting, he led him into a thicket, made him fast to a tree, and returned to the path, or road; but before emerging from the wood into the clearing, he examined everything before him in the most cautious manner. Then, apparently satisfied with his scrutiny, he glided quickly forward, and soon stood at the door of Butterman's dwelling, on which he bestowed several heavy raps. 
               "Who's there?" inquired the voice of a man from within. 
               "A friend," was the reply from without. 
               "What's wanting?" 
               "I wish to see Mr. Butterman on important business, that will not brook delay." 
               A small window opened near the door, and the head of a man peered cautiously out. 
               "I am the person you have named," said the same voice. "What is it you want with me?" 
               "To save your life. Let me in, and I will tell you more." 
               "Are you alone?" 
               "I am?" 
               "One minute;" and then the head was withdrawn, the window closed, and immediately after the door slightly opened, and the same voice continued: "Come in; but if you mean treachery, remember there is a loaded pistol pointed at your breast." 
               "If there is any treachery meant, it is not toward you, Mr. Butterman," replied the stranger; and as he spoke, he stepped boldly into the house, the door of which was instantly shut and bolted, and both host and guest were in utter darkness. 
               "You must pardon me, stranger, for these precautions," said Butterman; "but if you know anything about me, you know that I live in danger of having my life taken at any moment." 
               "I know all about it," rejoined the stranger, "and it is because I have heard your life menaced, that I am here to-night, to put you on your guard." 
               "Indeed, sir!-then I am very much indebted to you," replied Butterman, cordially. "Here, sit on this stool, and I will strike a light." 
               "No, better that our conference be in darkness; and then, if enemies are about, they will not be so likely to be put on their guard." 
               "Proceed, then, and let me know in what manner my life is threatened." 
               "I suppose," said the stranger, "you are aware there is a band of horse-thieves in this vicinity?" 
               "Yes, I am aware there is set of scoundrels, who live by plundering honest people in every way they can. They have annoyed me not a little, in stealing two excellent horses, and poisoning as good a yoke of cattle as ever drew a plow through fallow; and I've sworn a solemn oath, to either destroy their league, or lose my own life in the attempt." 
               "They already know of your intentions; and in return, they have decided to put you out of the way," rejoined the stranger. 
               "I do not doubt it, sir, in the least," said Butterman; "for it is perfectly natural they should not like me any too well, seeing as how I am at the head of a large party, already banding together for their extinction. But how, if I may inquire, came you to know that they have decided on taking my life?" 
               "Because I overheard a plan to that effect this very night." 
               "Indeed! and in what way are they to effect their diabolical object?" 
               "By poisoning your spring." 
               "So, so! and when is this to be done?" 
               "It may be done to-night, and it may not be done till to-morrow night; but rest assured it will be done ere long." 
               "Oh, I should like to be present, and send a ball through the cursed head of the fiend who attempts it!" rejoined Butterman through his shut teeth. 
               "Watch your spring, then, and an opportunity will soon be presented to you, to take vengeance on one of the villains that belong to the League." 
               "But, pardon me, if I inquire how you came to overhear this devilish design, and where the conversation was held?" 
               "That I cannot tell you to-night," replied the other; "but if you will tell me where the party of which you are at the head is to meet next, and also the time, I will endeavor to be present, and give you such information as may lead to the surprisal and overthrow of the whole band." 
               "But you must recollect," replied Butterman, after a slight pause, "that you are a stranger to me; and as you refuse me your confidence, I am in duty bound to refuse you mine, seeing I have no evidence that you are not a spy-pardon the word!-sent here from the outlaws themselves, to find out all about our proceedings, so as to be able to take us at an advantage." 
               "Well, sir," replied the other, coldly, "if you don't choose to believe I came here as a friend, and not as a dastardly spy, there is certainly no harm done, and I have the honor to wish you a very good morning." 
               "Stay!" said Butterman, as the other placed his hand upon the door to draw back the bolts. "I see you are offended, sir, and I am sorry for it; but just place yourself in my position, take everything into consideration, and then say if you would be willing to tell everything to a stranger whose face you had never seen. True, you may say you came here as a friend, to warn me against danger; and the very fact of your so doing should be proof sufficient that you mean me well; but how am I to know that you came here for such a purpose, unless you give me other evidence than what you so far have done? The story you have told me about the design to poison my spring, may have been invented to cloak a sinister design in reality; and without other proof than you have given to the contrary, I ask you, candidly, if placed in my situation, you would not do exactly as I have done?" 
               "Frankly, then," replied the other, "I think I should; but notwithstanding, I can give you no farther evidence of my sincerity to-night; and so, if you do not tell me where and when your next meeting is to be held, I cannot be there to give you the important information of which I spoke." 
               "You will tell me nothing to-night, then?" 
               "No, I am pledged not to do so." 
                
               "Well, let me see! let me see!" said the other, musingly. "It must be managed in some way or other. Ah, methinks I have it! Could you call here to-morrow night, just at sundown?" 
               "I know of nothing to the contrary." 
               "Well, do so, and you will find me leaning against the north-east corner of the house; you will approach me, and say, 'Poison does not always produce death;' and then I shall know that you are the same person, and I will then give you my confidence more freely." 
               "Be it so, then," replied the stranger, as he proceeded to unbolt the door. "Meantime, Mr. Butterman, keep your eye upon the spring; and if you see a large, brawny, villainous-looking man approach and throw something into it, fear not to let him have the contents of your rifle. Adieu, until to-morrow night;" and opening the door as he spoke, the stranger issued forth; and, after looking cautiously around him, he retraced his steps to his horse, mounted him, and rode away, leaving Butterman to ponder upon his mysterious warning. 
               And Butterman did ponder upon it, seriously, for something like half an hour, during which time he busied himself in striking a light, dressing himself, and repriming his rifle. Then he stepped close to the bed, from which he had risen, and called his wife by name. Three times he spoke to her; but getting no reply, he took hold of and shook her; and as she aroused from a deep sleep, he said: 
               "Betsey, I am going out to watch by the spring, and I want you to get up and fasten the house." 
               "Why, Hiram, what has occurred, that you are going out this time of night?" 
               Butterman proceeded, in a brief manner, to explain, how a stranger had called and warned him that an attempt would soon be made to poison the spring whence they procured their water, and that he was going to ensconce himself in the thicket, and be ready with his rifle to shoot down the poisoner. 
               "But it may all be a trick to get you out," replied the other, "so that the villains can murder you." 
               "It may be," was the reply; "but you know, Betsey, that I am afraid of nothing human; and if any one attempts foul play with me, they perhaps will come off second best." 
               "But I am afraid to have you go, Hiram." 
               "Pshaw, wife! give yourself no uneasiness. Come, get up and fasten the door, for to go I am resolved;" and without waiting for, or heeding the entreating reply of his wife, Butterman turned away, and advancing to the door, opened it, and went out. 
               Then taking the path that led to the spring, he approached it cautiously, and in a few moments he was safely concealed in the covert of the bushes. 
               Mrs. Butterman followed him as far as the door, where she waited till she saw him disappear in the thicket; then closing and bolting it, she returned to her bed; but it was more than an hour before her eyes again grew heavy with slumber. 
               At length, just as she was settling into that dreamy state between sleeping and waking, she was startled by the sharp crack of a rifle; and bounding from the bed, she rushed to the window and threw it up The view was toward the spring; and looking in that direction, she had barely time to catch an indistinct glimpse of two figures darting across the clearing in the direction of the nearest wood, the one apparently in pursuit of the other, ere both disappeared behind a gentle swell of land. She uttered a loud cry, and called the name of her husband; but no answer was returned; and she saw the figures no more; for the swell of land hid them from her sight till they became buried in the wood. With such feelings of a wife and mother as can better be imagined than described, she closed the window, and, throwing herself, half dead with fear and dread, upon a seat, burst into tears. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE RUNNER'S RUSE. 
               WHILE the scene just described was transpiring at Butterman's, another, belonging to the same drama, no less exciting, was taking place at Wilden's, distant some five or six miles. In a rude barn, only a few rods away from the house, two large, powerful men were keeping guard over a dozen horses, which were stabled there for the night. The surnames of both of these personages were Wilden, and both were sons of the proprietor of the place, and consequently were brothers. The elder was about four and twenty years of age, and a perfect Hercules in size and strength, being not less than six feet six inches in stature, and proportioned accordingly. The other was some two years his junior, and about two inches less in hight, though probably his equal in weight and strength. Neither was a person one would like to meet in mortal combat, unless sure of having a decided advantage at the start; and even then, the provocation would have to be great, to tempt the readiest fighter to the unequal encounter. 
               The brothers were seated on a bench, within the rude barn, with a lantern standing between them, the light of which faintly gleamed upon their faces, partially revealing their coarse, heavy, weather-beaten features, and dull, drowsy-looking eyes. It was about three o'clock in the morning; and as neither had slept during the night, both began to feel that dull, dreamy heaviness, which is the precursor of utter forgetfulness. They sat with their heads bent forward; and ever and anon they nodded; but when they felt that sleep was creeping upon them too fast, they raised their heads suddenly, stared around them, and not unfrequently yawned, and stretched themselves to the full extent of their huge proportions. It was immediately after a longer yawn and harder stretch than usual, that the elder of the two, starting to his feet, and shaking his huge frame like a dog on coming out of the water, said, in a gruff tone: 
               "Confound it! won't it never be daylight?" 
               "I live in hopes," answered the other, yawning; and rising also to his feet, he caught hold of a beam above his head, and drew himself half way up to it, as if to get all the kinks out of his body and limbs. 
               "I don't think thar's much use of our staying here any longer," said the first speaker. "Ef the scoundrelly horse-thieves war going to do anything in the way of business here, they'd hey been at it afore this-eh! Bob?" 
               "That's my opine," returned the younger; "but we'll hev to stay here till morning, all the same, Jake; for ef we should go away, and thar should anything happen to the beasts, the old man would kick up a thundering row, and no-mistake." 
               "I wish to thunder some o' the scoundrels would come, and show a fair fight, and then we should hev something to do to keep us awake-eh! Bob?" 
                
               "Yes, that's a fact; but thar's no likelihood of thar coming while we're here; for they're a set of cowards, as well as knaves; and they'll take mighty good keer not to run agin two sich ugly mugs as we is. But I say, Jake, hev ye got any 'backy? for the whisky jug's empty, and I want some stimulating to keep me away from the land of nod." 
               "Yes, here's a chaw, and that's all;" and as he passed the "pernicious weed" over to his companion, there came a knock upon the door nearest to where the brothers stood. 
               "Who's thar, at this time of night?" demanded the elder. 
               "A friend," replied a voice from without. 
               "Well, who is a friend? and what does a friend want?" was the second gruff interrogative. 
               "My name is Pottenger, you know me well, and I want to get the use of your lantern for a few minutes, to find something I have lost in the road." 
               "Ira Pottenger, eh!" returned Jake. "Well, yes, I reckon we do know ye some, and you shall be accommodated with all you ask for;" and as he spoke, he advanced to the door, threw it open, and invited the other to walk in. 
               "I suppose you are somewhat surprised to see me at this time of night," said Pottenger, as he advanced into the barn; "but the fact is, I was down to see a friend, some ten miles below here, and the storm coming on, I thought I would stay till it was over, and then return; for it is absolutely necessary I should be home by daylight." 
               "Whar do you live?" asked Jake Wilden. 
               "Where? why, is it possible you do not know?" returned Pottenger, in well-feigned surprise. "Really, I thought everybody knew where I make my home-at least, everybody in this vicinity. Do you know where Runyan's Purchase is?" 
               "Yes, I know the place well." 
               "Well, I make my home with Peter Mason, who lives just one mile north of the northern boundary of Runyan's Purchase." 
               "Why, that's all of fifteen miles from here!" cried the other, in surprise; "and you don't think of traveling that afore daylight?-but then I 'spect you've got a horse along?" 
               "No, I am afoot, and I really think of getting home by daylight; but you forget-or rather, perhaps, you do not know-how quick I am of foot. Why, sir, I can walk five miles an hour, for five consecutive hours; and I am willing to wager I can pass over forty miles of ground in the same time-or that I can perform a longer journey in a week than the best horse you can produce. By-the-by, now I think of it, how is it that I find you up here at this time of night?" 
               "Why, ye see, we is watching these here hosses, as dad is agoing to sell for his neighbors." 
               "Horses! why, I do not see any horses!" 
               "Come here, and I'll show ye some as can't be beat," returned the other; and taking up the lantern, he advanced to the farther side of the barn, and pointed over a log into the stable, where not less than a dozen horses were tied-holding up the light, at the same time, so that the other could see distinctly. 
               "O, yes, now I understand," said Pottenger; "these are the same horses that I was commissioned to sell-but which I declined-having more on my hands than I could well get along with. If I remember rightly, the settlers are selling them to prevent their being stolen." 
                
               "That's jest exactly it," replied Jake Wilden; "but afore I'd sell a animal for any sich purpose, I'd bite my own tongue off." 
               "Why, it would be better to have them sold than stolen, would it not?" 
               "Per'aps so; but I'd run the risk o' thar being stole; and ef they was, I'd be sartain to hunt down the cussed thieves, and shoot 'em like dogs." 
               "If you could find them, that is." 
               "But I would find 'em-eh! Bob?" 
               "Wall we would, hoss." 
               "I wish the party could be broken up," rejoined Pottenger. "They have become very troublesome of late, and I have lost one of the best horses by them that ever blacksmith put a shoe on. Why is there not something done to arrest their depredations, and exterminate the whole gang? I would cheerfully give a hundred dollars to be assured of their annihilation." 
               "Wall, wait a bit, and I reckon you can dispose of the hundred to suit ye," returned the other. "Thar's something adoing already toward gitting up a company o' fellers as won't fear to face the very devil; and ef you live a few weeks longer, Mr. Pottenger, its my opine you'll see sights-or may be hear 'em-case you don't belong to the party." 
               "But can I not join your fraternity? for I assure you I am as anxious as any one to exterminate these thieving devils." 
               "Wall, yes, I 'spose you mought jine, ef you was so minded-eh! Bob?" 
               "Reckon he could." 
               "Where do you meet next?" 
               "Can't tell ye now; but come down here to-morrow night, by sundown, and I'll find a way to git ye thar." 
               "But why can you not tell me now?" 
               "Case you don't belong to us; and it's agin the rules to blab to anybody as aint a member-eh! Bob?" 
               "Fact, Jake." 
               "Well, then, I will try to be here at sunset to-morrow," rejoined Pottenger. "But while we have been talking, I have forgotten my errand. To resume my story. I was saying I had been down below to see a friend, and the storm keeping me till late, besides a desire that the roads should dry a little before I set out, I did not leave till one o'clock Well, I had got as far as here, when the idea struck me that I would see the time of night-never once taking into consideration, as I pulled out my watch, that I could see nothing without a light. Another thing I had forgotten; and that is, that in my watch fob I had a diamond worth a hundred dollars. Well, in pulling out my watch, it stuck rather tight, and I gave it a sudden jerk, by which means the pocket partly turned inside out, and the mouth of it bent over toward the ground. In fact, the long and short of it is, that when I went to put it back. I first felt for my diamond, and missed it; and I naturally came to the conclusion that I had dropped it on the ground. I felt round for it, as best I could, but did not succeed in finding it; and observing a light shining through the crevices of the barn here, I hastened forward to procure it. Now you know my story, and if you will be kind enough to come down and help me search for it, I will reward you liberally." 
               "Do you want both on us?" 
               "No, only one," replied Pottenger, decisively. And then, seeming to reflect a moment, he added: "That is, I do not wish to dictate. If you are both willing to come, perhaps, on second thought, it would be as well, on the principle that if two pair of eyes are better than one, so three must as a natural consequence be better than two. At all events, I do not want to lose my diamond, and I will freely give five dollars to the finder." 
               "Then I swow I'll go!" said the younger of the Wilden's. 
               "Come along then, Bob!" returned the elder; and taking up the lantern, he led the way out of the barn, followed by the others. 
               Closing the door behind them, the party proceeded to the road, or horse-path, which ran between the house and barn; then turning to the right, they continued on some twenty rods, to a spot where some bushes, growing thick, completely hid the barn from their view. 
               The moment they were fairly out of sight, four dark figures, skulked along close to the barn, and opening the door whence the Wilden's had issued, each entered noiselessly, one at a time, and carefully closed the door behind them. As soon as this was done, the foremost sprung a dark lantern, and all hurriedly examined the appearance of the place. Looking carefully about on every side, their eyes soon encountered a couple of rifles leaning up against a hay-mow; and while two sprang forward, seized these, knocked out the flints, and shook out the priming, the other two hurriedly examined the stable, and the position of the horses. 
               "Well, comrades," said the one carrying the light, but speaking in a low, guarded tone, "how had we better manage?-for these fellows, as you just now saw for yourselves, are perfect giants." 
               "Why, Jarvis," replied one of the party, "I think we had better crouch down here, near the door, and as they come in, bound upon them, two upon one, and overpower them the best way we can. No doubt some of us will get knocked down in the scuffle; but we must all be cautious that our passions do not get so excited as to cause us to take life. We must gag and bind them, of course, and then we can work to suit ourselves." 
               "Well, I suppose that will be the best plan," replied Jarvis. "I, like you, am opposed to taking life; but I tell you what it is, comrades, if I find these fellows too troublesome, I shall not stop to knock them down with this;" and as he spoke, he exhibited a heavy slung-shot. 
               "Agreed!" replied the other; "if they prove troublesome, there is no other course for us to pursue, be the consequences what they may." 
               Having thus settled matters to their satisfaction, the four intruders arranged themselves, two on either side of the door, to await the return of the Wildens. Minute after minute went by, and a quarter of an hour elapsed, and yet the young men had not returned. 
               "How long Pottenger keeps them!" said one, in a whisper. 
               "I suppose they have not found the diamond yet," rejoined another. 
               "A cute trick," said a third, in a whisper also. "It takes Pottenger to do the decoy business. How well he managed the whole affair. I declare, I was puzzled to conjecture what excuse he could make to get them both out without exciting suspicion; but he did admirably." 
               "And did you notice," put in the fourth, "how, when the question was asked, if he wanted both, he replied in the negative; and then, after a little apparent reflection, managed to make it out for the best that both should go." 
               "I thought, at one time, he was going to peach," said Jarvis, "when he talked so freely of us as scoundrels; but I soon understood the drift of his discourse." 
               "It never occurred to me that Pottenger would prove treacherous to us," rejoined Henry Morford, who was one of the present party. "No, no-any one that knows him as well as I, must be satisfied that Ira Pottenger is as true as-steel. I wish I could say as much for Roberts,-for he, I do believe, is a villain by nature!" 
               "But you must admit," said one, "that you are prejudiced against him, since the quarrel of to-night." 
               "It may be I am somewhat, Sezmond," answered the other, "but the truth is, I never did look upon him as any too honest. I watched him closely, after the captain came in, and we were laying out our plans for the night, and methought I could detect an expression on his countenance that foreboded evil to us; but I may have been mistaken; and I certainly have no desire to suspect any one wrongfully-much less to bring a false accusation against him. By-the-by, has any one seen him since the meeting broke up?" 
               "Yes, he joined us about half an hour ago," replied Jarvis; "and if I am not mistaken, he is now with the captain." 
               "Since these fellows are so powerful, I regret we did not fetch Ben Thrasher with us," said Sezmond. 
               "Why, Thrasher is not in the party," answered Jarvis, "unless he joined it since we came in here. He went to poison Butterman's spring, and it is a chance if he joins us." 
               "Well, then, there was Tom Giles, as strong as Thrasher." 
               "Yes, but you know Giles is rough and headstrong, and always for extreme measures. If he were here, he would be for killing these fellows at once; and the Captain has particularly cautioned us against shedding blood, if it can possibly be avoided." 
               "Well, we must do the best we can, then, it seems," put in Morford. "You say, Jarvis, you saw Roberts join the party?-you are sure?" 
               "Yes, I am sure, for I was talking with the Captain when he came in." 
               "Did he seem flurried or excited in any way?" 
               "No, as far as I could judge, he was very calm-more so than usual." 
               "Ah! I fear that calmness, then, portends a storm," rejoined Morford. "To save my life, I cannot help thinking that man meditates treachery." 
               "If I were sure of it," replied Jarvis, "I would plant a knife in his heart before daylight; but I think he is too sensible to attempt such villainy, no matter what he may think of it. Now such a fellow as Melven was just the one to betray us; for he is a coward at heart, and no coward should be trusted; besides, he joined us on compulsion, to save his own life, and I have been afraid of him ever since. But he is caught at last, in the very act, and death will silence him forever." 
               "What do you know against him?" asked Sezmond. 
               "Enough to condemn him," replied Jarvis; "but wait till the night of trial, and then you shall hear and see for yourself. But hark! do you not hear voices?" 
               "Yes, it is the brothers returning," whispered Morford. "And there! now they laugh. Pottenger has managed, somehow, to put them in good humor: I shouldn't wonder if the diamond had been found in reality." 
               "Silence, now!" said Jarvis; "not even let a whisper be heard, for the time draws near for action. Be ready, comrades, to spring upon them, like a 
                     tigen
                     tiger
                   leaping upon his prey. Have the ropes ready to bind them! I have one gag-who has the other?" 
               "I have," answered Morford. 
               "Then you and Charles act together, and Sezmond and I will do the same. All ready now, silence!" and at the close of the last word, a breathless stillness succeeded among the horse-thieves. 
               Meantime, the brothers Wilden were returning to the barn, wholly unsuspicious of danger, and evidently in very good humor with themselves and everybody else, for they talked fast and laughed loud. 
               "Yes," said the elder, as they drew near the barn, in reply to some previous remark of the other, "a deuced good thing for us, as it turned out, for we made five dollars by it. He's a chap as pays well, is that Pottenger, and I'd like to watch hosses every night, of he was sure to come along and lose a diamond-ha, ha, ha-eh! Bob?" 
               "Exactly; and I'd be in too. But I say, Jake, let's save up this here, till next frolic; and then won't we astonish the boys with the ready?-and, for that matter, the gals, too?-ha, ha, ha!" 
               "Wall we will, hoss; and that's a all-fired good idee; for I was just thinking how we was agoing to manage to show it off, without we went on a spree; and it makes a feller feel so logey arter he's been drunk all by himself." 
               "I thought, one time, we warn't agoing to find it," said the other; "but my eyes is purty considerable keen; and at last, jest as we was about giving it up, I popped right on to it, beautiful. I seed something shine, and I knowed right off as how it was it-case I onc't heerd a feller tell as how diamonds was just like stars in the night-they'd shine so handsome. I wish diamonds was jest as plenty as rocks-don't you, Jake?" 
               "Why do you wish that, Bob?" 
               "Case then a feller could be so rich." 
               "Why, how'd they make you rich?" 
               "How! why you must be green, aint yer? Don't you know diamonds is very valuable? Only think! he said as how that thar little bit was worth a hundred dollars; and so you can see, by that, what a cart-load on 'm 'ud bring." 
               "Yes, but ef they was plenty as you've said, who'd buy 'em?" 
               "Who'd buy 'em, Jake?-why everybody as wanted 'em, and could afford it, in course." 
               "That's whar you're green," cried the other, with a triumphant laugh. "Why, numskull, who in thunder d'ye 'spose 'ud want to buy, ef he could jest get 'em for the picking up?-eh! Bob?-ha, ha, ha!" 
               "Pshaw! you're a fool, aint yer?" returned the other, angrily, as he secretly acknowledged the force of his brother's argument. "You needn't grin, now, and snicker, in that kind of a way," he pursued, "case I could jest argufy you all out on't, ef I was a mind to; but I shan't stop to waste my breath on sich a saphead, no how." 
               "No, Bob, I wouldn't-ha, ha, ha!" roared the other, in great glee. 
               By this time the brothers had reached the barn; and opening the door, the elder half stumbled in, laughing uproariously at the discomfiture of the other, who followed close upon his heels, bearing the lantern. But scarcely had the latter crossed the threshold, when the lantern was dashed from his hand, and the laugh of the brother was changed to an exclamation of rage and dismay, as both found themselves assailed by an unlooked-for foe, of whose number or design they knew nothing. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE HOMICIDE. 
               THE struggle of the Wildens to regain their liberty, after being set upon in the manner already shown, was a terrible one; and as the party in concealment had anticipated, it proved no easy matter to overpower them, albeit they were taken at great advantage, and there were two against one. A severe scuffle ensued, during which Jarvis and Morford were knocked down, and both of their companions thrown violently against the logs of the barn; but the party of the League was in the end triumphant-though they did not succeed in gagging Jake Wilden, till he had twice shouted for help, at the top of his iron lungs. 
               But the gags were finally brought into use, and the ropes also, and both were silenced, and bound hand and foot. The moment this was effected, Jarvis applied his fingers to his lips, and gave a low peculiar whistle; and immediately after the door opening from without into the stable, was thrown back on its wooden hinges, and a dozen men rushed in. Then each seized a horse and led him out, and slipping on a bridle already prepared, at once vaulted upon his back and began to ride away. 
               But the cry of the elder Wilden had been heard by the inmates of the house, who now came running out, three in number, to learn what had occurred-each, as a natural precaution, bringing a rifle with him. It was difficult for any one to make out objects distinctly at any distance; but the party from the dwelling readily understood what was taking place; and hearing the tramping and snorting of the horses, and dimly perceiving several dark figures moving briskly about, they felt themselves justified in using extreme measures; and simultaneously bringing their rifles to their shoulders, they glanced along the barrels as well as the darkness would permit, and fired toward the thickest of the group. 
               "Hell's curses on them!" cried a voice, savagely; "they have shot my horse under me." 
               "Hit me on the arm," said another. 
               "Put a hole through my hat," added a third. 
               "Away, men-away!" cried a fourth; "and each take care of himself as best he can;" and at the same moment every horse was lashed into a run, and away thundered the mounted party, and quickly disappeared. 
               "Arter them as is afoot, and let's kill every devil we can get our hands on!" shouted another voice from the party of the dwelling; and immediately the three persons who had fired, came bounding up to the barn. "Whar's Jake and Bob?" continued the same voice. "I'm feared they're killed; but you two follow up them as you can see running yonder, and I'll stop and look, and then come on arter ye;" and as the comrades of the speaker, faithful to his instructions, darted away in pursuit of the fugitives, some of whom could just be seen running across a clearing to the nearest wood, he fancied he heard a groan just within the barn. 
               Anxious to learn the fate of his sons-for this was the senior Wilden, and father to Jake and Bob-he bounded to the door, and threw it open. There was just light enough to enable him to perceive the outlines of two huge, dark forms stretched upon the floor; and as they did not speak nor move, his first impression was that they were dead, and a cry of agony burst from his ashy lips. But scarcely was it uttered, when one of the huge figures came rolling over and over toward him, and even on to his very feet, and a noise like a heavy groan strangled in one's throat issued from him. Immediately the father stooped down, to ascertain in what way his son was wounded, and his hand instantly encountered the cord that bound him. The whole truth now flashed upon him; and whipping out his knife, with a cry of joy, he quickly severed the ligaments, even to the one that held the gag in his mouth. 
               The moment Jake Wilden was free-for this was the elder brother-he sprang to his feet, and then bounding up from the floor, uttered a loud peculiar noise, which we can liken to nothing but the discordant whistle of a steam engine. Then drawing a long breath, as of relief, he bounded up again, cracked his heels together, and shouted. 
               "Hell, dad, whar is they? I'm cantankerous-I'm for a fight-I'm mad-I can whip the hull beastly crew-I can, by -! whoop!" and before his father had time for a reply, he darted along the hay-mow, caught up his rifle, which the robbers had left in the very place where they found it, and rushed out of the barn, again giving utterance to another of his discordant screams, as though his lungs were overcharged with pent up sounds, which must perforce find vent or collapse. 
               The father now turned to his younger son, and, on cutting him loose, he went through gyrations, and gave vent to sounds, in all respects so much like his brother, that one might easily fancy the elder was repeating his ventilating and gymnastic exercises. As Bob was as eager for a fight as Jake, he was not long in finding his rifle, and the outside of the barn, whither he was followed by his father. 
               "Which way, dad?" cried Bob-"case I'll hev to fetch a cuss or die." 
               "That way, thar, to the right," said his father. 
               "Yes, and thar's Jake, as I'm a sinner, streaking on't across the open lot like chain lightning greased. Come on, dad, and let's see what your legs can do at fifty;" and away they both started in pursuit of Jake, who was in pursuit of his father's guests, who were in pursuit of the robbers, who were striving to make good their escape. 
               Literally speaking, the three Wilden's and the two guests, were all in pursuit of the horse-thieves; but we mentioned them in the order they were running, forming an unequal line of a half a mile. And this line was just long enough to reach the woods-so that at the very moment when the two last-Bob Wilden and his father-set forward in the chase, the horse-thieves, among whom were Jarvis and comrades, were entering the outskirts of the forest, and disappearing from their nearest pursuers. 
               Thinking it worse than useless to follow them longer under the cover of night and an extensive forest, the two persons who had reached the wood in advance of the Wildens, waited for the latter to come up, in order to hold a consultation and determine on further proceedings. In a few minutes Jake Wilden joined them, puffing and blowing like a porpoise, or an overcharged Mississippi steamboat boiler; and after giving vent to another of his peculiar lung-puffs-if we may be permitted to coin a word expressive of what we mean-he exclaimed: 
               "Whar's the thieving skunks by this time?-whar is they, I say? I'm outlandish-I'm cantankerous-and I want to lick the hull capoodle on 'em, all by myself, I does. Just set 'em afore me onc't, and take notice how the fur flies, will yer? O, I'm slick-I'm greasy-I'm biling-and I wants to fight something, jest afore I lays down and makes a die on't-I do, by -!-whoop!" 
               "Well, you'll have to catch 'em afore you can fight 'em," said one of the two whom he addressed; "and I dont think it's likely you'll do that to-night, being as how they've got into these here woods. But ef you was so fierce for a fight, why didn't you do something when they was about?" 
               "Do thunder!-why, how in h-l d'ye 'spose I could do anything with my arms and legs all bound, and a gag in my mouth?" 
               "So, then, you were bound, eh?" said the one who had not before spoken, and who made use of better language than his companion. "Pray, tell us how it happened!" 
               "Tell h-l!" grumbled Jake Wilden. "All I knows 'bout it is, that me and Bob had been out to help Ira Pottenger hunt up a diamond as he'd drapped down on the road thar; and when we got back into the barn, we was pitched upon afore we knowed it, and used up quicker nor I can tell ye about it. O, ef I'd jest a knowed them thar skunks was in thar, wouldn't thar a been a heap of fun? May be not; but you mought bet your old bob-tail colt on't, Mr. Munger, and I reckon you wouldn't lose, nother." 
               "Yes," rejoined the other, with a vexed laugh, "it's all very well to say I might bet my colt on your exploits; but it unfortunately happens that I've got no colt to bet, as the thieves have played their game and got him already." 
               "Yes, and I'll hev thar hearts' best blood for't, and other things," cried Jake, with a burst of fury. "They may git away to-night, and be - to 'em!-but my time 'll come one of these here days, and then look out for a breeze. The - scamps aint a-going to catch me, and tie me down, and gag me, and steal all the hosses I'm set to watch, and then git off without no trouble! No, by -! I'll hev the heart's blood o' the best of 'em, or I'll lose my own-so mark that, now, and don't forgit it-for it's big Jake as sez it." 
               By this time the father and brother of Jake had come up to the party; and m-mediately a consultation was held, regarding what was best to be done. It was of course decided as useless to pursue the outlaws any further that night-for in the deep wood it would be impossible to tell a man from the trunk of a tree a yard from the eye. And then, how could the pursuit be continued on following day, since it was not known who were the robbers?-not one of them having been seen, so as to make it possible, if the right ones were found, that they could be recognized and identified. 
               The truth was, it was believed by all the settlers, throughout the Great Miami Valley,-that there was a league, or band of men-who passed themselves off as farmers, doctors, traders, store-keepers, and mechanics-whose real occupation was to steal horses, make and pass counterfeit money. And to sustain them in this belief, the settlers had the evidence of several circumstances of a suspicious character, some of which were, that certain men, owning horses, and living among them, never had one stolen; and that several persons in the country, who had at different times, in different places, and on different charges, been arrested, were always proved to be innocent, through the testimony of certain men who had till then maintained a high place in the esteem of all honest persons who knew them. And here was the difficulty in attempting to bring the guilty to justice: there was no positive proof against them, and nothing of course could be done on mere suspicion. By a wonderfully adroit management, not one of the League had ever been taken in the act of stealing, or passing counterfeit coin; and so all that the honest settlers could do, was to suspect certain neighbors of having a hand in the crimes that were daily being enacted against the laws of the community. And of late these crimes had become bolder, more startling, and more numerous; and the honest settlers, alarmed for their personal safety, as well' as that of their property, had found it necessary to organize a society for the extinction of the depredators. And to guard against placing themselves in the power of their enemies, it formed a part of their constitution that no one should be allowed to become a member, but such persons as were known to have lost horses, or been otherwise troubled with marauders, previous to its organization. Hence the caution, as the reader has already seen, of those who were members, with regard to giving strangers, or those known not to be members, any information concerning the society, lest it might be used to their disadvantage. 
               As yet this society had never acted in concert-it having been but a few weeks since its organization; but the events of the night of which we are speaking, were well calculated to stir its members up to prompt and decisive action. Knowing it was to meet on the following night, it was judged advisable by the party in consultation, to wait quietly till then, lay the whole facts before the meeting, and be guided in their further proceedings by the judgment of the majority. And in taking this course, it was thought not improbable that another good might result from it-inasmuch as it was certain that one of the outlaws was wounded, and it was not possible, by keeping a sharp look out, that some person might, in the course of the day, be discovered with a bandaged arm. It was finally agreed, therefore, between the Wildens and their guests, that there should be no further pursuit of the outlaws till after the next meeting of the Anti-League Society. 
               Scarcely was this settled, when all were startled by a loud cry, followed by shouts, reports of fire-arms, and soon by a rustling of the bushes of the forest, near where the party stood, as if some persons were approaching them. Silently drawing back, under cover of a thicket, they had just fixed themselves in a position where they could see and not be seen, when a man burst out of the wood, and started to run across the clearing, in the direction of Wilden's house. But scarcely had he advanced forty yards beyond the limits of the forest, when four others came bounding after, in hot pursuit, and spread themselves out to the right and left, evidently with the design of completely cutting him off from the wood, should he change his course and attempt to regain a cover. 
               "Dod rot it!" said Jake Wilden, in a low tone, "I do believe it's some o' them cussed hoss-stealers. Let's arter 'em, and gin 'em thunder!" 
               "I'll go my death on that move," returned the younger brother. 
               "Here's arter 'em, then," rejoined the senior Wilden: and the next moment the whole party was in motion, and each selecting his man, all darted forward in pursuit of the strangers, Jake and Bob at the same time uttering loud whoops, not unlike those made by Indians when rushing down upon an enemy. The moment the four pursuers of the foremost runner heard these cries in their rear, and beheld the party giving chase, they appeared to become alarmed for their own safety; and changing their course, they sought to gain the forest to avoid being overtaken. Three of them being near the wood, succeeded in their attempt, and escaped; but the fourth one-a giant of a fellow, not unlike Jake Wilden in his huge proportions-being farther in advance, and nearer the foremost runner than the others, was completely cut off from gaining a cover, and therefore had no means to avoid a collision with his adversaries, but to outrun them on a dead race. It so chanced that Jake Wilden had singled out this giant for his object in the pursuit; and being a fleet runner, and fresh withal, he bounded on after him, rifle in hand, and soon began to gain on him, and leave the others behind. Perceiving how matters stood, the giant redoubled his exertions, and kept directly in the tracks of the first fugitive, who, not having noticed the change in the pursuers, believed himself the sole object of all their exertions, and consequently strained every limb and sinew to escape. But in the same ratio that Jake gained on the giant, the giant gained on the foremost; and a quarter of a mile, hard running, brought the three advance parties near together, but considerably increased the distance between them and those behind. 
               "Stop, you bloody thief!" now thundered Jake, "or I'll lodge the insides of this here rifle into the place yer set down on-I will, by thunder!" 
               The giant seemed to pay no heed to this call, but still pressed forward with all his might. Not so the foremost fugitive, who, thinking the language was addressed to him, and now believing it impossible for him to escape, suddenly came to a halt, and drawing forth a large Spanish knife, threw open the blade, by means of a spring, and otherwise prepared to sell his life as dearly as possible. But judge of his surprise, when, instead of beholding the huge fellow close behind rush upon him, as he had expected, the latter suddenly bounded one side, and went panting by, followed by another as huge as himself, who appeared in the act of raising his rifle to shoot him down. Such, doubtless, was his intention; for the next moment the snap of the lock was heard, but the piece did not go off; and with a "D-n the thing! I can do without it," it was cast upon the ground, and the same voice, addressing the now stationary personage, with whom the speaker had come along side, demanded to know who he was. 
               "My name is Butterman," was the-reply. 
               "Good!" cried the other; "so you're one of us; and now, arter being pursued, yourself, you can join in pursuit. Who's this fellow ahead?" 
               "Don't know-only I know he belongs to the villainous gang of horse-thieves." 
               "Good agin!" cried Jake, who by this time was considerably past the other, and still running hard. "I told 'em so-I knowed it-and I'll give him thunder yit!-whoop! hurray!" 
               "Who are you?" cried Butterman. 
               "I'm Jake Wilden." 
               "Is it possible, and I not know you! And who are those behind?" 
               "Dad, Bob, and two other friends," answered Jake, who by this time was too, far beyond the other to permit of any further conversation. 
               "And I have all this time been running away from my friends," soliloquised Butterman-"thinking they were enemies! O, what an ass! But I am sure they fired upon me, and gave chase, when I run that fellow in among them. I do not understand it; but here come those, I suppose, that can explain the mystery;" and Butterman turned to the others, who, running toward him, were fast lessening the distance between himself and them. 
               Meantime Jake was in close pursuit of the flying fugitive, more than ever eager to overtake him, since he had learned, to a certainty, that he was one of that gang whom he now hated with a bitterness which blood alone could appease. And if truth must be told, he did not regret that he and his intended victim were now by themselves, as it were, where he could wreak his signal vengeance upon him without interruption-it never once occurring to him, that his foe was his equal in strength, and that, in a hand-to-hand encounter, the latter might possibly get the advantage, and become master of the ground. No, he thought nothing of this; he only considered that he had been tricked, overpowered, and disgraced, by a portion of that same band of which the pursued was a member, and his whole soul was now concentrated upon one dark desire, revenge. 
               We have said that Jake had gradually been gaining upon the giant, who was no other than big Ben Thrasher, the man who had been deputised to poison Butterman's spring-but whom the latter, warned of his purpose, had watched, and fired upon, and chased through the country, till, having run him in among a portion of his own band, they had in turn fired at and joined in pursuit of him, with what result the reader has already seen,-we say Jake had gradually been gaining upon Thrasher, and when, at last, only a rod or so divided them, the former, indignant at what he conceived to be the latter's cowardice, tauntingly exclaimed: 
               "You're a thundering coward, you over-grown lummox! to be running away, this here way, from a feller as wants to lick ye beautiful. Thar's nobody near-so turn about and stand up like a man, ef you've got the spunk of a owl in ye!" 
               "You're right, old boy," growled the other, coming to a halt; "and I'll jest stop and see what you're made of." 
               "I can lick you, and all your cussed band!" shouted Jake, as he came within reaching distance of the other; and quick as lightning, dealt him a blow with his fist, which staggered him back a couple of paces, and which, bestowed on a man of ordinary physical strength, would assuredly have knocked him down. 
               "Thar's two on us as can play at this game," cried the other, as he furiously gave back a blow, that in turn staggered, Jake. 
               Jake instantly recovered, and bounding forward, with a yell of rage, struck right and left at his opponent, who returned the blows in the same manner, neither appearing to gain any decided advantage. For a few moments the blows on both sides rained fast and heavy,-each one of which, if rightly directed, would have brought an ox to his knees-but which, in the present instance, failed to prostrate either of these well-matched young Samsons. But at length, the near approach to each other clogged the blows, and each simultaneously grappled his opponent, and then indeed came the "tug of war." For a few moments there was a terrible struggle, then Thrasher was thrown violently upon the earth, and Jake Wilden fell heavily upon him, for the moment fairly knocking the breath from his body. 
               "Now die, you ugly lummox of a horse-thief, and be-to ye!" cried Jake, grasping the other by the throat, and endeavoring with all his might to strangle him. 
               In vain Thrasher resisted, and attempted to remove the vice-like grasp of his opponent from his throat; he had been too much stunned by his fall; and already the other had too much weakened him, by the advantage he had gained in seizing his throat while in a state of comparative inaction. Every moment he now felt his strength deserting him; the blood seemed ready to burst from the swollen veins of his countenance; his tongue already protruded; and his eyes seemed emitting sparks of fire, as the force of strangulation almost pressed them from their sockets. Vainly had he clutched, convulsively, the hands of Jake Wilden, and attempted to remove them from his throat; and at last, in his despair and agony, he threw them about at random. Suddenly, by accident, they came in contact with the handle of a knife which Jake carried with him, but which, in the present rencounter, he had either forgotten, or disdained to use. A gleam of hope and vengeance now animated the dying giant; and using all his remaining strength, he drew the weapon from its sheath, and plunged it into the heart of his antagonist, who suddenly uttered a groan, unclenched his hands, and, rolling over upon the earth, expired. 
               As soon as the weight of his opponent had left his body, Thrasher, knowing that the friends of the slain were close at hand, and that his life was in imminent danger, unless he could escape their vengeance, made a vigorous effort to regain his feet, but succeeded only in gaining his knees, when a sudden vertigo caused him to fall over, just at the moment the party behind, headed by the senior Wilden, reached the spot of the fatal combat. 
               "Eh! Jake! how's this?" cried the father of the dead, stooping down to feel of the body, and ascertain the cause of his remaining so quiet. "My God! he's killed! he's murdered!" he exclaimed the next moment, in tones of agonized horror, as his hands came in contact with the warm blood that had gushed from his wound. 
               "Killed? murdered?" exclaimed all, in amazement, terribly shocked at the horrid truth. 
               "Yes, my God! he's stabbed through the heart," rejoined the agonized father. 
               "And here's his devilish murderer, with the bloody knife still in his grasp," cried Bob, springing upon Thrasher, and wrenching the weapon from him. 
               "I did it in self-defense," returned Thrasher, faintly. "He got me down, and was strangling me, and I'd no other way to escape death." 
               "Villain! you shan't escape death as it is!" rejoined the now infuriated father. "Oh, God! that Jake-my son-my first born-should die sich a death!" groaned the nearly distracted parent, violently wringing his hands, and shedding bitter tears at his irreparable loss. 
               "Shall I finish the - scoundrel, dad?" asked Bob, planting his knee upon Thrasher's breast, and holding the knife just above his throat. 
               "No, no-not in this manner!" interposed Butterman. 
               "Let's hang him, then!" vociferated the younger Wilden. 
               "Ay, string him up at onc't-who's got a rope?" exclaimed the senior Wilden, with an excitement of manner that amounted almost to a frenzy. 
               "Here's one, dad," replied Bob Wilden, drawing a strong cord from his pocket. "It's the same these here cusses of thieves bound me with in the barn. It's lucky I fetched it along-but I kinder thought as how may be it 'ud sarve some on 'em the next turn." 
               "Quick, then, make a noose, and let's drag him to the nearest tree!" said his father. 
               "Thar's a tree, not mor'n twenty yards-I can just see it," returned Bob. 
               "But had we not better try him first?" suggested Butterman. "If we hang him, methinks we ought to constitute ourselves a court, and make a show of legal proceedings. 
               "D-n legal proceedings!" rejoined Wilden; "I'll take the responsibility. Aint it enough that he's killed poor Jake, right afore our eyes, arter trying to pizen your spring, as you said he did? Take hold, Bob, and help fetch him along;" and as he spoke, the father grasped one arm of Thrasher, and Bob the other. 
               "Mercy! mercy!" gasped the trembling giant. 
               "Shut your mouth, or I'll cut your throat!" exclaimed Bob, making a flourish with his knife, as, assisted by his father, he began to drag the other toward the fatal tree. 
               "Witness all, that I take no part in this," said Butterman, solemnly, as, in company with Munger and Dicker, the companions of Wilden, he followed after the near relations of the deceased, who were dragging Thrasher, without the least resistance on his part, toward the place designed for his execution. "It is true," continued Butterman, "I think the fellow deserves to die; and could I have killed him at the spring, or when in pursuit of him, I should have done so, and felt myself justified; but somehow this illegal way of meting out justice, has to me much the appearance of murder." 
               "Wall, I said I'd take the responsibility-so don't trouble yourself in the matter!" growled the senior Wilden, doggedly. "A villain shan't murder a son o' mine, and git into my clutches, without getting his desarts; and as he said this, his grasp tightened on the arm of the culprit, and he gave him a savage jerk, by way of enforcing his assertion. 
               The party had now reached within a few steps of the tree, and thus far Thrasher had made not the least resistance, but had allowed his captors to drag him along with his feet trailing on the ground. But he had evidently been regaining and harboring his strength for a final desperate effort; and had they been prudent, or gifted with proper forethought, they would have bound his legs at the start-well knowing that such unnatural quiet, in one about to be hung, foretokened something of a very opposite nature ere he should be attached to the tree by a cord around his neck. At length the tree was reached, and the limb selected from which to suspend the victim. Thrasher still remaining quiet, Bob Wilden now let go his hold, in order to throw the rope over the limb; but scarcely had he turned his head for this purpose, when, quick as lightning, the giant sprang to his feet, knocked the elder Wilden down with his brawny fist, and, uttering a savage yell, bounded away with the fleetness of a deer. Instantly each man drew up his rifle and fired; but every ball missed the fugitive, who, uttering a taunting laugh of defiance, gradually disappeared-not one of the astonished party thinking it of any use to attempt to overtake him. 
               Bitterly, savagely, did Bob and his father curse the good fortune of the thief in escaping from their Lynch-law justice; but all their abusive spleen availed nothing in the way of restoring him to their possession; and so at last their loud invectives settled down to a species of under-tone grumbling, and finally ceased altogether, as they turned their attention toward removing the dead body of their near relative to their dwelling, preparatory to consigning his mortal remains to earth forever. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XII. 
               VILLAINY MASKED 
               WE must now return to Cicely, whom we left in the hands of her captors. At the place of their landing, were three swift-footed horses-on one of which she was mounted, with the strongest of the party behind her; and, in company with the others, borne swiftly away. On, on they dashed in sullen silence-over field and wood-over highlands and marshy places-now in total darkness-now in the vivid light of the almost incessant lightning-the rain in torrents fairly drenching them, while the hoarse-voiced thunder seemed bursting forth in mockery. 
               So it seemed to Cicely, poor girl, who felt her guardian angel had deserted her. Why was she torn thus rudely from her peaceful home? For what base end? Who were her captors? Where would be her destination? were questions which she asked herself an hundred times, and an hundred times was she lost in the maze of bewilderment. She could learn of none, for none would give her answer; and yet, on, on they sped, in their bold career. She did not cry out, for she knew it would be useless-would only subject her to much severer usage. But one thing she could do-one thing she did do-she poured forth, from her heart, a silent, earnest prayer to the God of the helpless; and, feeling herself under His protecting arm, resigned herself to her fate. 
               At length, after some two hours hard riding, they came to a halt before a rude old cottage, made of logs, where she was assisted to dismount, and conducted within; while the others, a moment or two later-judging from the sound-rode swiftly away. 
               If Cicely was surprised at her capture, she was no less surprised when, conducted to the door by one of the party, she found it opened by a young, handsome, richly dressed lady-some twenty-two years of age-who welcomed her with a courteous smile, and, taking her by the hand, led her into a room furnished in very costly style. As Cicely east her eyes around, wonder, for the time, held her speechless. And well might she wonder, to see an old cottage like that-far back in the country-furnished in such luxurious extravagance, compared with her own more humble mode of life! The walls were wainscotted in a beautiful manner, and were adorned with numerous engraved pictures, of the French school, with one or two paintings. On one side was a large mirror, opposite to which was a mantel-piece, tastefully carved, supporting two large glass lamps, with a bright, blazing fire beneath. The floor was covered by a beautiful carpet, on which were several chairs, &c. All this Cicely took in at a glance, but was at a loss to comprehend its meaning. Did she dream? she rubbed her eyes-but no, all was real; while the voice of her young hostess, who had noticed this effect on Cicely, was well calculated to dispel her doubts, as, in a gentle tone, she said: 
               "Will you approach the fire, Miss? for you must be somewhat chilled-riding so far in the rain-although the night is warm. This fire was prepared for you, lady." 
               Cicely started, turned her face full upon the other, and gazed, for a moment, without reply. She was tall, and graceful, with black hair, and large, lustrous black eyes, the expression of which-combined with the rest of her features, and round, swelling bust-was rather voluptuous. The contour of her face was Grecian, and very expressive, particularly her mouth and eyes. In the whole expression of her countenance, there was something very winning; and yet, a something-you could scarce tell wherefore-that left a disagreeable impression on your mind; a sort of instinct told you all was not right-that something yet was back you had not fathomed. Cicely felt this, as she gazed upon her, and taking the seat which the other politely proffered, she thus made answer: 
                
               "For me, say you, this fire was prepared?" 
               "Even so, Miss." 
               "How knew you I was coming here? where am I? what is the meaning of this? and who are you? Oh! speak to me, good lady-tell me all, and truly; for my brain is in a feverish whirl of bewilderment." 
               "You question like a school-girl," replied the other, with a laugh. "But come, I have a change of dress for you. You will take cold in that." 
               Saying which, she turned-entered another apartment-and soon returned, bringing a large amount of female apparel, among which was a beautiful silk dress. "Here," said she, holding up the latter article-"see, is it not fine? Come, my lady, let us shift the scene;" and taking hold of Cicely, she commenced disrobing her. 
               "Are you crazy?" asked Cicely, her astonishment increasing at such strange proceedings. 
               "'Tis you, only, who are a little touched," replied the other, quietly, still pursuing her vocation. 
               "Nay, lady," said Cicely, half alarmed, with a show of resistance, "I object to this!" 
               "Sorry-because it must be done." 
               "Must, say you?" 
               "Must, I said." 
               Cicely saw she was determined, and acquiesced. In a few minutes she was apparelled in a dry suit; and, sooth to say, the beautiful silk dress became her person well. 
               "Ah! now you look fine," said the other, with a smile, casting her head a little one side, with a coquettish air, and stepping back a pace or two, to admire her. 
               "Oh! I beseech you, if you have the heart in you of a woman-I beseech you inform me the meaning of this! for I am nearly crazy!" cried Cicely wringing her hands in an agony of painful thought. 
               "You are a beautiful being," replied the other, with a laugh-at the same time approaching and stirring the fire. 
               Cicely started-a wild thought rushed through her brain-the being before her must be mad! if not, why acted she thus strangely? 
               "Truly, I pity you, lady," said Cicely, sweetly, gazing earnestly upon the other. 
               As the electric spark suddenly shocks the nerves, when brought in contact, making the person start involuntarily-so acted the words of Cicely upon the other. She suddenly started-drew herself up to her full hight-her features set, with a look of angry scorn-her lips slightly curled-her eyes flashing fire, as she replied: 
               "Pity me! you pity me! ha, ha! you look well pitying me! It becomes you well, most noble lady-indeed it does! Charity should not begin at home, in this instance! O no, certainly not!" 
               "Good Heavens! lady, I have unwittingly offended you. Pardon me! pardon me! I did not mean offense-indeed I did not!" replied Cicely, earnestly, gazing upon the other with a beseeching look. 
               The other looked at her steadily a moment, but seeing nothing but what was truthful in the look and manner of Cicely, relaxed her features to a softened expression, and, approaching, took hold of her hand. 
               "I believe you," returned she; "your countenance has the cast of truth. But hereafter, beware of your expressions; for know, that nothing is more offensive to a degraded woman, than pity. You may scorn her-trample upon her-in fact, do anything but pity; for that at once shows your worth, and her degradation-rouses up her pride, kindled by unbridled passion, and makes her your most bitter foe." 
               "But what mean you, lady, by talking thus of degradation? Surely you are not degraded!" 
               The other smiled a sad smile, and then, with a sigh, said: 
               "You are very simple-very innocent. You have seen but little of the world. How are you called!" 
               "Cicely Vandemore." 
               "A pretty name," said the other, musing-"a very pretty name; mine is Mary." 
               "But what do you do here, lady? Why live you here in this seeming costly style? Why was I brought hither? Oh! pray tell me." 
               "Hark!" said Mary, listening-"he comes." 
               At this moment the door opened, and a gentleman of small stature-handsome features-richly caparisoned in the military dress of a United States' officer-walked into the room-made a very graceful bow to the ladies-and, approaching, seated himself near the fire. 
               It was Aaron Burrand. 
               Significant glances, unperceived by Cicely, passed between him and Mary, who immediately left the room. 
               "A disagreeable evening, this, without," said Burrand, in a voice peculiar for its musical tones, turning to Cicely, who was seated some little distance from him. 
               Cicely turned her face toward him as he spoke, and her eyes met his. She would have quickly withdrawn her gaze; but there was something so peculiar, so fascinating, in the glance of his dark eye, that it seemed to her the command of her vision was powerless, while a secret awe crept over her. Burrand, in an instant, saw his power-a power which, as yet, had never in one instance failed him-and a smile of peculiar meaning played around his mouth, as he continued: 
               "Lady, I am about to pay you a compliment; take no offense, I pray you. I have traveled much, and far-have passed among all ranks of society-have noticed mankind well, particularly the gentler sex-but I must award to you the distinction of being the loveliest woman on which my eyes have ever rested." 
               "Sir," replied Cicely, with a blush, "I know not the meaning of this untimely compliment-so full of vain flattery." 
               "Truth, lady, should never be called vain flattery. Flattery is a word I despise, and never yet have stooped to use. No, believe me, it was but truth I spoke." 
               Cicely, embarrassed, made no reply. 
               Burrand gazed upon her a moment, and again resumed: 
               "You are young and handsome; and have seen some sixteen summers, probably?" 
               "Seventeen, sir." 
               "Ah! seventeen-that teeming age-so full of the bright and romantic-so full of thoughts of mind, almost matured-interwoven with the poetical frivolities of youth, ere yet stern Care has o'er us walked and left his foot-prints on our features. It is an age which I would love to linger on in converse yet for hours, so many by-gone associations in my mind doth it call up; but it may not be;" and he hove a sigh, and his features assumed a saddened expression. 
               Cicely gazed on him earnestly; his sadness interested her far more than his compliments had done. For sorrow there was a chord in her breast that would ever vibrate; besides there was something about him that excited a curiosity to know more. 
                
               "If you will not consider me presumptuous, may I be allowed to know your name?" said Burrand, after a slight pause, marking the effect of his previous language. "I, somehow, feel an interest in your welfare." 
               "My name, sir, is Cicely Vandemore." 
               Burrand suddenly gave a start; a thought flashed across his brain, which, at first had weight, but which, with a "pshaw," he immediately discarded. 
               "I like the name of Vandemore," returned he, with a gentle smile; "it sounds familiar. In my younger days. I knew one of that name, then living in the East." 
               "It was from the East my father came, some seven years since," returned Cicely. 
               "From what part?" 
               "We lived, for a time, in the State of Connecticut." 
               "Then you remember, without doubt, that beautiful land. I say beautiful, for there Nature is so diversified, one can forever gaze without ennui. I, like yourself, am from the East; and I recall, with feelings of pleasure, the sunny days I have spent in old Connecticut. I love to let memory linger upon her hills, and fertile valleys, and, in fancy, walk again upon the green-coated banks of some of her many streams. I was younger then, and more innocent than now. I had not then read the dark page the world has since to me unfolded-a page, fair lady, I hope, sincerely hope, you will never read. Then, lady, I knew what it was to love, and to lose her I loved. Ah! me, my life were a sad tale to unfold. When I look upon you, gentle Cicely, methinks I see the angel of my first adoration. She was like you-in form and features much the same. I hope your fate may long be unlike hers; though we cannot tell what destiny has for us in store;" and he sighed, cast his eyes upward with a devout look, and then fastened them upon hers, with a languid, fascinating expression. 
               Cicely for some time did not remove her gaze: she fancied the stranger (stranger to her) was unhappy; she felt herself drawn to him by a something she could not account for; she thought it was pity-perhaps it was; but, at all events, so much by his look, words, voice, and manner, was her mind engrossed, that, for the moment, she had forgotten where she was, or that she had been torn from her home. 
               "Have you ever loved, Cicely?" asked Burrand, at length, in a calm-toned voice. 
               Those magic words recalled her; her mind reverted, instantly, to Langley-to Molly-to her capture; the color flew swiftly over her features, and, retreating, left them pale; she glanced hurriedly around the room, and her voice trembled, as she inquired: 
               "Oh! sir, tell me where I am? why am I here?" 
               Burrand saw in an instant that he had missed his aim; and thinking frankness would now go farther with her than dissembling, thus replied: 
               "Lady, you are beneath the roof of one who loves you. For you, in this costly style, this cottage was prepared." 
               "How, sir!" said she, rising to her feet, her features glowing with excitement, "would you mock me? Would one that loved me tear me from my home by ruffian hands, think you? No, sir; love wears no garb to cover foul design like this!" 
               "Ah! lady, you little know what love will do. Believe me, when I say, I have loved you long and ardently." 
               "You, sir-you? Heavens! it is impossible: I never saw you until new." 
                
               "Not so with me, lady; I have watched you, hour by hour, when you little thought that you were seen." 
               "And it is to you, then, that I am indebted for my capture?" 
               "'Tis true." 
               "Then have you acted base and cowardly! unworthy of a man who wears such epaulets upon his shoulder!" said Cicely, her eyes flashing, her features reddening. "Go, tear them off, I pray you; for you have disgraced the land which gave you rank!" 
               "But be calm, Cicely, and listen to reason." 
               "Reason with a madman? with a man who has done a crime, heinous in the sight of the law? do not talk of such absurdities!" 
               "Listen, lady!" said Burrand, throwing oh her one of his most winning glances; "listen, Cicely, I pray you, for one brief moment, if no more. Will you not be seated?" 
               "Proceed, then," said Cicely, as she resumed her seat. 
               "Twenty-five years agone, I loved a beautiful being like yourself. Every thing that was captivating was thrown around her, and I loved with a passion fierce and burning as the fires of Etna. I sought her hand, and was accepted, but on conditions that I should win a name, by daring deeds, that should stand high among my countrymen-that after time should write upon the scroll of history. Ambition was my god; and I rushed on, to serve my country, and win the idol of my heart. These trappings tell you that one end, at least, I gained-and, alas! but one. I came to claim the treasure of my secret thoughts, but she was gone-was dead," and Burrand passed his hand across his eyes. "Lady, I have stood amid the roar of battle-even before the walls of Quebec-and there supported one, in his dying moments, whose name is now immortal; I have seen death in all its various dreadful shapes-I have seen my friends mown down like grass-I have seen some of my brightest visions fade-but never, until the moment when they told me she was dead, did I tremble. Well, that is past; and I have lived, and sought to cover an aching heart by schemes of glory. Partly had I succeeded when I saw you, and all the feelings of my heart were again revived; all those old associations again awakened. I would have sought your hand at once, but another stood in my way. I waited until I found he was discarded; and then-and then-pardon me, lady, I dared not address you, for fear I should be rejected; and yet, I dared to do what I have done. O, give me but hope, fair Cicely, and I will crown you with rosy garlands of immortality. 
               "Hope nothing from me, sir," said Cicely, gently, but firmly; "my heart is another's." 
               "Oh! say not that-say not that!" cried Burrand suddenly springing forward, dropping upon one knee, clasping one of her hands in his own, ere she was aware of his intentions, and looking earnestly into her eyes, with that powerful, fascinating expression, so peculiar to him-"say not that, dearest Cicely; let me have one bright dream to cheer me on, and coming time shall shadow forth such conceptions of a spirit as shall astonish the world! Lady, there is much in store, locked in the treasury of the future, that you dream not of. As yet, you know me not; but you shall one day hear my name pronounced first among the first that win a nation's praise. For you-for you will I toil harder-longer; I will build for you a car, surrounded by honor, wealth, beauty, and power; and you shall glide adown the stream of time, loved among the loved, honored among the honored." 
               As he spoke, Cicely gazed earnestly into those dark eyes, that, with all the power of the master mind of Burrand, were throwing their soft gleams into her own; listened to those words that told with such musical tones-and felt herself awed, yet charmed, as one feels in gazing upon the fascinating serpent. Her soul seemed impelled forward, while reason stood stationary, mute. 
               "Come, sweet Cicely, consent to be the idol of my future dreams!" continued Burrand, who had marked the effect he had wrought upon her; and, emboldened, he gently passed his arm around her waist, and partly drew her to him. 
               Cicely did not resist; it seemed to her some mighty secret force impelled her onward; she felt there was something terrible in that gaze, and yet she did not withdraw her eyes. 
               "Ah! you will be mine!" cried Burrand, while his dark, hellish design suddenly flashed across his features in a peculiar smile. 
               But he had counted too much. That smile broke the charm, and Cicely sprang from him with the cry of- 
               "Never! Oh God! save me from this dark man-this devil in human form!" and she shuddered, as she thought of her escape from the fatal snare. 
               Burrand started to his feet; a terrible expression came over his features; his powers, for the first time in his life, had failed by an imprudent step, and he inwardly cursed himself for it. Turning to Cicely, he said: 
               "You must be mine! you shall be mine! I'll talk no more to-night. You have one week to contemplate. One week from to-night, remember! Mary!" 
               Mary entered the room. 
               "Let not Cicely leave this house on any pretext-on any consideration whatever-as you value your life. If she escape, beware-beware!" and turning upon his heel, he abruptly left the cottage, mounted a horse in waiting, and rode swiftly away; while Cicely, overcome by powerful thoughts, sank fainting into the arms of Mary. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               THE ANTI-LEAGUE SOCIETY. 
               IT was toward evening of the day following the night of events we have already described, that a young man, of noble mien, was taking his way across a small clearing, in the direction of a cluster of log dwellings; some half a dozen in number, which then comprised the little village, since known as Venice, and which stood about a mile distant from Butterman's dwelling. It was a warm, beautiful day; and the sun, about an hour above the horizon, was shining out pleasantly, and throwing the shadow of the young pedestrian far behind him. A few minutes sufficed for him to reach the little hamlet, where he found some half-a-dozen persons lounging about near a building, which seemed designed, or at least used, for other purpose than a dwelling, as the windows were closed with heavy oaken shutters, and the door was shut, and fastened with a padlock on the outside. As the young man came up to the group of idlers, some of whom were about his own age, and one or two from ten to twenty years his senior, he bowed respectfully, and said: 
               "Good evening, gentlemen." 
               "Good evening stranger," replied the senior of the party-a tall, hard-featured, muscular man-while the others merely nodded, and stared at him, with that look of vulgar curiosity with which a stranger is almost always greeted in a settlement where other than the regular inhabitants are rarely seen. 
               Even the senior of the party stared at the young man, as well as his companions, and each appeared to take particular note of his dress and personal appearance-if not with an eye of suspicion, at least with a look which expressed a strongly-awakened curiosity to learn the object of his visit to a place so remote from the highways of civilization. And there might be an excuse for their seeming rudeness; for whereas all of the village party were plainly habited in the coarse garments then worn on the frontiers, the new-comer was elegantly attired in a rather expensive suit, which betokened no little skill in the tailor that had fitted it so admirably to his handsome, symmetrical figure. But if his appearance and manner awakened suspicion or curiosity in the first instance, his second question, which he put in a hesitating and embarassed way, was little calculated to lessen it. 
               "Do you know," he began, addressing the senior member of the party; and then pausing, and seeming to think for a moment, he continued: "I have heard, sir, that this part of the country is more or less infested with horse-thieves." 
               "Wall, stranger, reckon your hear-says aint fur out o' the way," was the rejoinder, accompanied with a keener scrutiny of his person than ever. 
               "Do you, if I may ask the question, know anything of this band of outlaws?" pursued the young man, now in his turn fixing his eye keenly upon the individual he questioned, at the same time not failing to note how his query was received by the others. 
               "Why, the worst I know is, that thar's sich a set o' scoundrels about; and from the way they've been to work amongst us of late, thar'll hev to be a stop put to thar cussed doings afore long." 
               This answer appeared to please the young stranger; for his eyes brightened, and even flashed, as he rejoined: 
               "I have heard, too, that there is a society forming-or is already formed-for their extinction." 
               "You've heerd so, hev ye?" answered the other, eyeing the stranger more suspiciously than ever. "You've heerd, so you say?" 
               "I have." 
               "Wall, what of it?" was the blunt: interrogative. 
               "Why, I am anxious to know if the report be true or false." 
               "And 'sposen I can't answer ye?" 
               "Then I must address myself to some one else." 
               "And 'sposen I say it is true?" 
               "Then the knowledge will greatly rejoice me." 
               "Why so?" 
               "Perhaps it will not be prudent for me to answer wherefore, until I know your motive for asking." 
               "Wall, as to that," replied the other, rather surlily, "I don't know's I've any pertikeler object in axing, beyond a curiosity to know what you mought be at, You're a stranger to us, you know; and for all we know, you may be axing for a bad purpose." 
               "If you are honest men," returned the stranger, coloring, and emphasising the doubtful word, "then I may say my motive in asking is to advance your interests and mine at the same time." 
               "Hev you got any doubts o' our honesty?" inquired the other, with flashing eyes. 
               "Why, you are strangers to me, you know; and I suppose I have as good a right to doubt your honesty, as you have to doubt mine." 
               "Wall, sir, we is knowed round here; and so may be you'd better go'n inquire." 
               "So am I known where I came from, and I freely accord to you the same privilege," returned the young man, undauntedly. 
               "And whar do you come from, stranger?" 
               "Kentucky." 
               "Old Kaintuck, hey! Wall, I am curious to know your business up this way." 
               "Well," replied the young, man firmly, "I don't know as you will ever be gratified-certainly you will not, until you have answered my question, concerning the organization of an anti-horse-thief society." 
               "Wall, then, to make a long story short, I'll just say there is sich a society." 
               "And in reply, I will say," pursued the stranger, "that my business up here is to see this society together." 
               "You want to see 'em together, hey? Wall, I'm just as curious now to know how you expect to gain your object, unless you can find somebody as knows you." 
               "I think the matter is very simple. If you can, and will, inform me where and when it meets, I will go to the society and ask to be admitted." 
               "Wall, you don't seem to know as how it's agin the rules of the society to tell a stranger whar and when they meet, and that even then you couldn't be admitted, without you could show good cause for it." 
               "Perhaps I could show sufficient cause, were I permitted to make the trial." 
               "Hew you ever had a hoss stole from ye?" 
               "No." 
               "Then I don't think as how you could show cause as 'ud be satisfactory." 
               "I may judge, from what you seem to know of the society, that you are yourself a member. 
               "Wall, may be I am, and may be I aint," returned the other, giving a sly wink at his companions-yet not so sly but that the young man perceived it, though he appeared to take no notice thereof. 
               "If I were sure of your being a member," he replied, "perhaps I could explain to you my reasons for wishing to see the society, so that even you, who seem to be so suspicious of me, would no longer have doubts of my honest intentions." 
               "Wall, ef that's the case, then I may as well tell you that I am a member." 
               "Then I will speak with you aside." 
               "Why, ef it's nothing only what concerns the society, you can speak it right out here, for we're all members." 
               "Ah! thank you-I am glad to hear it. Well, then, in the first place, you must know, that last evening, a little later than this, I saw a young lady, whom I highly esteem, forcibly abducted from Covington, Kentucky, by a party of villains, who belong to the League of the Miami, as they term themselves; and which is no more nor less than a name for a band of marauders, which you know as horse-thieves; and having heard before of their depredations, and that a society had been formed for their extinction, I came hither to find that society, for the purpose of joining it, and attempting to recover the girl, and take vengeance on the outlaws generally, and, if possible, the accursed kidnappers in particular." 
               "Wall, then, I must say, I think as how this does begin to alter the case; and the aff'ar, on your part, begins to show up in a rayther satisfactory light. But I'd like to know, stranger-I don't know your name, ye see-" 
               "Langley-Edward Langley." 
               "I'd like to know, Mr. Langley, how it happens that you knows these kidnapping thieves, you tells about, is a part of the same band o' scamps as troubles us round here?" 
               "Well, sir, I will explain;" and Edward proceeded to give full particulars of all he had witnessed the night previous-but which details, being already known to the reader, we will not here repeat. 
               "Yes, yes, I understand it all now," said the other, as Langley concluded his narration; "and to me your story all looks purty straight:-hey! boys-what do you think?" 
               "I'd bet on it's being true," replied one of the party. 
               "And so would I, so would I," repeated each of the others. 
               "Wall, then," said the spokesman, "so far as I'm concerned, individually, I'm for admitting you into the society to-night." 
               "Ha! then it meets to-night, eh?" said Langley. 
               "Yes, it meets to-night, and in this here building, and the folks'll be coming in in about a hour or so. I say, I'm for letting you come in to-night; but I can't do it of myself; I'll hev to speak to some o' the head ones fust." 
               "O, I pray you gain me admittance! for I am nearly distracted to stir up the society to go in pursuit of, and to hunt down these atrocious villains!" replied Edward, energetically, while his eyes flashed, and his bosom heaved, with strong emotions of vengeance and love, as he thought of the kidnappers and their victim. 
               "I'll do the best I can," rejoined the other; "but I can't promise nothing sartain. But afore they come, 'sposen you jest step over yonder to my house, and take some supper with me, and we'll talk it over by ourselves." 
               "Thank you!" returned Langley, warmly. "I will accept your kind offer with gratitude, for I really feel unusually fatigued;" and the two set off together, leaving the others to discuss the events they had just heard narrated. 
               A little after sunset persons began to come in from different parts of the country-the door of the building already mentioned as being secured with a padlock, was thrown open-and by the time that night had fairly darkened the earth with her mantle, not less than thirty, resolute, determined-looking men, were assembled for a desperate purpose, which purpose will be made known in the progress of our story. 
               This log building contained but one room, with benches scattered through it for the persons assembled to sit on. A platform at one end, on which stood a bench and a table, with a light on the latter, served as the place of distinction for the president and secretary-Mr. Butterman filling the former office, and Mr. Munger the latter. Already were the president and secretary in their places; but as the members of the society from a distance kept dropping in, the former as yet had made no move to declare the meeting opened for the transaction of business. At last, when about fifty were assembled, and a lapse of five minutes had brought no new-comer, Mr. Butterman arose, and requested the door to be closed, and bolted on the inside. As soon as this was done, he declared the meeting opened; and then proceeded, in a brief and emphatic manner, to state the events of the night previous; how he had been aroused in the middle of the night by a stranger-his interview with the latter-his strange communication-his promise to meet him again on the present evening; how he had acted on his communication, and had seen a man attempting to poison his spring; how he had fired at and missed him; how he had followed him through the country, and had managed to keep him in sight, which subsequent events had led him to think was a ruse on the part of the stranger, to draw him in among his own party, and then make away with him; how the villain had so far succeeded, that he had in turn been obliged to fly for his life; how, being near Wilden's house, and knowing him to be a staunch friend, he had sought to get there by crossing a clearing; and, in short, stated concisely all that had occurred, in which he was concerned, up to the death of Jake Wilden and the escape of Thrasher-all of which is known to the reader. 
               "And now," he said, in conclusion, "I shall let Mr. Wilden, who I perceive is present, relate his own painful story-previous to which, however, I will state, that the stranger who gave me the timely information regarding the attempt that would be made to poison my spring, again made his appearance this evening, as agreed upon, and has accompanied me hither, to gain admittance to our society; but I have left him at a short distance, in charge of a couple of trusty fellows, so that I could ascertain the mind of the society concerning his request first. He states his name to be Roberts; that he is a member of a gang of horse-thieves, who style themselves the League of the Miami; that until last night he was their treasurer; but on account of some quarrel, was turned out of office by the captain, for which he swears to have revenge by betraying the whole party into our hands. A man that would do this, gentlemen, I am free to say, I consider a dark villain, and not to be trusted; but at the same time, I think it wise in us to make use of him as a tool with which to break up this cursed League. It has come to such a pass, now, that no one is safe, neither in property nor person. We are all liable to be robbed and murdered at any moment; and I, for one, am determined to use every means in my power, foul or fair, to hunt down and annihilate this detestable band of robbers, cutthroats, and counterfeiters. Our country, here, is new, and we have no laws strong enough to protect us, save such as we make ourselves; and I am for following these scoundrels into their very den, and there shooting them down, as we would so many panthers, wolves, or hyenas." 
               "It is more than human nature can bear," pursued Butterman, warmed into vehemence with a thought of his own wrongs and those of his neighbors: "yes, I repeat, more than human nature can bear, to be treated in the manner we have been by these human fiends. Where is the man among us that has not been molested? that has not been robbed of his best property-his noble steed-that he had procured, and fed, and nourished that the gallant animal might, when called upon, bear him wherever his desire should lead him? Having stolen our horses, if they chance to hear that we are angry, and complain therefor, at once they assemble, like so many hell-hounds, and devise, as our reward, a plan to poison our cattle, ourselves, and our families. Who thinks that the barns of some of you, that were burned last year, was not the work of their hands? Who thinks that Thomas Becket hung himself? or that James Mason accidentally fell into the Miami, and was drowned? No! no! depend upon it, gentlemen, they were murdered-murdered, I repeat, and by the order of this accursed League of the Miami. Who will be the next victim? Poor Jake Wilden was the last-who will be the next? Perhaps we are all doomed. I know that my life is threatened, and I know no reason why yours should not be. But I will pause, and let Wilden tell his story, which some of you perhaps have not heard, but which truly concerns all of us more or less. I will only ask, previous to taking my seat, whether you will have Roberts admitted or not?" 
               This being decided in the affirmative, Butterman sat down, and Wilden arose so make his statement of the events of the night previous, so far as they had come to his knowledge. He was a heavy-built, bony, muscular man, much inferior to either of his sons in size, with features strongly marked by dark passions, that had evidently had full sway all his life. 
               He began by stating, in a tone of such natural pathos that all were touched, how he had just been called upon to consign his first-born to the dust; and then as he reverted to the manner in which that son had been brought to his death, his brow darkened, his eyes emitted a terribly malignant gleam, his lips compressed, and the words fairly hissed between his closed teeth; and he went on to invoke the Almighty to curse his enemies, and swore, by all he held sacred, he would yet be revenged in their heart's blood. 
               "And I'd hev took revenge on Jake's damnable murderer that night," he said, "ef the president and secretary of this here society, and one other as was along, had only lent me a helping hand; but they wouldn't, and so the thief got away." 
               "One word in explanation, gentlemen," said the chairman, rising. "I can pardon the insinuation just thrown out by Mr. Wilden, from the fact that he has been called upon to mourn the loss of a son, in a way calculated to stir up the worst passions, and make him feel bitter toward every one. With regard to assisting him in his design of executing the guilty man, I objected, on the ground that the man should have a brief trial first, and so give it the appearance of legal proceedings. He refused this, and I then 
                     rufused
                     refused
                   to aid him, thinking he would be able to accomplish his purpose without my assistance. I have regretted since, that I did not aid him in taking summary justice on the vile thief and murderer; but I acted according to my feelings at the time. I have since discarded all mercy from my heart; and you may depend upon it, gentlemen, that the next cutthroat that is captured, I shall be among the first to cry for his blood, unless he is willing to save himself by denouncing and betraying his party. Will some one see that this man Roberts is brought within here! as, by what we can glean from him, we must determine our next movements." 
               "Before this Roberts is fetched here, I'd like to make a request, Mr. President," said the individual in whose charge we left Edward Langley. 
               "Proceed, Mr. Green!" replied the chairman. 
               "That's a young man stopping at my house, who com'd into the place, here, afore night, expressly to jine our society. He says he knows a gal as has been kidnapped, and he's for gitting revenge. He told his story all over to me, and it sounded so nateral, that I promised him I'd try and git him admission. Now I wants to know if he can be admitted?" 
               "Does he think the girl was kidnapped by any one belonging to this League of the Miami?" inquired the president. 
               "He says he knows she was; and I'm inclined to b'lieve he tells the truth about it." 
                
               "Well, we need all the force we can raise," rejoined the president; "and so, gentlemen, I will take your minds on the matter of admitting this stranger along with Roberts." 
               The result was a decision in the affirmative; and while a messenger was despatched for Roberts, Green went to notify his guest that he could have a hearing. In a few minutes all parties reappeared, and the door was again bolted. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               THE LOVER AND TRAITOR. 
               CONSIDERABLE sensation was created in the house, by the appearance of the strangers. The fine, noble, commanding look of Edward Langley, contrasted forcibly with the somewhat cringing, sinister, revengeful expression on the dark countenance of John Roberts, the traitor. Both were conducted forward to the stand occupied by the president, who, addressing himself to Langley, said. 
               "We will record your name, if you please?" 
               "Edward Langley." 
               "Residence?" 
               "Belle Farm, Kentucky." 
               "We have been informed, Mr. Langley," pursued the president, "that you wish to join our society." 
               "If the object of this society is the extermination of a band of outlaws, known among themselves as the League of the Miami-then, sir, you have been rightly informed," was the calm, dignified reply. 
               "And what cause, pray state to the company, has led you, a stranger, to come thus far, to join a society for the purpose you avow?" 
               "My tale is soon told;" and Langley proceeded to repeat the story he had told to the man Green. 
               "And you say," pursued the president, "that this fellow, when taken, declared that the girl had been seized by the League of the Miami?" 
               "Yes, so he stated; and also that they wanted to secure him; and he was on the point of proceeding to give more information, when the other, who had him in charge, knocked him down, and, catching him up in his arms, sped to the boat, and shoved into the stream, before I had time to overtake him, and thus he escaped me. Rumors had before reached me, that in the Great Miami Valley, there was such a band of outlaws in existence; and only a few days previous, a person from these parts had confirmed these rumors, and stated that already their deeds of infamy had become so troublesome to the honest settlers, that they had organized a society for their extermination; and this society, I then resolved, if it were possible, to join. In my excited state of mind, I kneeled upon the earth, and swore I would not take peaceful rest, till I had rescued the girl, and revenged myself, for the foul daring of seizing her, on some of those who had sanctioned her capture; and now I am desirous to make that oath good, and for this purpose am I here." 
               "Well, if we may believe your story-and I see no reason for doubting it-I think your wrongs entitle you to become one of us," rejoined the president. "Gentlemen, shall we, or shall we not, admit Edward Langley to membership?-let us have your minds on the subject." 
               This being decided in the affirmative, without a dissenting voice, the chairman proceeded: 
               "Edward Langley, do you believe in a God?" 
               "I do." 
                
               "In a heaven for the good?" 
               "I do." 
               "In a hell for the wicked?" 
               "I do." 
               "Then hold up your right hand, in acknowledgment that you swear, by that God, as you hope for heaven, and dread hell, that you will be true to us, in our grave undertaking of ridding the country of this accursed band of robbers, plunderers, counterfeiters, incendiaries, kidnappers, and murderers, self-styled the League of the Miami." 
               This being complied with, Langley was forthwith declared to be a member. The laws and regulations of the society were then read to him by the secretary, and he was called upon to sign the constitution-which he did, in a bold, free, graceful hand. 
               "You see," said the president, in conclusion, "by the reading of the constitution, that your election to membership has been somewhat illegal, inasmuch as the said constitution expressly prohibits the joining of any one who may not be known to have lost a horse, or otherwise been molested, prior to the organization of this society; but as the spirit of it has reference to persons living in this vicinity, and was adopted in order to prevent any of the League themselves gaining admittance, it has been thought proper, by the unanimous vote of those here assembled, to waive the objectional point in your particular case." 
               "For which, Mr. President, and gentlemen," responded Langley, "I tender you my heart-felt acknowledgements." 
               He then took a seat near him, and the chairman signified to Roberts that the society was ready to hear what he had to say. 
               "Mr. President," responded the individual addressed, "if I may be permitted, I should like to ask the gentleman who has just been admitted a member of the society, one or two questions." 
               "Do you object to this, Mr. Langley?" inquired the chairman. 
               "I do not," was the reply. 
               "Proceed, then," rejoined the president to Roberts. 
               "Will you please state what kind of a looking person was the one you saw forcibly taken away, and who declared that the girl you mentioned was captured by the League?" 
               "He was small in stature, and, as near as I could judge, had ugly, villainous-looking features," replied Langley. 
               "And the one who knocked him down-what sort of a person was he?" 
               "A low, stout, square-built man, with rather broad, full features." 
               "Then I am right in my conjectures: the two persons were Jarvis and Melven. Mr. President, and gentlemen, I can so far confirm Mr. Langley's statement, as to say, that I was in the Cave of the League when Jarvis brought this man Melven in a prisoner, where he is now confined to await his trial and execution." 
               This announcement caused some little sensation throughout the house; and the president, addressing himself to Roberts inquired: 
               "What sort of a character does this Melven bear among you?" 
               "He is generally considered a contemptible wretch, sir; and it has long been believed, by most of the League, that the first favorable opportunity he would turn traitor." 
               "Would it be worth our while, think you, to attempt his rescue?" 
               "I do not think it would, as he is of no use to any one, and had better, for society, be dead than alive. He is a villain by nature." 
               "But perhaps he could tell us what has been done with the girl?" suggested Langley, brightening up at the thought. 
               "No, I do not think he could; for, depend upon it, whoever employed him, would not trust him any farther with his secret than was absolutely necessary. And I must say-though my remark prove in favor of the men I hate-that I do not think this abduction was ever sanctioned by the League, or I should have heard of it. It is possible that the villains who seized the girl may belong to the League; but if so, I am inclined to think they acted for themselves, or for some person who has promised a rich reward." 
               "But for what object could the girl have been taken?" said the president, inquiringly. 
               "The basest, undoubtedly," rejoined Edward; and his words trembled with deep emotion. "But are you sure," he asked, addressing Roberts, whose position before the society had privately been explained to him-"are you sure this Melven knows nothing concerning the girl? where she has been taken, for what purpose, and so forth?" 
               "No, Mr. Langley, I am not positive," replied the other. "I only give it as my opinion, knowing the man as well as I do." 
               "Oh, I would that I could see him myself!" rejoined Langley, not a little excited. 
               "That will be difficult to do," said Roberts, "and can only be done by the overthrow of the outlaws, as he is concealed in their stronghold. But if it be the wish of this society, I will guide you all thither, on the night of Melven's trial, and you will thereby have an opportunity to rescue the culprit, and take revenge, at the same time, on the assembled banditti." 
               "I move that this proposition be adopted," said Langley. 
               "I second it," said Green. 
               It was now put to vote, and carried unanimously. 
               "When will this trial take place?" inquired the president. 
               "Soon," replied Roberts; "I must ascertain the precise time, and let you know. Suffice, that it will not be tonight, nor to-morrow night, as the captain and his men have got as much business on their hands as they can attend to; and this brings me to the matter I wish to communicate. The horses stolen last night from Wilden's barn, have been taken down to a place called Harlem's Cover, about ten or fifteen miles below here, where they will remain a couple of days, for the purpose of coloring, and otherwise altering, and also to prevent you, whom the League suppose will be-out in search of them, from finding any trace thereof." 
               "And what do you mean by coloring?" inquired the president. 
               "Why, the League has a way of so coloring the hair of a horse, that you would not know your own animal, should you chance to see him. Out of a white one, they will make a bay; and a dark bay, sorrel, or brown, they will color a beautiful, shiny black. If the horse has shoes on him, by which you would know his track, they will take them off, and put on others in their place. This is generally done at a place called Meizmer's Cove. It is seldom they take a body of horses together, as they did last night-the more usual plan being, for one of the party to watch his opportunity, and steal from his nearest neighbor, ride the horse away to the next neighbor that belongs to the band, and then return home and go to-bed, so that he may be found there the next morning, and no suspicion fall upon him. The next one does the same and so the horse is passed along the line, as one may say, until he reaches the place of concealment, where he is kept several days, or until all search for him is over, and then he is taken across the ford of the Ohio, in the night, perhaps in company with a dozen others, rode down through Kentucky into Tennessee, and so up into Virginia, where all are finally disposed of." 
               "The atrocious scoundrels!" said the president, bitterly, biting his nether lip in vexation; "we will soon put a stop to their infamous movements! But go on with your story, Mr. Roberts-state what you know of their intentions, and advise us how to act." 
               "Well, to-night, if the scheme of the League succeeds, there will be several horses stolen from the vicinity of Hamilton. These horses will be ridden down to Harlem's Cover, and placed with those stolen last night; and to-morrow night the League will meet, by appointment, in a place called the Oaken Grove, where several persons, who are in the habit of buying their spurious money-but who do not belong to the League-will meet them, to transact their unlawful business." 
               "How many of the League will be present?" inquired the President of the Anti-League Society. 
               "I do not know. It will be optional with the members to come or not. Doubtless there will be some fifteen or twenty of the party there." 
               "Why do they not meet at the cave-or, as you have termed it, in speaking of it to me-Hamilton's Den?" 
               "Because that is their stronghold, and private resort; it is where the bogus money is coined, and the blank bank notes are filled up; and it would not do to have that known to strangers, lest some of them might betray the secret, and so endanger the safety of the band." 
               "Is this cave, then, so private?" 
               "It is, I believe, known only to the members of the League; and so well is it secreted by natural means, that were you to pass over the very spot, unless searching particularly for it, you would not discover it. It is formed in a side hill, and all around it are trees and undergrowth-and even the very mouth of it is concealed by a cluster of bushes." 
               "You say you can lead us to it?" 
               "Not only that I can, but that I will, if I am spared and prospered." 
               "When?" 
               "On the night of Melven's trial." 
               "And how are you to ascertain when that night will be?" 
               "By going back to the band, and mingling with them." 
               "But if we allow you to go back, what proof have we that you will not betray us?" 
               The features of Roberts instantly flushed, and for a moment or two he looked at the president indignantly, and his dark eyes flashed. 
               "Have I not done enough," he said, angrily, "by placing my own life in jeopardy, two nights in succession, to convince you that I will prove true to you?" 
               "Pardon me, Mr. Roberts!-but how are we to know that all you have done is not a mere scheme of your own party, for finding out our secret, and having us at an advantage?" 
               "Can you not judge by my actions, and the verifying of my words last night?" 
               "But that proves nothing. In the first place, you state that a man is coming to poison my spring, and I, of course, go out to shoot him. Well, I miss my aim, he runs, and I naturally follow. Well, in running a few miles, he draws me into an ambuscade, I am fired on, and in turn I flee for my life, and, but for accidentally running among my friends, I might have lost it. Some things in this affair are a little curious, and I have been puzzled to understand them. In the first place, this man, being a giant in strength, could have handled me as easily as I could handle a child. Well, then, why did he run? In the second place, I saw it clearly demonstrated myself, when Jake Wilden took after him, that he could run faster than I. This being the case, why did he not run out of my sight, unless it were a previous design to draw me into that ambushment? Answer these questions, Mr. Roberts." 
               "Surely, I cannot say how it happened that he did so," replied the other; "but this I can truly say, and I call God to witness the assertion, that I was, and am still, innocent of there being any design beyond that of poisoning your spring-otherwise I should have mentioned it. But let me ask you a question or two! In the first place, allowing the whole to have been a plan to entrap you, and that I was sent to you to inform you exactly what I did, do you not think it all very bunglingly managed for men who are in the habit of doing business with a more than usual amount of cunning and sagacity? Look at it, and see for yourself! Here comes a man, rouses you up in the middle of the night, and tells you your spring is going to be poisoned. Well, does he know that you will get up on his mere say-so, and go out with your rifle to watch for the villain? Granted he thought you would, does it follow that this same poisoner has no desire to live?-that he will go deliberately to the spot where he knows you are concealed, and allow you to take a shot at him-merely for the purpose, in case you miss your aim, that he, by running, may draw you into a trap?-when, too, as you yourself have acknowledged, he could, then and there, have handled you as you could handle a child? And then again, supposing all this so, what reason could he have had before coming there, to suppose that, even if you did follow him, that you would continue the chase for miles, in the night, alone? And, finally, let me ask you, seriously, trusting you will answer me candidly, if there was anything in the man's manner, as he approached the spring, that led you to believe he knew of, or even mistrusted, your presence?" 
               "Frankly, I confess there was not," replied Butterman; "and since you have stated the matter so fully and clearly, I must confess I see it in a different light; though I shall still have to say, I think there was something very curious in the man's actions. So far as that is concerned, however, I am willing to exonerate you; but still all this does not make us safe, in allowing you liberty to pass from one party to the other." 
               "Since I am suspected and despised, by men who claim to be honest-and merely, too, from a desire to turn honest myself-I regret I did not remain with those with whom I am leagued, or leave the country without giving information to any one," replied Roberts, bitterly. 
               "Well, you certainly cannot blame us for desiring security against betrayal, since your very presence here is either to deceive us or to betray others into our hands." 
               "What security do you want? Here, take my money!" and Roberts, indignantly flung a well-filled purse upon the platform, at the feet of the president. "It is all I have," he continued, "and if you think that is security, take it!" 
               "It is not sufficient security for us to trust our lives in your hands." 
               "Then, by heavens! you may hunt out the horse-thieves yourselves!" cried the other, in rage. 
                
               "Stop! not so fast-for your bragadocia will be of no avail here!" replied the president, sternly. "Either you are what you profess to be, or you are not. If you are, you will not scruple to give us the security we want. If not, we shall take measures to make you feel that we are in earnest in our desire for vengeance against those who have wronged us." 
               "What means this implied treachery?" demanded Roberts, turning deathly pale. "I came here in good faith, and I now ask to be set at liberty, and allowed to go my own way-since, as I plainly see, my word will not be taken!" 
               "You came here, sir," rejoined Butterman, sternly, "with the avowed purpose of betraying your comrades into our hands. This opportunity you sought. We did not go to you, but you came to us, and forced yourself on us, as it were; and all we now ask, since our secret is in your possession, is that you will give us security that you will do faithfully what you have promised-otherwise, let me tell you, once for all, to cut the matter short, you will be detained a prisoner, will be tried before this body, and, if found guilty, will be taken out and hung at such place as may be designated by your judges." 
               "My God!" cried the man, in alarm-"already I feel I begin to reap the reward of my treachery." 
               "Traitors may be used for a certain purpose," replied Butterman; "but they will ever be despised by all honest, or dishonest men-for they are truly the lowest grade of villains that exist." 
               "What then shall I do?" pursued Roberts, cold perspiration starting out and standing in large drops on his features. "I have given you my purse-the only security I have to give-what more can I do?" 
               "I will tell you. You have informed me, privately, you have a wife and child-we will take them as hostages of your good faith to us. If you prove true, they shall be set at liberty, your money be restored to you, and, in addition, we will make you up a purse of one hundred dollars. If you prove false, your wife and child shall suffer for your conduct." 
               "I accept the terms," replied Roberts; "and the more willingly, because I have been fearful, in case the League should discover my meditated treachery, they might, if I escaped them, vent their rage on my innocent family; and with you, gentlemen, (bowing to the company) I know they will be safe." 
               "This matter settled, then, we will dispatch a messenger, forthwith, to fetch them here. Mr. Munger, draw up a paper from Roberts to his wife, commanding her presence, and let him sign it." 
               As soon as this was done, and the messenger was dispatched on his errand, arrangements were discussed for falling upon the bandits, on the following night, at Oaken Grove, and endeavoring to kill and capture as many as possible. It was at last settled that Edward Langley should be the leader of a daring party for that purpose, and that Roberts should be the one to direct their steps thither. Meantime, as soon as his wife and child should appear as hostages, he was to be allowed to return to his companions in crime, and so lull all suspicion. 
               After some farther business arrangements, not sufficiently important to be mentioned here, the meeting broke up; but still Roberts was detained a prisoner, until the arrival of his wife and child, which occurred during the night, and then he was set at liberty. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               OAKEN GROVE. 
               ON the night following the meeting of the Anti-League Society, as recorded in the last two chapters, some twenty or more of the outlaws were assembled at Oaken Grove. This was a level spot of ground, some ten rods by twenty, on the summit of a short, steep hill, at a distance perhaps of ten miles north of the Ohio river, and near the line which divides the State of the same name from that of Indiana. On this level tract grew many large, noble oaks, at regular intervals from each other, and hence the place had come to receive the appellation of Oaken Grove. On three sides the mount was so steep as to be difficult of ascent; the fourth side sloped off gradually to its base; but the ridge of easy ascent, was, in some places, not more than a rod wide; and, on either side of this, the hill again descended as steep as on the before-mentioned three sides. 
               On the flat, as we have said, the outlaws had assembled, to the number of twenty or more; and by the dim light of the stars, through the occasional openings in the grove, a faint outline of their dusky forms could be seen, as they stood grouped together, or were carelessly lounging about, apparently awaiting the arrival of some expected person or persons. On the outskirts of this level tract, where the descent of the hill began, some three or four of the party were stationed, at equal distances, to act the part of sentinels, and see that no one entered the grove without giving the password; for the excitement caused by their late daring acts among the honest settlers, rendered this precaution necessary to avoid a troublesome surprise. 
               It was about nine o'clock in the evening, and most of the party present had been on the ground over an hour, and some of them were already beginning to get impatient. The delay of another half hour, without bringing the looked-for personage, caused the impatient ones to grumble aloud. 
               "Why don't he come?" said one. 
               "He's getting to neglect us of late, it seems to me," returned another. 
               "May be it will be best to make a new choice soon," rejoined a third. 
               "That we can't do till his time is out," put in a fourth; "and that won't be this year." 
               At this moment the voice of one of the sentinels was heard saying: 
               "Who goes there?" 
               "Bonny Gray," was the reply. 
               "Ha! he comes at last!" said one of the party of grumblers-"and it is high time he were here." 
               A tall, dark figure was now seen advancing, with a quick step, and presently he stepped in the center of the grove, and all the outlaws, not on duty, began to gather round him. 
               "Jarvis!" he called, in a tone of authority. 
               "Here, Captain," was the quick response; and the individual who answered, drew closer to the other. 
               "How many are here assembled?" inquired Gerolstein. 
               "Twenty-one, besides the four sentinels." 
               "Have we had any purchasers?" 
               "Not as yet, Captain." 
               "Henry Morford!" 
               "Here, Captain." 
               "What amount of spurious coin have you on hand?" 
               "Ten thousand dollars, full value-five thousand, sale price." 
               "Is it better, then, than usual?" 
                
               "The best, I believe, we have ever coined." 
               "But these are no buyers, it seems!" 
               "We have had none yet, Captain." 
               "Strange! we surely have not mistaken the night-eh! Morford?" 
               "This, sir, according to my reckoning, is the twenty-third-and that is the regular day, I believe for this business." 
               "Has this monthly meeting ever proved a failure before?" 
               "Yes, Captain, once, last year, you remember." 
               "Ah! yes-I remember. It seems to me I am growing forgetful. Well, we will wait another half-hour, and if no one comes, we will go down to Harlem's Cover, and look to our horses. By-the-by, that last night's job was not a bad one, all things considered. Six as good-blooded nags as one need wish to ride; and that reminds me we have done our share in this part of the country for the present. The haul last night, and the night before, has pretty well thinned all the animals worth taking, besides rousing up the settlers to some decisive action. I would we had not taken so many at once-but it cannot be helped now. We must try and get them across the ford as soon as we can; and then those who have not families, had better go to another part of the country, till the storm this will raise shall have time to blow over. I truly hope no trouble will come of it!" pursued the captain, uneasily; "but, somehow, I have my fears. I am sorry that Thrasher was obliged to kill young Wilden, for such deeds are apt to bring trouble, especially when the whole transaction is so exposed as was that. But no blame can be attached to Thrasher, who acted in self defense: his escape was a very narrow one at that. But what seems somewhat singular to me, is the fact that Butterman should be watching his spring at that time of night, as though he really knew some one was coming to poison it." 
               "Pardon me, Captain-but somehow I am inclined to think he did know," rejoined Morford. 
               "Gods! that implies treachery, Harry!" cried Gerolstein, with a vehement start. 
               "And if it does-" 
               "If it does, Harry!" repeated the other, interrupting him. "If it does! then we should know the traitor, and sit in judgment on him before we do anything else. It could not have been Melven, for he is still in close confinement. Speak, Harry Morford, and declare whom you suspect!" 
               "Nay, Captain, I would rather not, till I have further proof-lest I wrong an innocent man, and it be set down by my enemies, or the friends of the accused party, to sheer malice." 
               "But, sir, this is matter that puts all our lives in jeopardy, and must be known. Name him you suspect, no matter what be the consequences! and so let us endeavor to ascertain whether or no your suspicions are correct." 
               All now crowded around Morford, and many were clamorous for the name of the traitor. 
               "Thus called upon, gentlemen," rejoined the treasurer, "I feel myself bound to speak; but mind! I accuse no man, and only mention the name of him I suspect. I have doubts of the honesty and true faith of John Roberts." 
               "Ha!" exclaimed the captain, with a convulsive start, as though a new thought had suddenly struck him; while the hands of the others instinctively clutched the knives they carried in their belts, and many a low, deep muttered curse was heard. "Where is Roberts?" demanded Gerolstein. "I have not seen him tonight." 
                
               "And did you see him last night?" inquired the treasurer. 
               "By heavens, no!-this, then, looks suspicious. But then he was present the night before, and therefore I do not see how he could have conveyed any information to Butterman; for it was not decided, till late in the evening, that his spring should be poisoned, and that very night Thrasher was there. Can it be possible, that any one knows of our secret retreat, who was near enough to listen and overbear our plans?" 
               "No," answered one of the party; "I will take my oath that no stranger was near; for, until the breaking up of the meeting, I stood sentinel near the entrance to the cave." 
               "Pardon me, Captain!" said Morford; "but do you not overlook the fact, that, after leaving the cave, we all separated, to rendezvous in the vicinity of Wilden's barn?-and if a man rode, might he not have had time to get his horse, go past Butterman's, give him the information, and be in time at the appointed place of meeting?" 
               "True enough, this could be done; but are you sure Roberts rode that night?" 
               "I can bring proof that he did; for one of our party, not now present, informed me, that in making his escape, he took a different direction from the others; and that some half a mile from the barn, in the edge of a heavy wood, he stumbled upon a horse, tied to a sapling. Surprised at this, he secreted himself near, and waited to ascertain who was the comer. He had not been there many minutes, when a man approached, and began to untie him; and on accosting him, he found it to be Roberts. The latter seemed greatly surprised, and flurried, at finding who was there, and stammered out an apology, by saying that, being very tired, he had been home, got his horse, and ridden thither; but said if the captain knew it, he might think strange of it, and therefore begged he would not mention it to any one. This my friend promised; but afterward, in conversation, happening to mention my suspicion to him, he related these particulars." 
               "Well, well, this must be seen to immediately!" replied the captain. "Jarvis, you have proved yourself good at arresting traitors-see that Roberts has a place along with Melven, so that the trial of both may take place at the same time." 
               "I will do my best, Captain, to execute your orders-though I must protest, so far as my belief is concerned, that I do not think Roberts guilty-and that the evidence against him, so far, is trifling." 
               "Mind, I do not bring it forward as conclusive," returned Morford; "but the captain and others insisted on knowing of whom I am suspicious, and so I mentioned the name of Roberts, and some of the reasons why I thought he might be guilty." 
               "Well, well," rejoined Gerolstein, "so far you have done right; but his guilt must be proved before we can harm him. But hark! some one comes-I hear the sentinel's challenge. Perhaps it is a stranger. Put on your masks, gentlemen." 
               In an instant, as it were, every figure placed a mask over his face, so as to avoid the possibility of detection-lest in dealing with strangers, some one might afterward take a notion to betray them. Scarcely was the masking completed, when the new-comer was dimly seen moving along through the grove, and a minute later the suspected Roberts stood in the center of an excited group. 
               "It is well you have come, Mr. Roberts," said the captain, sternly; "for we were just speaking of you in no very flattering terms." 
                
               "Of me, Captain?" exclaimed Roberts, in a rather excited, and, as some fancied, agitated tone. "And pray, what were you saying of me?" 
               "Why, it is fully believed by some of us that there is a traitor in our party, and your name has already been mentioned as one suspected." 
               "And who dares accuse me, sir?" said the other, in a well-feigned tone of innocent indignation; for well the traitor knew he stood on slippery ground, and that nothing short of the boldest assurance could save him from falling to rise no more. 
               Already he trembled at the thought; but he labored to conceal the secret terror he felt; and so well succeeded, that even his enemies could perceive nothing in his actions but what was natural of one placed under such disagreeable circumstances. Of how much was really known to his confederates in crime, Roberts was ignorant; and he would freely have given ten years of his life to have been assured of his safety; for well he knew, if the charge were proved against him, nothing short of a miraculous interposition of that Providence in which he had but little faith, could save him from a speedy and bloody death; but, as we have before said, he was determined to put on the boldest face he could; and if the whole matter were merely a suspicion, he fancied he could yet escape. The reply of the captain greatly reassured him. 
               "No one really accuses you," returned Gerolstein, "because, as yet, we have no positive proof of your guilt, and it is to be hoped you can prove yourself innocent." 
               "I trust I can," replied Roberts; "at least I can declare myself so, and it is for you to prove me otherwise. Really, gentlemen," he said-in a tone and with a manner well calculated to reassure his friends and make his enemies somewhat doubtful of his guilt-"I feel hurt, and grieved, that you should find cause to suspect one who has been as true to you, as I have, for the last five years of my life-thus dating from the time when I first became one of you, and bound myself, by the strongest of oaths, to true fidelity." 
               "Can I be permitted a question, Captain?" asked Morford. 
               "Certainly-go on!" replied Gerolstein. 
               "How was it, then, that you should make use of the language you did, on the last night of our meeting at the cave?" inquired Morford, turning to Roberts. 
               "Ha!" said Roberts-"if I am not mistaken, it is Henry Morford who now addresses me; and if so, I can readily perceive who is my would-be accuser. Not satisfied with getting me disgraced, and deprived of the honorable office I held for two years, you must now seek to degrade me still further in the eyes of my worthy comrades-and, if possible, send me out of the world as a traitor. I shall not forget, nor overlook this, Henry Morford." 
               "As to that, sir," replied the other, "you can do as you please; but just now I wish you to answer my question, as to why you made use of the language you did on the night in question; and when you have done that, I will, with the captain's permission, interrogate you still further." 
               "So, then, you are to constitute yourself my inquisitor, eh?" 
               "Remember, Mr. Roberts, you are evading my question; and one that I have a right to ask-for I first obtained permission of our commander." 
               "Out of respect to Captain Gerolstein, then, and the other gentlemen here present, I will answer the question propounded," replied Roberts; "though, I protest, I am not answering you individually, with whom I scorn to hold any further conversation. The night alluded to, I was greatly excited, and, in the heat of passion, I might have made use of language, the real meaning of which I did not fully take into consideration, and have now forgotten: this is my answer. If I am to be questioned further, I beg, Captain, that you will be my interrogator; for it is your office by right, and I would rather answer a superior than an inferior." 
               "By heavens! wretch, do you allude to me as your inferior?" cried Morford, completely thrown off his guard by passion. 
               "Hold!" exclaimed Gerolstein, sternly. "You seem to forget, Henry Morford, that I am present. Henceforth, I will question Roberts myself." And then turning to the latter. "I wish," he said, "to know where you went, after leaving the cave, on the night of our last meeting there?" 
               "I will answer you truly, Captain. When we separated at the cave, it was decided that each should go what way he pleased, so that all were at the rendezvous at the time appointed. Well, at first, I thought of going afoot-as I believe most of the party did do-but feeling a good deal fatigued, I altered my mind, and went home for my horse. My wife, hearing me in the act of taking him out, came out to me, and said our little child was sick. I could do no less than go into the house, where I was detained above an hour. I then mounted my horse, and rode to within half a mile of the rendezvous, where I tied him to a sapling, and then set off afoot. This accounts for my being somewhat late; though, you will bear in mind, I was in time to have taken part in the business of the night, had my services been needed." 
               "Well, so far your story seems straight-forward, and tallies with what we already know," replied the captain. "But what seems strange to us, and first excited our suspicion of treachery in some one, is the fact that Butterman should be watching his spring, with a loaded rifle, at the very time Thrasher went to poison it." 
               "It is strange," replied Roberts, "and I have thought of it much-and, I must confess, not without uneasiness. I have thought that perhaps a message had been conveyed to him, of what that night took place in the cave; and again I have thought that it might, perhaps, all be the result of accident. You know that Butterman, from what we hear, has, for some time, held the belief that we had, and still have, a design upon his life. Well, it is possible (mind I only suggest this as an idea that occurred to me, as a way of accounting for his accidentally being there,) that, having occasion to get some water for his family, he went out, taking his rifle with him as a natural precaution; and that on arriving at the spring, which is concealed in some bushes, he saw a man approaching, and waited quietly to ascertain his intention; and that, furthermore, on seeing him approach, he drew back himself; and that, finally, when the other threw the poison in, mistrusting his design, he fired, and, owing to the darkness, missed his mark. Such has been one way I have had of accounting for the singular circumstance; but since I have been accused myself, another idea has struck me." 
               "What is it?" demanded the captain. 
               "Why, I have thought that it sometimes happens that the real thief is the first to cry thief." 
               "And what do you mean by such insinuations as that?" cried Morford. 
                
               "Did I insinuate?" queried Roberts, sneeringly. 
               "Yes, you did." 
               "Does the coat fit?" 
               "By heavens, I-" 
               "Silence!" thundered the captain. "Henry Morford, if you dare to interfere in this matter again, till I am done, I will have you arrested for mutiny! John Roberts, be careful of your language, unless you can made a direct accusation!" 
               "But has he-" 
               "Silence, sirrah! Gods! I shall get in a passion soon, if I do not find my orders obeyed a little more promptly. But to the point. Admitting you to be innocent of treachery night before last, I wish to know where you were last night, that you were not among us as I directed?" 
               This was a rather difficult question to answer satisfactorily; nevertheless, Roberts had resolved on his reply; but fortunately, perhaps, for him, he was not granted an opportunity to make it; for at the moment he was about to speak, the sharp cry of one of the sentinels, "Who goes there?" broke the stillness, followed by the report of a musket, and shouts of vengeance; while from every quarter of the Oaken Grove, dark figures sprang up, as it were, from the earth, and, rushing toward the center, completely surrounded and hemmed in the surprised, alarmed, and discomfitted outlaws. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE ATTACK, AND HARLEM'S COVER. 
               "DEFEND yourselves, men! we are attacked!" thundered the clarion voice of Gerolstein. "Discharge your arms at the assailants, and follow me!" 
               Instantly a scattering fire was poured forth in every direction upon the assailants, who as promptly returned it; and then, cheered on by the voice of Langley, the latter bore down upon the outlaws, with the intention of drawing them into a hand to-hand combat. But in this they were disappointed; for believing the most prudent course to be the best, under the present circumstances, Gerolstein was determined on drawing off his men, and making his escape with as little delay as possible. Not that he was by any means a coward; but he foresaw that to remain and fight, would be to cause much bloodshed, and lose a part, if not all, of his men, who would doubtless either be killed or taken prisoners; and he knew, also, that if his own party equaled in numbers the assailants, they would fight at a great disadvantage, from having been so suddenly surprised, and taken so much as it were off their guard; besides, for all he knew to the contrary, his foes might outnumber him as two to one; and from having seen his forces, and planned their mode of attack, every man would know his place, and exactly what to do; and thus victory, on their part, would be almost a certain consequence. All this Gerolstein took into consideration in a moment, and issued his orders accordingly; and in doing so, he proved himself a wise commander; for under the favorable circumstances in which the party of Langley made the attack, the latter would certainly have been successful. 
               "Follow me, men!" rang out the clear voice of Gerolstein, the moment his party had, according to orders, discharged their pieces at the party approaching; and selecting the weakest part of the surrounding line of foes, he made for it with all speed, followed by every one of his band. 
               In vain Langley sought to throw himself, and some half-a-dozen of his companions, in forward, and so turn the van, or impede the progress of the fugitives, till the others could come up behind; he could not reach the spot in time; and those who stood before Gerolstein, perceiving him coming with such speed, with such a body of men at his heels, drew back and left his path free; and in another moment he had cleared the grove with his shouting followers, and all were rushing and tumbling down one of the steep sides of the mountain. 
               "Halt!" shouted Langley; "it is useless to follow them further; they have escaped us, and it is a bloodless victory." 
               "Not quite," said one of the men, who now began to gather around him, some of them grumbling and cursing what they termed their bad luck, "Not quite a bloodless victory," pursued the one who had spoken, addressing Langley; "for I've got a hole clean through my arm, and the blood runs right smart." 
               "It must be stanched," returned Langley; and undoing his neckerchief, he approached and bound it tight around the man's arm. "Are there any more wounded?" he inquired. 
               "I've got the tip of my ear shot off," laughed one. 
               "And I've got a hole plum through my beaver," joined in another. 
               "Here's a hole through my coat," said a third. 
               "Another through my shirt," chimed in a fourth. 
               "And there was one bullet, as come so near my head, I had to dodge it," added a fifth. 
               "Curses on the imps of Satan, to get clear from us so easy!" said a harsh, coarse voice, in a very different key from the merry tones of the others. 
               "Yes, and-such a victory as this!" grumbled another. 
               "Ef we could only hev let the heart's blood out of two or three, I'd been better satisfied," chimed in a third. 
               "Ef ever I git so near 'em agin," said a fourth, "without hurting anybody, I'll jest squat down peaceable, and let any man call me a liar." 
               "Come, come, men," interposed Langley-"all this does not mend the matter; they have escaped us, and before we can wreak our vengeance on them, we must find them again. By heavens! and this reminds me what I had forgotten-which is, that Roberts informed me, that if they escaped us here, we had better set off at once for Harlem's Cover; for if we found them not there, we should be likely at least to recover the stolen horses. Besides, he gave me full particulars concerning the place and the way to manage." 
               "Good! good!" returned several voices-"let us start at once for Harlem's Cover." 
               "But how are we to find it?" asked one. 
               "Follow me," said Langley, "and I think, if Roberts directed me right, I can lead you thither." 
               "Away, then!" said another voice-"we have no time to lose." 
               "Come on, then, one and all!" cried Langley; and darting across the grove, he rushed down the hill, on the side opposite to that which the outlaws had descended. 
               He was followed by each of the others, and in another minute the grove was cleared of human beings, and the last one disappeared down the sloping side of the mount. Leaving them to find their way to Harlem's Cover, we will now return to the fugitives. 
               Rushing down the hill in the manner we have shown, Gerolstein and his men came to a halt in a thick wood, about a quarter of a mile from the place of attack; and ascertaining they were not pursued, they forthwith held a short consultation, as to what was best to be done. 
               "We are certainly betrayed," said the captain; "and oh! that I could find the villain that has done it, and punish him for his treachery!" 
               "I think after this, you can no longer suspect me," returned Roberts, boldly. 
               "I feel we have no right to, certainly," answered the captain; "for had you betrayed us, it would have been natural for you to have escaped when we fled-or, rather, not to have joined us at all, knowing we were about to be attacked, when you would run the same risk of dying by a chance bullet as the rest of us." 
               "And I think the same thing," rejoined Jarvis. "I have known Roberts long, and I do not believe he could be guilty of an act so base as that of which he has been suspected; but were it otherwise-did I really think him guilty-my hand should be the first to plunge a knife to his heart." 
               "I thank you, gentlemen," replied Roberts, evidently somewhat touched, and, if truth must be told, feeling not a little remorse for what he had done, though well he knew it was now too late to play the part of other than a villain: "I thank you, gentlemen, for having so promptly and honorably exonerated me when convinced of my innocence." 
               "And well you may," grumbled Morford, in a tone too low to reach the ears of the traitor. And then he added aloud: "If I remember rightly, John Roberts has not yet answered the question asked by the captain the moment before we were attacked." 
               "Well, well," interposed Gerolstein, in a decisive tone, "we cannot attend to that matter now: another time we will hear Mr. Roberts' explanation. At present we must decide what to do, and that speedily, and then act upon it at once." 
               "If I might venture a suggestion," hesitated Roberts. 
               "Go on!" rejoined the captain. 
               "I should say," pursued the other, concluding the sentence, "that perhaps we had better set out for Harlem's Cover, and secure our horses, lest the villain who has betrayed us, direct our foes thither, and so all be lost." 
               "Right! right!" cried the captain; "and it is strange I should have overlooked it so long as I have. We will away at once; and if we make all haste, I think we can reach there in an hour. But one thing, gentlemen, I wish to caution you about; and that is, in case we fall in with the enemy, to avoid a conflict if possible; and I will tell you wherefore: If we are not betrayed by any of our own party-and I know no reason, since I come to think of it, why we should be-the men we trade with have doubtless given information; (and that, by-the-by, accounts, too, for their not being present,)-and this being the case, and many of our members being regular settlers, should any get killed, wounded, or taken prisoners, they will be missed from their dwellings, and so their connection with us will become known, to the endangerment of their safety, and that of their families; besides, I would rather not get into a skirmish, till after the regular meeting of our body at the cave-which will take place one week from the last one-so that when all the members in this part of the country shall be assembled together, I can lay the whole matter before them, and act as the wisdom of the majority shall decide. What say you to this, gentlemen?" 
               "I coincide with you," replied Jarvis. 
               "And I also," rejoined Roberts. 
               "And I! and I!" cried the majority of the others. 
               "So be it, then!" resumed Gerolstein; "and now let us away;" and taking the lead himself, the whole party soon disappeared after him. 
               It is not our intention to follow them in their windings through the woods, and so we will precede them to Harlem's Cover, long enough to give a brief description of the place. 
               On the north bank of the Great Miami, some five or six miles from Oaken Grove, stood an old log cabin, completely surrounded by woods; while immediately around the house was a dense cluster of bushes, which grew so high as almost to screen it from observation. In fact, so well was it concealed, that, should a stranger chance to pass along a miserable horse-path that wound about through the woods, at the distance of a stone's throw from it, ten to one he would not discover it at all. To all appearance it was uninhabited; but had you chanced to rap on the only door it apparently contained at the time of which we write, it is possible a feeble old man would have opened it, and in a dry, consumptive tone inquired your business; and had you entered the house, doubtless you would have found an old crone sitting near a large, old fire-place, and shivering, even in the summer time, over a few decaying embers-both man and woman looking like the last sad wrecks of perishing mortality. The house, too, you would have found to contain little or no furniture; and had you asked for food, ten to one you would have been answered there was nothing but a single crust of stale corn-bread in the house, and that the occupants had no idea where their next meal was to be procured. Had you chanced to be a philanthropic individual, with any loose change in your possession, doubtless you would have been induced to bestow a part in alms; and then have gone on your way rejoicing, that you were so much better off than that poor, afflicted old couple. 
               And you would have been deceived. 
               For the people in question were not as old as they looked, the man had no consumption but that of food and drink, the old woman was not in reality any colder than yourself, and there was plenty of provision in the house, and that, too, of a kind to have tempted an epicure. In short, this place was neither more nor less than Harlem's Cover; and had any one shown you its mysteries, he would have conducted you to the back wall, and, by an ingenious contrivance, have lowered a part of it in the form of a door; and then, raising a trap door inside of the house-from which, perhaps, he would at first have been obliged to remove a pile of brush, that completely concealed it-he would have shown you a gentle descent, leading to underground stables, where, on certain occasions, you would have found not less than twenty or thirty horses, undergoing the process of coloring, preparatory to being taken hence, at the proper time, for the purpose of being disposed of. Perhaps the whole inventive faculties of ingenious and plotting mankind, could not have contrived a place more likely to deceive each and every one who might see it, than this same Harlem's Cover-nor one where you would be less disposed to seek information concerning a stolen horse. 
               Suppose, for instance, you were well mounted, and in hot pursuit of the thief that had stolen your horse-that both of you were riding hard, and he only some fifteen rods in advance. Well, you both come in sight of this old structure-if, in fact, you could see it all-and riding into a dense thicket, he should here disappear: would you, in such a case, mistrust he had taken refuge in that old shanty? No, it would be the last place you would think of looking for him: and yet there he would be in safety with your horse, perhaps cracking jokes with this old man and woman, or with some comrade, over a bottle of wine, at the trick he had played you; while you, beating about the thickets of the forest, and finding no trace of him you sought, would at last be forced to give up the pursuit, and perhaps be angry with yourself at your stupidity and short-sightedness. 
               Such was Harlem's Cover.; but this was not the only place of the kind owned and used by the League of the Miami. We have said this band of outlaws extended from what is now Lawrenceburgh, Indiana, in a continued chain, to what is now Urbana, Ohio; and at proper distances, along the whole route, were covers, similar to the one we have described. But to return to the outlaws themselves. 
               Hurrying through the woods, and knowing the nearest route to Harlem's Cover, Gerolstein and his men soon reached the latter place; and reconnoitering the premises, to ascertain if there were any foes about, and perceiving none, the captain at last ventured to give three peculiar raps on the rear wall of the old structure. 
               "Who's there?" inquired a feeble voice from within; and at the same time the speaker appeared to be seized with a very violent attack of coughing. 
               "Bonny Gray," was the answer from without. 
               "What do you seek, Bonny Gray?" responded the consumptive individual from within. 
               "The stables of the League." 
               Immediately there was a rattling of chains and bolts inside, and then a portion of the wall was lowered, something like a drawbridge, over which Gerolstein and his men passed into the house, when it was quickly drawn up to its place, and fastened as before. 
               "Well, Harlem, has there been any strangers here to-night?" demanded Gerolstein. 
               "None, Captain," replied the old man, now speaking in a strong, hearty tone, that denoted his lungs in a sound, healthy state. "But why do you inquire?-do you expect any?" 
               "I cannot say whether I do or not," rejoined the other, in a manner that implied he did not wish to be questioned farther. "But how come on the horses, Harlem?" 
               "They are doing well, Captain, and will soon be fit for service." 
               "Do they take color well?" 
               "Beautifully; you would hardly know them." 
               The old man at once proceeded to remove a pile of brush that concealed the trap-door, while the old woman hurried to get ready a lantern. In a short time the door was raised; and taking the lead, lantern in hand, old Harlem conducted the whole party down below, and the woman closed the trap after them, and replaced the brush. 
               Scarcely had this been effected, when the same peculiar knock which Gerolstein had given, again sounded on the wall of the house outside 
               "Who's there?" queried the old woman. 
               "Bonny Gray," was the reply. 
               "What do you seek, Bonny Gray?" 
               "The stables of the League." 
               Again the bolts and chains rattled, the broad, heavy door was lowered, and Edward Langley, followed by his party, entered the house. 
               "If I'd a known there was so many o' ye, I'd a asked Captain Gerolstein's permit afore I opened the door-for you're all strangers to me," said the old woman, as one after another came pouring in, to the number of thirty, completely filling the room. "But I 'spose it's all right," she added, eyeing Langley keenly, and addressing herself to him; "for the captain said something about another party coming, and you gin the password correct." 
               "It is all right," replied Langley; "but where is the captain now?" 
               "He's down below, with Mr. Harlem, looking at the hosses-may be you came to buy 'em." 
               "Are his men with him?" demanded Langley, without heeding the last question of the old woman. 
               "Yes, they're all down there." 
               "Then, comrades," cried Langley, "we have them! Are you ready?" 
               "All ready," was the unanimous response. 
               "What d'ye mean?" screamed the old woman, in alarm, as she saw one of Langley's party hurriedly kick the brush from off the door, while the rest examined their arms. 
               At the same moment a voice shouted from below: 
               "What ho! Mother Harlem!" 
               "Hush! betray us, and you die!" said Langley, in a hoarse whisper, seizing the old woman by the hair of her head, and placing the cold muzzle of a pistol against her face. 
               "What ho! Mother Harlem!" again shouted the voice from below. 
               "What shall I say?" asked the trembling old woman of Langley. 
               "Ask what he wants," replied Langley. 
               The old woman did so; but she had to strain her lungs to the utmost, to make herself heard below. 
               "What is the disturbance I hear up above?" returned the voice. 
               "Say some three or four of his men have arrived, and are in high glee," whispered Langley. 
               The old woman gave the answer, as directed, trembling all over at the same time, and, in an under tone, begging Langley, for God's sake, not to let any of her friends be harmed. To Mother Harlem's last answer, the voice below rejoined: 
               "Open the door, then-we will come up." 
               "Do as he bids you!" said Langley, releasing her; "but do not intimate our presence as you value your life!" 
               Then motioning his men to draw back as far from the door as possible, he silently awaited the result. The old woman slowly raised the trap, and, as she did so, the head of a man came above the level of the floor. On seeing such a body of enemies, on all sides, he drew back suddenly, and shouting, "Die traitoress!" discharged a pistol he held in his hand, full into the breast of Mother Harlem, who, uttering a deep groan, fell back upon the floor, weltering in her own blood. 
               "Quick! quick!" shouted the assassin, who was no other than Gerolstein himself, at the same time bounding down to the stables-"close the inner door, men, and hold it, till the horses can be removed I for we are betrayed and surprised. But I have sent the traitoress to be judged for her deeds!" he added, bitterly, his eyes flashing a wild light, as he shut to the door with violence. 
               This door was at the foot of the descending passage, was made of heavy timber, and, when closed, it completely barred the passage to the stables. 
               But it was closed none too soon, for the safety of the horse-thieves; for the moment the captain disappeared, Langley sprang after him, shouting: 
               "Follow, comrades! we have them now!" and rushing down the passage, he came with all his might against the door. "Quick! quick!" he cried, turning to his followers, who were now pressing upon him-"some one run up above, and get an axe which I observed standing in the corner near the chimney! There is a door here which they have bolted inside-but I can quickly hew it away." 
               Leaving our friends to effect an entrance as best they may, let us precede them into the stables. A large excavation had been made within, and fitted up with stalls, to the number of forty. On one side was a place for hay, and grain, and near it a well, whence water was procured for the animals to drink. The whole place was walled up on all sides, with the exception of the passages for entrance and exit. The latter was at the farther end, and was a sort of tunnel, under ground, to the river Miami, where it came out into the water through a steep bank. 
               This answered the double purpose of passing the horses out or in, and also had the advantage of concealing their footprints-for the water here was so shallow that, unless just after heavy rains, they could be conducted down the bed of the stream some quarter of a mile. Around the mouth of this channel grew a cluster of bushes, partly natural and partly artificial, which completely concealed it-so that a person who knew nothing about it, would never think of searching there for anything mysterious or unusual. In describing the place to Langley-how to obtain admittance and the like-Roberts had neglected, either intentionally or otherwise, to mention the tunnel; and therefore, when Langley found the horse-thieves in the stables, he believed there was no egress for them but through the very passage he and his men now guarded. And under this supposition, the reader will naturally infer that he must be a bold man, thus to rush recklessly on, and, as it were, beard the lion in his very den. And such Edward Langley was. She whom he prized more than life, had been stolen away by ruffians, and he was determined to avenge her wrongs-and terribly too-even though he should sacrifice his own existence. 
               At the moment Langley rushed against the door, Gerolstein shouted to his men: 
               "Quick, now, good fellows! we have no time to spare! Take out the horses, and let us mount and away, before we are called to defend ourselves against our blood-thirsty assailants! Already I hear their leader shouting for an axe, and soon will they be upon us!" 
               Every man sprang to a horse; and so fast did they work, that scarcely had the last sentence passed the lips of Gerolstein, ere every horse was bridled, and those nearest the tunnel were already in the act of going through it. We say every man sprang to a horse; but we must except old Harlem, who, from the moment Gerolstein uttered the words, "But I have sent the traitoress to be judged for her deed," had never taken his eyes off the Captain of the League, and who now, planting himself directly in the path of the latter, demanded to know what he meant by what he said, at the same time repeating the sentence just quoted. 
               For a single instant, Gerolstein looked the old man fiercely in the eye; and then, believing him to be less innocent than he seemed-but not feeling sufficiently satisfied of his guilt to justify himself in inflicting the punishment due to a traitor-he raised his fist, as quick as lightning, and struck him full in the face. The old man fell with a groan, and the blood 
                     spirted
                     spurted
                   from his nose and mouth. He lay senseless, and never moved but a few times afterward. In ten minutes his spirit had fled its mortal tenement, and, with all its unrepented sins, stood in the presence of its Maker, ready for judgment. 
               At this moment the strokes of the axe sounded on the door, and soon the heavy timbers began to give way before it. 
               "Quick, men! some of you come here and defend this place till the horses can be got out!" cried Gerolstein; and stepping over the body of old Harlem, he sprung to the door, and began to place some loose planks against it, in the form of props. 
               Roberts, Morford, Jarvis, and one or two others, hurried to his assistance, while the rest labored hard to get the horses through the tunnel. The lantern brought down by Harlem, and which was now hanging on a hook, was the only light in the stables; and consequently the tunnel was so dark, that one could not see his hand before him. Add to this the fact, that only one horse could enter the tunnel at a time-and that then the place was so narrow and small, that his sides and back occasionally rubbed, causing him to be very fractious-and it will readily be perceived, that to enter and pass out between twenty and thirty horses, was an undertaking requiring several minutes for its accomplishment. 
               Meanwhile, Langley worked fiercely upon the door with his axe; and in a very short time he had destroyed the fastenings of the bolts, so that nothing prevented his entrance to the stables save the props, which were kept in their places by Gerolstein and his assistants. 
               "It is held on the other side by the bandits," the voice of Langley was now heard saying, in an excited tone. "Now, comrades, altogether, rush upon it, and see if we cannot force it!" 
               The rush was made, but still the door stood firm. 
               "Ha! I have it!" cried Langley again. "I will cut away the hinges;" and immediately the strokes of the axe were heard by the outlaws guarding the opposite side. 
               "They will soon force it," said Gerolstein, in a whisper: "it will be impossible to hold out 
                     much much
                     much
                   longer. Ha!" he added, looking behind him-"the last horse is just disappearing. Good! now let them come! what need we care? A farewell volley, comrades, and then for flight! Quick, now, put your pistols to the crevices, and fire!" 
               The order was obeyed; and the groans, yells, and curses that followed, announced they had not been without effect. The next moment a rush was made against the door, it gave way with a crash, and several of the foremost of the assailants, among whom was Langley himself, were precipitated upon the ground of the stables. 
               "Fly!" shouted Gerolstein, and he darted forward to the tunnel, followed closely by all but Morford, who paused an instant to extinguish the light of the lantern. 
               That moment proved fatal to his escape; for Robert Wilden, who was close behind, clasped him in his huge arms, and, with a demoniac yell of vengeance, threw him violently upon the earth; while all the others, with the exception of Langley, who at this moment came up, passed on in pursuit of the fugitives, fairly making the cave hideous with their shouts of fury. Drawing his knife, young Wilden was about to plunge it into the heart of his victim, when Langley grasped his arm, and, in a voice of thunder, cried: 
               "Hold!" 
               "Who dar's stop Bob Wilden doing his duty?" exclaimed that individual, bounding to his feet, and turning fiercely upon Langley. 
               "Do not, at least kill him, till I have asked him some questions?" returned the other, at the same time taking hold of Morford, to prevent his escape. 
               "What questions hev you got to ask?" queried the other, in a dogged tone. 
               "Questions of vast importance." 
               "Be quick about it, then, for as sure's my name's Bob Wilden, this here feller's got to die right sudden, and no mistake!" 
               "But not here, and in this manner, for that would be murder!" pursued the other. "Let us at least give him a trial!" 
               "Ay, ay-that's just what Butterman said about the villain as killed brother Jake. It won't do, Mr. Langley-it won't do! I tell you this here thief has got to die, if for nothing else than for this here hole, which, jest as like as not, he made-if he didn't, no thanks to him;" and turning up his shirt sleeve, he showed his arm all bloody, where a ball, fired by Gerolstein and his party, had passed through the fleshy part of it. 
               "Well, let us at least conduct him outside, and first ascertain what has become of the others!" 
               "I'm agreed to that; but as sure's I'm a sinner, I tell you he's got to die." 
               During this colloquy, Morford, expecting death every moment, did not open his lips; but with a sullen look, watched every expression and movement of his captors, ready to make his escape, should a favorable opportunity present itself. 
               "Were any of our party dangerously wounded?" inquired Langley of Wilden; as, one on either side of Morford, they began to move along toward the tunnel. 
               "Can't say for sartin," replied the other; "but if I'm not mistaken, I stumbled over somebody lying on the ground soon after we broke in here. Yes," he added, turning round and looking back-for the lantern, still hanging on the hook, faintly lighted the place-"yes, thar he is yit." 
               "Ah! I see!" replied Langley; "and I must go back to him; for none of our party must be left to perish here-or, perishing, must not be left here unburied." 
               He accordingly went back; while Wilden, disarming Morford, and holding him firmly in his vice-like grasp, conducted him through the tunnel. Before they had gained the other end, Langley rejoined them, and said: 
               "It is an old man, and he is evidently dead. Probably he was knocked down and trampled on by some of our men, in rushing after the others;" and as he said this, all three came to the bushes; and, carefully paring them, issued forth into the bed of the Great Miami. 
               At the same moment a bright light flashed in their eyes, and loud and prolonged shouts were heard coming from the direction of the old shanty. 
               "By heavens!" cried Langley, looking in that direction: "see! our men have fired the old building, and the flames are already bursting through the roof." 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               ASSASSINATION, AND DEATH OF THE ASSASSIN. 
               THE exclamation of Langley, given at the close of the preceding chapter, was true. Gerolstein and his party, with the exception of Morford only, had again escaped their pursuers, with all the horses; and enraged at this, no sooner did the latter find they were gone, than one of them proposed to fire the dwelling of old Harlem. The proposition was acceded to with shouts; and rushing to the house, they set it on fire; and the moment Langley issued from the tunnel, it was in full blaze. 
                
               "Quick!" pursued Edward-"let us drag this fellow along with us, and join the others, and then I will question him in the presence of all;" and at once proceeding to carry out his suggestion, all three soon drew near to the burning building, around which stood between twenty and thirty men-shouting, laughing, and cursing, according to the peculiar feelings excited in their breasts, at witnessing the work of their hands. 
               "If the old woman wasn't killed when that fellow fired, I guess she thinks the heat of hell is near her now," laughed one. 
               "Then I 'spose she's in her element," rejoined another, laughing also. 
               "Wish we'd a thought to fired the building in the first place," grumbled a third, "and then the cussed horse-stealers would have found hot work, and no mistake." 
               "Yes,-'em! that was an oversight," said a fourth. 
               "But where's our leader?" cried one, suddenly. "I have not seen him since we entered the stables. God send he be not harmed!" 
               "Ah! here he comes! here he comes!" rejoined another; "and Bob Wilden's with him; and they've got one of the imps in tow, as I'm a living man." 
               "Hurrah! hurrah!" shouted a number of the others, as, by the light of the burning building, they beheld Langley and Wilden approaching with their prisoner; and they began to gather round the new-comers, uttering exclamations of vengeance. 
               "The - horse-stealer! let's hang him!" cried one. 
               "Cut his bloody heart out!" said another. 
               "Let's heave him into the fire!" vociferated a third. 
               "Stop!" roared Bob; "stand back! don't a man of ye touch him!-he's my property,-I catched him-and, by -! I'll be the feller to butcher him when the time comes." 
               "Why don't you do it now, then?" said one. 
               "Hold! gentlemen," interposed Langley; "before you attempt anything rash, let me put a few questions to him." 
               By this time the whole party had 
                     sur-sounded
                     surrounded
                   the prisoner, who, standing in the center, with pale features and compressed lips, looked from one to another, with a calm, determined air. Turning to him, Langley continued: 
               "Will you tell me your name?" 
               "Henry Morford," was the bold, straight-forward answer. 
               "How long have you been connected with the League of the Miami?" 
               "Some four or five years." 
               "How many members compose the League?" 
               "I decline answering." 
               "But your life depends upon it!" 
               "How so?-have you not vowed to take my life already?" 
               "But if you will answer, truly, all questions we may ask you, your life may perhaps be spared." 
               "I will freely answer any question you may ask, provided it does not concern any but myself." 
               "But it will concern those with whom you have an unrighteous connection." 
               "Then I cannot answer." 
               "You are obstinate." 
               "Call it what you will-I am indifferent as to terms." 
               "What's the use of fooling with him?" interposed one; "you can't make nothing out of him; better finish him at once." 
               "Yes, by -! them's my sentiments," rejoined Wilden, drawing a pistol. 
               "Stay! gentlemen-give me time!" said Langley. "I wish to question him further:" and then to the prisoner: "Did you know that, two or three nights since, a girl was abducted from a place called Covington, in the state of Kentucky, opposite to Cincinnati?" 
               "No, I know nothing about it." 
               "It was said she was captured by the League of the Miami." 
               "Who said so?" 
               "One of your own party." 
               "I never heard of it, and believe it to be a false statement." 
               "Strange!" said Langley-"that none of your party seem to know anything about it. Come! to find what has become of this girl, is of the utmost consequence to me; and if you give me the information I seek, I will pledge myself, that not only no harm shall be done to you, but that you shall be set at liberty, and have one hundred dollars as a reward." 
               "I could not give you the information if I would-I would not if I could." 
               "Then you are a villain, and intend to remain so." 
               "Granted! are you much my superior?" 
               "Oh, - him! let him die!" again interposed Robert Wilden. 
               "One question more," said Langley. "Will you save your own life by betraying your comrades in crime?" 
               "Gentlemen, I am not, I never will be a traitor-you have my answer!" was the calm, determined reply of Morford. 
               "To h-l with you then!" cried Wilden; and as the words passed his lips, he raised his pistol and fired. 
               The ball took effect in the head of the outlaw, the blood gushed forth, and sinking down, with barely a groan, he expired. Langley turned away with a shudder, and there were few of the spectators that looked on unmoved. 
               "Come," said Langley, "let us leave this spot of crime and blood!" and he walked rapidly away, followed by all the others, with the exception of Wilden, who remained as if rooted to the ground, gazing upon the ghastly and bloody visage of his victim. 
               "Well, he deserved it!" he muttered to himself, as if holding an argument with his own conscience; "for Jake was killed by one of his party, and I've only fairly revenged him." 
               Saying this, he turned slowly away, and took the direction pursued by his comrades-the last of whom could just be discerned, by the light of the burning building, entering a dense thicket, wherein they soon disappeared. As Wilden quitted the corpse of Morford, a tall figure, that had been watching the whole proceedings from a thick copse close behind, glided back into the woods; and, making a rapid circuit, entered the thicket through which Wilden was about to pass, unperceived by the latter, and before that individual had reached its outer border. On gaining the thicket, Wilden paused and looked back, repeating to himself: 
               "Yes, he deserved it!" 
               These were the last intelligible words that ever issued from his lips. As he spoke them, he turned, and disappeared into the brushwood. A moment or two after, a deep groan might have been heard, mingling with the sound of the roaring and crackling of flames, as though a spirit was wailing over the destruction and death which prevailed on that ill-fated ground. Presently the tall figure that had glided into the thicket in advance of Wilden, again made his appearance, on the side next to the burning building, holding in his hand a knife, from which the warm, red blood of a human being was dripping. With long hasty strides he approached the body of the unfortunate Morford, and, halting by its side, exhibited, by the lurid light of the fire, a pale, stern face, compressed lips, and eyes gleaming like those of a wild beast. For a few moments he stood looking down upon the bloody corpse, motionless and mute, as one lost in a painful abstraction. Then his stern visage assumed a look of deep melancholy; and brushing a tear from his eye, he said, in a mournful tone: 
               "Alas! Henry Morford, thou art gone, and I must soon follow thee! Yes, I feel a presentiment of my doom. Thou wert a noble fellow, Henry Morford!-and if I, at one time, wronged thee in thought, may God forgive me!-for that thou wert true to us, and to thy oath, thy sad, deplorable fate here announces. From yonder cover I witnessed all, and know thou died as became a man. Ah! would that all had been like thee! then this calamity had not befallen us. But," he continued, his eyes suddenly kindling with gleams of ferocity, "I trust I have sent the vile traitors to their account, and that henceforth we shall be too much for our foes! At least, noble Harry, I have revenged thee on thy damnable assassin! This knife, Harry, is red with his heart's blood; and in yonder thicket his gory carcass is lying, where none but the howling wild beasts of the wilderness shall find it. And they shall come," he added, with increasing vindictiveness, both in tone and manner-"they shall come, and tear off his vile flesh, piece by piece, until his bones shall lie naked, to bleach in the open air!-while thou, noble Harry, shalt be interred with honor, to rest in quiet, till summoned from thy grave for the final judgment!" 
               Then, after another pause, he continued: 
               "Oh! that I were done with this wild life of crime! I tire of it; and I must beg to be released ere my term of office expires. Once it would have suited me; but now I sicken at the sight of blood, and long to be done with such a terrible calling. If I could be released, and steal away, where none would know me, and have one-But no! no! that cannot be-for she is too good, and pure, to be the associate of such as I! Well, well, I must take the consequences of my crimes. But what could that young man have meant, by inquiring for a stolen girl?-stolen, too, from the very place where she resides! I must inquire into this-I must- 
               "What ho! who comes?" he suddenly exclaimed, interrupting himself, and looking toward the nearest thicket. 
               "Friends!" was the answer; and immediately Jarvis, Roberts, and one other, issued forth, and approached their captain. 
               "What news?" cried Gerolstein. 
               "All have escaped in safety," was the reply. 
               "All but one," returned Gerolstein, mournfully; and he pointed to the body of Morford. 
               "Good God! who did this?" exclaimed Jarvis. 
               "A wretch, whose body lies in yonder thicket," replied Gerolstein, fiercely. 
               "Poor fellow!" sighed Roberts, looking down upon the mortal remains of his most bitter enemy. "Poor fellow! I pity and forgive him;" and he turned away, apparently to hide his grief, but in reality to indulge in a secret joy: and he muttered to himself: "Now am I safe." 
               "How did this happen?" inquired Jarvis. 
               "I saw it all, and will tell you all about it," replied Gerolstein; "but not here; for our enemies may return at any moment. Come, let us take up the body, and depart." 
               Complying with the captain's request, all lent a hand to raise the body of Morford; and in a few minutes all had disappeared. Further we shall not follow them, but proceed to shift the scene. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               THE TRIAL AND EXECUTION. 
               SOME three or four days have passed since the foregoing events, and we must now turn again to the cave of the League. It was a warm summer's evening, but very dark, for a dense fog had settled over the surrounding country, and not an object, without the aid of artificial light, could be distinguished at the distance of two feet from the eye. 
               The cave, itself, was brilliantly lighted by a large chandelier, constructed for the purpose, and suspended from its ceiling by a chain. Within, stood some fifty dark figures-we say dark, for each one was covered with a black gown, something like a monk's, with the exception, that in place of the cord suspending the cross, each one wore around his waist a leathern belt, in each of which were confined two pistols and a knife. A hood covered each of their heads, and a mask concealed each of their features. They stood, crowded together, motionless as statues, forming a most impressive group-while, save their deep breathing, the silence seemed truly awful. On the large flat stone-before noticed, as the one whereon Burrand took the oath-lay some object, covered with a dark cloth; to which, judging from the position of their heads, each eye was directed. 
               On the stone, or platform, stood three figures; Gerolstein, tall and erect, in the center; Jarvis and Pottenger on either side. In front, on the ground, stood the three who had borne Burrand hither, on a previous occasion; while close behind them ranged the four light bearers. 
               "Gerolstein was the only one present who wore no mask. His features were pale and haggard; his lips white, but compressed, as with inward resolution for some important event. His eyes, black and piercing, had lost none of their wonted fire; but there were dark livid lines around them, that told his very soul had been put upon the rack of agony. His forehead was contracted with a stern resolve-his cheeks seemed a little more hollow-and the slight furrows time and care had begun to trace on his cheeks, seemed a little more deepened. Raising his right hand, in a solemn, impressive manner, while every breath was hushed, he thus addressed the assemblage: 
               "Gentlemen, we have met-met on a solemn, important occasion: one of our number is no more,"-and he pointed to the object before him. "One of our number is no more; and, I fear, by our hands, another must this night follow him to eternity. Death, in any shape, is solemn-is awful to contemplate; but when it comes to us by the hand-the act of another fellow creature-it ever seems to me more awful. What the one before us was, you all know. Like the rest of us, he had his failings; but that he was ever true to us-true to his oath-his death has proven. He died a martyr to the cause in which we are collectively, individually engaged; and how soon it may be our turn to undergo a like fate, no one can tell. I fear our seizure of those horses, was a rash act; for we have drawn down a daring combination of men upon us-headed by one, a hot-headed Kentuckian, who fears nor man nor devil-but who, for some supposed act of ours, swears to have revenge. They are determined to ferret us out; and our only resource is now in flight, or fight. Action of some kind-action is necessary. Shall we stand the brunt of the peril? or shall we disperse? Of this we must determine-anon. To-night our first duty is to consign to dust the remains of one who died to save us. Let it be done with honor; let our hearts pour forth praise to his memory-for mark me, gentlemen, I say no idle words, when I say he died to save us-true to his oath! By an unfortunate move-by a daring act, worthy of a Spartan-in endeavoring to cover our flight, he was taken. Life, which was dear to him-dear as to any present-life, and a free pardon, were offered him, if he would renounce and denounce us. What was his answer? It should be written in letters of gold upon our constitution- 
               "'Gentlemen, I am not-I never will be a traitor! You have my answer.' 
               "These, my friends, were the last sounds his lips ever uttered: alas! alas! they can never speak again. A bullet-guided by an accursed hand-sped upon its course-pierced his brain, and his noble spirit winged its flight-his account with time was closed-closed forever. Look at him, gentlemen," continued he, stooping and removing the pall from the head-exhibiting a pale, ghastly countenance, contorted with the spasms of death, on which the light glared with a horriffic effect-"look at him, gentlemen, and look well, for it is your last-your farewell gaze! You see before you one who has gone-gone where all must soon follow; for death spares none. Let us, like him, die like men! Proceed with the burial!" 
               As he ceased, he again covered the corpse, while the three men stepped forward, slowly raised it to their shoulders, and proceeded to the mouth of the cave; followed next by the light-bearers, who sprung their lanterns-though so dense was the fog that their gleams pierced but a little way-next by Gerolstein, Jarvis, &c.; and, lastly, by the whole company, two by two-with the exception of three, left as guard. Tramping on, with slow and measured tread, at a little distance from the cave they entered a hollow, where, beside an aged oak, was dug a grave. Here, slowly, in gloomy silence, they lowered the corpse into its long, last resting place; when, each kneeling, in turn-preceded by the Captain-stirred, with his knife, the loose thrown-up earth-rattling it upon the body-each repeating as he did so: 
               "Farewell to thee, most noble, gallant Harry! farewell-forever!" 
               This ceremony through, the three bearers seized upon spades that were standing by the grave, and, a moment more, the body was covered from their sight. In the same order the procession returned to the cave. 
               "Arnold Melven, the prisoner and traitor, let him be brought!" said the deep voice of Gerolstein; "and the chair of Justice!" 
               As he spoke, Pottenger placed upon the platform, at one end, a rude oaken chair; while, at the same time, from the inner cave, Jarvis led forth Melven, pale and trembling, and fixed him in a kneeling position. He was stripped entirely naked, and his hands bound behind him by an iron chain. Hideous as he ever looked, he now looked more hideous than ever; for every feature was curled and distorted with paltry cowardice, and his knees fairly knocked together in absolute terror. 
               "Oh! spare me! spare me! good, kind gentlemen!" he ejaculated, while his teeth chattered with the words he spoke. 
               "Silence! traitor!" said Gerolstein, fiercely; as, stepping upon the platform, he took his seat in the chair. "Arnold Melven, you are accused of treachery." 
               "Oh! it is false; it is, good, kind sir! I-I'd never ha' dared to done such a thing, good, noble Captain!" whined Melven. 
               "We shall see. Jarvis!" 
               "Your will, Captain." 
               "Remove your mask; and answer the questions propounded!" 
               Jarvis immediately obeyed-exhibiting features calm and stern. 
               "Where did you arrest the prisoner?" 
               "On the bank of the Ohio." 
               "Place?" 
               "Covington." 
               "What was he doing at the time?" 
               "Assisting in the abduction of a young girl." 
               "How! Jarvis!" exclaimed Gerolstein, starting, his features blanching to a deadly white. 
               "I say true, Captain." 
               "Gods! her name, Jarvis?-her name?" 
               "I did not learn it." 
               "But you were in time?-he did not succeed?" 
               "I was in time to arrest the prisoner, but not to save the girl. She was borne away by his two companions." 
               "Where? where?" 
               "I know not." 
               "Melven, speak! speak!" cried Gerolstein, wildly,-"or, by the eternal gods! you never speak again!" and he drew from his belt a pistol. 
               "Wha-what shall I say?" stammered Melven. 
               "Say who the girl-where she was taken-for what end?" 
               "I-I did'nt know her name; she lived with-" 
               "Who? who?" 
               "Molly Magore." 
               "Ha! wretch! villain! die!" shouted Gerolstein, his face livid with passion, at the same time cocking his pistol, and taking deliberate aim at the other's head. 
               "I-I was bribed to do it," cried Melven, ghastly with terror. 
               The words saved him: the pistol of Gerolstein was turned aside, by a sudden jerk of the arm, just as his finger touched the trigger; and the ball flattened against the rock close by the traitor's head. Melven shuddered. 
               "Who bribed you fool?" asked Gerolstein, between his clenched teeth. 
               "Aaron Burrand." 
               "Ha! Aaron Burrand! let him, if present, stand forth and unmask!" 
               A figure immediately stepped forward; and, withdrawing the hood and mask, exhibited the features of Burrand, calm and collected, over which hovered a bland smile. 
               "Is this the man you accuse?" asked Gerolstein of Melven. 
               Burrand immediately fastened his keen, soul-piercing eyes upon Melven, with such a look as made him shudder; but, knowing all depended on his answer, he nerved himself to the point, and replied: 
               "It is." 
               "State the particulars, and be quick!" 
               "Why, ye see, most truly noble Captain, we happened to meet one day-I don't exactly remember how-and got into conversation, and says he to me, says he, 'If you'll find me a handsome young lady, that's virtuous, and kidnap her, I'll give you a hundred dollars, and make a great man of you.'" 
               "And you dared to find the one you did?" 
               "He dared do more," said Burrand, in a calm voice, turning to Gerolstein. 
               "Well, sir, explain!" 
               "Oh! do not-do not listen to that man!" cried Melven. 
               "Hold your peace, fool!-Burrand, proceed." 
               "I say he dared do more-for he dared to point her out, knowing there was some secret connected with yourself, Captain." 
               "With me, sir? with me? how know you that?" 
               "By his own words. He said you frequently sent him to an old cottage, where she resided, with money; which, by the way, he did not deliver." 
               "Did not deliver, say you? did not deliver?" 
               "Such were his words-let him deny them if he dare!" 
               "'Twere useless if he did. But of the girl?" 
               "Of the girl I know nothing, further than what was said at the time. 'Tis true, I made the proposition as he stated-I do not deny it; but I do, most positively, deny that I know anything further of the girl. What I said was in jest." 
               "Is this true, on your oath and honor, Burrand?" 
               "On my oath and honor it is true." 
               "Enough! you may resume your place." 
               "Melven, where was this girl to have been taken?" 
               "Why, on my oath and honor, Cap'en, as true as there's a God-" 
               "Hush! profane not the name with your blasphemous lips." 
               "I swear to you, I's to take her a mile down the river, and there Burrand was going to be, and tell me what to do, and where to convey her to next." 
               "Do you know where she is now? and who were your accomplices?" 
               "I don't, on my life. I just hired 'em for the occasion." 
               "Have you, Jarvis, any further testimony to give, relative to the prisoner?" 
               "I have. After my seizure of Melven, before we got into the boat, another came upon us very much excited, and inquired for the girl, what we'd done with her, and the like. Before I could reply, Melven sprang to him, commenced whining like a puppy, and told him she had been seized by the robbers, by the League of the Miami, and that they were seizing him also. I waited for nothing further; but knocked him down-caught him up in my arms-out sped the other to the other to the boat, and brought him here." 
               "You did well, nobly, Jarvis; and in the name of the League, I thank you! There is a mystery hanging over this girl that must be fathomed. Have you any conception of who was the individual that joined you on the river?" 
               "None, unless the lover of the girl, and the Kentuckian now so hotly in pursuit of us." 
               "Ha! yes, by the gods! it is so. That accounts for it; he fancies we have abducted the girl; all this we owe to our friend Melven," and his features grew dark, his teeth ground together, and his lips curled with suppressed passion. 
               A sudden thrill seemed to run through the assemblage; and, in an instant, fifty knives flashed the light from their polished blades, while murmurs of "death to the traitor" ran among them. 
               "Hold, gentlemen-hold!" said Gerolstein, rising from his seat with dignity, commanding silence with a wave of his hand; "let me deal with him." 
               Then turning to the prisoner-whose features were of a sickly white, whose every muscle was quivering with fright-in a deep, firm tone, he said: 
               "Arnold Melven! prepare-prepare-your sentence is death!" 
               The prisoner started, as by a sudden spasm-his lower jaw fell ajar with horror; while cold sweat started out, and stood in large drops on all parts of his body. Gerolstein continued: 
               "Prepare for eternity! no power on earth can save you. You have, in the face of Heaven and hell, perjured yourself, and broken your solemn oath. Ere ten minutes expire, you will stand before the bar of God-your body be cast forth, a prey to the ravenous jaws of animals that feed upon carrion-for to you, as a traitor, we deny burial!" 
               "Oh God! Oh! good gentlemen-mercy!" groaned Melven. 
               "There is, with us, for traitors, no mercy. I once for you had mercy; I saved your life; you took the dreadful oath, and have broken it. Instead of gratitude for this, you have repaid me with the foulest acts that lay in your power. You have abused my confidence; you have, through another, wounded my heart with daggers more powerful than steel. Your doom is now sealed: again I say, prepare; for mercy, seek it in another world. Time wears-let the gong sound the summons of death." 
               As he spoke, three heavy strokes, at intervals of two seconds, were struck upon the gong-which echoed through the cavern with awful, 
                     terriffic
                     terrific
                   sounds. Every breath was still-every limb in that vast assemblage was motionless: it was the silence of death. 
               Melven turned his face upward; and, with bloodless, quivering lips, seemed to be praying-yet no sounds issued from them-his very eyes looked glassy, as though death was already at work within. The whole scene was terribly sublime: one, by those who witnessed it, never, never to be forgotten. Gerolstein, pale and erect, with firmly compressed lips, stood at the other end of the platform-eyeing the prisoner-while on his features were the cold damps of inward commotion. Over all the light streamed with a yellow, sickly cast-as if that, too, partook of the oppressive gloom. 
               "Jarvis!" called Gerolstein, at length, in a heavy, guttural voice. 
               Jarvis stepped forward. 
               "Load that pistol, with a nicely balanced charge; put in two balls, and be-quick!" As he spoke, he handed him the pistol which he had previously discharged. "Let Melven see the balls entered, that he may be doubly sure there is no escape from his irrevocable doom." 
               Pouring in the powder, Jarvis stepped upon the platform, and approaching Melven, held before his already swimming gaze the leaden messengers of death. Then, dropping upon one knee-close to the prisoner-holding in his left hand the pistol, muzzle upward-in his right, the balls-he dropped them in, and as they glided down with a hollow, deadening sound, Melven shuddered with a cold chill. 
               As he finished loading, Jarvis returned the pistol to Gerolstein, and then took his place among the group. 
               "Let the gong sound three times, at exactly minute intervals." 
               Again it echoed through the cave. 
               "The third sound, Melven, summons you to another world-prepare!" 
               Melven writhed in agony. All was silence. Again that heavy sound shook the cavern. 
               "One minute more," said Gerolstein, in tremulous tones, as he slowly poised the pistol with a deadly level toward the head of Melven. The suspense to all was terrible-past description-and many of those dark forms, for the first time, felt a thrill of secret fear. 
               "Mercy!" gasped Melven. 
               "Seek it in another world!" said the deep voice of Gerolstein. 
               Crash went the gong-the pistol flashed-the smoke curled upward-and Melven fell upon his face without a groan, bespattering the stone with his blood. His soul was in eternity. 
               A pause of a moment ensued. 
                
               "Thus perish traitors!" said Gerolstein, solemnly. "Bear him hence!" 
               The three bearers covered the corpse with a mantle, raised it in their arms, and left the cave. Scarce a minute elapsed ere they returned. 
               "Have you cast the body to the winds?" 
               "We have." 
               "'Tis well. Thus, men, you see what it is to break your oath. Thus you see the doom of traitors. Heaven forefend that I be ever called to do another act like this, or witness such another scene!" and he covered his face with his hands, as if to shut out the horrid vision, while his whole frame trembled. At length he raised his head, and again resumed: 
               "At present, friends, our prospects are gloomy. If we stand in a body, we must fight. If we disperse, the storm may soon blow over, and we be left again at liberty. In this matter I cannot act, but with the advice and consent of yourselves. At this critical juncture, Burrand has made me, and you, my friends, through me, a proposition, which may not be lightly regarded. As the gentleman is present, he can best speak for himself." 
               Saying this, Gerolstein again took his seat; while Burrand stepped upon the platform-threw off his mask-his hood-his gown-and stood revealed before the assembly in the alluring trappings of an officer of rank-well knowing the favorable impression such would make on the minds of his audience. His features, ever handsome, were bright and animated; his eyes sparkled with lofty thought; and there seemed a noble dignity in his whole bearing, as, with the majestic gesture of a true orator, he thus addressed them: 
               "Gentlemen of honor, I am proud to say I rank one among you; and, prouder still, am I, of the distinguished privilege allowed me of addressing you on the present occasion. Permit me then, gentlemen, as a brother, to freely, candidly speak; not as to the cold and selfish world-but as to friends whose interests are in mine own bound up. I would lay my heart open to you-not for its good qualities, but that I in return might win your noble confidence-your disinterested affection. Life, my friends, is compounded of many parts-all tending-all forming one general whole-to be by its possessor used as doth become his thinking best, till death steps in and crumbles all to nothingness. The object, then, of life, is enjoyment; and in the sum of life's enjoyment, lies the amount of happiness bequeathed to man. The question then, how shall we enjoy it most? each answers to the dictates of his feelings. But with you, my brothers, I fancy I can perceive kindred spirits with mine own. You pant for glory-fame-and for immortal renown. You would do deeds that shall hereafter live upon the mighty tablets of history, and be familiar on the tongues of millions yet unborn. You would be spoken of as the great-the good-the brave-whose very statues should, in after ages, be bound with rosy wreaths-perchance made gods, for men of weaker, though of mighty minds, to worship. You would have men, even of the present day, bowing before you, their lords and masters; and you would ride in chariots of luxuriant ease, and sit in marble halls, each on a princely throne. You would have servants, of rich livery, to herald you with sounding titles, that should not shame a princely, kingly ear. All this is easy; all this you can have-all this I aim for. But put yourselves under my guidance-give me the helm-and I will pilot you clear of the present shoals that surround you, and land you in the haven of glorious immortality. With you, as I said before, I will be candid; therefore start not when I say, I am seeking to overthrow the present government, and establish one to my own liking. Liberty, the great watchword of which politicians prate so loudly, is but an empty sounding name, that carries its charm but into weaker minds. With me, and with yourselves, I trust, 'tis but a bubble, which makes show without the substance. But say, my friends, you will be great, and I will point you to a glorious end-to the liberty worthy of gods!" 
               Burrand ceased, placed his hand upon his heart, and made a low obeisance; while the cave echoed with a universal cheer- 
               "Long live Colonel Burrand!" 
               At this moment a figure, pale and breathless, rushed into the cave. 
               "How now, Sezmond?" cried Gerolstein, starting to his feet. "How now, Sezmond? what is the meaning of this?" 
               "We are again pursued, Captain; a party is close upon us!" 
               "Quick! quick! extinguish the lights!" 
               In an instant all was total darkness. 
               "Let us disperse, silent and speedy," said Gerolstein, in a low, hurried voice. "I would avoid meeting them; there is blood enough upon our hands already. Speedy, men! speedy!" 
               Scarce a minute elapsed ere the cave was cleared, and those dark forms were standing without, wrapt in a mantle darker than their own-the mantle of night. 
               A shout was heard-a body of men rushed forward-and, some of the more daring, entered the cave. 
               "They are gone!" cried the voice of Langley; "by Heaven! they are gone." 
               "The fault is not mine," returned another voice-"I directed you right; they were here when I left." 
               "Ha!" said Gerolstein, in a fierce whisper, who was standing at a little distance-"another traitor, Jarvis, by the gods! 'Tis that accursed Roberts, as I am a living man!" 
               "It is," returned Jarvis. "Stay you here, a moment, Captain," and he suddenly moved away. 
               "What is to be done, Roberts?" inquired the voice of Langley, as he came out of the cave. 
               "I know not," replied the other, "unless we seize upon the Captain." 
               "Where can he be found?" 
               "At-" 
               At this instant a flash, for a moment, dispelled the darkness-exhibiting a number of forms, and a man of low stature standing by the side of Roberts; the report of a pistol rang on the air; and the traitor fell forward upon his face. Jarvis had shot him in the head. All, for a moment, stood aghast at the boldness of such an act. Jarvis, taking advantage of this, quickly rejoined Gerolstein, and both fled; while the others, with a cry of vengeance, started in pursuit-a seemingly hopeless chase. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               A FOILED VILLAIN'S REVENGE. 
               ON the same evening in which the attack, as we have shown, was made upon the League-about the hour of ten-Cicely was seated in the same room wherein we left her in a previous chapter. A week had passed, and on the gentle countenance of Cicely was written a week of trouble. Her features were pale, almost sallow, and much thinner than before. Soft blue veins stood out upon her countenance in rather bold relief, and her eyes were red with weeping. Poor Cicely! to her had it been a week of misery and apprehension. Everything in the future had looked dark and gloomy; she had been a prey to strange, wild fancies; horrid dreams had made even her sleep a sleep of pain; and her waking moments had been racked with the thoughts of a burning brain. Mary had paid her the strictest attention. Every want that could be, had been supplied, save that of liberty; for, strict to the letter of Burrand's injunctions, she had not allowed her to leave the cottage even for a moment. 
               Thus day and night, day and night had passed, and now the awful, dreaded night of all had come. The terrible words of Burrand had sunk as barbed steel into her soul-"One week from to-night, remember!" This was the night. Oh! what might this night unfold? what new act of villainy? what terrible crime? Cicely thought, and shuddered. She thought of Molly-alas! how would she bear the separation, the loss? She thought of Edward-where was he? did he know of her capture? and, if so, what would he do? what could he do? what interest would he now take in her welfare? had they not parted? had she not rejected him? would he ever see her again? Wildly such thoughts rushed through her brain-wildly and madly; she felt she was growing mad; her head seemed pressed to bursting; and, in her agony, she clasped it with her hands and groaned. 
               Suddenly she started to her feet-looked hurriedly around-she was alone-(Mary had, for the moment, left the room,) she might, perchance, escape!-she had, during her captivity, never before thought of this!-it was an inspiring thought!-she sprang to the door-but no, no, alas! it was fast; and again Cicely sank upon her seat, and buried her face in her hands. 
               "So, then, you would escape!" said Mary, entering at the moment. "You are weary of me, I suppose?" 
               "Oh! Mary," said Cicely, looking up, her eyes filling with tears-"do not blame me; you know not the terrible feelings that are harrowing my soul. Oh! I shall go mad!" and she wrung her hands in a sort of frenzy. 
               Mary gazed on her a moment, and her eyes looked watery-her heart was touched. 
               "Do not weep-do not grieve thus, poor Cicely! would to Heaven I had died ere I had a hand in your wrong; but it alters nothing now." 
               "You! a hand in my wrong?" repeated Cicely; "what mean you? surely, it was not by your influence, or your plotting, that I was brought hither?" 
               "True, neither. Yet have I not shared in the crime, by being made you jailor?" 
               "Oh, lady! if, then, you have pity-assist me to escape-I entreat, I beg of you!" 
               "It is impossible, Cicely; we are watched, night and day; such an attempt would only place you in a worse position, and cost me my life." 
               "Heavens! Mary-watched from without? I did not think that; then all is lost-all is lost! Oh! Father of Heaven, help me! But what is to take place? O, tell me that, Mary? Who is this dark man? what are his intentions? why are you, who seem to possess a kindly heart, joined with him?" 
               "To answer the latter question, Cicely, would take me hours; I shall not attempt it; suffice, that I am what I am-a ruined woman-Aaron Burrand my seducer." 
               "Aaron Burrand! Mary! was that terrible man Aaron Burrand? is it with him I have to contend? Then do I know his purpose; then am I lost; oh, God! oh! God!" and Cicely paced the room, wringing her hands, and crying in a state bordering on insanity. 
               "Then you have heard of Aaron Burrand, before?" said Mary, inquiringly. 
               "Heard of him?" repeated Cicely,-"who has not? his name is the terror of virtue." 
               "Then do you well know his base design; I shall not, therefore, be pained by having to explain." 
               "Is there no escape?-no hope?" 
               "None. Yet hold!-a thought strikes me; which had you rather suffer, death or dishonor?" 
               "Death!" replied Cicely, shuddering. 
               "Then your only hope lies in death. Here is a dagger-do you understand?" 
               "I do," said Cicely, as she firmly clenched it in her trembling hand, and gazed on it with a pale cheek. "I understand-I thank you;" and she concealed it in the folds of her dress. 
               "Hark!" said Mary, listening; "I hear his steps already now approaching; I was but just in time. Remember, do not use the dagger, save as your last resource!" 
               "I shall remember," replied Cicely. 
               At this moment a knocking was heard at the door. Mary immediately opened it, and admitted the figure of Aaron Burrand, who, with perfect sang froid, walked into the room, and took off his hat and gloves deliberately. 
               "Well, my pretty Cicely," said he, seating himself close to her, "you look extremely beautiful this evening." 
               Cicely shuddered, but made no answer. 
               "I believe this is the night on which I promised to see you again; am I not right?" 
               "You are right," returned Cicely, briefly. 
               "I am extremely sorry that I have thus long kept you in waiting; but some very important business called me away." 
               "But come, have you nothing to say to me after my absence, my pretty Cicely?" pursued Burrand, endeavoring to draw her into conversation. 
               "Nothing, save that had you staid longer away, I should have less cause for weeping." 
               Burrand compressed his lips, and a dark smile lingered on his features as he replied: 
               "So, you have grown a little ironical, I perceive;" and turning to Mary, he gave her a peculiar look, when she immediately left the room. "But come, dear Cicely," continued he, endeavoring to take her hand, "why will you feign what you do not feel?" 
               "I never feign," replied she, withdrawing her hand, and moving her chair somewhat back. 
               "O, Cicely, if you did but know how much I love you." 
               "'Tis false!" interrupted she, with flashing eyes; "you love me not. You say this but to cover base design!" 
               "Ha! who hath told you this?" 
               "Your features." 
               "Nay, my lovely Cicely, you misjudge me: I would not wrong you!" 
               "Then go your way-let me go mine." 
               "O, Cicely, you do not mean this!" 
               "And wherefore not? Do you think I prefer a prison to liberty?" 
               "But you shall have liberty, sweet one; only be mine, and you shall have everything you may ask, within my power to grant; refuse, and you shall know what I can do!" 
               "You continue to threaten, then, it seems; this is brave in an American officer-a powerful man-to steal away a girl, by cowardly ruffians, and then threaten her because she does not love him-because she will not consent to be by him degraded!-truly, this is bravery!" 
                
               "I see 'tis useless to dally farther with you. I now say-as I said when I last saw you-you must be mine-you shall be mine! You are in my power; think not you can escape-'tis impossible; think not you will have assistance, for you are far from friends, and he is bold who dares to cross my will!" 
               "I know all this," said Cicely, calmly, but firmly; "I have conned the matter over well; and, ere you take this daring step-ere your soul is deeper steeped in crime-I charge you, solemnly charge you! to pause-reflect! Reason well the matter, and what, after all, will you have gained-even supposing you succeed in your foul intent?-nothing. On the contrary, you will have ruined one who never did you wrong: will it not be a serious death-bed thought, when you are approaching the confines of eternity? when about to stand in the presence of God?" 
               "You reason prettily," said Burrand, with a wicked smile-a smile which made Cicely shudder; "but you reason like the mass, who think there is a God-that that the soul is immortal; with me such thoughts do not have weight: I disbelieve them all." 
               "What!" cried Cicely, starting in alarm-"do you disbelieve there is a God?" 
               "I do." 
               "Then God protect me! else am I lost;" and, turning her eyes upward, she murmured a prayer. 
               "Pshaw! this is idling time!" said Burrand, approaching her. 
               "Off! villain, off!" cried Cicely, springing from her seat, and drawing the dagger; "you see that I am armed; press not upon me, else my blood be on your head! For, solemnly I swear! if you persist, this pointed steel shall free my spirit. I will drive it through and through my heart, ere you shall clasp me other than a corpse!" 
               Burrand paused. He saw, by a glance, that Cicely would fulfill her threat, should he still persist; and, consequently, his only course was now to manage so as to disarm her. 
               "Well, well, my gentle Cicely," said he, "I see that you are obstinate toward my advances, and I like you the better for it. It was but done to try your virtue." 
               "O, sir! then you will not-will not wrong me?" cried Cicely, beseechingly. 
               "No, Cicely, I will not. You shall be returned to your friends." 
               "God of Heaven! I thank thee!" exclaimed she, dropping the dagger-clasping her hands-and looking up ward, with tearful eyes. 
               Burrand gazed for a moment upon her in undisguised admiration. Wicked as he was, this noble sight affected even him. 'Twas but for a moment, however; good thoughts, or good intents, ne'er held a place with him; for, as the water when separated by the falling in of some ponderous globe, again rushes back with two-fold power, burying the mass within its tide-so the evil in the heart of Burrand, when separated by the good, collected and returned with double fury. Springing forward with a bound, he caught the dagger from the floor, and, turning to Cicely, cried: 
               "Now I have thee!" and he grasped her by the wrist, and fixed his dark, lascivious eyes upon her. 
               Cicely uttered a wild, heart-piercing scream, and attempted to free herself from his grasp. 
               "Nay, 'tis useless," said Burrand, seizing her with both hands, in a rude manner. "By hell! if you escape me now, then do I give you liberty." 
               Again Cicely uttered a thrilling scream. 
                
               At this instant the door was burst open, and Gerolstein, pale and breathless, rushed into the room. 
               "That voice! that voice!" cried he, wildly; "by heavens! 'tis she! 'tis Cicely! O, Cicely, do you not know me?" 
               On the entrance of Gerolstein, Burrand relaxed his hold of Cicely, and started back, to be on guard in case of danger; surprise then held him mute-while Cicely, wild with fluctuating feelings, gazed upon her deliverer in joyful wonder. 
               "Do you not know me? my own, dear Cicely!" cried Gerolstein, throwing out his arms. 
               "A thought-a wild, thrilling thought-passed through the brain of Cicely; she looked again-yes! it must be him-it was him-and with the cry of- 
               "Father! dear, dear father!" she sprang forward, and fainted in his arms. 
               "Quick! good fellows, quick!" said a voice from without; "he entered here;" and the next moment the door was again thrown open, and Edward Langley, with three or four stout followers, sprang into the room. 
               "Heavens!" exclaimed Langley; "what do I behold! Cicely in the arms of a stranger? Have I then sought her rescue to find myself dishonored by the search?" 
               "There stands the man who can best answer that question," replied Gerolstein, pointing to Burrand. 
               "Who are you, sir?" asked Langley, sternly, turning to Burrand; "how came you here?" 
               Burrand saw there was but one way of escape, and quickly made answer: 
               "My name is one of honor-I came to rescue this lady, who is now in the arms of her seducer." 
               "'Tis false! 'tis a lie, as black as hell!" cried Gerolstein, in rage. "Cicely, poor girl, shall be my proof; see! she recovers." 
               As he spoke, all eyes were directed to Cicely, who, awaking from her swoon, started, rubbed her eyes, and looked hurriedly around, exclaiming: 
               "Father-Edward-what is the meaning of this? am I awake, or is this a delusive dream?" 
               "Father!" cried Langley, springing forward, and clasping Cicely in his arms-"is this your father, dearest Cicely?" 
               "It is," murmured Cicely. 
               "'Tis false!" said Burrand. "Her name is Vandemore; this is Gerolstein, the notorious Captain of the League." 
               "Ha! this is the man we seek-seize him!" cried another of the party. 
               "Not while a traitor lives!" exclaimed Gerolstein, as he drew from his belt a pistol, and fired at Burrand. 
               "You have missed," remarked Burrand, coolly, as the ball passed through the wall close to his head; "I shall remember this!" and he ground together his teeth. 
               Ere Gerolstein could try a second, he was seized and disarmed by three of the men; while Cicely, uttering a scream, sprang from Langley, exclaiming: 
               "Oh! do not believe that villain! this is some terrible mistake; this is my father, Vandemore-'tis not Gerolstein!" 
               "Here is mystery," said Langley, turning to Gerolstein-"will you explain, sir, which is your right name?" 
               "Both!" replied Gerolstein, gloomily. "I feel my time has come; I no longer care for concealment; my name is Gerolstein Vandemore; to one am I known as Vandemore, to the other as Gerolstein: do with me as you will; I am ready." 
               "Gerolstein Vandemore!" muttered Burrand to himself;-"'tis the name, by all the gods! Cicely, too-'tis so, 'tis so-I have been duped-the girl he was to have destroyed is living-this is she: yet shall he pay the penalty with his life, or I know not my nature;" and, unperceived, he glided from the room. 
               While this was taking place with Burrand, the rest were not less active. 
               "Oh! father! father! is this true?" cried Cicely, in the most piteous, agonizing tones conceivable. "Oh! have you thus linked yourself with men of crime? Oh! father, dear father, say 'tis not so-say 'tis false-'tis a lie, and I will bless you!" 
               "'Tis true-'tis all true, dearest Cicely!" 
               "Oh, God!" exclaimed she, and sank at his feet. 
               "Merciful Heavens!" cried Langley, pressing his hands upon his temples-"can this be true? Cicely, the gentle, the lovely Cicely, the daughter of an outlaw?" 
               "No, that is not true," said Vandemore, deeply affected. 
               "Explain! explain!" cried Langley, breathlessly, while Cicely looked up in wonder. 
               "Not in this world," muttered Burrand, who had paused at the door-"not in this world, and there is no next! She knows not who she is-she never shall know." 
               While speaking, he drew a pistol from his breast, and deliberately glancing along the barrel, he touched the trigger-it flashed-the report rang out-the ball entered Vandemore's head-and he fell forward, even over the gentle Cicely, whose lovely features were bespattered with his blood. 
               All stood aghast-horrified-dumb with amazement, at an act so bold-so unexpected-while Cicely again swooned from the effects. 
               "Great God! who could have done this?" cried Langley. All sprang to the door-it was densely dark-no one could be seen. "The officer-ha! he is gone-'twas he-'twas he!" 
               Oh! what a sight was there!-Vandemore stretched upon the floor, on his side-his mouth a little ajar, gasping for breath-his features distorted with the throes of death, over which the blood was trickling from the wound in his head-while beside him, apparently lifeless, lay the beautiful Cicely-her features without color, save here and there the red spots of the other's blood. 
               Edward, as this caught his eye, started, exclaiming: 
               "Oh, God! what a sight!" and springing to Cicely, he knelt beside her, and commenced chafing her hand, while the others flew to Vandemore, and proceeded to examine his wound. 
               "It is mortal," said one, who appeared to be somewhat skilled in surgery-"he can survive but a few minutes." 
               At this moment Cicely opened her eyes, with a shudder, partly raised herself, and seeing Vandemore, uttered a scream, threw herself forward, clasped him around the neck, bloody as he was, and buried her head upon his breast, while her whole frame was shaken with terrible emotions. 
               It was an awful, heart-rending sight, and the pen droops in attempting to describe it. 
               This seemed to revive the dying man a little, for he attempted to rise, and as he did so, gasped out: 
               "Cicely-will-will-you for-forgive me? Cicely-I am not your-your father. I-I am dy-ing, Cicely. This: paper (partly withdrawing one from his breast)-this will-tell all-all-all;'" and sinking back with a groan he expired. 
               For some time no one moved or spoke, so powerfully were they affected by the piteous sight. Cicely, in a kneeling posture, was gazing upon him with marble features, and clasped hands-her very eyes seemed glazed, 
               Edward at length moved forward, and touched her on the shoulder: 
               "Cicely," said he, "dear Cicely, look up, my love!" 
               Cicely slowly raised her eyes to his, with a mournful look; then rising herself, she took a step forward, buried her head upon his breast, and wept like a child. 
               It was a thrilling moment to Edward, as he drew the being of his love-this tender flower-to his heart. 
               But why prolong this scene. Matters were soon arranged that one of the party should procure horses, and that Edward and Cicely should return to Covington, while the others should remain, and on the following day inter the remains of Gerolstein Vandemore. About his person were found some fifty dollars, and a letter, directed to Molly Magore-the one he had attempted to draw forth as he expired-all of which Langley took possession of. 
               While waiting for the horses, considerable curiosity was excited by Cicely informing them that Mary was in another apartment. Search was made, but nothing of her person discovered, and it was supposed that she and Burrand had fled together. About daylight the horses arrived, and Edward and Cicely set out upon their return. 
               Perhaps, ere we close this chapter, a word of explanation may not be deemed unnecessary. 
               Burrand, after leaving the cave, at the time of the attack, took a direct line for the cottage, which was distant some five miles-while Gerolstein, in wandering about, had accidentally come upon it; and seeing the lights, and hearing the shriek of Cicely, and rightly divining it was her voice, he had rushed to her assistance. 
               Langley, with some three or four of his party in their search, chanced to be near the place also; and, likewise seeing the lights, hearing the screams, and marking one enter, who they took to be one of the League, they rushed in, as has been shown. 
               We will briefly state here, as we may not refer to it again, that by the perseverance of the citizens, and the terrible and summary manner in which they dealt with all the aggressors that fell in their power, (some being shot in Lawrence-burgh, and elsewhere-some being hung,) that the League was, for the time, disbanded and broken. We say for the time; for it is supposed to be in existence even at the present day, though in nothing of the force which it was at that date. 
               Having said this much, we will dismiss the outlaws and their pursuers, and turn to another, the final, and closing scene. 
             
             
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THE SECRET AND FINALE. 
               THE morning on which we left Edward and Cicely on their return, some hours later, was beautiful, most beautiful. The sun, as he crept up the arching vault, gradually dispelled the fog-which rolled away in large, cloud-like masses-and then shone out in glorious refulgence. Here and there bright water drops lingered, for awhile, on blade and flower, giving an animated sparkle to the whole face of nature-while a soft breeze swept gently by, bearing its stolen perfume with it. The little birds, as they flew from branch to branch among the thick foliage of the trees, or skimmed lightly over the more open plain or meadow, tuned their silver voices with a heart-felt joy divinely musical. It was, in fact, one of those beautiful days of summer, in which we see everything through a lovely medium-in which everything seems at peace and harmony with the whole-and we, as we gaze upon it, feel such a noble, high-gushing of soul-such lofty, inspiring thoughts-that our mind is unconsciously borne upward to the supreme fount-to God, the holy giver of all-and impulsively we bow in adoration. 
               Such, or similar, were the thoughts and feelings at work in the breast of Molly Magore, as she stood in the door of the old cottage, and gazed forth upon the enchanting scene. Since the capture of Cicely, she had scarcely ate or slept, so much had her mind been troubled with doubts and fears, alternately struggling with hope; and the effects of their many combats were plainly visible on her altered features; but now, she could not tell why, for the first time since Cicely's absence, she felt a sudden thrill of joy-her heart seemed to expand, and it seemed to her she was at peace with everything-could love everything around her-and drawing to her a chair, she seated herself thereon, and mused away a couple of hours. 
               At length she started up with a cry of joy-before her stood Edward and Cicely-and the next moment the latter was locked in her arms; while the tears of both-tears of joy-mingled together. 
               "O, Cicely! dear, dear Cicely! have you returned to me again? Do I again behold you?" cried Molly, starting back and gazing upon her. "Yes, yes! it is, it is my own dear little Cicely!" and springing forward, she was again clasped to her heart. 
               "Thank God!" said Cicely, "I have once more returned." 
               "Ay, my daughter, thank God, that is right-thank God; for he it is who has borne you up through your trials, and returned you safe to your home: thank God! thank God! But where have you been, my child? you have suffered-you look pale!" 
               Cicely thought of her many trials-her escape-and shuddered. 
               "Oh! mother, I have been-I cannot tell you where; I have suffered-I cannot tell you what; but I have seen strange, strange things-and horrid, horrid sights. But you forget my deliverer, there!" and Cicely pointed to Edward, who was standing a little back, and, with tearful eyes, gazing upon this affectionate scene. 
               "True, true," said Molly, turning to Edward, and grasping his hand; "in my joy of beholding my Cicely, I had forgotten you, sir; may God bless you, sir, for this noble act!" 
               "May God bless me, I echo," returned Langley, pressing her hand; "but for the noble act, as you are pleased to term it, I will say I have done no more than my duty-nothing more than I would do an hundred times again, were I an hundred times to have the opportunity. I only feel I have done too little;" and he glanced at Cicely with a lover's eye, who rewarded him with a similar glance, and then modestly turned away her head. 
               "You are a noble fellow," said Molly, and her look told she meant what she said. "But come!-come! be seated, and tell me all about it: I am anxious to hear it from your sweet lips, Cicely; something told me this morning all would yet be well, and now that I see you here, I am as eager for the story as a child." 
               In a few minutes all three were seated, and Cicely, in a style of sweet simplicity, related what had occurred; but as the reader is already acquainted with the incidents, it will be unnecessary for us to detail them again. 
                
               As Cicely came to the narration relative to her meeting with Vandemore, Molly grew more and more interested; but when she spoke of his death from an unknown hand, she started from her seat-clasped her hands-uttering, "Dead! dead! is he then dead? Cicely's father dead! and a robber, too! Oh! this is awful-horrid!" 
               "He is dead," said Langley, joining in, "that is true, most true, for I myself saw him die,-though he is not Cicely's father." 
               "How!" asked Molly, breathlessly-"not her father, say you?" 
               "Those were his dying words. But probably this letter will explain," and he produced the one found on the person of Vandemore, superscribed, "Molly Magore, Covington, Ky." 
               Molly hastily took it-broke the seal-glanced at the contents-but immediately handed it back, saying: 
               "Read it, Edward-read it; my eyes are dim-I cannot see the letters." 
               Edward took it, and thus commenced: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "TO MOLLY MAGORE.
                            
                           
                              Madam:-When this reaches you, I shall probably be no more. I believe that we are often warned of our approaching dissolution, and I feel that mine is near at hand. What my end will be, God only knows; yet, while I contemplate and write, I shudder. Seven years ago, I placed in your charge Cicely Edgerton-" 
                           "What!" gasped Molly, interrupting him-clasping her head with her hands-"Cicely Edgerton! yes, yes-go on! go on?" 
                           -"Who," resumed Edward, reading, "I gave out as my daughter, Cicely Vandemore, but for reasons best known to myself, which may never be explained. She is the daughter of a wealthy family in the city of New York, and was by me stolen from her parents in the year 1790, then some two years of age." 
                           "Heavens!" exclaimed Cicely, in wonder-"can this be true?" 
                           "Every word of it!" cried Molly, wildly; "go on! go on!" 
                           "I received pay from an unknown villain to put an end to her life, and took a dreadful oath to that effect; but which, thank God! as you see, I did not fulfill; for, young as she was, she stole the affections of my heart, and, having nothing to love, I loved her-ay, loved her, strange as it may seem, wildly and madly. I determined to rear her, and call her my own child, at least, till she should come of age. It was a wild, wicked thought, to deprive her so long of her parents, I know; and yet I felt I could not yield her up before. Well, I lived on; the sum I received for this daring crime was large, and enabled me to live in comfortable circumstances for several years; but at last my funds ran low, and I came to the West for the purpose of seeking some honest employment, and ending my days. But, I know not why, I never could be honest. I never could resist temptation; and, falling in with bad company, brilliant offers were made me if I would join a band in a lawless enterprise. On the impulse of the moment, while under the influence of liquor, I consented, and was sworn in by an oath-a dreadful oath-which I could not, dare not break. Terrible were my reflections, when I came to myself, and thought of the pure, the innocent Cicely-what would become of her, and the like-for I now felt myself bound-dreadfully bound-and no escape. I sat down and drew up those papers which I left in your possession-so that in case of accident to myself, the girl, if she lived, would sometime know the facts of her birth. In them you will find the corroboration of this statement; which, should this reach you ere she is of age, I give you privilege to open; for there are many things therein of importance in establishing her parentage. 
                           "Well, the girl, as you know, I consigned to your care, and went forth. My life, thereafter, I shall not attempt to explain; suffice, it has been one of mystery and crime. I have frequently sent you money; but whether you have received it or not, I know not. I have often learned of Cicely, sweet girl, and know that under your charge she has fared well-for which, God bless you! I have yearned to see her-tell her so; but I suppose we may not meet again on the shores of time; whether we shall in the world to come, is a mystery I cannot solve. Kiss her a dozen times for me, and say to her, hard-hearted as I am, I have wept over her memory hours together. 
                           "Farewell! God bless you! Farewell-forever! 
                           
                              "GEROLSTEIN VANDEMORE."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               "O Cicely, Cicely!" cried Molly, as Edward concluded the letter, throwing her arms around the other's neck in a transport of joy; "I have often, often fancied this; and now that my dream has come true, it almost seems incredible. The ways of Providence are indeed wonderful." 
               "Mother, mother! what means this?" exclaimed Cicely, in wonder-almost doubting her senses, as a wild crowd of thoughts rushed swiftly through her brain. 
               "It means, Cicely Edgerton," said Molly, wiping her eyes, "that these rough old arms have held you in your father's mansion when a child; ay, and when you were stolen from me, I was not only cast forth upon the heartless world, without a friend, but I was tried, Cicely, tried for being your supposed murderess!" 
               "Is it possible?" exclaimed Langley and Cicely together. 
               "And now-and now," continued Molly, seemingly unheedful of everything around her-"and now I can restore her, and they shall acknowledge they were wrong! O, merciful God of Heaven! I thank thee-I thank thee! my bliss is too deep for words;" and for a few minutes Molly paced the room, wringing her hands in a transport of joy, almost amounting to agony, while the others, occupied with thoughts of their own, gazed upon her in silence. 
               At length Molly paused, and then approaching Cicely, she took her hand, placed it in that of Edward's, exclaiming: "Take her, Edward Langley, take her; you have won her, and she is worthy of you: her connexions will not shame yours: take her-protect her-love her." 
               "Cicely!" gasped Langley, almost wild with delight, as their glances met in the holy unison of love. 
               "Edward!" murmured she, faintly, and sank into his arms. 
               The pure, deep, holy, transporting bliss of that moment, was worthy a record in Heaven; we will not attempt to describe it. Molly, half frantic, fairly danced around the room; while Edward clasped the lovely Cicely forever to his heart. 
                
               And now kind reader, a few words more and we must part-must bid you adieu, at least, for a time. We are loth to do so; for while we bask in the light of your kind smiles, the sun of hope seems ever in its zenith of glory; but stern necessity commands, and our only choice is to obey. 
               The package in the possession of Molly Magore was opened, and found to contain sufficient proofs to establish the birthright of Cicely Edgerton, which was afterward done, though not until she had learned to write her name Cicely Langley, which she was enabled to do in less than a month from the foregoing events. 
               Accompanied by her husband and Molly Magore, in the ensuing fall she visited New York, and found her parents, who were still living in the luxury of wealth. 
               Great was the excitement, and great the rejoicing with them, when their long lost daughter, and only heir, was again restored; and princely entertainments were given in honor of the event. 
               There were some who did not rejoice; but these were disappointed heirs, of whom Aaron Burrand was one. 
               It was a proud moment to poor old Molly, when after a life of troubles and perplexities, she stood before her former accusers, and pointed, with glowing checks, to their beautiful child, returned to them, through her unceasing care, pure in thought as when she slept in infancy. 
               In justice to them, we will say, they did all in their power to repair the error done her in former years. She was not only publicly exonerated, but a worthy income settled upon her for life; and the remainder of her days glided gently past; and a few years after, the pillow of her death bed was smoothed by one whom she ever claimed as her daughter, Cicely Langley. 
               The parents of Cicely dying about the same time, left her sole heir to their vast possessions; when with Edward she returned to the West, and purchased a large estate in Kentucky, where a son and daughter were added to the family. 
               Forty years have passed,
                     This was written and published in 1845.
                   and one by one have our characters disappeared from the stage of action, and Cicely only remains. 
               The case of Aaron Burrand is too well known to require much explanation from us. His deeds are recorded on the page of history in glaring colors, serving as beacon lights to warn men to steer clear of the shoals of a worthless, grasping ambition. All his high-wrought schemes of glory failed him, and he was afterward tried by a jury of his countrymen, and, by a mere chance, escaped the awful punishment so justly awarded to a CONSPIRATOR. 
               In conclusion, we will say, it is not an unfrequent occurrence, that a fine, noble looking lady, dressed in black, some fifty-seven years of age, is seen walking the streets of Cincinnati at the present day, who, should you question her in regard to her past life, would, undoubtedly, tell you some strange things relative to what came beneath her own notice-without taking into consideration a hundred other stories in circulation, at the time-of which space has not permitted us even to mention-concerning that far-famed, notorious combination-the LEAGUE OF THE MIAMI. 
             
            THE END 
         
       
   
