
    ----CITATION----
        Bell, Alfreda Eva.. The Rebel Cousins, or, Life and Love in Secessia .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5773 wright2-0254
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
            
               THE REBEL COUSINS;
               OR, LIFE AND LOVE IN SECESSIA.
               
                  THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THE BEAUTIFUL BERTHA STEPHENS, THE ACCOMPLISHED NIECE OF THE HON. ALEXANDER HAMILTON STEPHENS, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY.
               
               WRITTEN BY HERSELF.
               
                  
               
               Philadelphia:
               
                  PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO.,
                  

AGENTS, UNION BOOK PUBLISHING HOUSE, 56 N. SIXTH STREET


               
            
         
         
            
            
               
                  THE MIDNIGHT ASSAULT. "With a dashing stroke, I cast the concealing cloak aside, and uttering the alarming shriek of Murder! help! help! sprang in front of the villain, just as he prepared to strike the fatal blow."—See page 47.
               
            
         
         
            NEW ERA IN AMERICAN HISTORY.
            
               THE REBEL COUSINS;
               OR, LIFE AND LOVE IN SECESSIA.
               THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF THE BEAUTIFUL BERTHA STEPHENS, THE ACCOMPLISHED NIECE OF THE HON. ALEXANDER HAMILTON STEPHENS, VICE-PRESIDENT OF THE SOUTHERN CONFEDERACY, SHOWING THE STERLING VICISSITUDES, TERRIBLE TRIALS OF IMPRISONMENT AND SEVERE SUFFERINGS SHE SO HEROICALLY ENDURED—COMPELLED TO LEAVE THE SOUTH FOR HER HOME IN THE NORTH.
            
            WRITTEN BY HERSELF, AND PREPARED FOR PUBLICATION BY HER FRIEND, ALFREDA EVA BELL.
            PRICE 15 CENTS.
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               PUBLISHED BY BARCLAY & CO. 
                     No. 602 ARCH STREET.
                  
               
            
            1864.
         
         
            
            THE VOLUNTEERS' ROLL OF HONOR.
            JUSTICE TO OUR GALLANT SOLDIERS AND SAILORS.
            Though the present war has brought into existence a vast number of Histories and Personal Narratives, yet no work has, until now, appeared, devoted entirely to the cause of the Noble Men who have fought and died, and who are still fighting and dying in the Holy Cause of their Country.
            It is, therefore, to supply this want that we have commenced the publication of THE VOLUNTEERS' ROLL OF HONOR.
            The ROLL OF HONOR is issued in Monthly Numbers. Each number is complete in itself, and is Magnificently Illustrated by the most Celebrated Artists.
            Every Engraving represents some scene taken directly from the text of the book itself.
            The Roll of Honor is in fact, a Casket, in which will be preserved the correct name of every Soldier or Sailor who has performed an act of daring or gallantry in his Country's behalf. The proper number of his Regiment, and letter of his Company, or name of his Vessel will, also, be strictly recorded, together with a full narrative of the deed he performed. Such a work, it must be apparent, possesses MORE ROMANCE THAN A NOVEL—MORE THRILLINGNESS THAN ANY OTHER VOLUME OF ADVENTURES, AND ALL THE TRUTH OF HISTORY, and is, therefore, more desirable to the Reading Public than any other work.
            Relatives and friends of Volunteers, and Volunteers themselves, by sending us a correct account of any praiseworthy or gallant deed, together with the Name, Regiment, Ship, &c., of the performer, shall have the same recorded in THE ROLL OF HONOR.
            In addition to our other inducements, we have determined to make the Following Splendid Offer:
            To that person in the Army, or out of it, sending us by JANUARY 1ST 1864, the largest number of Subscribers to the 
                  
                     ROLL OF HONOR, we will present
                     $200 00
                  
                  
                     Second largest number
                     150 00
                  
                  
                     Third " "
                     125 00
                  
                  
                     Fourth " "
                      80 00
                  
                  
                     Fifty " "
                      60 00
                  
                  
                     Sixth " "
                      50 00
                  
                  
                     Seventh " "
                      40 00
                  
               
            
            On the same day, we will also award to the Volunteer, who shall be decided by a Committee of our most distinguished Generals, to have performed the bravest deed in the cause of his Country, $200 00.
            In case the Volunteer be dead, the money will be paid to his proper heir or heirs. If living, to himself, or whoever he may name.
            Soldiers, Sailors, and Civilians, Mothers, Daughters, and Sons, are alike interested in giving THE VOLUNTEERS' ROLL OF HONOR a universal circulation, and thus introducing to every household in our land this GREAT ENCYCLOPEDIA OF AMERICAN HEROISM.
            Send 25 Cents for a Specimen Copy at Once, and Get up Your Clubs.
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1863, by BARCLAY & CO. in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
         
      
      
         
            The rebel cousins, or, Life and love in Secessia
            THE REBEL COUSINS;
            LIFE AND LOVE IN "SECESSIA."
            
               PART I.
               
                  MY HOME IN THE SUNNY SOUTH—SLAVERY AND COTTON.
                  THE Stephens estate, though not the largest cotton plantation in Georgia, was better ordered and cultivated than many, and equal to the best of those in that portion of the State. My uncle was the owner of some seven hundred negroes, one-third of which number worked the plantation on which I lived, and where my uncle and his family resided, and the balance were divided between two smaller plantations. My uncle was the oldest of two brothers, and though long under ill health, besides being a wary, ambitious, proficient and talented politician, he was also a shrewd, calculating, well to do cotton grower; and becoming my guardian at the decease of my parents, so invested my patrimony, which fell into his hands, that it rapidly accumulated and vastly enhanced the value of what he already possessed. My uncle had been fortunate and happy in his marriage relations. Filling a clerkship, when young, (in Philadelphia) a wealthy firm of Charleston, South Carolina, hearing of his capabilities, sent for him, with an offer of salary much larger than he was then commanding; he accepted and removed to Charleston, where, after forming many new and wealthy connections, and gaining influential friends, he succeeded in securing the acquaintance and esteem of Miss C. Schuyler. He subsequently gained her affections, offered his hand, was accepted and they were married. O, how I loved my aunt. She was so noble in her character—affectionate, amiable and pure. As she placed at her husband's command a large inheritance in Georgia, they finally removed thither, where three children—a son and two daughters—blessed their congenial union. The respective ages of my cousins, when I was introduced to them, were seven, ten and twelve years. I loved my fair cousins, and being the younger, I was, for a long time, made a sort of pet among them, and while yet young in years and free from selfishness and pride, they would vie with each other in contributing, by numerous little attentions and presents, to the pleasure and pastime of Bertha, their little Northern cousin, as they playfully called me.
                  Our home was a beautiful as well as a pleasant one. The mansion of the Stephens estate was a three storied stone building, closely and smoothly cemented, having two storied wings on the side and back, built in the form of the Roman letter E, surrounded by a spacious and airy verandah, in good old Southern style. On the top of the main building was placed an observatory, from which we possessed as fine a view over the country as any in the land. Situated as we were on the gently rising ground, just at the bend of a river, and near a beautiful grove, or wood, we could sweep at a glance the great river for many miles, and note the course of numerous steamers and other craft long before they passed our place, on their way to those great cotton marts, the Crescent City and Mobile; and then turning our eyes over the country swarthy skins glistening in the sun, as with merry voice and song they busily plied themselves over the vast fields of the beautifully blooming cotton.
               
               
                  LOVE IN A SUMMER-HOUSE—EVESDROPPING—RIVALRY—PASSION.
                  OURS was, indeed, a beautiful prospect, and within doors all that Southern aristocratic wealth and love of ease could procure. Immediately surrounding the house, we had a fine and well cultivated garden, containing, besides vegetables, flowers and shrubbery of every hue, also, fruits of every flavor and kind. In the distance, we looked upon low ranges of hills, blue in the early misty light, and granting, here and there, peeps of the adjacent sea, sleeping quietly beneath the rosy amber of the Southern sky, mirroring back at my feet orange groves and flower gardens, all glowing and glinting with a hundred blooming dyes.
                  At the foot, or near the southern verge of the garden, there stood a pretty summer-house, tastefully built upon a rock, the spreading top of which formed indeed a cool, substantial and ready floor, several feet above the level of the ground. The tastefully arranged lattice work of the summer-house was quite inclosed with flowers, and vines and shrubbery of various kinds, forming a most lovely as well as beautiful retreat in summer. Then, mingling with the music of the birds, was the gentle roar and muttering of the falling cascade of water, which, leaving the river about a mile to the north of the garden, in a sort of rivulet, wound around and fell over a ledge of rock near the summer-house.
                  I will pass over several years of the heyday of life, passed pleasantly as they were beneath the hospitable roof of my uncle, with my cousins, in real girlish pleasure. Many and frequent were the seasons of jocund friendship passed by us together, within the love-hallowed lattice work and woodbine-circled bowers of the summer-house on the summit of the rock. And how were the pleasure and gaiety of those happy hours heightened by the jocose and friendly companionship of the gay Frank Arlington—the money broker of Savannah—and the noble and accomplished plished George Somerville, of Mobile—both of whom, though originally from the North, were now considered warm-hearted Southerners in feeling and interest. The dashing Frank Arlington had fallen deeply in love with my elder cousin, Agnes, while Ellen, my younger cousin, regarded with some degree of complacency the ardent attention of the only son of a wealthy planter of an adjoining plantation.
                  But George Somerville was my ideal of all that contributes to create and form the gentleman—an agreeable and congenial companion. Often we all, cousins together, romped, and played, and wandered in merry mood and girlish glee over the plantation and through the grove, near the sea, with our city friends, never dreaming, in our girlish frivolity, that such casual friendship could ever ripen into love. But the tendrils of youthful friendship—how surely, though imperceptibly at the first, they grow into fond esteem, and thence ripen and expand into affection, until at last— 
                        
                           "The fondness of a creature's love,
                           How strong it strikes the sense,
                           Thither our warm affections move,
                           Nor can we call them thence."
                        
                     
                  
                  It was a lovely moonlit eve in the month of May, that Agnes and Arlington had wandered together towards the shady and sequestered grove; Somerville and I occupied the summer-house near the cascade. It was, at such an hour, and on such an evening, an entrancing spot indeed. The shrubbery and trees of the garden were in bloom on every hand, and every air "was heavy with the sighs of orange groves and music from sweet lutes, and murmurs of low fountains, that gush forth in the midst of roses"—while the clear, silvery moonlight glinted through the flowery lattice work in sparkling spray. In truth, the happy scene was the poetic Melnotte's ideal of love's palace near the beautiful Lake of Como:—"A deep vale, shut out by alpine hills from the rude world, near a clear lake, margined by fruits of gold and whispering myrtle; glassing softest skies as cloudless, save with rare and roseate shadows as I would have thy fate," &c.
                  Somerville, standing at my side, and looking forth through the window that gave a spacious view of the mirror of beauty around us, his happy soul glowing with the poetic inspiration of the hour, exclaimed—
                  "Bertha, Bertha, this is a rare and sweet picture. It must have been such a scene as this that inspired the gifted Bulwer to pen those pure poetic lines, the sentiment of which shall live in immortal beauty, even when the English language shall have passed away. A palace, lifting to eternal summer its marble walls from out glossy bowers of coolest foliage, musical with birds, whose songs shall syllable thy name. At noon we'd sit beneath the arching vines and wonder why earth could be unhappy, while the heaven still left us youth and love. We'd have no friends that were not lovers; no ambition save to excel them all in love. We'd read no books that were not tales of love, that we might smile to think how poorly the eloquence of words translates the poetry of hearts like ours. And when night came, amid the breathless heavens, we'd guess what star should be our home when love becomes immortal."
                  
                  Oh, he was beautiful to me then—beautiful as a day dream of joy—beautiful as the Christian's hope, as, clasping my hand in his, he bent upon one knee and leaned forward, pleading in earnest accents for a union of hearts; while his great, noble soul looked from his beaming eyes down deep into mine. It was a wonderful magnetism—an attraction and mingling and melting of soul in soul—a blest harmony of hearts that I could not forego; so I gave him at once my free consent to unite my life with his. A kiss on my brow was the sacred seal of our congenial betrothal. Oh, I was happy then, and as the clear light shone on the dark auburn locks, and into the upturned face of my beloved by my side, he seemed, indeed, transformed into an angel just descended from the skies, while his voice was all music to me. And the stars in their courses formed a choir of celebration, and mingling their songs with his accents of love, created around me a celestial symphony, like the music of seraphs borne over the sea, entrancing the senses with a sweet melody.
                  For several minutes thus I hung upon the honey of his tongue. We arose to retrace our steps, as a rustling among the shrubbery near us caused me to start with some degree of apprehension, and we each turned in time to see the retreating form of my cousin, Ralston S—— disappear round an angle of the summer-house rock. For a moment all my happiness seemed gone, and in its stead a cloud of thick darkness overshadowed me in gloom. My heart leaped, as it were, to my throat, and a choking sensation seizing me, I sank back to the seat I had just left. I knew that my cousin, who had latterly become so importunate in his overtures of pretended love for me, and expressed himself so decidedly against Somerville, had been playing the contemptible part of an eavesdropper—had heard the words of our betrothal; and now I feared the terrible course of resentment, anger and scorn which his passionate selfish nature would prompt him to adopt towards me, ending, for aught I knew, in some fearfully rash act, perhaps an attempt on the life of my protector.
                  As I remained speechless a moment, Somerville stood in the doorway, transfixed as it were to the spot, in deep mortification and amazement; not that he possessed the least cowardice in his nature. But as he saw in the bright light of the moon that it was my cousin, he felt chagrined and hurt, and remained in doubt how to act. But at length turning to me, he, in a choking voice and a tone of as much kindness as he could feel under the circumstances, said—
                  "Bertha, dear, tell me, pray, what is the meaning of this?"
                  I had hitherto kept from his knowledge my cousin's actions towards me, and his feelings towards him. I had hoped to prevent the pain which I feared this knowledge would certainly give him. But now the incident that had just occurred, and his question, seemed to demand a candid revealment. For several minutes I remained in a maze of doubt, almost despair; but a suffusion of tears coming to my relief, I at length, as he returned to his seat at my side, made out to reply:
                  "Oh, George, I scarce know how to speak of this. I have known my cousin's wish for my hand—his inclination to constantly intrude his attentions upon me—his feelings towards you. But as I live, I knew not that we were watched by him to-night."
                  "Watched! I like not well, my dear, to have a spy on my actions. Bertha, I never dreamed your cousin capable of descending to the mean character of the evesdropper, and the character is indeed so far beneath that I ever believed him capable of assuming, that before I publicly pronounce him a villain, I will demand an explanation."
                  "George, George, beware of his vengeance; you know he is very passionate and rash. Do not seek him. Let him go."
                  "Oh, yes, Bertha, I will be wary for your sake; yet nevertheless I shall seek an explanation. 'Tis justly my due."
                  "Yes, George, it is justly your due. But do not seek him. Let me counsel with him."
                  "Bertha, I must see him myself."
                  "But, dear George, not to-night. You must not meet to-night, for may sake, George, for my sake."
                  "Well, as you desire, Bertha. But I shall insist upon an explanation at the earliest opportunity."
                  We parted for the night—he for Mobile and I for my room; but not to sleep. Though I lay myself on my pillow, no sleep visited my eyelids. The moon shone brightly through the window on my couch, and I lay a long while looking up through the casement into the star-sprinkled ether above, and in fitful dozing passed off into dreamy vision.
               
               
                  THE LATE BREAKFAST—THE COUSIN'S COVERT ACCUSATION—JEALOUSY—INDIGNATION—THE TIMELY LETTER.
                  THE next morning's sun started me from my couch but little refreshed by the last night's fitful sleep, and the usual summons to breakfast found me but slowly advancing with my toilet preparations, so that when I entered the breakfast room, all had nearly finished their meal.
                  "My good niece seems tardy this morning," said my uncle, half reprovingly, half smilingly.
                  "Humph—the effect of late, unseasonable hours," said Ralston, casting his napkin on the table before him, and drawing back his chair.
                  His brief remark twinged my heart severely. But I in deference to my uncle, answered:
                  "I had not rested well."
                  "Singular, and most unfavorable result of the late company and converse of our fair cousin Somerville, I presume," continued the heartless Ralston, rising from the table.
                  "And how unseasonable must be the hours of those who can time so knowingly the lateness of those kept by others," replied my noble aunt, kindly coming to my rescue.
                  "Indeed, mother, you are very right. I think brother has little advantage here, for it was after I had retired to my room, and was sitting by my casement, that I saw him by the moonlight enter the house about midnight," said cousin Agnes.
                  "Heigho, yes; and after all I believe it is the guilty mind that's haunted by suspicion," half sighing in mockery, laughed my younger cousin Ellen.
                  All laughed heartily at this, save Ralston, who stood a second, bowing with all the dignity of a French count, and, muttering a French quotation in reply, retired indignant. I felt relieved, and began slowly my morning repast.
                  "Ellen, you were rather severe on Ralston," said my aunt.
                  "Not half sufficiently severe, mother, for he may remain from home all night, if he wish, and nothing is thought of it. But if we are not in our rooms by ten, or at most by eleven o'clock, we are suspected and censured," said Ellen, half in earnest, half in jest.
                  "Ralston seems gloomy and perplexed at best, this morning; something has gone wrong with him. What is it, Bertha? Cannot you act the part of his good angel and soothe his perturbed and pettish spirit. Take him in charge, Bertha; give him music. 'Music hath charms,' you know."
                  "'Music hath charms,' uncle, I know, 'to soothe the savage breast.' But I like not well the responsibility you seem inclined this morning to place in my hands. I fear I cannot prove faithful to the trust."
                  "Try, try, Bertha. Be faithful to your cousin," said he, and left us.
                  Breakfast over, my aunt and cousin and myself had retired to the music-room. My thoughts were still of Somerville, and I gained some relief in giving them expression in song upon the piano.
                  It was near noon when the man entered with letters. There was one for Agnes, Ellen, and myself, quite a mail for uncle, and, several letters for Ralston. I knew at a glance by the postmark and superscription that mine was from my own beloved Somerville, and was leaving for my room, to devour its contents, as my aunt said:
                  "Let me see, Bertha; where and from whom is it?"
                  I hesitated a moment, but instantly reproving myself mentally for thus distrusting my noble aunt, I turned and handed her the letter. She noted the postmark, superscription, etc., and was about to break the seal as I interrupted her with:
                  "My dear, dear aunt, do not pray open the letter, it is private to me alone."
                  "Well, if you do not wish it, I will not," she said, somewhat disconcerted by my vehemence, and handing me the letter, turned to join my cousins, as they sat apart on the sofa, reading theirs.
                  I hastened to my room and perused the sweet lines from Somerville with the greatest avidity. He expressed his love for me in glowing terms, and closed by saying that he had written to Ralston, demanding an explanation of his conduct at the summer-house, and admonished me to trust and rely fully upon his protection.
               
               
                  THE PRIVATE INTERVIEW—JEALOUSY—ENVY—RIVALRY—THE THREAT—THE CHARGE—ESCAPE.
                  OUR noonday meal that day was passed in comparative silence, with the exception of some jocose remarks thrown out by cousins Agnes and Ellen. My uncle was not present. But on passing from the dining-room into the library, Cousin Ralston awaited me in the hall. He had taken his dinner in dogged silence, and now met me with a stern demeanor.
                  "Cousin Bertha," said he coldly, "May I have your company a few moments in the library?"
                  "To what purpose, cousin? You act—you look strangely to-day. What ails, you, Cousin Ralston?" I inquired, with well assured calmness.
                  "Pass a few moments here with me privately and I will inform you."
                  He coldly reached his hand towards me, and, though I half feared him, I, without further reply, entered and accepted a proffered seat near him. But before he spoke again, I said:
                  "Cousin Ralston, I think it is very hard you thus continue to pursue and worry me? Where is all this to end?"
                  By way of reply, he inquired,
                  "You received a letter from Somerville, to-day?"
                  "Well, and what then? I hope I am not to be treated with surveillance in so small a matter."
                  "I also have received attention from his pen; a contemptuous demand for an explanation of my proximity to you while together in the summer-house a few nights ago. And now, Bertha, which do you prefer, the living cousin, who always loved and would make you his wife, a lady, sole mistress of your own estate, honored and rich; or the dead lover, a dependent, a Northern driveling mudsill—only a poor bank clerk at best—who, momentarily inspired by the prospect of the exalted height to which an alliance with the S—— family would elevate him, may be able, perchance, to coin words of love fit even for an empress to hear. Passion, prompt assumption of the grace which lends ideal charms to love, in the soft palace of a fairy future."
                  "Cousin Ralston, what mean you by this sarcastic tirade? I care to hear no more of such senseless jargon;" I answered.
                  "What do I mean? I'll tell you, Bertha. I mean, that if you wed that presuming Northern mudsill, Somerville, the low, mean cell of poverty, the legacy of toil, rags and ruin, be to him, to thee, the palace where the perfumed light steals through the mists of alabaster lamps, and every air is heavy with the sighs of orange groves, and music from sweet lutes, and murmurs of low fountains that gush forth in the midst of roses. Dost thou like the picture?"
                  "Ralston, I'll hear thy taunts no more. Conduct me from this room."
                  "Nay, nay, cousin, be not so hasty; keep your seat; I have not yet done."
                  "Then tell me plainly what you mean by the allusion to your 'living self and the dead lover.'"
                  "I mean briefly, Bertha, that I will meet George Somerville and render the dog satisfaction. I'll kill him unless you consent to be mine. Consent to make me happy and yourself honored and rich, then, perhaps, I would not compromise myself and honor the scamp so much as to afford him the attention which his audacity so richly merits."
                  "Ralston, conduct me from this room. You are maligning your superior in prowess and honor. I cannot consent to hear him thus ignobly traduced in his absence. Cousin, 'tis base, unmanly in you."
                  "Bertha why place your affections, your love, on one whose accomplishments are so inferior to yours, and whose social position is far below your own! Think of your family connections, your station, Bertha."
                  
                  "Yes, I do think of them, and in the scale of being, Ralston, value them as nothing. They are far outweighed by those higher attainments of the human soul—pure love, honor and truth. George Somerville's social position is not equal to that of ours, cousin, I'll allow; but his sentiments are high-toned and noble. His attainments and attachments are of the highest character; and, cousin, 'love does not level the proud, but it raises the humble.' The truly noble soul, in the expression of its sentiments, o'erleaps the narrow gulf of selfish position. The pride of station, cousin, is nothing to love."
                  "But, Bertha, surely it is easier or more prudent to love according to your station, even though it does not level the proud. Why assume the task by it to raise the humble? But, cousin, I can argue the subject with you no longer. I love, and must have you. Oh, Bertha! I cannot live without you."
                  He had fallen on his knees, and grasping my hands tightly, plead strongly, wildly for my consent. But raising, and endeavoring to free myself from his vice-like grasp, which had become painful to me, I firmly answered:
                  "Ralston S——, you plead in vain. This can never be. I have vowed, and will not perjure myself. I pity and despise you."
                  And as I strove to cast him from me, he relaxed his hold of my hand, and starting to his feet again, he, in a voice startlingly changed, bitterly exclaimed:
                  "You 'pity' me, eh? Bertha S——, beware. Despise me you may; but how you despise my vengeance, have a care. Now, by heavens! you shall be mine; but, if not, another's you shall never be."
                  He sprang violently after me as I attempted to retreat from the room, and, ere I could reach the door, seized me hardly by the hand, and in a fit of desperation, and a voice husky with terrible passion, commanded, rather than entreated:
                  "Bertha, stop. You shall never leave me so. You must 'be mine.'"
                  "Ralston S——, never! Help! help!" I cried loudly, and strove to release myself from the passionate man.
                  "Then go, ingrate, go, ere I force you. But, by heaven, I swear you shall never be another's."
                  He flung me violently to the floor. The door opened, and my uncle strode rapidly into the room, exclaiming, with the greatest surprise:
                  "Bertha—Ralston—what is the meaning of this? Bertha, arise," he said, assisting me to my feet. Then crossing to his son, he continued:
                  "Been quarreling with your cousin, whom you should protect and love? Why, Ralston, I am astonished and ashamed."
                  "She is an ungrateful girl—a traitoress—a jilt—and I hate her."
               
               
                  ALONE—AGAIN IN THE SUMMER-HOUSE—CROCHET AND SECESSION—SUSPICION.
                  GLAD of my release, I left father and son together, and sprang up the stairs hastily to my room. Sinking exhausted into a chair, I gave vent to my outraged feelings in an agony of tears. Oh, what should I do to
                     
                        "A duel by torch light. I now saw it all. Again the dexterously managed swords flashed in the light of the encircling torches, clanged and wound about each other with a dashing, ringing sound."—See page 39.
                      relieve me of the horrible life which now loomed up before me. "Leave, abscond, and join your lover," whispered in my ear, as my tears ceased to flow. But my proud spirit immediately answered, "No, not so. Be careful of your honor. 'Tis priceless; worth more than all beside. Then, I will remain," I mused; and my heart lightened as I remembered that in less than a week from that very day, the guardianship of my superiors would cease by law, and I should be free once more—sole mistress of my own life and actions. The pleasing prospect tranquilized my feelings, and as I seated myself at my desk, I measurably forgot the rough Ralston, in the sweet task of replying to my lover's last letter.
                  That night my uncle was summoned hastily to resume his duties as an officer of the "Confederate Government." The daily receipt of the news of stirring preparation by the seceding States to maintain their position by the force of arms against the Government of the United States, caused the late scene in the library to be quite forgotten at our house, save, perhaps, by my cousin and myself. Every mail now brought us additional particulars of the warlike preparations of the Southern Confederacy. The public press sounded the alarm almost daily, so that secession, rebellion; and war to the bitter end, were the only topics of discourse. The country is already aware of the great interest taken in the question by the Southern women—the fervid vehemence with which they express themselves against the Federal Government and the "Yankee Abolitionists." For a long time, although not yet having openly avowed my sentiments, I was naturally enough expected by them to be of the same mind; but for some time, until it was impossible any longer to do so, I adroitly managed to remain non-committal upon the subject of the war.
                  One day my cousins and I were seated in the summer-house at the foot of the garden, leisurely trying our needles on some new patterns of crochet published in the last magazine, and discussing the newspaper talk of the day about the rebellion.
                  "Bertha, I fear this war will make terrible work for us ere it be over," said Agnes, with a half-sigh, laying aside the paper and resuming her needle.
                  "It most assuredly will make sad, sad work, indeed."
                  "'Tis awful for brothers to thus go to war and wound and kill each other," said Ellen. "Could no other way be found to settle this vexed question?"
                  "I think there certainly can, or a way could have been found to settle it without bloodshed. But there is certainly guilt or rashness somewhere."
                  "Yes," said Agnes, "the Abolitionists have rashly given cause, by their everlasting agitation of the question of African slavery, for the South to take up arms against them in self-defence, and where it will end Heaven only can tell. Rashness—yes, the North has been guilty of all rashness in this."
                  "No, Agnes, not all," I interrupted, warming up slightly with the subject, "though I have never favored the course pursued by the agitators of the North, yet I cannot believe them guilty of all the rashness shown in the discussion and attempted settlement of this much vexed question."
                  
                  "And where and when has the South shown rashness?" she hastily inquired.
                  "When she took up arms against the United States Government, and at Fort Sumter, in Charleston harbor," I answered, calmly, though promptly.
                  "But was that not in self-defence?" she asked.
                  "Not on the part of the South, I believe, for she surrounded the little, half-starved garrison of some seventy men with about seven thousand soldiers and several batteries, and commenced the attack."
                  "But were we not threatened with an invasion by the Abolition hordes of the Lincoln administration?"
                  "Not that I ever heard."
                  "But was not the abolishment of Southern slavery the issue on which Abraham Lincoln was elected?"
                  "Again, not that I have ever heard; I never understood it so."
                  "Then what means the great hue and cry about the liberation of the slaves?"
                  "It means here at the South just what you believe it does; but at the North I cannot believe it possible to elect a man upon the sole issue of the unconditional liberation of the slave."
                  "Then how comes it that the Black Republican, Abraham Lincoln, is their President to-day?"
                  "Oh, that there are men at the North favorable to the abolition of slavery, and that they voted for Mr. Lincoln, I believe; but such votes alone did not elect him; for I believe it is utterly impossible for such votes alone to elect a man on that issue in this country."
                  "Then this agitating Abolition minority have done immense harm."
                  "Granted. But, Agnes, I cannot help thinking that had the South, or rather the few leaders of the South, consulted her true and real interests, they never would have thrown away so recklessly the great advantages accruing to her from the United States Government, simply because of the agitation of a weak minority. She would have remained in the Union, and claimed all her privileges and rights conferred by that Union. For prudence, indeed, will dictate that governments long established should not be changed for light and transient causes."
                  "Bertha, you speak finely, and talk politics like a man. But the cotton States have seceded from the Union, formed their Confederacy and Cabinet, elected their President and Vice President, placed the machinery of the new government in motion, and King Cotton has issued his declaration of kingship to the world. President Davis has sent his Beau-re-gard to the Administration at Washington, thrown down the gauntlet and taken up the sword. The leader of the Black Republicans has accepted the issue, and now tell us, Bertha, the conclusion of the matter."
                  "The South will be subdued, and, in the end, beg to be restored to the Union again."
                  "Never!" she cried, starting; up; "never shall history record such humiliation of Southern chivalry. They will 
                        
                           'Strike till the last armed foe expires—
                           Strike for their altars and their hires—
                           Strike for the green graves of their sires,
                           God, and their native land!'
                        
                      Never can they be subdued, save by entire extermination. They will stand up and fight to the last man. Exterminated they may be—subdued, never!"
                  And she swept proudly from the place. I could but admire her noble love for her native land, though I also felt not a little alarmed by her vehemence, for it now, for the first time, flashed across my mind that I had stirred up unwittingly another source of trouble, perhaps, positive persecution against myself. I called to her in vain.
                  "Why Agnes, cousin, don't leave us; I meant no offence. I thought we were but reasoning together. Why, Ellen, I fear I have offended cousin; call to her, please, and act as mediator betwixt us."
                  I said this, turning to Ellen, who still sat plying her needles nervously. I now saw that she was becoming agitated, also, with the subject, and, without recalling her sister, she replied to me that we had met on delicate ground, and I had made use of foils in our sparring of words which were rather sharp for the play of a novice. I inwardly started at this keen sarcasm, and feared for the moment that I discovered an adder where I turned to find the dove.
                  "Why, Ellen, I was perfectly innocent in what I said. I hope I have not offended you also."
                  "Then what did you mean by the subjugation of the South? I hope, Bertha, your sentiments are not opposed to those of your benefactor—to those that enure to the peace of the land which has fed and clothed you; in fact, given you all that you possess."
                  "Genuine patriotism, Ellen, I believe, does not consult sordid self-interest, but losing sight of even life itself, sacrifices all these for the largest good of the largest number. In short, though I do not expect nor crave to make the sacrifice, for I hope it will never be required of me, yet I feel like losing all I possess for the benefit of the masses, for the support of the principle of right."
                  "And pray what is the rule or standard by which you measure or judge of the right, Miss Bertha?"
                  "The elevation of humanity—the masses, not the select few—of the race, in the scale of being. The principle, or cause that does this, is right. The standard that insures to the people the largest liberty is the true standard, and deserves to triumph, as it will, over that other false force, the tyranny of the few over the many."
                  "But I do not like the thought of the South's subjugation by the North."
                  "Heaven knows, dear Ellen, I sincerely hope it may never occur. And when Agnes so bluntly asked of me the conclusion of the present civil war, I answered as I did, upon the supposition that the terrible strife should continue; and, had she remained, I would have given the reasons for my belief."
                  "And what are they, pray, for I have not thought the existence of them possible?"
                  "In the first place, cousin, if you will not take offence at what I say, I believe the South has been precipitated into a false position towards the Federal Government by her leaders—false, because not in harmony with her best interests—because, I believe, she will prove unable to maintain such a position. It has been assumed, rashly, recklessly, hastily, without sufficient cause; and, therefore, I believe the Federal Government right, and justified fully in maintaining the laws; and being the most powerful in numbers, as well as in all facilities of modern warfare, the Government must triumph. The South, or rather the 'Southern Confederacy,' will have to surrender, sue for peace or else, if you persist in the fratricidal strife to the end, be entirely subjugated by the armies of the North. Besides, it strikes me now as a singular fact, that during all time, whenever the men of the North and South have been opposed to each other in war, the Northern men have triumphed. I know not why it is, whether by predestination, by the peculiar organization of each, their usual habits, or the effect of climate upon them, or all these combined; but such seems ever to have been the conclusion of their strife."
                  "The merest fancy. Such will not prove the conclusion in this conflict, I'll warrant. The South must, and will, conquer. 
                        "'Then conquer we must, for our cause it is just.'"
                     
                  
                  She concluded by singing, as she well knew how, a verse of that soul-stirring national song, "The Star Spangled Banner"—the patriotic spirit of which will live as long as there is a true American heart to throb in unison with its undying melody.
                  "That song is a beautiful gem, cousin. Let us sing the whole of it," I said, joining her in the happy chorus; and I need not say we sang the entire song with a zest such as we never felt in it before. The spirit-stirring anthem warned my feelings with a fresh impulse of hearty love of country, and I resolved to stand up even more firmly than ever, amid all opposition, for that hallowed symbol of Liberty to the oppressed of all nations—the national flag of my own native land: 
                        
                           "Forever float that standard sheet;
                           Where breathes the foe but falls before us;
                           With freedom's soil beneath our feet,
                           And freedom's banner streaming o'er us."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Heaven defend the right! But, cousin, my last argument against disunion is what I read in one of our literary reviews a few days since. It was most truthfully headed:
                  "NATURE FOR THE UNION.—This country is geographically one. The bounds of nations are not arbitrarily designed; they are, in general, determined by fixed laws. A people, indeed, as in the case of the Romans, may conquer other nations, and gather them all under one despotic hand, in spite of their essential diversities. But this is a temporary contravention of the laws of nature. It is the configuration of the earth's surface which determines the boundaries of nations. Greece was geographically one. So was Egypt, so is Italy, which is now at last struggling to attain its normal state. Spain, France, Great Britain, Germany, are all one, not by the will of man, but by physical laws, which men can contravene only to their own detriment or destruction. The immutable law of God, as expressed in nature, makes the territory assigned to the Anglo-Saxon race on this continent one nation. The same mountain ranges run through the whole land. The great valley, beginning in Carolina and Tennessee, reaches to the borders of Canada. The broad Atlantic slope is one continuous plain. The immense basin of the Mississippi includes, as the bosom of a common mother, the States from the Lakes to the Gulf of Mexico. The Ohio, the Missouri and the Mississippi are arteries which carry the same living flood through the vast region through which they flow. The country is thus physically one, and, therefore, its organic life is one. We cannot divide a tree without destroying its life. We cannot divide a river without producing an inundation. The union of this country, therefore, is determined by the 
                        homogenity
                        homogeneity
                      of its people, by its history, and by its physical character. It cannot be permanently dissevered. The mistaken counsels or passions of men may cause a temporary separation, but the laws of nature will ultimately assert their supremacy, and avenge, by terrible disasters, their temporary violation."
               
               
                  THE WEDDING BANQUET—THE WARNING VISION—DEATH IN THE BANQUET HALL.
                  THE next succeeding notable event which transpired at the Stephens mansion, was a twofold wedding—the marriage of my cousins Agnes and Ellen to their respective lovers. Uncle, of course, took a respite from his official duties, and contributed to the happy event all that affection and wealth could add—joy and eclat—to the rich and aristocratic wedding. The banquet was indeed splendid and imposing. The large mansion, brilliantly lighted up from basement to top, the spacious parlors newly furnished and carpeted, and the honor and distinction afforded by the attendance of great numbers of the wealthy planters and their daughters, and also many distinguished friends of the family and officers under the new Confederacy, gave rich variety to the festive occasion, which concluded with the gayest of balls.
                  My betrothed, Somerville, accepted, for my sake, and that of his friend, Frank Arlington, the invitation to be present, and so my joy, on the occasion, was much heightened by his noble companionship. Still, several times during our revelry, I caught the furtive glances of Ralston, so expressive of jealousy and hate, stealthily following us, envious of our pleasure. I at length determined to regard his hate as of little moment, and so for the balance of the banquet, experienced less restraint in my intercourse with Somerville, as, also, with other guests. Higher and higher rose the sweet volume of music from the full and favorite band. Lighter and lighter tripped fairy feet in the gay and giddy dance. Brighter and brighter shone the dazzling glitter of jewelry, circling the wealth of flashing forms, though scarce outshining the sparkle of the love-lighted eyes of the many Southern belles. From lip to lip flashed the ruby wine, imparting a warmth, a zest, and fever to the pleasures of the banquet, which heightened our revelry to almost Spanish abandon. 
                        
                           "Flashing of jewels and flutter of laces,
                           Tropical odors sweeter than musk;
                           Men and women with beautiful faces,
                           And eyes of tropical dusk."
                        
                     
                  
                  I stood, almost concealed from view by the rich, heavy damask hangings in one of the large casements, looking through the window into the beautiful moonlight without. It was past midnight, and the waning moon was slowly dropping down the sky. Almost weary of pleasure, I gently leaned on Somerville's arm, and imperceptibly, as I gazed into the moonlight, my thoughts assumed the form of a vision, and 
                        
                           Floated along in a splendid dream, to a golden glittern's tinkling tune,
                           While a thousand lustres shimmering stream in a palace's grand saloon;
                           And a beautiful face shining out like a star, haunting the dreams of each;
                           And a voice sweeter than others are, breaking into silvery speech;
                        
                        
                           Telling, through lips of bearded bloom, an old, old story over again,
                           As down the royal banner'd room, to the golden glittern's strain,
                           Two and two, they dreamily walk, while an unseen spirit walks beside,
                           And, all unheard in the lover's talk, he claimeth one for his bride.
                        
                        
                           They sat and combed their beautiful hair, their long bright tresses, one by one,
                           As they laughed and talked in the chamber there, after the revel was done.
                           Lightly they talked of waltz and quadrille, lightly they laughed like other girls,
                           Who over the fire, when all is still, comb out their braids and curls.
                        
                        
                           Robes of satin and Brussels lace, knots of flowers and ribbons, too,
                           Scattered about in every place, for the revel is through.
                           They sit and comb their beautiful hair, those wonderful waves of brown and gold,
                           Till the fire is out in the chamber there, and the pretty bare feet are cold.
                        
                        
                           And Agnes and Ellen in robes of white, the prettiest night-robes under the sun,
                           Stockingless, slipperless, sit in the night, for the revel is done.
                           Oh, Agnes and Ellen, dream on together, with never a pang of jealous fear,
                           For ere the bitter St. Agnes weather shall whiten another year,
                        
                        
                           Robed for the bridal, and robed for the tomb, braided brown hair and golden tress,
                           There'll be only one of you left for the bloom of the bearded lips to press—
                           Only one for the bridal pearls, the robe of satin and Brussels lace—
                           Only one to blush through her curls, at the sight of her lover's face.
                        
                        
                           Oh beautiful Agnes, in your bridal white, for you the revel has just begun;
                           But for her who shares your joys to-night, the revel of life is done.
                        
                     
                  
                  A loud scream now aroused me from the stupor into which I had fallen, and sounded dolefully, terrifically throughout the festive halls. I turned to grasp my betrothed, but he was gone. I was alarmed, bewildered, and rushed from the casement hangings in a maze of wonder. All was confusion and dismay. Gentlemen were hurrying from room to room, scarce conscious of what they were doing; and ladies were running to and fro, wringing their hands in terror—some fainting and falling to the floor, overturning the remnants of the banquet, scattering the delicacies and dashing the wine in all directions. Frank Arlington, the gayest, and, perhaps the happiest bridegroom of the evening, had suddenly, while drinking in the gentlemen's room, fallen dead. The alarm was intense, and when the terrible news was conveyed to his young bride, who was gaily receiving the congratulations and happy wishes of her friends, such was the stunning effect upon her that she fell, with a heart-bursting shriek, to the floor insensible.
                  Thus suddenly was the banquet hall turned into the house of mourning. I hastened to find my friend and protector, and, in the great and sorrowful confusion, my pursuit was difficult. At length I espied him, just as he turned hastily away from Ralston, in the gentlemen's saloon, at the far end of the room, the wine yet dripping from his beard, dashed there by the mad and jealous Ralston, in a fit of frenzy. As he neared me, I saw his face was ashy pale, and as he clasped me, his hand trembled.
                  "Good heaven, Bertha, this is terrible; our festive joy turned so soon to death and madness!" he exclaimed, and I now saw, too, that though his hand trembled, the great pallor of his face was not, perhaps, so much from sympathy or subdued pity as the effect of deep hate and stern, unrelenting revenge, started by the insult. Still, at the first, I thought it all the effect of the sudden death of his friend, poor Frank Arlington, and his newly-made bride. But as he drew me away from the throng that was closing round my dying cousin, I queried anxiously, though in a subdued tone:
                  "Heavens, George, what has happened you? Has there been an attempt at poisoning? Oh, why did you join him in wine, and alone?"
                  "Oh, no, not quite a case of poisoning," he said, lightly. But his brow lowered, as he continued:
                  "The villain has insulted me as I have never been insulted before, and d—n him——Dear Bertha, ten thousand pardons; forgive me, I would not wound your feelings. But, as there is a God, he shall answer for the affront."
                  It was the first epithet so harsh I had ever heard pass his lips, and I shuddered, for though I could sympathize with him deeply, yet it pained me deeply to hear the lips I loved and felt almost divine, polluted with a curse; and yet uttered justly, as it was, though bitterly, it seemed hurtful only to him against whom it was spoken.
                  It was only by the early light of the following morning that the lights of the room of the late scene of such high revelry, but now the mansion of melancholy mourning, were extinguished, and many of the guests departed with feelings, oh! how changed from those with which they met the night before! Somerville's "farewell, Bertha," to me seemed really oppressive—sounding indeed, like a sad omen of some future ill, which would he or I befall, and with his meeting with Ralston in prospect, seemed like a knell from the other world; and though his hand, as he clasped mine for the last time, was warm and firm, it was I that trembled now, and I could not refrain from exclaiming:
                  "Oh, George, I fear some fearful ill will befall you."
                  "Humph! and if there should, that ought not to prove so very appalling to you, Bertha, seeing that we have fallen upon such evil times. Do we not read daily of some terrible and outrageous acts upon the loyal Citizens of the Union by secessionists and traitors to the Government—atrocities unworthy of civilized communities? Men, who have lived among us good and faithful citizens for years, have been suddenly disfranchised, maltreated and beaten—almost murdered by lawless mobs—their property confiscated, they plundered of their personal estate, and then compelled to leave the country—all simply because they used the inalienable right of a American to vote in accordance with his own choice, for the Union of these States. Talk of the liberty of the ballot box! 'Tis the merest farce, and we are fast drifting away from the blest boon of our dear bought liberties into the broad and troublous ocean of the most destructive despotism, that I fear will be swallowed up by the anarchy and storm of as great a servile insurrection as the world ever passed through——"
                  "Stay, stay, George, you affright me. Heaven avert the terrible storm! George, how incautiously you speak. You know not but you may be overheard by an enemy."
                  "True; it is somewhat incautious in me to speak thus!" he whispered. "But it seems to me that sometimes my thoughts will force their way without the will, and I am compelled to speak; and though none can realize more than I the great need we have now for the greatest caution over our speech, yet there are times when none exercise less restraint than I do."
                  "I cannot but wish, George, that we were at the North. I think our dangers would be less."
                  "There are many leaving the South every day and taking up their abode at the North until our differences are settled—some, perhaps, never to return."
                  "Since the time of my uncle's guardianship over me has expired, I have thought a great deal about visiting again the land of my birth. But then, again, I fear the change under the circumstances will arouse suspicion, and draw against me the enmity, or, at least, the dislike, of those friends whose friendships it would advance my interest to retain, at least until I am entirely free from their power."
                  "'Tis prudent, Bertha, to avert and avoid suspicion, but I know not why an innocent, respectable lady, should excite suspicion simply by acting as the mistress of her own actions. But to what interest do you allude which to retain their friendships it would advance?"
                  "Why, have you not surmised?"
                  "I have not; why should I?"
                  "Why, George, George, you induce me to laugh. I thought gentlemen whose business was so much with money as that of bankers were generally more mercenary in their thoughts and conclusions."
                  "Bertha, what are you driving at? You speak in riddles."
                  "Do I? Ha! ha! ha! Then it is not my patrimony, my inheritance, you love?"
                  "Bertha, you know it is not. I never knew, nor thought that you were to receive an inheritance, or legacy of any kind. But I have loved you, dearest, for yourself alone, and not the fortune of high station nor a legacy of gold."
                  "God bless you, George; I believe you. But so it is; all I have in this world is in my uncle's possession, and I fear were I to desire a settlement with him now, as he has become so involved with the political interests of the South, it would prove inconvenient, if it would not actually start suspicion against me. Yet I can scarcely forego a visit to the North at this time."
                  "Bertha, you are, as you have intimated, your own mistress. Act just as your own prudence in this hour shall dictate, without any reference to your possessions here. Confide your trust in me, and I shall feel blest and proud to be your protector."
                  I leaned confidingly on his supporting arm, and I know he felt happy as well as proud of my most free and hearty confidence, for with the manly blush of dignity and love on his brow, he leaned forward, kissed my cheek; and pressing my hand again, bade me a fond adieu.
                  The sudden booming of cannon from that troublesome privateer, the Sumter, sounded gloomily across the country, on the fresh morning air, from the river, as the pirate engaged the unfortunate merchantman of the North, and making her a prize, left her in charge of a prize crew, to be conveyed into the nearest Southern port, while she, the Sumter, hurried away, amid the victorious cheers and demon-like revelry of her captain and crew, on their plundering way. Behold one of the auxiliaries of the new government—a mild feature of the Southern Confederacy and Jeff Davis dynasty!
               
            
            
               
                  THE RECKLESS RIDE—THE STRAY RECRUIT—DUEL BY TORCHLIGHT.
                  WEEKS had passed, and the death angel had not lifted his gloomy wings entirely from our home. The insignia of mourning, too frequently prolonged, still drooped sullenly from the windows of the late banquet halls. At length the moment arrived when I could command sufficient courage to express my desire and preference openly, to visit the North. It was on a bright and beautiful day that I had my faithful and gentle pony saddled and brought out for a few hours' ride over the country. As uncle assisted me into the saddle, I said:
                  "Give me a pass, uncle, for the North, and I'll bid you good-bye; I should like a change of climate for a season; and then their government is more stable than the new confederacy."
                  I smiled archly, and tried to draw out his good nature as well as to slightly disturb the placid surface of his political thoughts. He looked up suddenly, and, as I cantered off, shook his finger at me and half laughing, replied:
                  "Yes—probably. We shall see."
                  But I suddenly wheeled my horse and turning back to where he still stood, looking after me, said more earnestly:
                  "But, indeed, uncle, seriously, it has been so long since I left my native city, and we are getting into such questionable straits, that really I should like very much to go North—"
                  "Pshaw! what do you know about politics, girl? Want to go North, with all the rest of the rebels, eh? Well, well; but, Bertha, it strikes me that this not the proper time to forsake the South. We'll see, we'll see."
                  And then he turned towards the house, muttering,
                  "What has put that notion in her head? Ahem! Let me see. She was born in Philadelphia, the old city of Penn and Independence. Zounds! I expect she has got some of the spirit, too. We'll see, we'll see."
                  I saw too plainly that my words had started in my uncle's mind thoughts that were quite new to him, and not altogether pleasant, and I cantered down the road and over the hill, my mind lost in a misty vision of a new source of troubles not yet fully defined in the future. Insensibly the past, in mental reverie, loomed before me. I thought of the death of my parents, leaving me a young orphan. I thought of my uncle's many acts of kindness towards me—among them being the gift of the noble animal I was now riding, and a tear of thankfulness trickled down my cheek. I thought of Ralston's persecution and pursuit of my hand, and I was sad again. But, anon, I thought of the pleasure—the happiness almost inexpressible—already received in the blest companionship of George Somerville; and in a moment again, my soul seemed to revel in joys that seemed to await the consummation of our holy vows of love, and my heart breathed an involuntary 'God bless him!' Once more I was happy, and felt secure and strong in the shield of his faithful protection.
                  I raised my head, relieved at heart, and casting my eyes across the country drank in the most pleasing and cheerful vision. Far as the eye could see, the cotton, corn and potato fields were receiving the attention of the plantation slaves, who, in hundreds, were singing gaily over their tasks some well known hymn or song, which swept across the country, from field to field, life the voice of a great army.
                  I could but contrast, as I rode along, the present relative condition of master and slave, and concluded the slave the happiest, in view of the terrible condition of things now hanging over the master. Behold the whole nation reeling and staggering like a drunken man, under the throes and convulsions occasioned by this cup of crime. It would seem as if Heaven itself had undertaken to plead and vindicate the cause of the oppressed.
                  But my thoughts did not continue long in this train. The scene around me, as I said, was pleasing. The heavens above were beautiful and bright, and the atmosphere buoyant and bracing, which soon had an 
                        exhilirating
                        exhilarating
                      effect on my spirits. I gave my horse the whip and started forward for a long and stirring ride. For hours I rode in this way, passing over many miles of country which I never saw before—meeting many new faces on the way, and passing through villages, hamlets and towns, now noisy with the drum of recruiting and drill. Happy, naturally, as the 
                        whele
                        whole
                      country appeared, the noisy alarm of war was wafted on every breeze. Yet on I rode, until the jaded condition of my horse and the darkening heavens reminded me of the approach of night. On reflection, I wondered if I had not unwittingly accomplished my intended visit to the North; and I turned my horse homeward, now really alarmed at my distance from the mansion. Well had it been for me had I been content to retrace my journey over the same course I had come. But I now for the first time began to realize that I was lost. Still too proud of spirit to make my condition known among strangers, I concluded I could shorten my distance homeward by taking a road more direct than those over which I had come.
                  I spurred my pony and galloped away from an increasing group of ill-bred people, who stood with mouth agape, curious with wonder. Onward I plunged, my dismay increasing. And now the lowering heavens darkened so rapidly that the shades of night really overtook me before I had advanced three miles on my way, and my kind horse was fast becoming tired out. I was really alarmed, and spurred him onward with all my energy, little knowing that my excited efforts were but conveying me further still from home. At length reaching a small town, I rode up, when about half through it, to the Inn, which was also a secession recruiting station. I inquired for the landlord, who, while, one of the men gave my horse some water, informed me the way to the Stephens Plantation.
                  "But," said the landlord, "had you not better alight, and defer your journey until to-morrow. You cannot ride far, the way it looks now, before you are overtaken by the storm that seems brewing."
                  I thanked him, told him I believed I could make shelter before it broke, turned my horse in the direction indicated by him, and galloped rapidly away. The water which he drank seemed to increase the sweat at every pore of my jaded horse, and but a few strides now served to cover him with foam. Still onward I rode through the darkness, which had increased so that I could scarcely see. I rode several miles in this way when I espied, across the country, apparently but a few miles off, a great light or fire. I kept my eyes on it for several minutes, and it seemed, as I neared it, to increase in volume, and to waver and sway to and fro as if by the rising wind or some internal force. In terror, I thought of the stories of the "Will o' the Whisp," and shuddering at the recollection of the great peril encountered by following such delusions, attempted to shut the vision from my sight; and as the road lay through a deep cut of a great hill, it was for a moment effectually shut out from my view. But as I again reached the level of the road beyond the hill, I saw, by the reflection of the light, coming staggering up the road, but a short distance from me, a large, rough-looking man. My heart flew, as it were, to my mouth, and at the thought of meeting him thus alone, a sudden tremor passed over me. Still I rode slowly on, and hoped to pass him quietly; but as we neared each other, he staggered up against my horse and seizing him roughly by the bridle, threw him back momentarily on his haunches, nearly jostling me from the saddle.
                  "Who goes here?" inquired he roughly.
                  I was considerably alarmed and saw the man was drunk.
                  "Sir," said I, "permit me to pass; what can you want with a harmless female!"
                  I now saw he was a stray recruit of the secession army.
                  "You pass not till you give the countersign," he muttered as well as he could between the hiccups.
                  "You would not harm a defenseless woman?"
                  "Eh! you're a woman, are ye?" said he as soon as I had spoken. "It's been some time since I saw a woman. Are you pretty? You'll give me a kiss, won't you?"
                  And as he held my horse with one hand, he attempted to grasp me from the saddle with the other. A sudden thought struck me. I was alarmed, but did not wish to maim the man, for he was under the influence of liquor.
                  "Let me pass," I cried, and then mentally praying, "God help me," changed the reins from my right to my left hand and grasping the small end of my whip, gave him a powerful blow with the butt of it in the face, with all my strength. His hold relaxed, and, with a grunt, he stumbled over into the road.
                  Just at that moment, my horse caught sight of the fire-light, and as I spurred him on to get away from danger, he turned from the road, in spite of all my efforts to prevent him, and leaping the low fence, fled with me over the field at a fearful rate, towards the light, which was now not very distant. But I was almost delirious with alarm, for I knew not to what dangers he was hurrying me. With that strange, but fearful, impetuosity and infatuation known to the horse, he sprang with great strides towards the fire, while I, despairing of controlling him, now gave myself up to the only concern as to how I should most securely cling to his back, and thus, like another poor Mazeppa—less the wolves—abide the issue. It was a painful conclusion, but the best I could reach. So securing the bridle around my body, I grasped with both hands his long mane, now flashing in the wind, and, laying close to his neck, resigned myself to the control of that power whose opportunity is man's extremity. My whip and hat were lost and my hair falling down in unbound tresses streamed on the breeze. On, and yet on, he dashed over fences and ditches. Nothing seemed to check his mad flight until we neared the fire. As he threw up his head and distended his nostrils, as if taking fresh fright, I raised my head and strained my eyes to see the cause; and as I did so, a hundred torches flashed in the air, and swayed to and fro in wild confusion—and many voices mingled in bravado. Again, the dexterously managed swords flashed in the light of the encircling torches, and clanged and grated and wound about each other with a dashing, ringing sound. A thrust, a foil, a parry, a dart and plunge, and again the voice of bravado sounded dolefully on the darkened midnight air. The light revealed two swordsmen. A duel by torchlight! I now saw it all. Here was the settlement of some question of secession by an appeal to arms—and in this unheard-of manner at midnight.
                  My horse, by the momentary pause, though he stood trembling was somewhat recovered from his fright. Sitting upright in my saddle again, and grasping the reins tightly, I was enabled to see over the heads of the circling throng into the arena of contest. As yet, so engaged were they with the changes of the duel, they had not seen me in the darkened background. But I saw that by the conclusion of the last crossing of swords one of the combatants had fallen beneath the sword of his antagonist, who now stood leaning on his weapon, drooping over his fallen foe as though regretting the fatal blow he had given. Heavens, how I shuddered as I caught a full view of that face. A chill of horror ran through my veins. Now, indeed, I saw it all. George Somerville and Ralston Stevens, the rival cousins, have met thus in mortal combat! With bold effort, I drove the rowels into my horse's side, and, in a few strides, dashed into their midst; many threw away their torches in alarm, thinking that the police or a company of soldiers were after them. As George looked up—for he was uninjured—I sprang towards him, and, overcome with joy, hung around his neck.
                  "Oh, George—George—what have you done?" was my broken ejaculation.
                  "Heavens, Bertha, can it be possible? Is this you? Why, what has brought you here, and in such a plight? Your clothing so disordered. What has happened you? speak, dearest, speak! I have avenged part of your wrongs, and am prepared to avenge them all. Speak, love; what has occasioned your strange flight here, and at such a time."
                  After I had become calmer, I imparted to him all the desired information mation; how I had rode out for recreation, and taking the wrong road in my return, had got astray, my horse, becoming unmanageable, was attracted by the light of their torches.
                  Ralston, wounded and bleeding, was conveyed from the field by the surgeon. My protector placed me carefully on my horse, and then, mounting his own, accompanied by his second, we rode off together to Mobile. At that city, with George's assistance in securing accommodations for my horse and self, I deemed it advisable to remain. The circumstances of the duel, lateness of the hour, and the storm coming on, for it had already commenced raining—induced me to defer my return until the morning of the next day.
               
               
                  THE ARRIVAL—THE LETTERS—THE SUSPENSE—UNREQUITED LOVE—BERTHA AN HEIRESS.
                  THE sun arose brightly, and I was astir and on my homeward way at an early hour. As we came in sight of the plantation my heart was glad, and even my kind horse gave token of gratification as he entered the long avenue leading up to the mansion, by a loud and prolonged winno, which started the air over the country into far-reaching echo, and the negroes came running from their quarters to see the new arrival. Some of them opened their eyes and raised their hands in astonishment at my strange and early appearance on horseback. Presently, as we approached, my uncle and aunt came out, preceded by Chloe, my maid, who ran towards me with distended eyes of wonder, and waving her hands, exclaiming:
                  "O, Missus Bertha, whar's you been all yiserday and de night? O, we's been so worried 'bout you. Massus and Missus thought something dreadful mus ha happend you. Else de horse run away and took you all de way to de enemy's land. O, Missus, Missus, Massa berry angery like, or berry mad—den he berry sad. He wander thro' de room all de night mutterin to himself about if you go to de enemy's land—and about Massa Rolly go away so queer and not come home all night nedder, and leave some letters splainin' about it in de library. But, come, Missus Bertha, I'se so glad now you come agin. Here comes Massa; he tell you all about it."
                  Thus ran Chloe's tongue, as she ran alongside, staring at me in the greatest amazement. But as I neared the house, my uncle approached hastily from the piazza with a couple of letters in his hand.
                  "Zounds, zounds, Bertha, this is a pretty time of day to get home, truly," was his first salutation. "Out all day and night and come this way in the morning! I should like to know the meaning of this manner? and yourself—no hat nor whip. Why you look as if you had just made a narrow escape from a hard fought battle."
                  "Well, uncle, please don't be angry with me, but assist me to dismount and I will tell you all."
                  After doing this and sending my horse to the stable in charge of one of the men, we hurried into the house, where, to the great surprise of my uncle and aunt, I gave them the particulars of my ride of the previous vious day, my bewilderment, mistake and flight over fences and ditches through an unknown country-all, of course, but the duel by torchlight, which, indeed, seemed to be, instead of, as I first feared, an ignus fatuus, the beacon light of my hope, safety and rescue.
                  "'Tis very strange," said my uncle, dubiously. "I had hoped your return would explain these letters. See here, Ralston has been from home all night and has left these. Do you know any thing touching their contents?" and he handed me one of the letters.
                  "I do not," I said, taking it and glancing over the writing. I could not read it continuously along. I was surprised, and was fast becoming nervous. But I noted particularly the words,
                  "The object of my passion—unrequited love—has consumed me—is consuming me still. I can therefore endure it no longer. But must away. Farewell. She shall never be another's. But if I fall—"
                  A mist began to gather before my eyes, and the lines ran into each other and became as it were liquified. I could read no more. But I was aroused from the silent stupor into which I was fast sinking, by my uncle inquiring,
                  "Bertha, now tell me the meaning of this, or else explain your absence from home at the same time as his, and at night, too."
                  "O, uncle, I cannot explain more than I have done. If Ralston has loved me, I cannot help it. He has loved unwisely, for I never could return his love. As my cousin, I respected and tried to like him, but to receive him as a suitor for my hand, I never could."
                  "O, my son, my son! He has fallen perhaps ere this, and, alas, so rashly! Far better would it be if it were on the battle field, in defence of his country. But, oh, to fall in a duel, and think, Bertha, you might have prevented this."
                  He took up the letters and left for the library, leaving me with my aunt to breakfast.
                  My aunt, since the death of her daughter, on her wedding night, seemed but little inclined to converse with any one. A deep gloom had taken possession of her, and the few brief questions she asked me were in a sad tone, but not of accusation. But as we gloomily arose from our morning meal, a close carriage drove up the avenue and stopped at the main entrance of the house. The surgeon leaped out, and, with the aid of an assistant, carried the wounded Ralston, groaning, into the house. My uncle flew in haste towards them, met them in the doorway, and conducting them to Ralston's room, inquired:
                  "Great Heavens! Doctor, what does this mean? what has happened him? Is he much hurt? The wound—is it serious?"
                  "Quite serious, but may not prove mortal, provided he is kept perfectly quiet," replied the surgeon.
                  "Thank God he still lives! O, my son, my son!" groaned the troubled father in agony.
                  They laid him on his own couch, as comfortably as they could, darkened the room, and, by the advice of the surgeon, left him to take refreshment in sleep, induced by an anodyne.
                  
                  And a few days' care, the close attention of the most skillful physician, gave increased hopes of my unfortunate cousin's recovery, and uncle
                     
                        THE MIDNIGHT ASSAULT. "With a dashing stroke, I cast the concealing cloak aside, and uttering the alarming shriek of Murder! help! help! sprang in front of the villain, just as he prepared to strike the fatal blow."—See page 47.
                      prepared to leave us for a tour through the seceding States. I took occasion again to renew my request for, at least, a share of the legacy left me in his charge.
                  For a few days, my joy was—great; but alas I how soon turned to sorrow. In less than ten days from the day my uncle presented me with the deed and papers of one of his plantations, which embraced the bulk of my inheritance. In my attempt to sell, in order to remove to the North, the property was confiscated to the Southern Confederacy, taken from me, and I requested to leave the State. It was now I felt indeed all the pangs of a twofold orphanage. My uncle had left his household turned against me. To whom should I go? There was but one to whom I felt I dare turn now with any hope of protection. I immediately wrote to him informing him of my distress and misfortune. But as I mailed my letter, I also received one from him, apprising me of his sudden arrest. I at once hastened to afford whatever consolation or hope I could to one whom I loved as dearly as my life.
                  A hearing was appointed at an early day and it was now, though I had known George Somerville so intimately and long, that I realized fully the precious value of the rare jewel I possessed in the noble accomplishments of the man I loved. He had never before told me of his claims to literary authorship, though frequently I had ample and most agreeable occasion to admire, through the medium of his eloquent conversational powers, the superiority of his mental gifts.
               
            
            
               PART III.
               
                  THE ARREST OF SOMERVILLE—THE TRIAL—JOURNEY TOWARDS THE NORTH—MORE CALAMITY—IMPRISONMENT—THE LAND OF THE FREE AND THE HOME OF THE BRAVE.
                  IT was midnight when the privacy of Somerville's studio was violated by the Confederate watchers. He was seated, as was his frequent habit, in his private office, alone, dashing off page after page of a romance, in which his whole soul seemed absorbed, until the loud accusation—"He's beginning another plot," fell on his ear, and, in starting from his chair, he overturned his writing materials and manuscript in confusion on the floor, as the Mobile night guard, preceded by their leader, marched in, informing him that he was their "prisoner."
                  As this fell on his ear, he slightly recovered from the surprise into which their sudden intrusion had thrown him, and managed to stammer forth the inquiry: "Prisoner, and, in God's name, what for?"
                  "Conspiracy!" the captain replied, briefly.
                  "Conspiracy! I a conspirator?"
                  "Aye! Plotting against the State, playing into the hands of the North, maturing here, night after night, some gigantic scheme to produce in our midst insurrection and anarchy."
                  "Gentlemen, you have made a mistake. I am a loyal citizen."
                  
                  "Search everywhere!" the leader of the guard commanded, and in an instant they were ransacking every nook and corner of the room. The captain, laying his hand roughly on the shoulder of the startled author, exclaimed:
                  "You are accused, George Somerville, of holding correspondence with the enemies of the South and we are ordered to seize you."
                  "Sir, holding correspondence with the enemy? I, whose interests are one with the city of my adoption, disloyal to the South? Who has indented this falsehood?" he spoke, indignantly.
                  "If you are innocent, you have nothing to fear, and the examination of your papers will then clear you," replied the officer.
                  "Then take them; unjust, not to say uncivil, as this intrusion seems," said Somerville, biting his lips in the deepest chagrin.
                  The "news" that another "conspirator" had been arrested, soon spread on the wings of the wind, over the little, valorous city, and by the time the court was prepared to proceed with the trial of the prisoner, the court-room was crowded with interested and excited spectators. Among them were some merchants who knew and had been intimate with the prisoner, always believing him loyal to the State. They now knew not what to say—fearing that should they recognize him in public, they might also be arrested.
                  A jury was empannelled, and the prisoner called to stand up. He obeyed promptly, even majestically, for George Somerville, besides being a man of refined education and polished manners, was also possessed of a person unusually dignified. He did not look like a conspirator, and his calm, self-possessed appearance and urbane manners, already made for him, in the minds of many present, a favorable impression. For if they would not allow the excitement and madness of the hour to carry their feelings captive, they must conclude that that quiet, fair, open brow—the mild, hazel, beaming eyes—so expressive of kindness and good-will to all—could not belong to one capable of plotting treason against the State. A select few may have, indeed, thought this; but the mad spirit of secession was rife and rampant among them, and the prejudice and wild excitement of the hour entirely obliterated what charitable feeling they otherwise might have indulged for the prisoner before them.
                  Silence obtained, the judge addressed the prisoner:
                  "George Somerville, you are brought here on a charge of conspiring against the State. What say you to the charge? Are you guilty or not guilty?"
                  "Not guilty sir," was the calm, yet decided answer.
                  "Are these your papers?"
                  "They are."
                  "What do they contain? What is their import?"
                  "Tales, romances, fictions, stories, if you please."
                  "Yes, lies against the State," murmured a portion of the crowd.
                  "Ah, we must examine them closely. They may contain, in the garb of fiction, the seeds of insurrection or conspiracy against us." 
                  "No, your honor, nothing of the kind."
                  "Well, how shall we ascertain this? You will read the contents of these papers to the Court!"
                  "Indeed, your honor, I should prefer not to do so."
                  "Ahem! guilty, eh?"
                  "Guilty! guilty! Lynch him!" sounded dolefully through the clamorous crowd, which grated harshly on the ears of Somerville, and caused him to shudder. But, collecting himself, he boldly answered:
                  "Not guilty, sir. But, may it please your honor, there are some—perhaps, I ought to say many—things contained in those papers which, as read by me, would sound strange to the ears of a public company. May it please the Court to appoint a more suitable person for the task."
                  A young lawyer present was selected to read aloud the manuscripts. He approached the table where they lay, and picked up a scroll of papers, bearing on the first page the title of a story. As he scrutinized it cautiously and closely, he at length exclaimed: 
                  "Ah, what have we here? Ho, ho, I thought so, without doubt, reviling the 'peculiar institution.' Ahem!"
                  "THE WANDERER—A History of——"
                  "Oh, sir, spare me; do not disturb that," exclaimed the prisoner.
                  "Ah, we have sprung a mine—struck upon the right one at once," said the reader, sarcastically.
                  "Guilty! treason!" murmured the crowd, as it swayed to and fro, with the increasing excitement of blood-thirsty fanaticism.
                  "My dear sir, and may it please the Court, those papers do not endanger, in any way, the security of the Commonwealth, I assure you; nay, I will most solemnly swear it," continued Somerville, beseechingly.
                  "Why, then, this fear—this alarm?" harshly asked the lawyer, crushing the papers in his hands as though, in his excitement, he would secure them the tighter.
                  "Because—because this work is invaluable to me, though it can be of little use to you, having no bearing upon what you desire to prove against me;"
                  "A HISTORY OF WRONGS, ADVENTURE, &c. By Estrangero."
                  "Ah! dare not attach it to his name—would bring him into difficulty. But let us see how it goes off—ahem! Shades of Coke and Blackstone! Why, may it please your honor, I could not read this in an age. Look, your honor, it is so closely written. It would save time to insist upon the author of these papers reading them aloud for the benefit of the Court and the jury."
                  Saying which, the fussy lawyer sat down. The judge answered:
                  "The Court has so decided. Come forward, sir, and read these papers."
                  "My dear sir—your honor—this is nothing but a romance. This is the only mystery, and were I to forfeit my life, I have told you the whole truth this day," replied Somerville, despairingly.
                  "Then there can be nothing in it to condemn you," rejoined the judge.
                  "Nothing," echoed George quickly, catching at hope.
                  "But the Court must be satisfied of this. So proceed at once and read these papers, and facilitate the business of the Court, and, if possible, your own acquittal."
                  "Will not the Court exonerate me?"
                  "It will not. You must read those papers."
                  
                  And the merchant author selected from the mass of the manuscript that lay on the table in confusion, and began reluctantly to read. But his voice swelling in volume and clearness, and force, until it filled the vast court-room with a thrilling cadence and melody of 
                        pecuiar
                        peculiar
                      charm, he failed to note the gradual change of feeling which I joyously detected, as point after point of the beautiful composition fell on the popular ear with telling effect. As he concluded he was startled and filled with agreeable surprise, as one loud, spontaneous outburst of applause went up from the emotional crowd, and swelled, louder and louder, throughout the spacious room. In vain, for a time, the judge commanded silence.
                  "Treason—contempt—insurrection—revelation!" cried the fussy little lawyer, springing to his feet in the wildest excitement.
                  "Yes, revulsion of feeling, truly," calmly, though gladly, replied the reader.
                  "Silence, sir! Read what is written, and no more. No remarks, sir, or this very tumult may prove you guilty of treason."
                  "Treason, sir! In the language of Virginia's greatest son, 'if this be treason, make the most of it,'" Somerville answered, and for a few moments the tumult was great. But as it gradually subsided, the judge said:
                  "What bearing, sir, has this story—this tale—on the subject of slavery?"
                  "On the subject of local African slavery, none, your honor. But as touching the question of unjust law—of cruel and oppressive custom, custom bearing especially upon woman and her social condition, it contains a great deal of interest."
                  "Still the Court wishes to be fully satisfied as to the truth of what you say. You will, therefore, continue your narrative."
                  "I thank your honor, for now that it has received the popular approval, I am encouraged, and feel especially happy that I am thus permitted to speak in my own defence."
                  But the story will appear some future day. Let it suffice for the present that though the prisoner was sneered at by many of the gaping crowd, and received a severe reprimand from the supercilious judge, yet as they did not find sufficient in his examination to substantiate the charge of treason against him, he was discharged. Now, since his aptitude as an author was revealed, he was still looked upon with suspicion, and again was he arrested and commanded to swear allegiance to the new government, or leave the State. With his usual spirit of independence, he chose the latter, and so, with my consent to accompany him, we left together, amid the taunts, jeers and insults of the rabble, who seemed rife now for any demonstration of outlawry. Such is the airy tenure of the popular voice. At one moment, while feeling swayed to and fro in sympathy with the social and humane sentiments of the narrative so eloquently read, the populace were ready to acquit him by acclamation, and bear away on their shoulders. But now, since he would not sacrifice to their frivolous whim his manhood, they seemed ready to trample him in the dust, and heap upon him all manner of insult and injury. And right prompt would his own right arm have avenged him, and more than one dastard rebel lay bleeding at his feet, but my own timidity among so many foes counseling prudence, he, for my sake alone, endured their taunts like a good soldier. And so, amid their jibes, without reviling them again, we hurriedly took passage for Charleston, where we arrived, after a slow and tedious journey, made the more tedious by the thorough scrutiny we were forced to undergo at every station on the way, by the authorities searching for what they called goods contraband of war—an excellent pretext for robbery, I thought. We arrived amid the greatest commotion of military preparation to meet the Union forces on the plains of Virginia. Recruiting and drilling seemed to be the only pursuit. All other pursuits were abandoned, stores were closed, grass and weeds, luxuriant and rank, were growing in the streets, and the broad mercantile avenues, where busy commerce and peaceful trade once vied for success, were now fast becoming pasture grounds for the cattle at large, and the buzzard revelled in the filth of the neglected by-ways and alleys. We had thought of celebrating our nuptials in the once beautiful city of Charleston, but now, from her sickening precincts, we mutually resolved to hurry, choosing rather a freer place, and a purer atmosphere, to be the scene of our wedding. Hence, once more we started on our journey for Philadelphia, and, after enduring a terrible tossing during the night on the rough sea, a storm overtaking us just after we embarked, we arrived next morning at Wilmington, North Carolina. I could not help noting, as we rode along through North Carolina, much less unanimity of sentiment than was expressed in her sister State, South Carolina. Here there seemed a division of opinion, and we soon discovered to our joy, that the State was not all disunion. Still recruiting for the rebel army was progressing rapidly, and at almost every station cars were added to the train, bearing troops to the seat of war in Virginia. It was on this train that, as we neared one of the stations, Professor M——, a very eminent and wealthy man, was attacked by some vicious rebels, and narrowly escaped with his life. It was a wanton, unprovoked outrage, and such were my feelings in regard to the scene, that as we neared Raleigh, I could not refrain giving expression to them to my companion. I was overheard by some soldiers, one of whom made an insulting and threatening remark to me, whereupon Somerville, springing to his feet, by a blow in the face, stretched him bleeding on the floor. In an instant his companions in arms rushed upon Somerville, and were only prevented from taking his life by the passengers in the car. At sight of my lover's prostrate and bleeding body, I grew delirious, and fainted with fear and alarm. When I recovered, I was lying on the cold, damp floor of a prison cell. As I opened my eyes, a single star away up in the heavens faintly twinkled through the only crevice for light and air up in the roof of the prison. I knew it was night, and wondered where Somerville could be so long. It was night indeed—night to my life—night to my soul—thick, dark, impenetrable night. Yes, as I lay and gazed again, until my eyes ached, on that single star, twinkling there high up in the midnight heavens, I could but hope that it would prove a happy harbinger of good to me—an oracle saying that the bright and only guiding star of my life, George Somerville, still lived. But I must have been lying,on the stone floor a long time, for my body ached. As I stirred, trying to arouse myself, a large rat ran across me, and as my hand fell from my side to the floor, a 
                        lizzard
                        lizard
                      slipped through my fingers. God! I was almost crazed, and shuddered in every fibre of my attenuated body. With a desperate effort I gained my feet, but stepping upon a rat, I slipped, and fell back to the floor again. The fall jarred my whole body, and I was compelled to thus lay partially insensible, I know not how long; for in the dense darkness that prevailed in all parts of my cell, I could not tell of the passage of time. Morning arrived, and through a small window, which I had not discovered until now, some one placed my rations, composed of coarse bread, rice and some water. I had not eaten any thing for several days, and, coarse as it was, I relished my first meal in prison quite keenly. For a long time I sat, at the conclusion of my frugal repast, and wondered why I had been thus imprisoned. Then I fell off into a long train of dreamy retrospection, and in a few moments lived over again my earlier days, when in girlish glee, happy and free, I shared the once kind home of my uncle, and wondered if it were possible for me ever to be happy again. Should I ever regain the companionship of my betrothed. But now, alas! they had torn us ruthlessly asunder. Oh, 'tis only the tender female heart that has loved ardently, devotedly, as I have loved, that can know the agony of soul and the deep bitterness of the life-consuming sorrow which now crazed and almost devoured me, at the thought of being thus torn asunder, perhaps, for aught I could then tell, never to meet again. My very spirit, with groanings scarcely utterable, writhed in anguished, and I howled with heart-breaking pain.
                  'Twas night, and I stood straining my gaze, until my eye-balls, sore with weeping, ached, trying again to discern the hope-inspiring little star through the single chink away up in the roof of my gloomy prison. Aye, and there it shone, as at the first, faithful in its vigil, shimmering, until at length it twinkled and sparkled, and danced before my enraptured vision like a diamond in the sky. Do the stars think of us? Aye, they may, and who shall say they are not placed there to forever shine as the beacon lights of our souls through this world of tears and sorrow. Heaven bless the thought! As I still gazed, I wondered might it not be the spirit of my dear mother thus stooping from the sky to encourage and sustain with hope her poor oppressed and heart-broken child? Do the stars think of us? From my gloomy cell I raised my eyes to heaven, and, in the joy of the moment, seemed to forget my dungeon.
                  Some days elapsed, with little change in the dreary monotony of my prison life, when I was startled, by the visit of a rebel officer.
                  "Heavens, Bertha, how is this?" he exclaimed, really astonished by my incarceration in the dirty, dreary prison. "I scarcely dreamed, when, beneath my father's roof, Bertha, I spoke of the prison cell proving to you really the 'palace lifting to eternal summer its marble walls, from out a glossy bower of coolest foliage,' etc., that the time of your imprisonment was so near."
                  "Ralston Stephens, my uncle, your father, and my parent were brothers, born of one flesh, and we are cousins of one blood. You are rich, have influence, friends, power; I am poor, wretched, forlorn and forsaken. Will you not pity and take me from this terrible place? Oh, do not taunt me in my weakness and adversity, but allow your manhood to prevail, and lead me from this place."
                  "Bertha, that will I do even yet on one condition."
                  "What? Name it."
                  "That you be mine—consent to have me still, and you can leave this vile place at once, and to-night have a palatial chamber at the most sumptuous hotel in Raleigh."
                  "Ralston Stephens, you are still my enemy, and not a man; I spurn you and your proposition, and choose death and torture rather."
                  "Still unyielding in your pride! Bertha, beware, I have power here."
                  "I regard not your threats; leave me."
                  He stepped from my cell, and the tension to which I had drawn my feelings, in order to meet him thus indifferently, now relaxed, and I sank down, weakened and exhausted by the effort. But what is that tumult outside? Instantly the prison doors fly open! What does it mean? Has prayer at length prevailed, and has heaven sent and opened the prison doors to let the captive go free? It was occasioned by a fresh arrival of Union prisoners from Virginia, and thank heaven, I am released to make room for others of more importance to the Government. Once more I was free, and out in heaven's air; but I was alone now, in a strange country. Long I wandered about in search of my protector, and unable to find him in the city, I traced my way out into the country, and into the rebel encampment. Here, after a long and tedious pursuit, I at length was blest with the sight of my lover, lying in a tent just recovering from the late affray on the cars, and a heavy cold which he contracted while lying in prison. He knew not where I had been in the meantime, nor could he learn, and I know not how he had suffered in turn. At first sight, scarcely waiting the sentinel's challenge, I fell on his neck, sobbing my joy upon his bosom. I may not describe his words, nor caresses of fondest endearment, as he folded me to his breast again and again. The sympathy for us spread; for now I remember, though at the time I thought not of it, that down the bronzed face of many a rough, sturdy soldier, tear after tear coursed its silent way, as they witnessed the depth and sincerity of our heartfelt joy.
                  The evening shadows deepened. The watch over the camp was set for the night, and still we were near each other, whispering words of hope and love. Presently I was startled by a darkened figure approaching. I sought concealment behind a large military cloak which hung loosely at the side of the tent. With my nerves strung to their greatest tension, I listened and heard that figure approaching, with the stealthy tread of a cat, over the straw. As he neared us, I heard him murmur:
                  "I saw the rascal lying hereabouts to-day."
                  Heavens! It now flashed through my mind that Ralston Stephens would assassinate his rival. Yes, the weapon was ready in his hand, to strike the blow. There lay George Somerville, helpless and unconscious, having just fallen into a fitful sleep. What should I do? Over him stood the midnight assassin. With a spasmodic effort, I dashed the cloak aside, and, with an impulsive shriek of "murder, help, help," sprang out after the villain, who, alarmed by the sudden 
                        apparation
                        apparition
                     , fled from the tent into the darkness without. My betrothed was saved, and, in the confusion, awoke. As he started to his feet, I reeled and fell into his arms. Next day came the news that the Federal forces had bombarded and captured Forts Hatteras and Clarke; and many persons who had always been loyal in heart, now took courage and went forward in hundreds, and renewed their oath of allegiance to the National Government. Oh, it was a glorious sight to see that noble band of patriots thus face their foes for the holy cause of liberty.
                  But at night, Somerville and I started on the terrible journey for Fort Hatteras, which, after toiling all night against severe deprivations, we reached late next day. And oh, heaven be praised for the exquisite delight which thrilled my soul as our eyes caught the first glimpse of the American flag, floating off gallantly from the ramparts of the fort. 
                  Next morning I awoke, refreshed, indeed, and the early sight of the stars and stripes renewed all my former joy, and, the gallant garrison, sang with a hearty zest, the never-to-be-forgotten gem, commencing, 
                        
                           "Oh say, don't you see by the dawn's early light,
                           What so proudly we hailed by the twilight's last gleaming."
                        
                     
                  
                  At least a hundred voices within the fort joined in the chorus, with a volume and energy sufficient to strike terror to the rebel army.
                  Taking passage in one of the first ships which left for Fortress Monroe, we bid them all a hearty farewell, and sailed for that renowned fortress, where we were kindly welcomed and cared for by its gallant commander, General Wool.
                  Leaving Monroe, we steered our course for Baltimore, the emporium of political treachery and deceit, the Mobumental City.
                  Arrived at Philadelphia, wherever we turned, flags and streamers, everywhere unfurled, rippling and glinting in the clear, dazzling sunlight, greeted our happy vision with liberal welcome, and gave my bounding heart the blest assurance that I was once more, thank Heaven, in the "land of the free and the home of the brave."
                  Freed, at last, from the enemy's land, I was now threading, among FRIENDS, those liberty-hallowed precincts and avenues, over which I had oft passed so heedlessly in youth. But, oh, how doubly endeared by fond recollection they seemed to me now! Amid the booming of cannon, the ringing of bells, the sound of the drums, and other martial music, and the tread of many feet, I shed tears of joy. Oh, I was happy then, and my overjoyed soul went out in prayer, that every soul in the land, ere long, might know the sweet preciousness of such liberty as this. 
                  But I need not stay, in the course of concluding my narrative, to dilate on the vast contrast between our late fate, in a Southern prison, still later our situation in the tented field—and our present gorgeous and brilliant bridal chamber at the "Continental Hotel." Our happiness was perfect.
                  Our case having been communicated to the authorities at Washington, George was agreeably surprised with a commission in the national army, which he at once accepted, being anxious to fight the battles of his country, and at the same time avenge our wrongs at the South. But during his absence, what would become of me? To be thus separated so soon I could not think of. I resolved at once to accompany my husband to the war—back, if need be, into the very heart of "Secessia."
                  
                  
                     
                        "A duel by torch light. I now saw it all. Again the dexterously managed swords flashed in the light of the encircling torches, clanged and wound about each other with a dashing, ringing sound."—See page 39.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
