
    ----CITATION----
        Baer, Warren.. Champagne Charlie! or, The "Sports" of New-York .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5695 wright2-0176
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               CHAMPAGNE CHARLIE!
               OR, THE "SPORTS" OF NEW-YORK.
               EXHIBITING IN LIVELY COLORS ALL THE INS AND OUTS, AND UPS AND DOWNS, OF EVERY CLASS OF FAST GOTHAMITES!
               INCLUDING SCENES IN DRAWING ROOMS—BILLIARD SALOONS—FREE AND EASY'S—GAMBLING HOUSES—PRIVATE SUPPER ROOMS!
               EVERY PHASE OF FASHIONABLE AND UNFASHIONABLE LIFE IN THE EMPIRE CITY!
            
            BY WARREN BAER, ESQ., Author of 'The Duke of Saramento,' 'Lessons in Politeness,' 'Lapidary,' 'Californian's Return,' 'Cast Away,' 'Glass Dagger,' 'Double Soul,' &c., &c.
            
               NEW YORK:
               ROBERT M. DE WITT, PUBLISHER, 
                     No. 13 FRANKFORT STREET.
                  
               
            
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by ROBERT M. DE WITT, in the Clerk's Office of the U. S. District Court for the Southern District of New York.
         
         
            
            De Witt's Publishing House, 13 Frankfort St., N. Y.
            CATALOGUE OF THE BEST SELLING BOOKS PUBLISHED.
            
               DE WITT'S CHOICE FICTION.
               Joaquin, the Claude Duval of California. 50
               Wacousta. 50
               Matilda Montgomerie. 50
               Kaloolah. 50
               Captain Kyd. 50
               New-York Naked. 50
               Old Noll. 50
               Heads and Hearts. 50
               Secretary. 50
               Swamp Steed. 50
               Blasted Heath. 50
               Lafitte, the Pirate of the Gulf. 50
               Celio. 50
               G'Hals of New-York. 50
               Ecarte. 50
               Ruth Garnet. 50
               Heirs of Derwentwater. 50
               Monk's Revenge. 50
               Rebels and Tories. 50
               Miser's Will. 50
               First False Step. 50
               Rose Somerville. 50
               Sweet Nineteen. 50
               Life and Adventures of Chevalier Faublas. 50
               The Monk of St. John. 50
            
            
               DE WITT'S STORIES OF THE SEA. Handsome Illustrated Covers.
               Tom Truck. 25
               The Bandit of the Ocean. 25
               Gilderoy, the Freebooter. 25
               The Pirates of the Mississippi. 25
               Theodore, the Child of the Sea. 25
               Blackfoot, the Pirate. 25
               Harry Harpoon. 25
               The Black Cruiser. 25
               The Flying Arrow. 25
               Binnacle Jack. 25
               Susan Wylie. 25
               Delaware Dick. 25
               Will Watch. 25
               Estelle. 25
               The Rebel Coaster. 25
               The Surf Skiff. 25
            
            
               DE WITT'S 25 CENT NOVELS. Splendid Pictorial Covers.
               Hardscrabble. 25
               The Beautiful Half Breed. 25
               The White Chief's Bride. 25
               Frank Rivers. 25
               The Beautiful Cigar Girl. 25
               Fifteen Minutes around N. Y. 25
               A Man in Search of a Wife. 25
               The Lime Kiln Man. 25
               The Banker's Victim. 25
               Female Depravity. 25
               The Fair Quakeress. 25
               The Mutineer. 25
               The Modern Othello. 25
               The Solitary Hunter. 25
               The Hunters of the West. 25
               Rob Roy of the Rocky Mountains. 25
               The Duke's Motto. 25
               Fortune Wildred, the Foundling. 25
               Kate Penrose. 25
               Jessie Cameron. 25
               Rivingstone. 25
               The Mounted Rifleman. 25
               The Black Ranger. 25
               Marion and his Men. 25
               The Palace of Infamy. 25
               Masaniello. 25
               The Wedding Dress. 25
               The Three Strong Men. 25
               Camille. 25
               The Creole Wife. 25
               Antoine, the Dwarf. 25
               Montfort, the Roue. 25
               Julia Bicknell. 25
               Jack Cade. 25
               The Unfortunate Maid. 25
               The Baronet's Bride. 25
               The Pledge. 25
               The Bottle. 25
               Temptations and Trials. 25
               Maud, the Maniac. 25
               The Heir-at-Law. 25
               The Gambler's League. 25
               The Haunted Castle. 25
               The Mysterious Foundling. 25
               The Flower of the Forest. 25
               The Rival Lovers. 25
               Arrah-na Pogue. 25
               Shamus O'Brien. 25
               Will Terrill. 25
               The Fenian Chief. 25
               The Poisoned Letter. 25
               Marietta. 25
            
            
               CLAUDE DUVAL SERIES.
               Gentleman Jack. 25
               Jack and his Bride. 25
               Dare Devil Dick. 25
               Grace Manning. 25
               Renegade Gipsey. 25
               Highwayman's Stratagem. 25
               Ride for Life. 25
               Claude's Last Bullet. 25
               Black Bess. 25
               Claude in his Dungeon. 25
               Struggle for Life. 25
               Claude in the Convent. 25
               Claude and the Abbess. 25
               Duval and the Duchess. 25
               Claude to the Rescue. 25
               Death to the Traitor. 25
               Duval in Newgate. 25
               Highwayman's Bride. 25
               Rosa Bell, the Prince's Victim. 25
               Duval in a Duel. 25
               Lucy Thornton. 25
               Claude Captured. 25
               The Cask of Gold. 25
               Moonlight Jack. 25
            
            
               JONATHAN WILD SERIES.
               Jonathan Wild. 25
               Paul Clifford's Revenge. 25
               Wild in Limbo. 25
               Clifford in Danger. 25
               Wild a Fugitive. 25
               Nibbling Joe. 25
               Paul and Dora. 25
               The Bleeding Phantom. 25
            
            
               HANDSOME JACK SERIES.
               Handsome Jack. 25
               Jenny Diver. 25
               Roger O'Donnell. 25
               Tyburn Tree. 25
               Dick Fly-by-Night. 25
               Captain McLeane. 25
               Gipsy Bess. 25
               Jack Rann. 25
               Sixteen-String Jack. 25
            
            
               NIGHTSHADE SERIES.
               Nightshade. 25
               Nightshade on the Heath. 25
               Claude and the Countess. 25
               Hounslow Jack. 25
               Claude in the Cathedral. 25
            
            
               BLUESKIN SERIES.
               Blueskin. A Romance. 25
               Turpin in Danger. 25
            
            
               BLACK BESS SERIES.
               Black Bess. 25
               Edgeworth Bess. 25
            
            
               DE WITT'S ROMANCES.
               The Serf. 25
               New-York after Dark. 25
               L'Africaine. 25
               Gay Life in New-York. 25
               Rip Van Winkle. 25
               Bob Brierly. 25
            
            
               SONG AND JOKE BOOKS.
               The Shamus O'Brien Songster. 10
               The Wearing of the Green Songster. 10
               The Pat Malloy Songster. 10
               Hooley s Black Star Songster. 10
               The Free and Easy Comic Songster. 10
               Bryant's Cane Brake Refrains. 10
               Old Abe's Joker. 10
               The Annie Laurie Melodist. 10
               The Handy Andy Song Book. 10
               The Stars and Stripes Songster No. 1. 10
               The Rataplan. 10
               Bryant's Songs from Dixie's Land. 10
               The Teddy Regan Songster. 10
               Pete Morris' American Comic Melodist. 10
               Bryant's Essence of Old Virginny. 10
               New Dime American Joker. 10
               Matt Peel's Banjo. 10
               Unsworth's Burnt Cork Lyrics. 10
               Bryant's Power of Music. 10
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Melodist, 1. 10
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Melodist, 2. 10
               The Patriotic Songster. 10
               Paddy's Own Dime Song Book. 10
               Fred. Shaw's American Diadem. 10
               Fred. Shaw's Champion Comic Melodist. 10
               Bob. Smith's Clown Song and Joke Book. 10
               Byron Christy's Burnt Cork Comicalities. 10
               Byron Christy's Clown Joke Book. 10
               Mac Dill Darrell Dime Joke Book. 10
               The Stars and Stripes Songster, No. 2. 10
               Eph Horn's Own Songster. 10
               Bryant's New Songster. 10
               J. S. Berry's Comic Song Book. 10
               Hooley's High Daddy Songster. 10
               The Soldier's Health Companion. 10
               Whose Been Here Since I've Been Gone Songster. 10
               The Tilt Skirt Songster. 10
               The Jolly Irishman's Songster. 10
               Tim Finigan's Wake Songster. 10
               Meet Me in the Lane Songster. 10
               The Gipsy's Warning Songster. 10
               The Naughty Girls Songster. 10
               Vive la Compagnie Songster. 10
               The Fellow that Looks Like Me Songster. 10
               Pretty Little Sarah Songster. 10
               Swinging in the Lane Songster. 10
               Norah O'Neal Songster. 10
               Paddle your own Canoe Songster. 10
            
            Any work in this list will be sent, free of postage, on receipt of price. Address ROBERT M. DE WITT, Publisher. 13 Frankfort Street, N. Y.
         
         
            PREFATORY.
            
               GOOD WINE needs no bush—This is an old, trite, and truthful saying; but a few introductory remarks may be needed, as apologetic, for introducing the reader into the society of an avowed wine-bibber. The author's intention is to show, by the example of the hero, that the best and most generous sentiments may be so blunted, drowned, or perverted, by copious bumpers of Champagne, as to render the brilliant youth—who by nature and education, alike, was formed to be 
                  
                     "The glass of fashion and the mould of form—
                     The observed of all observers"—
                  
                a source of injury to himself and of peril to all who come within the fascinating circle of his "set." The "fast youth of the period" bids fair—unless his velocipedian pace is soon checked—to plunge himself into ruin and disgrace, and to bring sorrow and anguish to the hearts of his friends. In this work we have never sought to gild vice or gloss over dissipation; but rather to set a-flame a beacon to show the rocks and quicksands that beset the "Voyage of Life!"
            
               THE AUTHOR.
            
         
      
      
         
            Champagne Charlie! or, The "Sports" of New-York
            
            CHAMPAGNE CHARLIE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               CHAMPAGNE BUBBLES.
               "HERE we are at last without a crook or limp across the sound—we've found the ground without the loss of a water-fall—that's all—come in my hen and chickens. There's room in this house, for the richest and the poorest, the wisest and the most foolish. Landlords don't fill the flowing bowl—but 'Pop goes the weasel!" Thus spoke the merry voice of Champagne Charlie, as, at the head of a gay set of revellers, he led the way into the inviting rooms of a splendid saloon. Miss Mattie Wiggins, was there with her laughing eyes of blue, and teeth of pearly glitter, and hair of golden hue.
               Miss Clara Flair was present with her curls of chestnut brown and ruddy complexion, and mouth of budding smiles, and Laura Spray—sweet Laura Spray, with her hazel eyes and auburn locks. Beautiful was her smiles, classical her features, and sprightly was her conversation.
               "Charlie," said this last-mentioned lady, "send for the orchestra of Pike's Opera House."
               "No, no," interposed a gentleman dressed in the very exact style of fashion. This was Beau Wickman. A close-fitting frock-coat of dark invisible green, with pants of a shade of pepper-and-salt, dark figured silk vest, with neck-tie a la mode, Beau Brummel, and collar Byronic in its cut.
               "No, no, positively out of tune and place. The violin would be more apropos. My internal arrangement craves crabs and burgundy."
               "What, backing out like a crab. Ho, there! mine host of the cork-screws. Madam Cliquot's best, a baker's dozen," and then the individual who had so peremptorily ordered the sparkling beverage, sang the following verse in a rich mellow voice:— 
                     
                        "Champagne Charlie, is my name.
                        Champagne Charley is my name,
                        Good for any game at night, my boys,
                        Good for any game at night, my boys,
                        Champagne Charlie is my name,
                        Champagne Charlie is my name,
                        Good for any game at night, my boys,
                        Who'll come and join me in a spree—"
                     
                  
               
               At this last line in his song, several musicians entered with harps and fiddles.
               "Catch the throw and circulate, sound the ball. Not a twang, not a stack of the cards. Here, waiter, serve these sons of Orpheus." And then he sang: "All around the cobbler's bench, the monkey chased the weasel—the Priest he kissed the cobbler's wife. Pop goes the weasel."
               "Jupiter Tonans!" exclaimed Miss Wiggins, "did mortals ever witness such a flow of spirits, his soul must be set on springs. Corked soled at that, to keep out the water," said Wickman, pressing the ivory head of his gutta-percha cane against his delicate lips.
               "Drink to the immortals. Drink to the organ-throated Orpheus, who set the infernal regions all a-dancing when he descended into the realms of his hot-headed headed majesty in search of Euridice," exclaimed Charlie, as the waiter handed him the bottle of the mock's vintage, and he filled the glasses of the surprised and delighted musicians.
               "See how it goes down their gullets," sang Charlie; "what slippery-coated throats these fellows of the twang, and toot sonorous, possess," and then he pressed the cork from another bottle. When pop went the cork right smack against the ear of a well dressed Englishman.
               "Blast your gunners and your battery," exclaimed the, for a moment, irate son of Britain.
               "It was a misdirected fire," exclaimed Charlie, "but join our circle and teach us better gunnery in future."
               "Clever—clever on your part, and if you are the real Simon Pure Champagne Charlie I would not filter to twist a wire of Hiedsick at break of day with your merry crowd."
               "Fall into line then and you will have your wish gratified. Wickman, just part Helen and Paris there or else there'll be another Troy to be taken; and as greenbacks are rather a drug in their scarcity just save the cost to the nation, and keep up the appearance of specie payment in future;" Charlie alluded to an intimate friend of his, styled Fiddler Dick, who was a regular crasher and smasher in the way of a spree—and who was sparking in close confab with her of chestnut curls—Miss Clara Flair.
               "Dick," said Wickman, "scatter your individuality."
               "Ah, Beau," replied Clara, shaking her fan at him with a chiding expression of features. "You must know the smarting pangs of Cupid's darts."
               "Shot from Bowery crystals," replied Wickman.
               "Or Broadway diamonds," ejaculated Clara.
               "The truth," interposed Charlie. "The solid substantial truth is—there are no beads like those on the surface of the sparkling of Cliquot's best—so let's have a bumper all round and another close doors."
               "And get rid of these strings pinchers," said Laura Spray, "my nerves are in no tune to listen to these everlasting players. Pray, Charlie, pay them and let them go; they are a perfect nuisance."
               "After another glass," replied Charlie, "come, now ye catgut songsters; one round more," and he respectfully solicited them to imbibe another glass, which they, most profoundly bowing, quickly consented, and then pointing to the door and leading the van, he cried, "forward, march!" and he was followed by the stolid forms of the players.
               "This is the first set, now we'll drop the curtain," said Charlie.
               "How do you propose to open the second act," asked Miss Flair, "shall it be with a dance, a song or gostronommy?"
               "The music of the knife and fork, the clatter of steel upon the stoneware," added Wickman.
               "Worms—worms—must be fed," rejoined the Englishman.
               "Now who 
                     the the
                     the
                   devil, in fact, are you," observed Dick with a supercilious sneer.
               "Only 'Graggey Fling' as they style me in Bull Bishop's gate, Lunnun."
               "That's saying a good deal in a few words," replied Wickman, "quite satisfactory. I trust you don't belong to that class who left your country for the benefit of its inhabitants."
               "The citizens of Lunnun deplored my loss because my place has been supplied by a worse man," replied Fling.
               "We are till in pairs, but as Charlie has invited you to stay and drink an eye-opener with him at break-of-day, you must place yourself upon an equal footing."
               "I'm as solid on my pegs as Mount Diabolo," replied Fling. "But if you mean I must bring a partner, wait and see the one that will follow the earth around by the monarch of day—male or female?"
               "Male by all means," exclaimed the girls.
               "So be it; and as handsome a roommate I've got, just from Cuba—queen of the Antiles—and if I'm a little late consider its six hours to daylight." Then with a half swaggering stride he left the saloon.
               But Charlie hastened to call him back. "Fling," said he, "you go unarmed, unfortified"—and he grasped him by the arm—"Load up and be ready for a discharge against the night demons, and sing a song to the stars as you perambulate to your home, and a word, bring no member of tetotum here—none who does not like the pop of the cork or the flow of the froth—and hark ye, man, none who has not a forgiving nature in his soul. And here's to the health of her majesty and all her rambling sons, young whelps and so forth."
               A bottle was soon emptied between them, and again the Englishman started for his home, leaving Charlie and his friends for a time enjoying their supper. We will attend upon the Englishman and observe him how he wends his way with hurried steps towards a large mansion in one of the principal avenues.
               He entered the parlor, a solitary blaze is burning in the chandelier. He touched the bell when a servant enters. "Tell Ellenor I am here," said he to the servant as he threw himself with an impotent toss of the body upon one of the voluptuous seats of the sofa, and then curiously glanced around at the ornate splendor of the well apportioned furniture. But he waited not long before a light step was heard descending the stairs and then came the rustling of silk in the passage, and a young and beautiful girl stood before him.
               "I have seen him, Ellenor."
               "And where, uncle," asked the young girl.
               "At one of his usual haunts. In one of his Bacchanal revels."
               "Were any of his female friends present, uncle?"
               "Yes, three. Quite good looking all three."
               "Did he appear partial to any of them? Did he seem to fancy any one in particular? Did he caress them all or was be diffuse in his embraces and attentions? Has he much altered? How was he dressed?"
               "What time is it?" asked the uncle, stretching out his legs, and giving a long dull whistle.
               "About twelve I should say."
               "Well, then to answer all your questions would take until daylight."
               "But really uncle, was he—I mean was he lively, passionate, was he full of fun and frolic."
               "You mean to enquire, my dear niece, was he drunk."
               "Not exactly that," replied the young girl blushing.
               "Well be it as you will," said he rising and taking her by the hand. "But if you desire it, you shall judge for yourself. Come and walk with me?" and they walked across the floor covered with rich turkey carpet.
               "I cannot—dare not do it. It would be unlady-like, my father would be a terribly abashed," she replied, to some proposition he had just made to her.
               "What have you to fear, six years have made a great alteration in both of you—are you not with me? your life and honor are as dear to me as my own existence, wherein lies the discredit of the affair. We all play many parts upon the stage of life. The first players are generally best received by the world's audience, as the first sight of a prospect leaves the most lasting impression. Young girls are too, tenacious of rules of mock modesty. Be true to yourself and what we style innocence, modesty, dignity will adhere to the female character in private, as well as in public life. Here you have been bothering me about this harum scarum vinous chap ever since your return from Europe, and when I wish to disgust you with him by witnessing his mid-night orgies, you shrink as though to witness vice was to embrace it. I grant you if seen too often it is dangerous because we learn to pity, but let this be the first and last time you ask such a favor of me, if you let slip this occasion," and they continued to walk and discuss the propriety of complying with his proposition for many minutes longer, when she suddenly left the parlor and he again seated himself.
               "I'll bet my heart against a Chinese junk," said Dick, "that we see nothing more of her majesty's subject, Mr. Fling."
               They were all enjoying a gay supper, and Dick was seated at the head of the table.
               "There you are mistaken," said Wickman. "There's a deal of resolution in the cut of his lips and chin, and he'll bring some Trojan Paris here who will harm Miss Clara Flair; and fiddler Dick will go weeping to the ferry, and the next time we meet will be at the Morgue."
               "I was thinking," said Charlie, "if Alexander (whom history has painted a convicted inebriate) If this great Alexander ander knew aught of champagne. If he did not his life was a failure and his palate undeveloped, or dried up as that of a mummy, from the pyramid of Egypt."
               "Come, come," said Dick, "history has no more to do with champagne, than philosophy with love, let's have a dance."
               They all left the table; and then followed a scene of the most inextricable kind; selecting their partners they waltzed round the table—every man his own musician—and every man resting his tune to the state of his own inclinations. After exhausting themselves in this hilarious exercise which was considered a most excellent mode of aiding digestion, the ladies took their seats again at the social board, when the door opened and Clara's mother and another lady entered. Immediately every reveller seized his white-crowned hat, and rushed promiscuously towards the guests.
               Charlie seized Mrs. Spray in his arms, and after giving her several hearty kisses upon her plump cheeks, he presented her to his two male friends. Laura Spray became quite indignant at the liberty Charlie had taken with her mother, for though having a wild way of thinking and acting for herself, yet she entertained a certain respect for her mother, derived from the sanity of home, which rendered any gross familiarities shown to her parent most repulsive to her feeling.
               "Charlie," said she, while her dark hazel eyes glowed with a momentary glow of anger, and her face grew pallid with indignation. "Such rudeness again shown to my mother and you and I cease to be friends."
               "Tut-tut! I came not to excite quarrels. A mere boy—a mere slender cask of champagne. I care no more for his kisses than if a fly had lit on my cheeks," said Mrs. Spray; patting our hero upon his shoulders.
               "You altogether mistake me, Laura," replied Charlie, "I am the last person in this world to treat any one with disrespect. When I was so very sick—so much so that Dick and Wickman wanted me to make my will, and leave them all the empty bottles in the cellar, who then nursed me with the fond care of a mother's devoted vigilance. Your mother there. And who," he continued while he cast a reproachful look at Laura, "Who was it that has guarded the virtue and honor of her daughter with more than a brother's anxious watchfulness.
               "I shall not reply further. If your own heart, Laura, does not reprove you for imputing intended insult towards one to whom you are so greatly indebted, I will not be the one to upbraid you."
               "Oh, forgive me, Charlie," said Laura. 
               "I did not consider. You have proved our best friend, and never presumed upon the obligation under which we labor towards you."
               "What," said Fiddler Dick, "is this the sentimental opening of our second act."
               "But, Dick," said Charlie, "you really are interfering in a matter which you do not understand. I beg you to desist from any further remarks."
               "I'm a playing," said Dick. "I'm one of the weary millions upon the stage of life."
               "I say you are rude, and out of place," replied Charlie, "your remarks are impertinent, uncalled for, and unnecessary."
               "And you dare accuse me of vulgarity in the presence of ladies!"
               "I dare more," said Charlie. "I dare punish you for it," and he advanced towards Dick with an empty champagne bottle in both hands.
               Nor was Dick, long in imitating his example.
               But the ladies now interfered and compelled them to shake hands.
               "And you intended to try the strength of each other's skulls," said Wickman, flinging his body into a boxer's attitude, and knocking off both their white hats and sending them twirling amidst the ladies.
               And then an attempt was made by the pair of hatless sparkers to send his cranium-shield in the same direction, but Beau was an expert boxer and warded off their blows with the greatest ease and dexterity, until finally one of the ladies dealt his capillary adornment, a blow from behind, and sent it bounding across the table and then began a replacing and knocking off hats by the whole company, amid shouts of laughter.
               When who should make his appearance but Mr. Fling and his young Cuban friend, whose complexion was very dark, and whose locks of black curling hair were buried beneath the ample folds of a slouch hat.
               "I have resumed my promise," said Fling, "and I trust now you will suffer my friend to retire as he agreed only to see me to the door; and not being very well, desires to retire."
               "Not until an exchange of bumpers, to the company," said Charlie, offering his hand to the young Cuban, who shrank abashed at his approach, and then apparently recovering himself—he returned Charlie's salute and was formally introduced to the company, by Mr. Fling, as Oscar Pazor.
               Pop went the corks of several bottles, out foamed the sparkling liquid, "a wreath to the merry Queen of Spain, and all her graceful subjects. Drink, my young friend, you are no intruder, I can assure you. Tho' Fling is but a stranger to us all; but he's got truth in him or he would not have redeemed his promise by returning with so graceful a gentleman."
               As yet the Cuban had not spoken, but he now replied with a trembling voice. "Thank you, I knew I was among gentlemen."
               "A very cutting reply," said Fiddler Dick.
               "And may be deserved," said Charlie, to Dick, who was at times disposed to be quarrelsome when he was full to repletion.
               "He was brought here as a satire upon our revels. I say he shall not stay; put him out."
               "I believe," replied Charlie, "I'm master here. It was by my request this gentleman was brought into this saloon."
               "Master, only so far as the feast goes," replied Dick, his face becoming very red with anger as he turned and saw Mr. Fling in close conversation with Miss Clara Flair.
               "Dick," said Wickman, "cease your scolding."
               "Bellicose people are frequently seen with blue hollows round the eyes."
               "I do not fear the threats or insults of drunkard," replied the Cuban while his arm seemed to tremble with excitement.
               "Ha! villain!" exclaimed Dick, "call me a drunkard, insult me in the presence of ladies. I'm just the man to punish such insolent pups," and he aimed a blow at the young gentleman's nose which, had it not been warded off by Charlie would have most essentially disfigured the young Cuban's 
                     probossis
                     proboscis
                  , if not adorned his eyes with streaks of blue. Finding himself foiled in his first attack, he was on the point of renewing his ungentlemanly attempt when a well directed blow from Charlie on the side of his head sent him staggering across the floor, where he was received into the arms of Fling, who was on the eve of dealing him a crusher, when Charlie exclaimed:
               "Don't strike—he's drunk. No gentleman should so far forget his dignity as to inflict upon his mind and body a state of beastly intoxication. Especially when the liquid is champagne; which is both drink and food for men and gods. Here's your hat, Dick, and here's my hand. The best of us are weak at times. And due allowance should be made for mortal weakness."
               "You struck me, and must fight me," said Dick, with a sullen growl.
               "There's no sense in striking," replied Charlie. "But there is in apologising."
               "I'm the insulted party. I'll leave it to the company—yea or nay," said Charlie, and then the guests gathered round the disputants.
               "Yea or nay," but only Wickman responded in the affirmative.
               "Beaten on the vote, Dick, the company say you were right by their silence. Here's my hand. Let odds and ends go as the idle wind," and Charlie offered the clasp of friendship. 
               "Take it," shouted the ladies, and Dick, who was yet smarting under the hard blow he had received from his friend, reluctantly took the offered hand.
               When the guests turned towards the door, where Fling had joined his companions, they discovered they had left the room.
               "It's a mean man who would raise his hand against a woman," said Mattie, with a curling sneer of her upper lip, and pointing at Dick with her fan.
               "I deny the point," said Dick.
               "But you did," said Miss Wiggins, "the company were as witnesses to it," and then all looked at Miss Wiggins with a bewildering stare.
               "Nay, he did lift his hand against a woman, Oscar Pazor, was Miss Arabella Juniata somebody."
               
               "I believe it," exclaimed Miss Spray and Miss Flair, "and as for this Mr. Fling," she continued, "his whiskers were false, and his hair smelt strongly of hair dye."
               "Great Jupiter! and I not know it," exclaimed Charlie, "what could have been their object here?"
               "Detectives," said Blanco. "The whole earth is filled with them they swarm around like bees."
               "Well, who cares so long as we have plenty of 
                     champange
                     champagne
                  ," said Charlie. "Huzza! boys and girls!" 
                     "For Champagne Charlie is my name."
                  
               
               In which the company all joined.
               After which they all joined arms and marched out of the saloon. Charlie accompanying Mrs. Spray and her daughter to their home.
               After bidding his friends good night, he turned his steps towards his own quarters in Broadway, and slowly ascending the broad steps leading to the second story, he entered a large room in which there was a double bed, a bureau, a lounge, a large mirror, a card-table, a fire screen, and a half dozen walnut chairs.
               He struck a match and lit the gas. When he espied crouched up in a corner of the room, the form of a very young girl.
               "Poor little Fanny," said he, "Charlie forgot you—all this evening locked up in this dreary room," and he drew the child towards him. "Have you not been very lonesome? are you not hungry?"
               "Not so much, Mr. Charlie. Mike's been here and brought me some cakes from the house. But I was sorry."
               "Sorry, Fanny, why sorry?" said he as he placed the child upon his knee. She was really a very interesting child, with large eloquent gray eyes, small acqualine nose, pouting lips, with slender neck and shoulders gracefully formed.
               "Are you not going to send me to school, Mother Spray," said the girl. "I shall be happier than now when you are gone away all day and so late at night. I am so lonesome. No one to play with. Miss Laura Spray is too big for me to play with," asked little Fanny, looking up into her face, with her large pleading eyes of eloquent meaning.
               "But you said you were sorry, Fanny," resumed Charlie, as he smoothed back from her childish brow the thick masses of golden hair.
               "I was sorry, Mr. Charlie."
               "And why, tell me, Fanny, do not be afraid. Tell me, you know Charlie never scolds." And he cast upon the child a look of such beaming tenderness as seemed to inspire her with confidence.
               "I was sorry that you did not kiss me before you left."
               "There I will pay you double," said he, as he held back her head and imprinted several warm kisses upon her brow. "Trust in Charlie," said he, "so long as Charlie can, he will protect and serve you until chance may reveal your parentage."
               "I never will find my mother any more," sighed the girl. "I watch every lady I meet in the street, to see if they know and will claim me as their child."
               "And do you think you would know your Mother, were you to meet her?"
               "Oh, yes! My mother was young and beautiful. She would know her Fanny. But I don't see any lady that looks like Ma. Do you, Mr. Charlie?"
               "Do I? Why Fanny, how should I know her?"
               "I don't know, only—sometimes I think you look like——"
               "Indeed. How strange. But Fanny don't think too much about it."
               "I must watch and pray. Eh, Mr. Charlie, and I'll find her at last."
               "Yes," said he, and he placed the child upon her feet, and walked to the window and gazed above upon the quiet orbs of night. He remained there in silent thought for several minutes, and then turned towards Fanny, saying, "Better go to bed, I will light your gas," and he opened a side door which led into a small chamber. This was Fanny's little chamber, which Mrs. Spray had at Charlie's expense fitted up for Fanny, when he drove over her with his team at the park.
               "Good night," said he. "You are not afraid? why do you linger? be sure to say your prayers. Fanny, why do you look so sad? do you stand in need of anything? Speak, Fanny, are you really afraid?"
               "No, but I was this evening once, when I went to buy cakes to-day, a very stout man looked so hard at me and followed me to the door."
               "Some one," said Charlie, "who thought he knew you."
               "I suppose so," said the child.
               "But why do you not go to bed, my little darling."
               "Only this, there is a tear on your cheek."
               "There," said he, stooping and kissing her.
               "Let me wipe it off, Mr. Charlie," and she raised up the corner of her apron, and wiped away the tear. "There," said she, "cry no more, it makes me feel so sad," another kiss, and then she closed her door, and kneeling said her prayers, and was soon lost in childhood's sweet repose.
               Not so with Champagne Charlie.
               Long after Fanny had been lost in slumber, he paced the floor in deep and solemn thought, like a man who was smitten by some abiding sorrow, hidden from the world but not the less telling in its oppressive weight. At last he sought his couch, and nature absolutely tired out, all her reserved strength exhausted, he sank into a deep motionless sleep. The gas had been turned nearly out and by its faint glimmer, a form was seen to issue from Fanny's door and then pause as though to be convinced that Charlie was beyond all sense of hearing an ordinary footstep. Apparently being satisfied with his inspection of the sleeper's condition, he approached the bed and gazed on the features of the now unconscious reveller.
               The contrast was most striking. The dress and hard cast of features of the intruder betokened a sea-faring life. His brow grew dark as he gazed on the face of Champagne Charlie. There on the laced pillow was lying the head almost of an Adonis. The nose was slightly Roman, in its mould. The eyebrows faultlessly curved, while the rounded cheeks, and slightly pointed chin, seem cast in a mould to suit the lips, which seemed slightly puffed or 
                     swolen
                     swollen
                   as though from the effects of excessive vinous libations. His hair coal black, inclined to curl, but the eye which was large, full and brilliant, was a dark gray. The longer gazed the unbidden guest, the sterner grew the expression of his face. Almost unconsciously his hand sought his breast, and he drew a gleaming blade whose polished surface reflected the slight glimmer of the feeble gas-light.
               "Had I not witnessed his kind treatment of the child—it has unmanned me," and he with the drawn knife moved towards the window, and as he cast his eyes up at the stars a slight groan escaped his lips, and then after a pause he muttered in a whisper as though reasoning with himself, "I will save him the child. Great God, should I take his life and it should prove otherwise. But he will soon end his days; wine, wine, which has blasted the most promising and great, will soon do for him. But the child. Ha," said he starting with a sudden impulse. "How tenderly he embraced her," and the strong man knelt beside a chair near the window, and shrouded his face with his hands, and then arose from his knees, and advanced again towards the bed, "If I had not but one doubt I would send his soul to the bottomless pit—I ought—nay I will," and as he drew near the sleeper, and was lifting his arm to deal the deadly blow, he felt the warm pressure of a child's hand in his own, and he cast his eyes upon the slender form of Fanny, in her night gown. Her features were livid white with fear, while her eyes seemed starting from their sockets, and her lips were bloodless. She carried in her hand a bible which Charlie had given her, and the poor little thing in her terror had seized this token of peace after having been awakened by the mutterings of the now-determined assassin. Stealthily she had crept to his side and now held up before him this emblem of forgiveness.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               INNOCENCE AND GUILT.
               SLOWLY she drew him from the bed of her protector, and gradually she led him into her little room and then closed the door.
               "And you love that man and have saved his life," he spoke in a whisper. But the child replied not but only gazed with a fixed earnestness into his eyes. "You should hate him."
               But the child only gazed the more intently into his face, as though to obtain a deeper insight into his meaning.
               
               "Well, well," said he, "the man is entitled to the benefit of a doubt. And now," continued he, "go get you to bed and should you ever mention this to anyone, of my meeting with you in this chamber, it will bring danger upon yon sleeping wine cask."
               The child crawled into bed, taking her bible with her, covered her face with the pillow, and though she heard the man unlock the door in his egress from Charlie's room, and then heard him lock it from outside, she could not go to sleep until she had left her bed and crept into Charlie's room, and fastened the door with the bolt, fearing lest the man might change his mind and return and do her protector harm. It was about the tenth hour of morning when Mike awoke his master.
               "Ah, Mike, is that you," said Charlie, stretching his limbs, with a yawn. "Don't you hear Bacchis belch, myself helping to relieve his gas," at which pop went the cork from the bottle of champagne just taken from the ice-box. "Capital," exclaimed Charlie, as he imbibed two flowing glasses of the delicious beverage.
               "It ought to put enough wind into a man to last him after death," said Mike. "If ever I own a race horse he shall have at least a dozen just before his race. And if the track's heavy, and wind is required more than speed, he sure will win."
               "That's a most important secret, Mike, be sure you hold on to it; cork it up in one of those empty bottles and it will improve by age, for one of these days we may wish to try the experiment."
               "Faith and you'll never care for anything in this mortal world but champagne. And should any man plant a grape vine over your grave, be sure he'll have the best of grapes."
               "Why so, Mike?"
               "Because you will have enough of its essence in you to last as many seasons as you are old."
               "What about Irish whiskey, Mike."
               "Be jabers, its the scarcest article we want in the world. It's a sly drink, no tell-tale about—none of your pops and whezzers. It's not a tell-tale her that notifies your neighbors and alarms your creditors on their way to church or country house. By my soul its a cheap and slippery drink, fit for any poor man."
               "What about the smell, Mike?"
               "Do you see you can cover that over with a pipe of tobacco smoke."
               "What's the news, Mike?"
               "Only this, that Fanny's sick, and I took her to mother Spray's. Did you not feel her kiss you?"
               "No, indeed I did not."
               "But she did tho'. She seems to have been under some kind of a fright. But I could get nothing out of her, but do you suspect the truth——"
               "Now go, Mike, and get my bath ready, I'm thinking you'd make a precious candidate, if you'd only have the money, and spoil the whiskey trade, and champagne would go up in the market as corks fly from the necks of the bottles."
               "Do you see you'd beggar the whole town in your tratin'. And I'll make a fortune over the selling of the empty bottles. Your bath's ready, sir, an hour ago."
               "Thank you, Mike. I'll do you a favor some of these days."
               "Sure, sir, it's the gentleman in you, that makes you feel and speak that way. We tell a gentleman in the ould country by the way he speaks to servants."
               Champagne Charlie had no warmer and truer friend than Fiddler Dick. It is true he was of a quarrelsome natures but this was only when he had been mixing liquors, and confounding his gastronomics by opposing several different compounds of drugged wines and spirits.
               "We all have our faults," we have heard Charlie say; "but all have not the tenderness of heart to forgive. Dick only lacks one thing to render him an even-tempered man. Let his only drink, aside from water, be champagne." Cross your liquor and you cross your temper. And there is a quality in the spirit of drunkenness—relatively speaking—arising from the fumes of the essence of vinous or alcoholic liquids which produces effects most dissimilar in its character and mode of display. Alcoholic drinks burn out their intestines and render foul the apertures or chimneys of the soul and mind. But champagne imbibers are 
                     exhilerated
                     exhilarated
                   and refined by the very lovely virtues contained in the vinous beverage, and thus it was that Charlie stuck to champagne.
               "Dick," he was wont to say, "never mix your liquors, you destroy or neutralize the virtues of all, and produce a foul."
               It was several days after their social meeting at the saloon, when Fiddler Dick's wife and cousin Helen returned to the city, and he was compelled to confine his attention to family duties.
               His wife was older than himself and if not remarkable for her youthful charms was not neglectful of her husband's demands upon her honor and industry.
               He occupied a small dwelling in the 
                     surburbs
                     suburbs
                   of the City of Brooklyn.
               Dick was a handsome man—sprightly in conversation, with considerable business tact in his calling, being that of a street broker and general agent in merchandise.
               Helen Lovel, the wife's cousin, was not deficient in wit or personal charms. Light glossy hair, with eyes neither blue nor gray, yet very meaning in their expression encouraging a sudden impulse of the passion—or a real interest of the soul—and with a clear, brilliant complexion, and rather prominent display of bust, and graceful movements of person, she was almost a marked woman in the social circles in which she moved.
               This Helen Lovel had conceived a violent passion for Dick. It cost her many a 
                     greavious
                     grievous
                   struggle to conceal her feelings; but, as she became more reconciled to her passion, and more assimilated to its influence, she unconsciously became more pointed in her display of its bearing on the object of her attachment, and Dick was evidently the victim.
               At first he attributed it to a playful humor on her part to tease, but her actions of familiarity of person and telltale, fixed glances of passion began to awaken him to the real state of her feelings towards him.
               While he acknowledged the beauty of the captive to his own person, yet he grew uneasy in his mind in regard to the consequence.
               He strove to convince her by apparent ignorance as to her meaning, and attributed all to a levity of disposition, and her remarks and approaches towards a conquest of his person and spirit as originating from a desire on her part to render herself agreeable in his estimation. If the flame of love burns at all in woman's heart it increases in heat and brilliancy, and it expires with equal rapidity when in need of the sustaining material. It was in the month of July. The early morning sun sent a crimson blush of light through the open curtained window. Dick was reposing in a species of half slumber and wakefulness; a subdued lethargic dreaminess of spirit pervaded his frame.
               His cousins and servants, with himself, were the sole occupants of the house; his wife having gone into the country to spend a few days with a relative.
               As he heard the door open, he directed his eager gaze towards the person who entered, it was Helen. Her morning robe was of the clearest whiteness, and her hair was combed back from her brow and temples showing the full handsome features to great advantage. A suffused flush of excitement tinctured her transparent skin, while her eyes quivered with changing beams of ardent passion.
               "So early, cousin Helen," said he, in a half-surprised and half-reproving tone.
               "I had a beautiful dream last night; and I could not rest, Ned, until I could relieve my mind of it," and she drew a chair near his bed, and stooping kissed his now-disturbed brow.
               She called him Ned. Ned Roverton, was his name in fact, though known on the streets and in the saloons, as Fiddler Dick, a soubriquet obtained for him from his great partiality of the fiddle and bow.
               "Then by all means," said Dick "if it adds to your pleasure, let's have the dream. But, cousin, don't you think it would be just as well if you reserved it for breakfast, and then, if by chance, some prying servant should come to call us to our coffee."
               "The lock," said she, "will bar all ingress. But what a stupid," said she, "to suppose that even a novice in the school of cupid would venture on a voyage of discovery upon the sea of love, and leave a pursuing sail upon her track."
               "Well, delight me with your dream, for I really feel a little dull. Perhaps it's the weather."
               "Perhaps," she replied with a sneering smile, "it is the absence of your infirm and aged wife."
               "Not that," quickly replied Jack, "for a short stay in the country, will benefit her health."
               "But hardly add to her youth and lost charms."
               "I trust it will make no change in her but for the better Helen." "But your dream, cousin."
               "Well then to begin—I thought you and I were poised in mid-air. I in a robe of variegated silk, reaching almost to the earth, and you in a scarlet robe reaching to your knees and fringed with golden lace, and we glided along the immense expanse; you did recline your head upon my shoulder, and swear eternal love, and then athwart the sky over head, passed a floating village, whose base rested upon moving clouds, suffused with rich and variegated colors of light. And from which issued notes of most entertaining music, and when its sweet strains died away, you clasped me in your arms, and bore me up to that village, and I awoke. Was it not provoking?"
               "Beautiful and tormentible," replied Dick.
               "And do you not regret that it was not reality, cousin Ned?" and she pressed his hand and gazed earnestly into his face with a voluptuous swell heaving in her bosom.
               "Helen," said Dick, sitting up in his bed. "You and I stand on a precipice. We are in great danger."
               "Oh, pray don't begin to act the old granny and begin to moralise so early in the morning, Ned, or else I'll begin to chastise," and she began playfully to smooth his cheeks with her soft white jewelled hand, and while yet he was undecided whether to give way to his mortal hurt, or to act the heroic moral, a servant rapped at the door, announcing breakfast. Nothing mortal could exceed the look of contemptuous scorn, she cast upon him, as she arose from her seat and drew herself up in the full measure of her dignity.
               "Apollo has proved a frog. He has not even the courage of woman. He has the heart of a buzzard within him. He prefers the smell of carrion, to the sweetness of a lamb, a senseless image, a craven hare. Betray me, thou moving carcass devoid of the soul of man, and I will crush and destroy, as I would love and preserve."
               "Helen, bear me. I promise when free by the usual course of events, to make you my wife."
               "Oh, no," she replied with a gibing laugh, in which was mingled scorn, contempt, and hatred, "your promise is like your manhood, wanting in the essential spirit, a love for the beautiful, and a will to enjoy it." And with a mocking laugh she sought her room and left our poor friend in a most confused and unsettled state and worriment of mind. They met at breakfast, She evinced no unusual agitation of manner. While he ate his food in silence, and hurried off to his daily avocations.
               We shall see hereafter the supposed consequences of this important meeting though we may not be able to trace the course of events which led to the perpetration of a crime as mysterious as it was sudden.
               Let any care-worn sojourner in the city, visit the Battery on a clear afternoon, while the sun is scarcely an hour high, and he will feel refreshed by the bracing atmosphere from the ocean, and enlivened by the dashing prows of the passing steamers, and softened in spirit by the beauteous prospect beyond, subdued and softened by the thin glaze of azure hue which veils the soft beauty of the opposite view of the Island across the extensive sound. It was on such a calm quiet and lovely evening, as we would 
                     protray
                     portray
                  , that a sail-boat is seen slowly creeping over the rippling surface of the waters, bearing on board a gay party of revellers, the ladies in fancy dress. The gentlemen all dressed in white, even to their hats.
               Blue-eyed Mattie Wiggins is aboard, her golden locks—reflecting the expiring beams of the setting sun. And Clara Flair, is lending her radiant smiles to enliven the scene. And she, Laura, sweet Laura Spray, with her animated wit and enchanting laugh inspires all with cheerful feelings of joyous 
                     hillarity
                     hilarity
                  . Charlie Champagne, and loquacious Beau Wickman, and the 
                     supercilous
                     supercilious
                   Englishman Fling are chatting with the girls.
               "How beautiful," said Laura, "Charlie I wish I had brought little Fannie with us, it would have so delighted the child."
               "It is well, she is at school Laura," replied Charlie, while be took the glass from his eye, with which he had been scanning the various shipping, the sails of which hung in even folds between the masts, not even waving in the slightest zephyr of a breeze.
               "Why man," said Beau, "Don't look so thoughtful, there's a few bottles left."
               But Charlie paid little attention to his friend's remark.
               "I'll tell you of an adventure of mine in Baltimore," said Beau Wickman.
               "Capital, by all means," responded the ladies.
               "Bravo," suddenly exclaimed Charlie. "Fill up, come cut the wires. Bravo. Huzza for Dick," and then he left his post and speedily ended in cutting the wires, and then was heard his old tune of "Pop goes the weasel," while they all joined in the song of 'Champagne Charlie is my name.' "And now let us rid our boat of the dead marines. I'll bet a dozen, I can send this bottle furthest from our boat."
               "Every man arm, and prepare to fire, the bet is taken," and when the three had armed themselves with the hallowed weapons, Laura gave the word of command to fire, when they all threw from the boat, and Fling declared the winner, and Beau the loser. As every pic-nic whether on sea or land has its many prominent incidents, however small, which afford a subject for future discourses, so our cruise proved no exception.
               For it was unaccountable how it came to pass that Miss Laura Spray should lose her balance, while yet the boat should be gradually ceasing to roll from the efforts of the throwers of bottles. So strange it did appear that she should fall into the water, and when there make no apparent effort to save herself from drowning, for she seemed to fall head foremost into the water. As usual when there are several able and willing to render assistance some delay occurs from the confusion of the moment. But Charlie lost nothing of his presence of mind and quickly cast off his boots, and coat. He then, when the girl's form came to the surface, several yards from the boat, he dashed overboard and caught her in his arms, just as she was again about to sink. It was well for him that he was so expert a swimmer, for Laura seemed to make no effort to save herself, and it was with the greatest difficulty he could keep her head above water. And it was well for Charlie that Mr. Fling was so cool and decided a man, and so masterly a seaman in the management of a boat, for he quickly sought the rudder, changed the course of the boat towards them, and reaching out an oar to Charlie, who grasped it with one hand, he cautiously drew our friend of champagne notoriety towards the boat after which they were lifted aboard reeking 
                     form
                     from
                   every part of person and clothes with the briny liquid. It would be useless to depict the alarming fright of the two ladies, Clara and Mattie. The boat was roved ashore by Wickman and Fling, where the soaked and dripping forms of Clara and Charlie sought shelter in the cabin of a ship until dry clothes could be procured by Wickman and the ladies. If Charlie was a beau ideal of a man, in the eyes of the two ladies before this adventure, he was now doubly exalted in their estimation and pronounced the ne plus ultra of active embodiment of chivalry. In the cabin where he now took shelter he was brought face to face with the very sea captain, who stood beside his bed several nights previous, with most deadly intent maddening the brain of the seaman on that occasion. When Beau returned with the dry clothing, and Charlie was about to ascend on deck, the strong hand of the strongly built seaman was placed upon his arm, as he said:
               "I have some questions to ask you, young man, dismiss your companions you can join them in an hour hence."
               "At your service," said Charlie, "while we are discoursing, pray order a few bottles of iced champagne."
               "I have Sardinian, Burgundy," replied the seaman.
               "It won't do," replied Charlie, "I never indulge in trifles, something lively upon the surface, something inviting to the spirit, I will send for them, sir. In the meantime, probably you will find a cigar acceptable."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               THE CAPTAIN.
               WHILE waiting for the cabin boy, who had been sent for the champagne, Charlie had cast himself upon one of the bunks, and being overpowered by the day's fatigue, he was soon lost in a deep slumber, and when the captain returned from on deck, he gazed intently upon the sleeping votary of pleasure. He paced the floor of the cabin in deep meditation. Occasionally he would start towards the bunk in which Charlie reposed, then he would as suddenly halt as though restrained by some better thought, and then he would assume his even pace across the floor until finally, he again sought the deck, and gave his orders with his usual calmness of command. The lamp was already lit in the cabin before Charlie awoke, and he was scarcely conscious of his sleep before the heavy tread of the captain was heard descending the steps, and the next moment the boy placed the bottles and ice upon the table with two silver goblets.
               "You appear to have engrossed a passion for the drink. When I was young I never favored the article, now I seldom drink it."
               "Age is always dull," replied Charlie, "staid habits, slow gait, nervous twitches, jerks in the joints when we least expect them. But fly your foam, so, steady," said Charlie, as the captain popped the cork of the first bottle and he quaffed a glass in silence.
               "Now then, to business," observed the captain with a serious expression of face.
               "What business," replied Charlie, "unless of the girls of my pleasure-party in the boat."
               "A little further off," replied the captain.
               "By Jove, old fellow," said Charlie, "one would judge from your sanctified look you were a 
                     temperence
                     temperance
                   lecturer and wished me to sign the pledge."
               "And it would be well for you that such were the case, young man. Pray what do you think of marriage, have you never harpooned a porpoise in the sea of matrimony?" and the seafarer gave him a look that sent the blood to the dissipated youth's face. "I told you, Charlie, as they style you, that I had a few questions to ask you."
               "Fill your glass," replied Charlie, "and drink to the Neptune of the sea," and they drank until the first bottle was emptied.
               "Were you ever married, Mr. Charlie," said the captain with a quiet tone of voice.
               But Charlie tried to turn the subject.
               "Were you ever married," again enquired the seaman.
               "I will answer for you."
               "Pray do," said Charlie. "It fatigues me to explain."
               "Were you ever in Switzerland? and did you reside there with your father at the Drat's-end Inn?"
               "You are quizzing," said Charlie.
               "Yes in earnest," said the seaman.
               "In truth, I was, and I wish I had never seen the land of William Tell."
               "Now listen," said the Captain. "There was a beautiful girl residing there, The daughter of one Mons. Travator. And you knew her."
               "Perfectly well," replied Charlie, "a charming creature. But most unfortunate."
               "Ah! you may well say so," replied the seaman, while a tear gathered in his eye. "And to whose crimes were her family indebted for her subsequent flight and disgrace?"
               "To Count Marlo's," replied Charlie.
               "Do you speak truly."
               "Aye, by my life," replied Charlie.
               "You were aware, you were in love with the girl."
               "I was, and should have made her my wife, but her flight prevented it."
               "You were knowing of her abduction. You aided and assisted. You were the principal aider and abetter."
               "Wrong again, my old conch-shell," replied Charlie. "The Count Marlo won her, carried her to Naples, you must have heard. I followed upon the same night. I met her afterwards in a street of Naples, visited her at her Palace, for she was then a Countess."
               "And you speak truly, young man?"
               "Aye, and the Count discovered my visits, and look here, he challenged me, and this is the result," and Charlie rolled up his sleeve and displayed an ugly scar, upon his white arm, "but can all this be of any interest to you."
               "Of great importance," replied the seaman, "because the Count is dead and his wife is living in this city, I believe."
               At this announcement Charlie sprang from his chair and confronted the Captain with his half filled glass.
               "Impossible. Here it New-York. Pray tell me her address."
               "Not now, but at some future time you may see her."
               "I am glad of it. She will then prove my innocence. You have heard how cruelly I have been treated by my family on her account. But pray tell me when did she arrive?"
               "Yesterday," replied the seaman.
               "And you know her address!"
               "Perhaps," replied the captain, "I cannot tell you now. At some future day I may."
               "I trust she is well off. Not in want."
               "As Countess of Marlo, she is provided for. But, pray, another question."
               "Were you ever married?"
               "Do not ask me, the question is like a dagger to my heart."
               "If all proves correct in regard to my unfortunate sister Corrine, as you state, I will use my efforts to mitigate your grief. I designed taking your life."
               "Do you remember the person who caught your horse before the Inn door?"
               "Yes; and believe I recognize your features," replied Charlie.
               "I am the same person. But will you consent to swear on the gospel truth as to the facts you have stated?"
               "Certainly, any man is ready to swear to the truth," replied Charlie, "bring the book, but Corrine can tell you if I have spoken truly."
               "I will wait until I see her and woe be to you if you have stated falsely."
               "Let's make her a call. I should be delighted to pop a cork with the handsome Switzer. Bring the third bottle and I'm off to my friends. Captain, you will find my words true."
               "I trust so," replied he, as the boy popped the third bottle and Charlie drank two glasses of the sparkling contents of the bottle and bade the captain, good night.
               "One more question. You have a little girl under your charge?"
               "Yes, Fanny, my solace and my pet."
               "And you may well say your preserver. You picked her up in the streets?"
               "No, I was driving in the park, she was before the horse, was trodden under foot, and by a miracle escaped injury."
               "And you brought her to your rooms?"
               "Precisely, captain, and will bring her up as my own child."
               "Yet after all she is but a vagrant, somebody's, nobody's child. Does she know her parents."
               "I care not," replied Charlie, "it's God sent her in my way. Her desolate situation claimed my compassion, and she shall have my protection."
               "She's a likely child, and yet unlucky."
               "Unlucky, how Captain."
               "In being the pet of a discarded gentleman."
               "It matters not," replied Charlie, "if poverty be my portion, in the end I have friends who will provide for her."
               "Did you ever meet, young man, a person by the name of Spray."
               "They are my most intimate friends, captain."
               "You once saved them from being turned out of house and bed. Are you not a little too intimate with the daughter, I speak authoritatively, I am related."
               "Sir," replied Charlie, "such remarks applied to me are at variance with our assumed position of mere questions. Good night, I trust we shall meet again."
               "Be assured," replied the captain, "your wish shall be gratified."
               Champagne Charlie sought his room depressed in spirits.
               "Has any one called," he enquired of Mike.
               "By my soul, there's more than a dozen and one."
               "And whose the one?"
               "A quite aged gentleman, carrying a very knotty stick; gray hair, with a very vinegar blaze on his face. But here's his card," and Mike presented the card.
               "James Jocylen."
               "My uncle. Did he leave any word."
               "No. But I offered him a click clock, and he shook his head, and told me to throw them all into the street."
               "Which of course you did."
               "Not I, faith, Mr. Charlie."
               "And why?"
               "Because the matter was, there was not a mother son of them left, not a bottle."
               "Any tickets, Mike."
               "Oh yes, that's the dozen." And Mike produced from the table drawer a roll of bills.
               "Replace them, Mike. The ink will spoil by exposing them to the night air."
               "And Fanny?"
               "She's in bed. She's gone to her room an hour ago. I wanted her to stay at Mrs. Spray's, but it was useless; she would have her own way. By my soul, the little girl loves you. But what about the morrow, Mr. Charlie. No champagne."
               "Then get some."
               "Where, and how?" Mr. Charlie.
               "I don't know, but get it; And now, good night."
               At that moment Mr. Fling entered.
               "No champagne, and get it. Pardon, Charlie, I did hear by accident. I owe you a dozen for the day's work; and will attend to it.
               "But you look very pale. What has happened?"
               "I confess," replied Charlie, "much disturbs me. My uncle has been here."
               "Yes," added Mike, and looking as sour as a crabapple; "and the bills are now almost a hatfull."
               "Silence, Mike; you compel me to speak in a severe tone."
               "And sure," replied Mike, "if the gentleman is your friend, he may be able to fill your purse."
               "Silence, silence, Mike!"
               "Well, it's myself speaking only for myself, and hate to part wid you."
               "The devil; silence! Shall I order you from the room. You presume on the small pittance I owe you for wages."
               "Be jabbers, if you owed me a thousand and one dollars, I'd tell you to pay your debts, for you owe me nothing," and Mike turned away his face and began crying.
               "Mike, pardon me; I'm so vexed to-day. Well, cheer up. Oh, Fling, I had almost forgotten your presence."
               "My brave fellow," replied the Englishman, "I am your friend, as Mike says. You have only to draw on my purse."
               "No, no. Champagne Charlie lives not by the bounty of his friends. He's above 
                     medicancy
                     mendicancy
                   in this. Live for your friends and not off of them."
               "We must now live off our wits, now all the money and champagne is gone."
               "Never fear, Mike; I will call on my uncle to-morrow."
               "Yes, and he's the uncle of every man and woman in distress in this neighborhood."
                "Come," said Fling; "leave all till to-morrow; borrow no trouble."
               "At what hour to-night?" said Mike, as Charlie and Swing departed arm in arm.
               "At one—not later—Mike."
               "And an hour thrown in," added Mike, as he watched the forms of the friends as they descended the broad stairway.
               Shortly after their departure, he turned down the gas, locked the door, and followed after the two revellers. On reaching a large grocery store, he entered, and then calling the proprietor aside, he conversed with him in a low tone:
               "In one week I'll pay you." Here Mike took out his gold watch and passed it into the possession of the grocery merchant.
               "In one week?" asked the grocer.
               "Yes," replied Mike, "perhaps with all honor to yourself, before one week. You can measure the time by the ticking varmint in your hands." And Mike carried a basket of champagne home with him. Who can estimate the devotion of one pure, humble, devoted heart. Mike, Mike, you were injuring your master by your kindness; but you never thought of that. Charlie had stood yours and your mother's friend in adversity, and the watch you pawned to gratify your master's vitiated taste was but a Christmas gift from Charlie.
               When Mike returned he found Fanny sitting in the rocking chair.
               "Get you to bed," said aged Mike.
               "Yes, Fanny will go. But have you seen Mr. Charlie."
               "Yes, he has been here."
               "Did he ask after Fanny?"
               "Yes," replied Mike, "but, my sweet little darling, get you to bed."
               "Good Mike, will he come home to-night?"
               "Yes, at one o'clock. But hurry to bed, my little one."
               "My dear, good Mike, I sometimes wish I had a mother."
               "No doubt of it. Poor little thing," said Mike, placing his hand upon her head, "never fear, Mr. Charlie may one day get married, and then you will have a mother."
               "That's what I fear, good Mike, and then I will have to go and stay with Mother Spray, and will see him only by chance."
               Mike now gazed steadfastly into the child's face and then recoiled upon his feet several paces, while his features assumed an expression of startled surprise.
               "Am I so ugly, good Mike, that you are so frightened."
               "God forbid, no. You are not ugly. But go you to bed, sweet one."
               "Wait," and then she knelt beside the couch and seemed absorbed in silent prayer.
               "Then, I'm ready now, good night," and Mike led her to the door, and after giving her God's blessing, 
                     aud
                     and
                   telling her to be careful about turning off the gas, he began employing his time in overhauling his master's trunk.
               "He may be compelled to quit the city for a few months. I had better get his trunk in order. His teasers will be after him daily and then will come the sheriffs warrant for his arrest. He's better than all his relations. If I had such an old vicious hating father. I never would call him my mother's husband. Devil a bit would he be honored with my presence in the same city with him. If his mother was alive she would not forsake her child." Leaving Mike arranging the clothes for what he considered a necessary flight on the part of Charlie from his creditors, we will now introduce our readers to a personage who has not as yet figured in our pages. All fashionable parlors are furnitured almost alike. Large windows, costly curtains, mahogany tables, chairs, sofas, and brussels carpets, with landscape paintings, in general complete the adornments of reception rooms of the fashionable class of society. The gas was burning brightly, sending a garish luster upon the varnished furniture and the gilded frames of the paintings, when Mr. Jocylen entered his fashionable abode and deposited his body in one of the cushioned chairs beneath the gaslight.
               On the walls in the back parlor were hung the family portraits. One portrait was reversed. The old gentleman sat not long in his chair, for he slowly walked into the parlor where the likenesses were hung, then mounting upon a chair, he reversed one picture and then took it from the wall, placed it upon the table. It was the portrait of a young man scarcely of age. He rung the bell when a servant entered, "Go tell Mr. Hayden, and my nephew Thomas to come to me." Leaving the picture upon the table he folded his arms across his chest and walked the floor with a measured tread until a stately middle-aged gentleman entered, accompanied by a man between twenty-five or thirty years of age, having coarse vulgar features with a lustful pair of lips and a deep set eye of cunning and treacherous glance.
               "You did not see him, Hayden?"
               "No, Mr. Jocylen. He was not at home I saw his old body guard who invited me to libidinate in champagne."
               "See here, Hayden, here is a letter which seems to cast some doubt as to Scamp's having abducted the Swiss girl," and he handed the letter for the perusal of the uncle.
               "Strange," said Mr. Hayden. "I only hope it may prove true."
               "Uncle Jocylen, there is no hope for Charlie, whether guilty of the old crime of abduction or not. Drinking champagne has become a disease with him. His bills are daily multiplying and no doubt would be double had you not taken the precaution to have that notice inserted in the papers, warning no one to trust him on your account."
               "Six years since I discarded him, Thomas Hayden, its a long time to be separated from one's child."
               "But uncle Hayden knows the bad reports of him circulating in very brothel and saloon in the city."
               "Does he keep a mistress?" asked the father.
               "Yes, I believe three," replied Thomas with much earnestness. "He went sailing with three of them on the sound, one fell overboard and he had great difficulty in saving her."
               "Yes," replied his uncle Hayden, "I saw an account of it in the papers. But he nor any other man ever brought three of his mistresses together in one boat. He would be too fearful of a scene and a rupture."
               "He's adopted a young child he picked up in the street, Mr. Fling told me all about the accident and his taking her to his home."
               
               "And old Mike is still with him?" asked Mr. 
                     Jocylin
                     Jocylen
                   in a musing tone of voice.
               "Yes," replied Mr. Hayden, "and appears devoted to Champagne Charlie."
               "I hate that name, it's in everybody's mouth, and when applied to my son it's disgustingly insulting."
               "Not if he has disgraced us all, uncle Jocylen. Besides, he is discarded by all members of the family," said Thomas.
               "By my brothers and his father and nephew, Thomas Hayden, but not by me," replied Mr. Hayden, "I don't see why I should hate him. He is no drunkard, no liar or thief. I don't see why I should hate him. His mother, your most saintly wife, was my best friend in my youth. Then why should I despise and hate, cast off and abuse her child. God forbid such ingratitude. You may have deemed it your duty to check him in his mad career of folly and expenditure, Mr. Jocylen, but for myself, did you but grant me permission, I would aid. I would strive and wean time from his vicious and unmanly 
                     disipation
                     dissipation
                  ."
               "Uncle Hayden, you forget," replied Thomas, "that he is past reformation. Lost to all sense of shame, and it would take all the deposits in our bank to pay his debts."
               "And you say Mike is still with him?" again asked the father.
               "Exactly so," replied Mr. Hayden.
               "This comes from the great love of Mike's family for my wife."
               "But uncle what do you intend doing with the picture, I see you have taken from the wall."
               "Let it be sent to my room and hung beside that of his mother's."
               "And the vacant space, uncle," asked Thomas.
               "Let it be supplied by yours, my nephew, who have ever proved an obedient nephew."
               "Thank, thank you, uncle," replied Thomas, as with an exultant smile he grasped Mr. Jocylen by the hand and kissed it.
               "You don't seem to like it, Hayden," said Mr. Jocylen, "but be assured that my discarding of my son has cost me many bitter tears. Six years have elapsed since that event and he never yet has pleaded for my forgiveness."
               "He probably deemed it useless from the severe letter you wrote him and your public denunciation of him through the newspaper."
               "And well he might fear for my not forgiving him. Never mention the subject of forgiveness to me again, Mr. Hayden. Did he not defy me when I opposed his marriage with Ellenor Hardwick?"
               "It was not to be wondered at, Mr. Jocylen," replied Mr. Hayden, "you encouraged his suit, nay, urged him on."
               "I did, but was not aware of his kidnapping the village maid of the inn. When I discovered his villainy I deemed it my duty to warn her of his crime, she was, and perhaps is, too good a girl to be cast away upon such a scapegrace, but let the matter rest, I bear him neither a father's love nor respect."
               At one o'clock Charlie returned and sought his bed, but was not to sleep for several hours. The incidents of the day were of a sufficiently exciting nature to keep his mind busy with conjectures. The attempted self-destruction of Laura Spray, his interview with the captain, and the arrival of the countess of Marlo, rendered it impossible for him to close his eyes in any state of refreshing slumber. But, aside from this, there were other events transpiring which were food for intense thought. His uncle's visit, leaving his father's card, the low state of finances, and the pressing growls of his creditors, and when, added to this, the hidden care of a smarting secret which was constantly preying upon the vitals of his spirit; he had cause to worry. As day became visible in its first pale glare through the window curtains, he turned his feverish head upon his pillow, exclaiming: "If I only had but one bottle of the celestial reviver," and then he gave vent to a 
                     dispairing
                     despairing
                   groan, when Mike appeared with a bottle of Champagne and a tumbler of ice.
               "You were sent by the gods, Mike. Ireland be praised for the likes of you, and France for the vintage."
               "Rickerty, rackerty," said Mike, "this is not click clocks, but grew in America in some grocer's cellar. It's only a deference in the names, I'll wager you a crown against a shilling it's as full of rancid gas, as any confined politician," and then Mike popped the cork and the liquid, so far as the hissing and foaming was concerned, equaled the Heidsick brand.
               "I feel better," said Charlie, after he had dispatched two glasses, and then threw himself back upon the pillow.
               "I think it 'visable to change your boardin' house, for be jabers, somebody must be 
                     setin
                     settin'
                   your creditors on to ye, they came as thick as bees yesterday and to-day, they'll be swarmin round the door. All saloon keepers' tenders."
               "We must never fly in the face of an enemy, Mike. A bold front and resolute heart, will do much to scare off the evils of life."
               "Yes," replied Mike, "if you have anything to stand on. A firm foothold and no boggy ground, and there's the little one too."
               "Well, my creditors cannot eat me, Mike."
               "No, but they can imprison you, put you behind the bars, and the donkies can go and grin through the grate at Champagne Charlie. The very thought of it mortifies my soul and deadens my taste for food."
               "Never mind, I want sleep, Mike, fight then off for a day or so, until I can make elbow room."
               And then Charlie with a drowsy yawn turned his face towards the wall and was soon oblivious to all gathering cares. And then Mike carefully closed the door and took his station on the pavement awaiting the arrival of the suspicious and hungry creditors, nor had he long to wait, before eight o'clock brought a numberless train of duns.
               "Is Charlie in?" said a burly close-set Irishman.
               "It's the same question I intended to ask your pretty self, my darlin'," replied Mike. "By this time, do you see, he's turned into a fountain of champagne and flowed away."
               "Where has he gone?"
               "It's more than the likes of me can tell your honor. After pawning my watch to pay my board bill, he's left, with many enquiries after his purse and person."
               "When does he intend to return."
               "Och, sure he can't stay long away, for his rich father intends examining into his affairs, and it's more than likely he'll pull him through the wall in the hole. And do you see, he's been here," and Mike produced Jocylen's card, which the uncle had left on the previous day.
               "You don't say that's Charlie Champagne's father," replied the creditor with a wild stare of surprise.
               "I do, faith, sir, and more. It's my solemn opinion that those who worry least will be first remembered. It's better not to lose patience and money too."
               "I must pay you for such apt advice. Come with me, Mr. Mike;" and the two adjourned to a neighboring grocery and imbibed of the best.
               Thus was it Mike rendered his master's creditors docile, and turned their anger into a hopeful caution. The card proved of most excellent service in staving off the howling pack of money-seekers.
               It was about the hour of noon when Fiddler Dick made his appearance at Charlie's door.
               "He's just dressing," said Mike. "By my soul, sir, but my master has been enquiring for you. Late hours are beginning to tell on you."
               "I'm not well, Mike; something wrong to-day. Griping in the stomach."
               "He'll cure you. He'll doctor you with a spoonful of peppermint and a bottle of his nectar, as he calls it."
               And then Mike admitted Dick to the half-dressed presence of the champagne swell.
               "Under the weather-gage, Dick?" said Charlie, as he glanced at the troubled face of his friend. "Come, man, sit down," said he offering a chair. "Mike, shoulder arms, take aim and fire with all expedition."
               And Mike entered with glasses and ice.
               "Now, then, Dick, what ails you?"
               "That's the worst," replied Dick. "My wife returned from the country yesterday, and I've been a kind of recluse since then; but after tea last evening I was, seized with gripings in my bowels and a species of vertigo in my head."
               "I'll kill all pain of that character."
               And precisely as Mike had foretold, the peppermint and champagne were administered.
               At this moment, while the sentinel Mike was off his post, Mr. Frontz, his largest creditor, entered. He had given no warning or summons, and had rudely thrust himself upon their company, and most unexpected and unwelcome was his presence.
               "I'm glad to find you," said Mr. Frontz. "I've been seeking the town over for you for the last three days."
               "Sorry, very sorry," replied Charlie, while a handsome smile played round the corners of his mouth. "Allow me to present you to my father's clerk, Mr. Clearson, one of my warmest and most indulgent friends. Mr. Clearson, please, if terms of settlement can be arranged with my parent, distinctly remember my friend Frontz."
               "By all means, Mr. Frontz," said Dick, warmly pressing the creditor by the hand.
               "He speaks the truth," said Mr. Frontz. "He's nearly emptied my cellar, and will drink nothing but that costly wine, Heidsick."
               "It's owing to the state of my nervous system, Mr. Frontz, corrupted in my youth at my father's extravagant table."
               "Bad, very bad, to have so corrupted a taste. Now, if you would confine your palate to lager beer, you'd save expenses and live until you never want to die."
               "By my faith," said Mike, "he's lived up to that point now."
               "In future all I buy of you will be for cash Mr. Frontz. Be assured I shall always give you the preference when reconciled to my aged parent."
               "I trust so. I deserve it, Mr. Charlie."
               "Indeed, you do," replied the host, "But try a bottle with us, I can assure you this was an unexpected gift, as gratefully received as it is delicious in flavor."
               "By my soul," said Mike, "and he speaks the truth. It all comes from hearing of his father's calling during his being away, and look here, Mr. Clearson, say to his honored father, I delivered the card to Mr. Charlie," and he handed the card to Mr. Frontz, for inspection.
               "This is as it should be. Father and son should never be separated. Life's short, quarrels useless," said Mr. Frontz, pleasingly wise, nor was it long before Mr. Frontz had engaged for his share of Mike's present, full a bottle of the enlivening fluid. The fact is I should not been so pressing, Mr. Charlie," said Mr. Frontz whose tongue was growing momentarily looser. "The truth is, I should not have been so quick on the trigger. Had I not been called on yesterday by a gentleman of some thirty years of age, and advised to prosecute you if I wished to get my money."
               "What kind of a looking man was he asked Dick?"
               "Short and stout, coarse, sir, very coarse in his features, well dressed, but still looked the rough."
               "Who can it be," said Charlie. "What can be the meaning of it? I think I know Mr. Frontz."
               "Bad luck to him anyhow," said Mike, "may the devil fly away with his soul before its left his dirty carcass."
               "A glass of ice water, Mr. Mike, if you please," said Mr. Frontz.
               "Och, sure," replied Mike "and would you be after spilin' the feast, never yet has water been drunk in these rooms."
               "Double ice the glasses," said Charlie. "It's a foolish rule of mine, Mr. Frontz, that water is excluded here as a beverage."
               "I see," said Mr. Frontz, while his eyes sparkled with glowing beams of surprise. "That's the way the money goes."
               Mike now produced the double iced glasses, and Mr. Frontz was once more a partaker of the glistening drink.
               Not being accustomed to the subtle power of Champagne Mr. Frontz was speedily overcome by its pleasant influence, and seated as he was in Charlie's favorite lounge chair, he was rapidly subsiding into a somnolescent state when Mike proposed a song.
               "A song by all means, let's have a song and roasterer too," muttered Mr. Frontz, but he was too far gone to give heed to Mike's music and then he was left in charge of the pleased Irishman, while Charlie and his friend left the room and soon found themselves arm in arm perambulating Broadway to their favorite restaurant.
               "Be jabers," said Mike, "if it had only been the pure emotion itself, the genuine click clock, he would'nt have been himself until he was asleep in a dream at home with his wife."
               Great was Mr. Frontz's surprise and trepidation when he was awoke from his drunk. The sun was casting his last fading beams against the uppermost windows of the adjoining five story building, and already the quiet hour of evening was softened by the faint haze of coming twilight.
               "Bless my soul!" he exclaimed as he started to his feet, rubbing the champagne glass from his sight, whose lids opened with just sufficient force as to permit him to determine the hour of the day. But once on his pins he was quickly off again, for his rascally supports refused all aid to his body, and he fell again into the luxurious embrace of the soft cushioned chair.
               "It's yourself that's moving so early after morning," said Mike, as he entered with a glass of iced champagne.
               "Take it away," said Mr. Frontz, "I can't bear the sight of its bubbles. It's a vile deceiving curse, the man that made it should be drowned in the vat."
               "It's a doin of you good, it is that I'm offerin of it to you. It will start all your senses and set the clock of your memory in running order. It will wind you up, give you the nicest time of day, and you can hear it strike in your stomach, and see the hands keeping time on your nose."
               "Bring me a carriage, Mr. Mike, and I'll pay handsomely."
               "And it's not the like of me to let so good and fresh an article spile on my hands just save the critter and then I'll do your bidding."
               Mr. Frontz was dry, dry as a crisp loaf, and thus he was persuaded against his better judgment to once more imbibe of the generous wine. Feeling refreshed, 
                     exhilerated
                     exhilarated
                  , 
                     rejuvinated
                     rejuvenated
                  , he again and again, suffered himself to be convinced of the luxury of champagne draughts, until, indeed, he was really drunk, and Mike not the less so, only he was more steady, being master of his legs.
               "Write me an order for some more of the pleasant critter, Mr. Frontz."
               And Mr. Frontz did write him a 
                     bunggling
                     bungling
                   order for a basket of champagne and Mike was not long in hastening to the grocer's store, and then as speedily had it stowed away in the pantry. That sight near the tenth hour, Mr. Frontz was carried home in a carriage and confined to his room all next day by a severe headache, and when an organ-grinder next day began playing the tune of Champagne Charlie under his window, he cast open the blinds, and began swearing at him like a trooper.
               Through Mike's sagacious manœuvring he had silenced the rush and fire of nearly all the impatient creditors of our extravagant young friend. Fanny had gone to school that day and was hurriedly wending her way home in the happy thought of soon meeting him before he went abroad for the night. As she tripped lightly along with a countenance burnished with the ruddy glow of buoyant youth, a most superbly dressed lady issued from one of the most extensive drygoods stores in Broadway. As she stepped towards her carriage the lady dropped a bracelet, and not perceiving the loss, was entering her carriage when Fanny picked up the sparkling treasure, calling:
               "My great, pretty lady, here's your golden wrist-clasp."
               The lady turned and confronted her as the coachman; held open the carriage door.
               "Thank you, my dear little girl, you have restored to me a treasure beyond price. Pray let me reward you," and the lady opened her portmonnie and offered Fanny a bank note.
               "Mr. Charlie would not like me to take money, please ma'm, give it to some of the little beggar girls," said Fanny, as she gazed up at the lady with her expressive eyes of blazing luster.
               "But you have rendered me great service, my handsome child," said the lady, with a more fixed look of scrutiny.
               "It may be, Miss, but Mr. Charlie told me never to accept money from any stranger."
               "And who pray is Mr. Charlie, who is so particular about you taking money after which the whole world is struggling so."
               "Oh, Miss, you can see his name in these school books, he gave them to me, and Mr. Mike, his servant, says he pays for my schooling."
               The lady opened and read on the back page, "Champagne Charlie to his little pet Fanny, may she prove a good girl."
               "Are you his real daughter," asked the lady as the color came and went to her cheeks while she spoke.
               "Oh, no, I have been looking for my mother in every fine lady I met, but have not found her since I strayed from her at the park."
               "How old are you?" enquired the lady, still keeping her eyes fixed on the earnest gaze of Fanny.
               "Somewhere's between seven and eight, Miss."
               "And you are sure this Mr. Charlie is not your father?"
               "How could he be, Miss, since I came with my mother from Italy way over the water."
               "How long ago was it? But get you into the carriage, little one, I'll give you a drive for your innocent goodness."
               And Fanny got into the carriage and they were driven out to the park, and Fanny was treated to cakes and ice cream by the grand and beautiful lady.
               "Do try and remember, if you have ever seen me before," asked the lady in a musing tone of voice.
               "It seems so, but I don't know. But I'll think about it and tell you the next time we meet, good lady."
               "As for your friend. 
                     M 
                     Mr.
                   Charlie. Is he kind to you?"
               "Oh, yes, but I don't think he's got much money, for Mike says they'll have to bundle and go some of these fine mornings, as men come after him all the time with bills. Both Mr. Mike and he have spent all their money in Champagne."
               "Is his watch gone yet?"
               "Oh yes, and Mike's too. But I ought not to tell you, only you seem a friend to ask so many questions about him."
               "Did you ever see him with a locket ring, child?"
               "It's got a lady's face in it. But he never let's me look at it, and I've seen him take it out at nights and walk the floor, talking to himself. It's got black round the edges. Miss lady, you seem sick, you turn so pale," said Fanny.
               "Oh, no."
               At this moment Mr. Jocylen entered.
               "Ah," said he, "I have found by chance what my most 
                     dilligent
                     diligent
                   searchings failed to reveal. Miss Hardwick I believe?"
               "The fact yes, Mr. Jocylen," said the lady blushing. "I trust I find you in the enjoyment of as good health, as when we parted a year ago in Venice."
               "That was a beautiful day," said the aged gentleman as he took his seat beside Miss Hardwick.
               "It was a day long to be remembered Mr. Jocylen, being the day of my parting with so true and tried a friend as yourself."
               "I trust I shall ever prove so, my fair lady. Do you intend returning to Europe."
               "Not at present, Mr. Jocylen."
               "By the way, before I forget it, Thomas my nephew—you remember young Hayden—is most anxious to claim permission to renew his visits."
               "Under what pretence, or import, Mr. Jocylen."
               "I don't know," said Charlie's father with a leering smile. "That you need find out."
               "Any member of Mr. Jocylen's family is welcome as a guest at my father's house."
               "How fares your father, Miss Hardwick."
               "But poorly, sir, I fear he will not last through the coming winter."
               "But what little girl have you here, in this plain school-girl's attire? And why do look at me so intently?"
               "Because you look at me, good sir!"
               "And is that the reason, my dear, I seem to know your face."
               "And I know you too," said Fanny holding down her head, as though ashamed to speak.
               "Know me," said the old gentleman, smiling. "How do you know me?"
               "Do not be afraid to speak my little one. Tell the gentleman," encouragingly spoke Miss Hardwick.
               "Because you look so much like Mr. Charlie."
               A frown passed over Mr. Jocylen's brow, while Miss Hardwick turned aside her face, and said:
               "What a tell tale is nature, a most perfect artist, Mr. Jocylen."
               "In God's name Miss Hardwick she is a perfect image of the man. But, my fair young lady, you are ill, the cream does not agree with you."
               "If it pleases you," said the host of the house, "you will find it more secluded and more agreeable if you will retreat to this small ante-room, as there are two carriage loads of Gents and Misses just arrived!"
               And Mr. Jocylen, and Miss Hardwick retired as requested, but though the curtains tains were let down, they could see and hear all that was passing in the reception room, for general company.
               Nor had they long to wait; for with much boisterous mirth the company entered, headed by Mr. Fling, Charlie and Beau Wickman, and followed by Miss Laura Spray, Mattie Wiggins and Clara Flair, and two other girls scarcely in their teens.
               "If only Dick was here," said Miss Flair, "what sport we should have with songs."
               "Charlie can excel him any day," said Miss Mattie, "only he does not sing so many rude songs."
               "Yes, and he's a better swimmer, too."
               "I grant it, too; I'll vouch for it," said Miss Spray.
               "And well you may say so," replied Wickman, "for he can drink champagne like a fish. Therefore he's a regular whale."
               "And caught by a cork bob," rejoined Mr. Fling, "ringed and wired."
               "I accept the amendment, Mr. Fling," rejoined Wickman. "If all the champagne he's wasted upon that supple body of his were annually saved, he could take a dozen baths a year in the vivacious liquid."
               "It strikes me," rejoined Miss Wiggins, with a little tartness, "others could nearly equal him in the performance of such a vinous performance, only there would be a slight difference in quality of the baths, and in footing the bills."
               "Miss Mattie has at last achieved a conquest over silence, being the second word she has spoken to-day," replied the Beau.
               "It's not the fattest goose that makes the loudest noise," said Mr. Fling.
               "Nor the bird with the gayest feathers that sings the sweetest songs," said Miss Laura.
               "Nor does all wit bloom in the bubbles of champagne, Mr. Fling. There are silver and golden cordials that inspire the poet and musician, the joker and the statesman," said Miss Clara.
               "Come, let's go lecturing in the West, it's the easiest way to make money," quietly observed Wickman. "Your first subject shall be a cordial welcome to the 'Free Mentals.'"
               "All set," said Charlie, in his own peculiar and musical voice. "Order of the day, champagne all round, ices and sherberts after the cake."
               And the belles and beaux seated themselves at the various tables, and were in the act of drinking a health to the merry god Bacchus, and Charlie, with glass in hand, filled to the brim with the foaming nectar, when lo, the curtains of the small room were drawn aside, and there the aged form of the father stood with a frowning look, and pointed at his son with both arms outstretched and his eyes raised to Heaven, as though deprecating the sending down of a curse.
            
            
               CHAPTER 
                     VI.
                     IV.
                  
               
               ALL arose to their feet at the unexpected appearance of this menacing man with the terrible frown darkening his brow. But he suddenly turned his back upon the gay revellers, and once more the flaps of the curtain became closed in their folds.
               "Your father," observed Wickman, "and with company."
               "My father once, but not now. I am a discarded son. But drink, eat and enjoy. I will retire through respect to the memory of my mother. He was once her husband, and I will not insult her memory."
               "Don't you wish him dead, the old, the frowning tyrant," said Wickman.
               "Hist, man," replied Charlie. "Honor thy father and thy mother; so my sainted mother taught me. I am not ashamed of him; he is disgraced by me. I wish evil to no one. From him I expect nothing. By him I cannot be wronged. Nature will one day plead for me. But enjoy yourselves, and we will then adjourn to the fountains."
               He then quickly left the party, who speedily dispatched the luxuries Mrs. Generdretz had provided, and then sought their carriages to assemble at the fountains.
               When silence once more reigned in the reception-room, Mr. Jocylen and Miss Hardwick made their appearance, leading Fanny by the hand.
               "I thought I heard Mr. Charlie's voice, good sir," said Fanny.
               "He always loved his mother," said Mr. 
                     Jocylin
                     Jocylen
                  , heeding not the child's remark.
               
               "But he is an exact resemblance of yourself."
               "That's the worst of it he carries my image into every cellar and saloon in the city. Not a girl of any note for good or evil in this great city that does not know Champagne Charlie, and people trust him because of the resemblance, believing one day I will relent, but as I cannot deny his identity, so will I not relent, and already have I named my heir in my will, and it may be as well to state, Miss Hardwick, that my nephew, Mr. Thomas Hayden, is my adopted son and heir, he has none of the vices of this wild scapegrace. I will not leave him a shilling."
               "Poor good Mr. Charlie," said Fanny looking up with her large pleading eyes full into the old gentleman's face and kissing the hand that held her own. "Poor good Mr. Charlie, can then not give Fanny any more bread and cakes, and when Mr. Mike was talking the other day, he told him 'to hush up, that his mother loved you once.'"
               "Darling, angel," said Miss Hardwick, stooping and kissing the child several times in succession, and then she said, while a tear fell on the child's face: "Never fear, if it comes to the worst you will find a home with me."
               "It's not for me I want him to have money, but that when he might get sick he could buy soup and medicine."
               "Miss Hardwick look to the little child if you please," said the old gentleman, "believe me it is not for my son, you behold these tears in my dim failing eyes, but the child has awakened feelings and excited emotions within me, long dormant, they are tears in memory of my wife's love for me."
               They parted company, Mr. Jocylen to pursue his walk while Fanny was driven with her kind friend to that lady's house and then sent home with a servant, where she found Mike in the greatest state of trouble and vexation of spirit.
               "Where have you been now," said Mike, "come here and be scolded."
               "Oh, I was taken in a fine carriage to the large park, and had so fine a lady to wait on me and serve me with so many nice things, whew, my, warn't they nice."
               "And you didn't think of me," said Mike, looking very sad.
               "Didn't I, though, see here's two cakes and candy," and she took a parcel wrapped in her tiny handkerchief and handed it to Mike, "I'd brought you more only I was 'shamed they'd think me gluttonous."
               "Not that," said Mike, "say greedy."
               "Oh, yes, that's the word, Mr. Mike, but I couldn't think of it. Aint they nice, though," she said, as he unwrapped the parcel.
               "They are indeed," said Mike, "and I thank you for them, the best of them is in your not forgetting me, you're Mr. Charlie all over, dear," and he caught her in his aged arms, and kissed the child several times on her cheek.
               "How Mr. Charlie all over, Mr. Mike."
               "Oh, as for that," said Mike, "I only meant he was liberal of heart, and did not forget his friends."
               "Ain't they nice, though," she exclaimed, as she saw Mike take the first bite.
               "Indeed, they are, Fanny."
               "I saw Mr. Charlie's father, too, and he's going to be a beggar, not to be left a shilling."
               "Eh," said Mike, brightening up his features, "Tell me all, child."
               And Fanny told him all she had heard, and he questioned her for over two hours until in fact it was time for Fanny to go bed.
               "Indeed I wont, I don't want to see him look sad," she replied, and then left him for her pleasant little room.
               As the waves of the ocean beat the shores of rocks or sand in successive throbs of motion, so do the waves of events in humanity beat upon the shore of time, some men seem to live exclusively for themselves, but most of mortals use their limbs and waste their strength for the benefit of others. The professionally wise, are never wise, if they so deem themselves. Wise fathers seldom possess sedate and dutiful sons. Charlie held within himself elements of goodness for he was naturally kind and familiar in his disposition, but the quality of his spirit was sociability. Events were constantly crowding upon his existence, and as certain of the beams of the morning sun illumed the tops of the highest mountains, these events were as ceaseless in their action as the flow of the waves of time. He neither professed nor had he the inclination, to live for himself, the constituents of his being were not so constituted, either in body or soul. He made no pretensions to excellence, he was content to glide along through life as cheerfully as possible, leaving to the less fortunate the task, or the pleasure, of fighting and forcing rough passage to the grave. But Charlie was not much given to sermonising, nor shall we set adverse example. His father hated him with a bitter, unrelenting hatred, and why? because Charlie, had insulted his pride and wounded that exalted state of authority, which Mr. Jocylen, in his high conceit of his position and superior excellences, had assumed over all surrounding mortals.
               At times the spirit of his departed wife seemed to plead for her son, but it was only momentarily, he entertained the feelings of forgiveness, for his pride soon rallied to his rescue, and he was again himself, cold unrelenting, unforgiving. As for Charlie, he considered any concessions on his part as futile and negatory, for his parent had warned him, time and again, that all attempts at 
                     reconcilation
                     reconciliation
                   would be but adding contempt to the dislike, he sustained for the young man's person and character. Thus he had passed, some six years, since his return from Europe, in the vilest dissipation, living a frequenter of the lowest haunts of vice, and scattering the seeds of his folly before the public gaze, and receiving in return, the public censure. He was neither a gambler, rake, nor drunkard, yet his social inclinations were of so enlarged a character, and so pressing in their action as to force him, into all grades of society, without due consideration for his character, as a gentleman, and his standing as a citizen. Yet his friends were loyal, though they often preyed on his bounty, nothing disgusted him more in a man, than low tastes and vulgar habits. On woman, he looked with pity, and many were the times, he had cramped his own wants to relieve their distress, such was he, a man of taste in desires, and dress, but a man without reflection, as to the indulgence of those tastes, and a man without discrimination, in regard to the persons or locations of his revels.
               "Wickman," said he as they sat smoking in the bar-room, of the St. Nicholas hotel, "there's something wrong in the top story of Laura Spray, twice she sent for me, and both times when I called, she looked confused, and then bade me go, and call again, and now she has sent again."
               "Do you know, I thought, she intended suicide, the night she fell, or cast herself from the boat," replied Wickman.
               "I'm not the man to impute bad notions, to any one, much less to a lady," replied Charlie, "but certain it was, she made no effort to save herself. She was a hard body, to keep afloat."
               "But we'll know soon," replied the Beau; "she will out with it to you probably, this time, she's got a secret, and can't keep it; when we meet to-night you can inform me."
               "Not I indeed, old boy," replied Charlie, "my life on it I never betrayed a woman yet, never expect to, and trust I may never possess the vanity of weakness to deceive any woman, or violate the confidence reposed in me by a lady, so you will never know, through me."
               "Fine, d——e, fine calico talk," said Wickman, "should be scrawled on paper with a bodkin, stuck up with a hair-pin, for the inspection of new fledged lovers."
               "Ah, Wick," rejoined Charlie, "You have been spoiled, by the ladies; your beauty has won admiration, without respect, for believe me, woman respects not a man, unless he can keep a secret."
               "The best plan to merit their good will, is to pretend not to notice their foibles, and never speak in praise of any other woman in their presence. They are all a kind of exclusives, treat 'em all as number one, and you are all right Charlie."
               "Laura, open the door and let Mr. Charlie in. I know his rap," said Mrs. Spray to her daughter while they sat sewing. "I'm glad he's called; he will prove company for you to-night while I pay neighbor Holden a visit." It was always a pleasure to meet Charlie; he always wore upon his countenance so pleasant a smile.
               When the door was opened, with all the agility of active youth, he bounded into the room, saluted Laura with a hug and the mother with an affectionate kiss upon her cheek.
               "I'm glad you have called, Charlie," said the mother. "Laura has been depressed pressed with the blues all day. In fact, she appears deranged ever since her dip into the waters of the sound."
               Laura smiled a sickly smile, but made no reply.
               "I tell you," said Charlie, as he placed his white hat and monkey-headed cane upon the table, so familiar to every fashionable and unfashionable bar-tender in the city. "I tell you what, Laura, you are going to be sick, for you are looking pale and thin, and if your mother was not going out, I would take you to Delmonico's and give you a supper worthy of Venus and Apollo."
               "You spoil all the girls you get acquainted with, and their name is Legion, Charlie," said the mother. "She once could occasionally indulge, with great relish, in a glass of lager beer and a slice of sausage, but now she is always hankering after champagne and wild fowl, crabs and broiled spring chicken. It's a wonder how your purse can stand it."
               "It's not my purse that stands it. It's the credit of having one," replied Charlie. "They would long ago had me in the Tombs or Ludlow jail if only they knew my old father was incorrigible; and they trust that on his dying bed he will relent."
               "I understand," said the mother, "that he has already provided himself with an heir—his nephew."
               "Which one?" said Charlie, "for he has several, I believe, in Europe."
               "Thomas Hayden," observed the mother.
               "I saw him once in Europe; spent the evening with him; can't say I admire him altogether; rough and vulgar. However, we might have improved in the opinion of each other had we been oftener brought into contact. I would not know him now. But as my father has determined on disinheriting me, he might just as well have the pleasure of spending it as any one else; for as large as his estate is represented to be, "pop goes the weasel;" and thus singing, Charlie grasped Laura in his arms, and in spite of her solemncolly cast of face and rigid fixture of limbs, he waltzed her round the tidy tea-table.
               "Go bring in the rolls and tea, Laura," said the mother. "I know Charlie will sup with us. Now stop your nonsense, Champagne."
               "I will sup with you, live with you, dance with you, and, hang me, go to glory with you if it will add to your pleasure, ladies."
               And then he stole a lump of sugar from the bowl.
               "At your old tricks again, Charlie," said Mrs. Spray, who had been watching for this act of transgression upon his part. "Always the boy."
               "I like to do it," said Charlie, "it reminds me of days gone by, boyish days when nurse used to slap my little fingers, and call me bad."
               "Charlie," said Mrs. Spray. "I wonder how your father can cast you off. It seems I'm always more light-hearted when you pay us a visit."
               But Laura now entered with the tea-pot and hot rolls, and the three sat down to the neat little square table, through the clear polished glass shade, the coal oil flame sending a brilliant glare upon the white table cloth, "Home, home, sweet home," he hummed until reminded of singing at the table by Mrs. Spray; he enjoyed a pleasant little supper and after madam had taken her departure and Laura washed up the tea things, Charlie demanded of Laura the reason for sending for him.
               "Wait and see, Charlie," and she then began crying and cast a letter upon the table and left the room. He broke open the envelope, which was without any address and drew the lamp near the blotted pages. From the moment he cast his eyes upon the opened letter he appeared duly absorbed in its contents. Frown succeeded frown upon his brow, flush succeeded flush upon his cheeks, and then when he read the last line, he clapped his open hand upon his breast, exclaiming: "Damnation to all such villany," and then he began reperusing portions of the letter aloud, as he walked the floor, and really one, could they have seen him as Laura Spray did, through a window from the yard, they would have thought he was an actor rehearsing his part for the stage.
               "Swore devotion to me on the bible, denied loving any other, said 'twas necessary to keep his courtship private until his uncle's death, and then by his wiley arts, cunning tricks, and drowned liquor, (and had you not taught me, to relish wine, I never would have fallen from the light of duty, honor and respectability), and thus by yielding to his base importunities and mean advantages, be compelled to 
                     solicite
                     solicit
                   advice and protection, from one who, by his too great fondness for wine taught me often to lose my senses while under its influence.
               "And both the seducer and seduced are known to me, the baser mortal, said to be a relative, and but in my company as I remember, the other day, great God, the weaker vessel, my friend's daughter and constant companion, and I, Leonard Jocylen, a man of age, arrived at the full developement of bone, muscle, sinews, nerves and brain, to be guilty of teaching this young confiding girl, Laura Spray, to drink and become maddened from the effects of the sparkling flowing bowl. Hence comes her shame, seduction, ruin, and hell, part portion of her existence. A grave charge, Mr. Charlie Champagne, but how am I immediately to blame, I neither introduced the villain, nor endorsed his character, I vouched for nothing in his state or conviction. Pooh, it's useless to entertain these self-upbraidings, there never yet was a folly or a crime perpetrated by a woman but that some one was accused as the instigator or cause of the act, and the world with gaping jaws and extended listening head, believes their story, and strange, while it admits the excuse does not pardon the crime, for a guilty man or woman ceases to be a person like other people; they are a criminal embodiment; they become a living crime. Charlie, my boy, cheer up," he said as he strode the floor with a firmer step, and slapped his hip with a palm of his small white hand until the blood tinted the ends of his fingers, and his chest gave forth a hollow sound; "cheer up, my lad, and only thank your stars that you are free of the dastardly crime. She will see me no more to-night, she says in her letter. Guilt likes darkness; it shuns the light; inward dread of the world's scorn. Wishes me to write and advise. No wonder, poor girl, she was a load to lift, from the salt water of the sound. This accounts for the accident."
               "Good night, Laura, good night," he called, as he took his hat and cane. "Keep quiet until you receive a letter from friend Charlie. We are all mortal and weak. All gliding shadows adown the rugged hill of time. Good night."
               He left the house with different feelings than when he entered, but in closing the door after his handsomely formed limbs, he was none the less ardent, and sincere in a willingness to serve his friends. He thought not of the sin or her crime; he only knew that Laura was in trouble; he only thought upon the best and surest way to relieve her. "No more reflection to-night; to-morrow in bed I will give her case the benefit of solitary inquiry."
               The clock told the hour of ten as he passed the Southern Hotel.
               "I must see her to-night; she will be waiting for me."
               He was thinking of Fanny while speaking to himself as he walked along.
               When he arrived at her rooms, he found Mike endeavoring to explain to the child her lesson in geography.
               "That's right Fanny; study hard. While you have an opportunity improve your time. To-morrow, my little one, I will take you with me to the theatre."
               "Theatre, Mr Charlie? Will it cost money to go there?"
               "And why, Fanny?"
               "Only this: as you may be a beggar soon, better keep the money to buy cakes and pies." And Charlie laughed.
               "Mike, pigeons have ears, though squabs and feathers. Well, Fanny, the tickets to go there will be given to me."
               Charlie had given Mike the sign, and shortly thereafter was heard the pop of the cork, and then the goblet was filled and speedily emptied with a gusto by Charlie.
               At this moment Dick Fiddler entered.
               "Hallo, Dick, just in time. Another glass of my mint remedy. But you are looking very pale, that long face of yours. Mike, see to the mixture."
               "And well I may look pale. Constant pain of the bowels, throbbing of temples, burning thirst; nothing can satiate its fire."
               "Internal fever," observed Charlie. "Left off champagne since wife's return."
               "Yes," replied Dick; "under doctor's treatment. Wife and cousin very much disturbed at my illness. Will have to give up business."
               Here Mike produced the foaming remedy edy, which the invalid quickly dispatched to his inner form.
               At this moment there came a very modest knock at the door.
               "Come in," shouted Charlie.
               The door opened, when in came a man with a very slight limp in his gait.
               "Beg your pardon, sir. Would not have called in passing had I known you were here."
               "And who is this?" enquired Charlie.
               "A friend of ours," replied Mike. "He is constantly bringing Fanny cakes, and imagines she is related to him. No harm in him; company for both of us during your absence."
               "Welcome, sir. Pray be seated. Mike, fill a glass for all round. A friend of yours and Fanny's must needs be a friend of mine," said Charlie.
               The individual who had called to pay his respects to Mike and Fanny bowed himself into a chair. His hair, which was slightly threaded with gray, was straight and sparsely scattered over a very long and high skull, which carried in its front a Roman nose, small gray eyes, puckered lips, high cheek bones, adorned with little tufts of curly whiskers.
               "What name, sir? your health. Drink to reason, reflection; a good toast at all times for young and old."
               "They call me Jasper," replied he with the limp in his left leg. "Then here's your health; and may the good God keep you stirring about, moving round, for many a day to come."
               "Thank you," replied the stranger, "and may the cork of your existence ever float in a sea of champagne, never meeting with an adverse current."
               "Bravo!" cried Charlie. "Mike, another bottle."
               "That's right," added Jasper, as Mike called him. "Keep the cork floating, bobbing round, never meeting a dead eddy nor the shore. Now," said the new comer, "I warn you not to go to the Roost Saloon to-night."
               "And why?"
               "Because," he replied, "there will be a quarrel there. You will be insulted, if not injured. I speak of a verity, with a rarity. The meanest songster of the grove often warns the hunter of the presence of the snake."
               "Dick," continued Charlie, "here's sport of a truth. I had no idea of visiting the place; but if there is danger intended me, I will meet it like a man; if not so, we may always stand in dread of it. On our way we'll call on Stiff and Long to accompany us. At two," said Charlie. "Take her, Mike. Now, Dick, let us be off." And then, after kissing Fanny, who followed them to the foot of the stairs, they entered a passing car on their way to the Roost Saloon.
               "You see," said Jasper, "what good intentions often produce. I wished him to avoid danger, and I am the innocent cause of his flinging himself and friend headlong into it. But I must go now, my little cousin," and he emptied his pockets of cakes and kisses.
               "Better keep a lookout to-night, Mr. Mike. I will return, sooner or later, and report progress."
               "He wears a charmed life," replied Mike. "He's something of a boxer, but better as a swordsman. He's always practicing with the sword; a good fencer, by my soul. He made me strike at him fifty times and more with his cane, and I never could touch a bone of his body."
               "But it won't serve him against accidents. Don't sleep until you see me." And then he hastened from the room, promising to return before long.
               When walking on the pave, his lameness appeared but slight, and seemed to be confined to his foot. His must have been a very powerful frame in his youth, though the muscles were somewhat shrunken by age, and the deep crow-feet lines around the eyes indicated an advanced state of existence. Leaving him following upon the supposed track of Charlie and his friends, we propose to relate what occurred to these gentlemen after leaving Mike and Fanny. After alighting from the car on Centre street, near Grand, they walked arm and arm until they came to where a red globe hung from a cellar entrance. "Oysters in every style" was painted upon the illuminated glass globe. Down into this cellar-saloon the two betook themselves. The music had ceased as they made their appearance, but their presence was greeted with a shout of some half dozen rosy-cheeked girls, by the musicians, and quite a number of rollicking night prowlers.
               "All hail!" shouted Charlie, who appeared peared to be in his element of joviality. "Mike, my darling heart;" and then he shook hands all round. "To arms," he continued. "Get ready four bottles, Mike," he continued. "Where's Stiff and Long?"
               "Gone for a pack of cards; will be here soon. How many bottles, sir?"
               "Nothing less than a hamper. No, six, as I have other business. But make haste."
               While yet speaking, Long and Stiff returned, and seemed greatly delighted to meet with Charlie. They could scarcely be called rowdies, judging from their dress, which had a dash of genteel about it; but yet there were swaggering points in their conversation and movements which indicated to the practiced eye of the saloon visitor, that it would be difficult to class them with any grade in society. Charlie called them aside, and after a few brief words of explanation, invited all hands to the bar, where Mack gave the toast, "Woman and her consequences."
               "As numberless as our sins," said Dick, after they had emptied the glasses.
               "Another round," cried Charlie, "for life's like a weasel always hiding itself in fear."
               "How many would like to enjoy life if they but dared to. Three-fifths of the world are cowards, the rest are misers or hypocrites, and would steal if they had but the chance and feared not the law," said Lenora, a very plump and pretty girl who stood by Charlie. At this moment a rather stout but admirably proportioned girl entered who, on spying Charlie, rushed into his arms and when he cried, "come on, take the glass," and then began a desperate struggle between the two, for he was in the embrace of Juno the wrestler, chairs were upset, tables pushed aside, cards and dominoes scattered over the floor, while exclamations of surprise, delight and encouragement burst from the lips of the excited spectators.
               "Now you have her, Charlie," cried Lenora, "hold her to the wall, slip her belt, your hands want a hold, confound her corsets."
               "Hug him tight, Juno," cried Dick, "Down with him, avoid his trip," and then Dick's cheeks swelled with laughter. While encouraging remarks fell fast and thick in favor of Charlie from the girls, the men shouted in favor of Juno. The merry laughter of the excited revellers soon brought down the man in blue.
               "Less noise, Mac."
               "Only innocent sport, Charlie and Juno."
               "Five to one, Fred," said Lenora to the officer, "on Charlie. Oh, I hope he'll win, Juno is such a domineering braggart."
               As the contestants grew more desperate in their struggles for wrestling in the match, the crowd grew more warmly excited, and so continued the match for over twenty minutes; alternately pressing one another against the wall and round the room until Charlie, by a sudden and combined effort of his strength, sent her flying to the floor. She was speedily caught up in the arms of Dick, and Charlie declared the winner, every girl present saluting his panting lips with a kiss.
               "I don't care, I gave him a good tussle for it. It's no disgrace to be conquered by a man in a trial of strength," said Juno.
               "I honor your pluck," said Dick, "and will pay the reckoning, empty the hamper, Mac."
               "Come, Mr. Officer, say if you ever saw so pretty a tussel."
               "It was the very best match of its kind I ever witnessed," replied the man in blue, "but I trust the girl's not injured."
               "Injured, indeed," said Juno, coming forward and smoothing her hair. "It's lively sport and the best exercise in the world."
               After finishing the hampers of champagne amid much boisterous mirth, Charlie and his friend sought a barber shop, and then wended their way to the Roost saloon.
               "I think it's time," said Charlie, "that we should supply the inner part of our bodies with something more substantial than froth and spray," said Charlie, as they entered the restaurant attached to the saloon—scarcely had they seated themselves at the table before one of the waiters stated that several friends desired to see him in the bar room.
               "Remember the old man's warning," said Fiddler Dick. "Do not hurry to do their bidding. Are you armed?"
               "He who is best armed, invites an attack if its known," replied Charlie, "It gives one's adversary an excuse for using weapons."
               "True, but caution is said to be the better part of valor."
               "I cannot eat one mouthful," said Charlie, "until I know the object of this personal interview."
               "Then lead on, Charlie, and I will follow."
               On entering the bar he was accosted by two persons who invited him to drink.
               "Are you the persons, who wanted to see me," he asked. "Have the kindness to state your business, without delay, as I am engaged with a friend."
               "First take a drink," said the two strange rough-looking persons.
               "It is not usual to be invited by absolute strangers; sirs, your names and business, if you please," said Dick.
               "You're Champagne Charlie's friend, I suppose."
               "Yes on all occasions, and under any circumstances."
               "Will you both step aside," said the taller of the two strangers.
               "Is it of any serious import," demanded Charlie, and while he spoke two strange faces made their appearance near the speakers.
               "Know then, Champagne Charlie, that you have been too intimate for the last years with a certain young lady, a relative of ours, and that most unfortunately for herself, for her mother, and all her relations, your intimacy has culminated in her ruin, what we demand of you is an immediate marriage."
               "Have you any proof? Has any lady or the mother of any girl charged me with any crime, so mean, low, and dastardly in its very name, much less in its commital. You have neither stated, name, place, person, nor time."
               "We have left that, to your own guilty conscience. Are you willing to marry the girl?"
               "Yes," replied Charlie, "if I perpetrated the outrage you allege."
               "Her first name is Laura, her second name must not be used in public."
               "Then whoever informed you lies in his throat."
               "Villain," said the first speaker and he dealt Charlie, a blow that sent him staggering across the floor, nor did Dick fare any better, for he was dealt a blow from behind, which felled him to the floor. But in this as in other encounters the attacker, take their chances, for Mr. Jasper, who had watched the game of attack, now suddenly appeared upon the field of action and displayed an agility and fearlessness worthy of a younger man.
               "You've two to two. Four to two, and armed at that, a brace of larks taken at advantage. Bless me you must have hard heads," all the time he spoke he was putting in heavy blows right and left upon his puzzled assailants, and with such force and rapidity did he apply his cane, that they gave way before him, until Dick and Charlie, recovered their feet and came to his assistance. But a blow from a slung shot, again sent Dick to the floor, and it was well for him the blow did not squarely strike him, it was a glance shot, but was quite as effective as he could desire. While Charlie was advancing with a chair, he was tripped up from behind, when the cry of police was raised at the door, and the next moment he found himself and Dick in the grasp of two officers of the law.
               "Take them off," said the bar-keeper; "they came and created a muss with several of my customers."
               In vain Charlie and Dick, protested their innocence, they were marched off to the station house, where they were doomed to remain all night, while old Jasper sought out Mike, and told him of his master's incarceration.
               "Had he but taken your advice," said Mike.
               "It matters not," replied Jasper, "it was a conspiracy. It's like a bile, if it had not come on to-night or in a certain place it would have broken out on some other portion of the body. If there's a charge made I'll be there to refute it. But I don't think they'll risk it."
               "Why," said Mike.
               "Because they will be afraid of having the tables turned on them, they are not very desperate and bold rascals, and will be conscience-stricken. It is evident they were hired for the occasion, they showed no pluck. But I only hope I may one day meet the sneaking cowardly cur, that tripped up the young Charlie from behind, I may one day yet cross arms with him."
               "They wanted to disgrace Mr. Charlie in the eyes of the public, and his father. How did it begin, friend Jasper?"
               "Accused your master of badly treating a Miss Laura somebody, seducing her, and then refusing to marry."
               "I thought it was that," said Mike, bringing two cigars, "but it's a hoax, I know who they mean, Miss Spray, but by my soul, or the soul of any man in Christendom, its not so, else he'd have let her go to the bottom when she tried to drown herself. What shall I do. How shall I act. I can't see them to-night."
               "Pack up and I'll help you to remove the thing early in the morning to my house only two blocks off. I'll go and see a friend of mine, who will be here early in the morning with his carts, see that you have his most valuable effects packed up already for storage."
               "Valuable effects," said Mike, with a gloomy and depressed voice. "By my soul, most of them are stowed with my uncle, and divil abit will he give them up for a trifle. But what shall we do with the little girl."
               "I must see," said Jasper, "it wont do to send her to Mrs. Spray, after what has occurred. I'll make her comfortable."
               "His father will be out in another card, and his creditors will attend like wolves at a funeral."
               The two friends parted for the night, but not to sleep, but to devise a plan, and ways and means to preserve Mr. Charlie from the clutches of the law, and save what little property he possessed, from the claims of his creditors. The tears ran first down the cheeks of the honest and faithful Mike, while he performed his unpleasant, but needful duty.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               IN COURT.
               MORNING came, and at eleven o'clock precisely, Fiddler Dick and Champagne Charlie were arraigned before the police court on a charge of disorderly conduct. The notorious Champagne Charlie and the quizzical Fiddler Dick were known throughout the city.
               As soon as the noise of their arrest was hinted abroad, the court-room became crowded to excess. But the crowd were doomed to be disappointed if they expected a lengthy trial, for no one appearing to prosecute, and the policeman merely charging them with boisterous conduct, they were fined ten dollars or thirty days on the Island.
               The fine was paid, but while Charlie was leaving the court-house, he was arrested upon civil process for debt, and his body deposited in Ludlow Street jail.
               "I will pay it," said Dick, as he accompanied Charlie to prison.
               "No," replied the prisoner, "if this debt is paid a hundred other demands will be enforced against me in the same harsh way. It will be of no real 
                     ser-service
                     service
                   to me or them, besides, I do not wish to pay the man who is the first to imprison me."
               "Be it so," said the fiddler, "but you shall want for nothing."
               "No," replied Charlie, "only occasionally a bottle of Heidsick. Plain food must now be my portion, I could not have held out much longer, anyway you take it, only send me a doctor, for I'm quite sore on head and shoulder."
               He was carried in a carriage to the prison, and the doors closed upon his form. He was a prisoner for money owing Frontz.
               That man bore him and Mike no good will, for the drink they imposed on him and the subtle way in which Mike had procured the hamper of his best champagne from his store, which was attended by an exposure of his condition from the miserable character of the, almost illegible, order carried by Mike.
               When he saw a notice of his arrest in the morning papers, he was the first to move in his claim, and then it was that Champagne Charlie was restrained of his liberty and liberal supply of champagne. Charlie had many friends in the city, among the middle and lower classes, and a large crowd collected round the prison door, and when driven to the opposite side of the pave, they burst out into loud huzza's for Champagne Charlie, and began singing his favorite song, until it was caught up by the gathering throng, and re-echoed along the streets by news boys, apple-venders, boot-blacks, and passing citizens. Wickman and Swing called on him immediately upon hearing of his imprisonment, and one of the managers offered him a benefit, but he declined:
               It would be of no avail as his debts exceeded ten thousand dollars. All he asked was kind attentions from his friends and the personal enjoyment of their company, and the wherewith of champagne to honor their presence.
               That he had been most foully dealt with he knew, but rather than compromise the character of a female friend, or betray her confidence, he resolved to suffer, and appear the aggressor in the row that caused his first arrest. If he was the soul of dissipation, he was the very soul of manliness. He never forgot the noble lessons taught him by his mother. Discarded, dishonored by debt, lost by dissipation, still her teachings of dignity and respect towards woman he never forgot. Her memory was dear to him; her examples of dignity and truthfulness were deeply impressed on his heart. But there was a secret story connected with his life. He did not speak, for he scarcely dare think of it, so unpleasant were the recollections of its incidents.
               Fanny had been removed to the residence of Charlie's friend Jasper, a snug little house standing in a back yard from the street.
               Mike intended to hide the arrest from the child, but Jasper thought it best to tell her; so that night she went crying to bed, notwithstanding Jasper's aged sister tried to comfort her. After breakfast next day, Fanny took a small empty basket and started off, apparently upon an errand to a grocery. Wending her way up University Place, she soon reached the square, and stopping when she came to the basin of the beautiful fountain, viewed the golden fish swimming in the lucid water. She did not long tarry there, but on she moved until reaching a large house in Fifth avenue, when up the high brown steps she glided and gently pulled the bell. A footman made his appearance, and recognizing the child his mistress had made so much of on the occasion of his drive to the park, he immediately admitted her to the hall.
               "I want to see the beautiful and grand lady who dresses so fine, like my mother before I lost her."
               "Take a seat, my little siss," said the footman, "she is now at breakfast, and no doubt will be glad to see you." But instead of the footman reappearing, the lady herself, robed in a fringed morning gown, came forward and took Fanny by the hand.
               "What is it my pretty one," said she, kissing the child, "but come with me and have some breakfast."
               And she led Fanny into the breakfast-room.
               "Now be seated, my dear, and after you have eaten something, tell me what you desire."
               "Thank you, good lady, its not for myself I have come to you. Mr. Charlie, my friend, and who took care of me, they say has been put in prison by some bad people to whom he owes money for champagne; and Mike says the living they get there is very poor, and as he's to take me to see him this afternoon, I want you to give me something nice to take to him. I would have asked Mr. Jasper, with whom Mike and me are staying, but I don't think, or don't know, if he's got much money, and besides, our staying there must be an expense. You needn't fill all this basket. Mr. Charlie used to give me stamps, and I put them away. I'll buy something to-day, but won't spend it all at once. I'll keep something for another time, for Mr. Jasper says he refused to be got out by his friends, and must stay there a long time."
               "That will do, my dear. I am acquainted with all the circumstances of his imprisonment. You shall call every day and get your basket filled. You know Miss Spray?"
               "Yes, indeed, mam, and she's very kind to me, on Mr. Charlie's account, and when I went there, to-day, she cried very hard about it, and so did Miss Mattie Wiggins and Miss Clara Flare."
               "Did you see Miss Laura Spray?"
               "Oh, yes ma'm, and she told me to tell Mr. Charlie, she'd do all she could to get him out, and said it was on her account the people fought him in the saloon, and that they were wrong for he was her best friend, and now she had no one to trust or confidate in."
               "And she told you all this, when you were alone."
               "Yes, mam, and she cried too, and said he was the only one, could save her, and make somebody do right."
               "God bless your dear, sweet soul," said Miss Hardwick, clasping the child in her arms and repeatingly kissing her. "You are indeed a lost treasure."
               "Why, madam, how very red and excited, you are," said the maid, as she entered.
               "Go until I send for you, Caroline," said Miss Hardwick.
               "My mother had a servant, who used to dress like that one."
               "Would you know your mother if you were to see her? About what time were you lost? No matter I remember the mention of the accident in the Herald." And the lady rung the bell and the footman entered, "John, go down to the Herald office and get me the papers for the month of June. Don't miss a number."
               "Mr. Charlie, was going to take me to the theater, he said, I might find her there."
               "You shall go with me this very night," said the lady with much animation.
               "No, if you please, I don't want to go now, to shows, while he's suffering in prison. Only see what a pretty locket he gave me! Bran new. He's going to have my name cut on it, as soon as he finds it out."
               "Why, Fanny," said Fling as he entered the breakfast room, "Are you lost, what on earth, brings you 
                     hear
                     here
                  ."
               "Oh, Mr. Fling, I'm so glad to see you, Mr. Charlie's in prison, and I've come to bring, from this lady, something nice to him."
               "How is this, Ellenor?" he asked.
               Miss Hardwick then explained all that had transpired with herself and Fanny.
               "The child must be cared for. He spoke to me about her. My dear, would you like to remain with this good lady?" 
               "Not now," replied the child, "I can call every day, as Mike says I'll have to stop going to school-owing to their being no one to pay—Tho' old Jasper told a me to get ready again for school to-morrow, but he makes Mike laugh so in spite of himself, that I don't know if he means fun. It's time for me to go, now, they'll wonder where I've been."
               "Susan," said Miss Hardwick, "see this child to her home. I wish to know where she lives."
               "Good bye, Mr. Fling, and good lady," said Fanny, as with a well filled basket, and accompanied by Susan, she took her departure for home.
               Miss Hardwick scarcely noticed the child's egress from the room, so unconscious had become her thoughts to all passing events, or so absorbed was she in reminiscences of the past or interest in her future prospects. Had she too a secret, could not the wealth and magnificence by which she was surrounded afford her no real happiness.
               Her acknowledged beauty of person with the aristocratic cast of features added to her clear complexion and brilliancy rendered her person an object of the most profound respect if not admiration. Look closer and we find the merest, faintest traces, fine lines of care or age. They are scarcely discernable by the sharpest eye of her most intimate friends, still they are there, they are painted by the master hand of time with his finest brush and most delicate touch, and will increase with years. But could we have but looked within and seen the numberless panorama views passing before the memory of the mind, we might have then been startled by the vivid coloring of many, and the strange actions of the personages which appeared in the faithful pictures of the past. Mr. Richard Fling was her mother's youngest brother. He had run through his fortune and was now a pensioner, living upon her bounty, he was ready at all times to do her bidding but she was never very exacting and exorbitant in her demands upon his duty. Her father was a victim of the palsy, and Mr. Fling rendered her many services both as a 
                     portector
                     protector
                   and a relative. Be her history what it may it becomes our duty to unravel the skein of her past life, and expose to the view of the reader, at a proper time that event which was most interesting in her life, and which was to her the source of so much present anxiety.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               IN GAOL.
               "I'VE brought his little ward to see Charlie," said Mike as the keeper answered the bell at the Ludlow street jail.
               "Walk in, Mike," said Mr. Clung, the door-keeper, "It's not every one we 
                     admid
                     admit
                   so nearly in the morning. But my pretty little child, I'll have to examine your basket. It's our custom."
               "Oh, there's nothing but nice things in it," said Fanny, "I'll show them to you. Its all mine and the rich lady's in the avenue. I know he'll like them and maybe, give you some too, if you are good to him, mind you look like a nice good man."
               "Mike, whose pretty little one is this?" asked the keeper, "and what's in her basket."
               "His ward, Fanny, you may have read in the papers about his driving over a child, at the park, and adopting the child. Its her own scrapin's, in there."
               "I heard of it yesterday," he replied as he casually examined the basket.
               Mr. Charlie, was called for, to the reception-room.
               "As he's not in on any charge of fraud," said Mr. Clung, "his friends intend having a room prepared for him in a day or so. This you know we can provide if paid for."
               When Charlie, made his appearance, he clasped his little treasure in his arms and when she presented him with her basket, tears coursed down his cheeks, for he was quite susceptible to kindness, and coming from such a source, his warm-hearted soul, melted into tears. Even Mike was so moved by the scene that he could not speak.
               "When will these bad people, let you out of this dark iron windowed place, Mr. Charlie? Never mind, you shan't want. I'd tell you who sent some of these nice things, only I musen't. I promised not to tell. Ain't they good, things?" and here she began taking sandwitches, cakes, and tarts, and placing them on the chairs.
               "I've been in this abode five years," observed Mr. Clung, "and never saw so much true-hearted devotion, and simple gratitude, since here. I once was blessed with such another. No matter now," said he as he wiped large tears from his eyes, "there is an abode of joy for all such above."
               "I wasn't you," said Charlie, "to keep constantly at school, Fanny, don't neglect your lessons."
               But Fanny looked at Mike and was silent.
               "By my soul," said Mike, "she don't want to spake, it only she means about the payment."
               "Never fear for that, Fanny. Your schooling has already been paid for by the year," said Charlie.
               "I'm glad of it, Mr. Charlie, then you can spend your money in making yourself pleasant, and maybe, if you pay 'em they will treat you better."
               "Come to-morrow, Fanny," said the prisoner, who felt that it was impossible in his thus state of excited feelings to longer entertain the presence of the child, without displaying a weakness which he wished both to conquer and conceal.
               "You needn't be afraid to eat 'em. I'll bring some more to-morrow, won't we, Mike." Thus spoke Fanny as she kissed the prisoner and bade him good-bye.
               Fanny waited at the door until Mike came from a private interview with his master. Childhood, beautiful, beautiful, innocent childhood. What would many of us not give to be once more a child knowing what we know of ourselves and the world. Alas! it would not then be childhood, its very ignorance is its greatest charm. When Fanny returned she was met by Jasper, and taken to a room which his sister and himself had prepared for her. The whole 
                     sides
                     side
                   of the walls, was hung with pictures, in common frames, purchased from a neighboring junk-shop. A large bouquet, of artificial flowers stood in a great glass goblet upon the table, while her bed was covered with a quilt of variegated checks and bordered with green fringe. Her bible, with other old books, taken from a seaman's chest, were placed in rows around the table, and a cage hung near the window, in which was dancing from roost to roost a pert, little canary bird.
               "Oh, how beautiful," she exclaimed, as Jasper caught her in his arms and raised her up to the cage to obtain a closer view, while his old maiden sister, with her faded cap and arms akimbo, stood by in admiring silence.
               "I'll teach you how and when to feed it, Fanny," said Jasper. "It will sing for you and get to know you by-and-by. It whistles a very soft, sweet tune, and after a while, if it could speak in our language it would call your name, and thank you for any kindness you might show it."
               "All animals would do that, Mr. Jasper, wouldn't they, if they could talk?"
               "I believe so," said Jasper, "for we like kindness, and why shouldn't dumb beasts?"
               Leaving Jasper and his little protege engaged in most inquisitive conversation we must now call the reader's attention to an individual who has but now entered the St. Nicholas Hotel. His figure, though not very tall, is spare in flesh. His whiskers black and bushy; his nose decidedly Roman; brow more high than expansive; his eyes dark and penetrating; while the light tinge which is infused into his complexion decides him to be a handsome specimen of the present Italian manhood. He steps with a firm and dignified stride to the entry-book on the clerk's counter, pulls off his glove with measured slowness, takes up the pen, and with great precision in his letters, writes, "Marlo C. Italia;" takes his pocketbook and hands it to the clerk, turns upon his heel with a species of light twirl, but never a word spoke he to the clerk. As he was about to turn into the reading-room, he met his serving man.
               "You have looked to the baggage?"
               "Yes," replied the man, bowing and lifting his hat with great respect.
               "Garcia, we must make ourselves as plain as possible. It is fortunate for both of us that most of our days have been passed in London. It's the way in all republics, to ridicule state and ceremony; therefore let us indulge in useless display and set formalities as little as possible, and particularly as I desire to live a retired life."
               Most of Mike's time was taken up in watching over Charlie's interest or doing errands for his friends as a means of support. But just as regular as the sun would rise would old Mr. limping Jasper be waiting at the school-house gate to bring Fanny home. Carry her books he would, and to all her numerous questions he gave a ready and cheerful reply.
               It was about a week after she again began going to school, when crossing Broadway and Fourth street, Fanny, whose hand was clasped in that of her accustomed attendant, started back with a sudden jerk, and hid her form behind that of old Jasper.
               "Oh, save me, good Mr. Jasper," she exclaimed, while her hand trembled violently quick. At that moment Marlo passed, followed by his servant, but he saw not the child. Yet Jasper watched him until lost to view.
               "Take me home, oh, please take me home, good Mr. Jasper."
               "Why, what has my Fanny seen? What can ail the child? Why you're frightened to death. What can have happened to you? There's nothing to fear. I can protect you. No one can hurt a child."
               "Oh, I can't tell you, my mother would scold. Only take me home."
               Her face was flushed with excitement, and when she reached home she wrung her hands and paced the floor with quick steps, sobbing and crying all the time, exclaiming, "oh, my poor mother; he will find out my mother and kill her."
               In vain aunty strove to pacify her, and it was not until she had grieved herself to sleep that silence was restored to that small but comfortable abode.
               While Fanny was yet sleeping and the lamp was burning dimly in the house there came a gentle, scarcely perceptible, rap at Jasper's door.
               "Come in," said Jasper. "It's as easy for you to open the door as for limping Jasper."
               Again came the slow and, scarcely perceptible raps.
               "Bagpipes and the devil's dance, then open it is, and walk in is the word."
               Jasper drew open the door, when a dark form, wrapped in a light cloth cloak, entered, who, bowing, passed in and seated himself in the rocking-chair which Jasper had just left.
               "Ah, my lord count," said Jasper, bowing and turning very red in his face.
               "'Tis well, Mattero, I see you have well performed your duty," rejoined the count.
               "The child's asleep, in bed I suppose."
               "Do you wish to see her, my lord, to assure yourself."
               "Oh, no, your word's sufficient, beside, I have since my arrival informed myself."
               
               "She's grown very much since you saw her last, my lord."
               "I presume so. But it's very strange the mother does not look up her young——"
               "Is she now in the city?"
               "I do not know, your letter only told me to look after the child, I suppose your other agents can inform you."
               "Exactly, Mattero, but I was under the impression, that 
                     were
                     where
                   the fawn hid the doe could be found. Does the child grieve for her mother?"
               "Only at times. Her protector's in prison."
               "Let him stay and rot there," said the count, rising to his feet while his whole frame shook with the throbs of excitement, "I tell you I will settle with him so that the law will never claim him for its victim."
               "Take care, my lord count, Mike, his man says he's practised much wild sword."
               "Broad or dress sword?"
               "I'm not able to say, when we moved his things both blades were found. Mike has hid them away."
               "It matters not, time will tell, no matter; say is the countess here, or has she been of late in the city?"
               "I believe I have already answered your question. But I will leave Fanny to discover her abode if here."
               "Keep the child under your control. Here's my address, plain, no name on the card, but you can wait near the entrance of the hotel until you meet me, that is when you have any news, and here's a trifle to meet expenses," and he cast a pocket-book upon the table.
               "Have you seen Captain Trovator?"
               "Yes, your lordship, but he's gone on a voyage to Savannah—will soon return again."
               "Do you know if he has met that villain, Jocylen."
               "I believe he was on board his vessel."
               "Are they intimate?"
               "I cannot say, your lordship."
               "Please drop all titles. It suits this land of vagrant republicans to dub me a plain mister, say I'm Mr. Smith, Jones, or anything you please. The vanity of these people must be gratified, and avoid any display that may hurt their pride. I never saw a nation more jealous of what they style liberty, and never read of any who abused it more. Good-night and a silent tongue."
               "Good night, Mr. Smith," replied Jasper, as the count's form disappeared as it had appeared. Scarcely had he crossed an alley-way before a lariat was cast from below, from the foot of the cellar steps, the noose of which passed over his hat and took effect just above the bridge of his nose, lapping over his left ear, then came the strong sudden jerk upon the line of the garrotters, but the count bowed his head and as fell his hat so slipped off the noose. "Diabalo!" exclaimed the count as he grasped his hat, and then wheeling fired two barrels of his pistol into the window. He passed on with a hurried step until he reached Broadway, when, feeling a smarting sensation in his left ear, he placed his hand upon it and found that the lip of the ear had been almost tore from the gristle. He sought his hotel, sent for a surgeon and had the wound dressed.
               "Mattero must move his quarters," he ejaculated as the surgeon left his room, "his house is surrounded by thieves, but if I mistake not, I was near enough to return as much as I got."
               In one of the papers next morning appeared under the head of: 
                     
                        
                           
                              A MYSTERY.
                              This morning the body of a man was found lying across a window sill in Wooster Street, dead, having been shot at some hour during the night. Another man was taken from the same house severely wounded, and sent to the hospital, etc.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "I think," mused the count next morning at breakfast, as he read the paragraph, "I think they will have a chance now to practise their calling where they will have more light and room," and he smiled a sinister smile as he resumed his breakfast.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE DISCOVERY.
               EVENTS in Charlie's history were daily growing more exciting and interesting, but he was none the less fond of champagne, nor was his facility for obtaining it curtailed by his imprisonment, for Mr. Clung had an eye to business and furnished his prisoner with the best brands; making a heavy percentage upon every bottle, and as his prisoner had little else to do, and being furnished by his friends with ample means, he rather encouraged the young man's passion in that way, and offered him every facility to gratify his propensities for imbibing. A private room had been allotted him in the back part of the prison, where he received his friends, and where cigars were furnished at the same exorbitant rates of profit. His victuals were also selected with a view to gratifying the most fastidious appetite, but all this had to be paid for in cash, which was furnished by his friends, Fling and Dick, obtained from many sources of supply.
               His life and picture were published to the world in one of our most prominent weeklies. While on the stage and in the street, and even in the parlors of the great, the song of "Champagne Charlie" was sung with most enlivening effect. His father again sent his warning to tradesmen, 
                     retaurant
                     restaurant
                   proprietors, and money lenders, through the public prints, further assuring the public, that under no circumstances would Charlie ever become his heir.
               This in fact was publishing to these very people, who scarcely knew Charlie's pedigree before, that he was the son of a very wealthy, and aged gentleman; and as nature in her workings is always true to herself, people reasoned upon a natural basis of facts and did not, and could not be made to believe, but that in the end he would forgive his son, and that a death-bed scene would reconcile all variances between father and son, and Charlie, in the end, would fall heir to all his immense possessions—so ran the current of public opinion, and public opinion once fired in the mind of the people becomes the law of the land.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               LAURA SPRAY.
               MEN have their trials, but these originate mostly with the world. They can chance their homes, alter their business, remodel their associations, and seek excitement in many different ways whereby grief is 
                     molified
                     mollified
                  , anger expended, or loses regained, but alas! for woman, as Goldsmith has it: 
                     
                        When lovely woman stoops to folly,
                        And finds, too late, that men betray,
                        What art can soothe her melancholy,
                        What grief can wash her guilt—
                     
                  
               
               But alas! for Laura Spray, once sweet Laura Spray, now wretched to the very heart's core, carrying within her own body the living spark of shame. Alas! for Laura. She nightly shed tears sufficient to exhaust the deepest fountain of grief but her sorrow was not to be cured by the shedding of tears,—shame was written on her brow, remorse upon her heart. But her sin had not bloomed into existence. It was daily culminating to a head,—fear, living, dreadful, tormenting, fear of exposure was as fire, raging fire to her soul, she knew, she felt that she was soon to become a mother. Oh, God, the thought was dreadful; such an event under other circumstances would have been hailed with delight, anticipated with joy. Now all was dark, gloomy, and sorrowful in the unforgiving future, showing clearly that while the world will pardon crime it will not be reconciled to a deed of weakness,—no, not even in woman.
               Her friend, well, reckless as he was, the sharer of her mother's bounty in the hour of sickness, and he of his pleasure in the hours of her health, was shut out from her presence, there was no one on whom she could place her confidence besides himself. She would write to him, he would give her advice, if not consolation, and she did write to him that same night, and in the next morning sent it by Fanny, who went daily to visit him in prison, and she got a prompt reply. Telling her to be of "good cheer, that his birth day was approaching and on that day he would try and get release from prison if only for an hour to serve her."
               "My best, my dearest friend, let the world speak harshly of thee, as they please. You are my friend, your heart is pure tho' your career is dissipated," and then she kissed the letter and consigned it to the flames; one sentence she particularly remembered, "conceal all, take no one into your confidence, until I have time to see you righted."
               
               One evening, while seated upon her mother's front steps, a stout seafaring man of good address approached her.
               "Miss Laura Spray," said he, "I presume I am correct."
               "Yes, sir," replied Laura, "that is my name."
               "Can I see your mother."
               "She has but now gone to church."
               "Did you ever hear your mother speak of a sea captain by the name of Travator."
               "Frequently."
               "I am he, and I can assure you that I have often thought it my duty to call, but have been so pressed in the service, I can hardly have time to 'bout ship between squalls."
               "Walk in," said Laura.
               He entered and took a seat in silence, then called for pen, ink and paper, and wrote for several minutes. When he had finished, he folded the note and held it in his hand.
               "You will have the kindness to say that I called, but this is for you, read it while I have gone. Good night to you," and he held out his hand which she cordially grasped, blushing while she did so.
               He had gone when she opened, and read the note.
               "Great Heavens," she exclaimed, gasping for breath, "I am betrayed, who could have proved the false friend, surely, surely it could not have been Charlie. Oh, no, great God," she muttered in her agony, "can it, be, can it be the wretched mortal himself. If so, the world holds no man a villain."
               The note ran thus: 
                     
                        
                           
                              "Laura, you have been doubly wronged, you have been deceived, and then most foully betrayed. I will aid you and see you righted if it be that champagne swell, woe be unto every bone in his body. Write to me, delay not to tell me the whole affair without stint. Put letter in Post Office.
                              
                                 "Captain Travator, ship Bedford."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               After partially recovering from her state of almost stupefaction into which she had been cast by the contents of the tone, she wrote to Charlie, explaining all, and asking for advice, Fanny brought back a few simple lines. Stating in pencil letters: "Trust him. He is true, and a relative."
               She felt reliever in spirit, two friends ever coming to her assistance.
               Mr. Frontz, was seated in his counting room after dinner, smoking his mild Havana, when Mr. Fling entered.
               "Mr. Frontz, I believe, I have the honor of addressing."
               "The same," replied that gentleman offering a chair.
               Fling was a man of breeding, and to a certain extent, correct principles, but he was at times disposed to dissipate. There was a finish about his dress, and an easy swing about the movements of his person, and a pleasant expression about his eyes, that rendered his appearance quite agreeable.
               "I have called," he said, "upon a matter of business, which concerns a very particular friend of mine, now in your custody."
               "In my custody, sir?"
               "Yes, your, Mr. Frontz, the sheriff, is but your agent. I allude to my friend Mr. Jocylen."
               "Well sir. What's your proposition?"
               "A simple one," replied Mr. Fling, "next Tuesday is his birthday, and he wishes to claim the privilege of paying a visit to his father's house. He will return to prison within forty-eight hours after leaving it. I will 
                     deposite
                     deposit
                   the amount of his bill with you, paying up the interest to date."
               "Why not pay it in full, and be done with it," said Mr. Frontz.
               "Because I may not be able to afford it, and he might not wish to be so exacting upon his friends. He's living very happily there, with abundance of everything."
               "Plenty of champagne, I presume," said Mr. Frontz, smiling.
               And Mr. Fling smiled in return.
               "Well, let us to my lawyer, and we'll try and arrange it," and then for a brief spell, was Charlie, once more to be at liberty.
               On the same evening this event was transpiring, we must recur to another scene of no less importance, which was taking place at Mr. Jocylen's house. Around the dinner table sat Charlie's father, his uncle Hayden, Thomas Hayden, his nephew, and Mr. Cloche, a money-lender, and stock-broker.
               "He applied to you, for money to be squandered in champagne. Did he? the sot, Mr. Cloche." said Mr. Jocylen, "Which, of course, you lent," and then an ironical smile played on his features.
               "Of course, I refused," replied Mr. Cloche, "but the fellow did me a kindness once, and I made him a present of some wine."
               "Then you were wrong, quite wrong. Mr. Cloche, you were pandering to a bad practice."
               "I could not help it. My wife and child were sitting in my buggy, the horse started and had got into a run, when out darted a man into the street, seized my horse by the bit, gets his thumb bit, and thus saved them from probable death, certainly from great bodily injury. Could I, on a subsequent occasion, refuse him a few bottles of Champagne."
               "He's safe now," rejoined Thomas, "he's where he will inflict no more disgrace upon our family."
               "And may Frontz keep him there," replied the father. "Did Mr. Fling, and Mr. Hayden, make my proposition to him to quit the state for the sum of ten thousand dollars, and what was the reply?"
               "That there was room enough in this city for both of you."
               "I would not give him a cent to go away uncle, his creditors will soon force him to leave."
               "Believe me, I will adhere to my first determination. I cannot drive him away by force of law, Mr. Cloche, what am I to do to get rid of him."
               "Treat him kindly," replied Mr. Cloche, "call him to your bosom. Make a man of him. I was equally as wild when young, my father kept aloof from me, but I won his confidence in the end and you see to what a height his kindness and his forgiveness has raised me."
               "It would have the contrary effect with him, Mr. Cloche. He hates me in his heart."
               "I believe you, uncle," said the nephew. "Indeed some one told me, that he heard him say, he wished you were dead."
               "The scoundrel," replied the uncle, striking his clenched fist upon the table until the glasses tingled. "He thinks to get my money. Mr. Cloche, this, my nephew, Thomas Hayden, is to be my heir, and he deserves it."
               "Thank you, uncle, for your kindness," replied Thomas, with an assumed look of diffidence. "But I really think Charlie should not entirely be cut off. At all events I shall never see him want for a morsel to stay his hunger."
               "Cut him, cut him from your memory, nephew," replied the father. "Not a shilling, as I live."
               "He's a seducer. I'm told there is a young girl with child by him," said Thomas.
               "Believe it's true," continued the father. "He is an adept in every evil; a rascal, a very bad rascal."
               "Well," said Mr. Hayden, "I declare on my honor, that aside from promiscuous bad company, this is the first direct charge I have heard laid at his feet, and I'll venture a cool thousand that it has no foundation either in fact or truth."
               "You were always partial, Mr. Hayden, to my wife, and carry your gratitude for kind treatment of you to her son."
               "That may be in part true, but still I'll venture a cool thousand."
               "You forget that affair of the Swiss innkeeper's daughter, Mr. Hayden, concerning whom he fought the count, when they were both wounded."
               "It was a drawn battle from exhaustion. Had he been guilty he would have fled, not fought," replied Mr. Hayden. "In scrapes with women, men are not apt to stand the test of cold steel and the frowns of the public's brazen face," added Mr. Cloche.
               At this moment the footman ushered in little Fanny.
               "Come in, my dear," said Mr. Hayden, getting up and bringing her into the room, for Fanny appeared timid. "What can we do for you?"
               "Ah, you are the little girl that was with Miss Hardwick at the park. Come here, my dear," said Mr. Jocylen. "Robert, get a chair and place her beside me."
               "What a strong resemblance to you, Mr. Jocylen, I declare, all save the eyes, and I've seen them somewhere in my travels," said Mr. Cloche.
               "I mustn't stay long," said Fanny, "Mike sent me here."
               "And for what purpose, my dear,' asked Mr. Jocylen.
               "He says he found these letters in the street, and that they belong to some one in this house," and she took from her apron-pocket several letters addressed to Mr. Hayden.
               "Thank you, my little dear," said that gentleman. "They are in fact letters of importance."
               "Mr. Mike told me not to stay long, and I must go now, and as she placed her small tapering hand on the table she exposed a large mole on her wrist.
               "What is that?" said Mr. Jocylen, examining the mole, "it's very strange who you are, my dear. Is Mr. Charlie your father? Did he ever call you his daughter?"
               "No sir, but please let me go, Mike will scold me for staying so long and is waiting for me at the corner."
               "Will you call and see us again," said Mr. Jocylen.
               "Oh no, Mike says that you are angry with your son Mr. Charlie and don't want to see any one that knows him," and she courtesied herself towards the door.
               When she reached the hall, Robert was there with a paper of cakes.
               "These are for you, my little darling," said he, raising her in his arms and kissing her, "tell Mike to meet me to-night. Don't forget."
               "Oh, I'll tell him, be sure of that, kind sir," and the maid and housekeeper came to the door with her.
               "That little girl can teach us all a lesson of purity and forgiveness," said Mr. Cloche; "children remind us of what we were, what we ought to be, and what we will be, if we live to a good old age."
               All appeared sedate upon the departure of Fanny, save Thomas Hayden, who became reserved and morose for the balance of the evening. His guilty soul no doubt, saw danger to his own absolute prospects of possessing his uncle's estate.
               "Who the devil's child can it be? If it was his he would know it, and claim it. But I'm told it was lost, and run over by him in the park, and since then cannot find its mother. Had it been a bastard of his, my spies would have informed me, but I can see no resemblance, which others profess to detect. Robert," said he, after he had finished his messing train of thought, "do not let us be annoyed again by that little brat."
               "As you please, sir," replied Robert.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               CHARLIE'S BIRTHDAY.
               CHARLIE'S birth day arrived, when three young girls wended their way towards Ludlow prison. They all carried bouquets of rare and choice flowers, and small bundles neatly done up in colored paper. They conversed in pleasant chit chat as they glided gaily along; they were Miss Wiggins, Miss Flare and Laura Spray, going to the prison to present him with birth-day presents.
               "How good he was to all of us," said Mattie.
               "He never refused us anything he could get for us," said Clara.
               "He was always generous to a fault," added Laura; "how many, very many happy hours we have all passed together."
               "What a cruel disappointment it was for them all that he had been let out for a few days, and how glad he felt when he reflected he was once more a free man."
               "We'll hunt him up," said Mattie, "he's sure to call on us all, and when he does we'll keep each other informed."
               After mutual promises, and having reached Mattie's house they all agreed to dine with her, trusting Charlie would call there first as it would be on his way to the other houses.
               Immediately on being set free from prison, by previous arrangements made by Mr. Fling with Mr. Frontz, he proceeded direct through several narrow streets to his barber, near Broadway, where Mike had taken his clothes. Having then been refreshed with a clean shave and hot bath, he sought a private room with mine host of the Swallow Restaurant. Then indulging in a short nap he entered a hack, and was driven to the park. He desired to be alone and commune with himself. It was the anniversary of the day on which he was issued into the world, by one of the best of mothers, and it was the day of the year and week on which her pure spirit had departed from earth.
               In vain the girls delayed their dinner in hopes he would join them at a later hour.
               In vain Fling, Wickman, Dick and many others sought him at his favorite haunts of enjoyment, he was no where to be found. Little Fanny was to see him according to Mike's promise, but Mike knew well his master's intention and therefore sought not after him.
               Charlie was aware that he was approaching a crisis in his life. The hurry, burly, rip, dash 'em, smash 'em, life he had been leading, was producing sad results. His mind began to question itself as to the uses of all his efforts in life, and the folly of his living, but then a sickening sensation would creep over his frame, when the voice of conscience raised its faint, feeble moan, and the thoughts of a future state, glanced athwart his vision, and he stood unnerved. The tree of an evil deed flourishes green and dark in the vistas of the past, land its shadow were visible from afar off when he cast his mind back to the days fled forever. He stinted himself, not in his favorite beverage. He dressed his person with unusual care and elegance, but as he walked through the groves of the park, his gait was slow, and his brow thoughtful. At last the sun went down, in town and country, and with the fading flush of twilight appeared the twinkling luster of the stars. He slowly walked towards the hack which brought him to the Park.
               "Drive to Fourth and Broadway," he ordered, "and when I leave you, wait until I come." Such were his orders.
               The lamps were already lit in the streets, and silence began to rest upon the sphere of the great city's action, busy stirring, feverish, exciting action.
               After leaving the hack, he sought his father's house, Robert answered his call.
               "It is my birthday," said he, "accept a small trifle in rememberance of the event," and he passed a note, into the footman's hand. "I am going to view my mother's likeness. I will return in as short a time as possible."
               He passed up the rodded and carpeted stair way. Robert followed him, opened the door of the chamber which, though richly furnished, no one occupied, lighted the gas, and then respectfully withdrew. He was alone. Before him, against the wall, in a gilded frame, hung the portrait of his mother. The picture had been preserved with much care, and the coloring was but little faded, if it was not improved by the rich mellowing touch of time. She seemed to gaze on him from the canvas, with living looks of fondness. He gazed in silence, for a few moments, then stepping upon a chair he reversed his father's likeness. "My mother alone must gaze upon her truant son. How like her when she would greet me with her morning smile. Those eyes, how kind, lovely, how tenderly affectionate. I am banished now, dear Mother, I am in the house of a stranger. Your son has erred, may you forgive him in Heaven, to which your blessed spirit has fled," still he gazed until he seemed entranced, and lost in deep reflection, his mind was communing with his heart. All the finer, nobler, senses of his nature where touched, by the wand of memory, the past, present, future, all seemed to be forgotten. In mind, he was following his mother's spirit in the land of the chosen. Thus he stood with folded arms, gazing on the lines of features the artist, had most faithfully drawn upon canvas, and thus, while he stood in silent reverie, that his fine person appeared to great advantage. His face was more than usually pale, but there was a melting tenderness in his dark hazel eye, and there was a soft sweet smile playing round his budding lips of deep red, that lent to his aspect, almost the appearance of a statue. But this was not all which was attractive in his person, on this occasion; his clothes, which were of the costliest material, displayed in their exact fit to his limbs and body, his really handsome form to its most favorable advantage. While thus he stood in a motionless trance, his father entered, moving slowly with measured tread. He raised his right hand in a repulsive, in a discarding, reprobating gesture, and then his son, with outstretched arm and extended finger, pointed to his mother's likeness. In their respective attitudes, neither speaking both stood for several moments when the father retreated backward out of the door, closing it after him. The son now placed his father's picture in its original position, when the door was hastily opened and Thomas Hayden, entered, with a face flushed with anger, and his coarse features 
                     swolen
                     swollen
                   with hatred.
               "Do you know me, sir," he exclaimed, while Charlie moved not from his place before his mother's picture.
               
               "I say, sir, do you know who I am?"
               Charlie bowed an assent.
               "Then hear me. I now represent Leonard Jocylen, Senior."
               Again Charlie bowed.
               "Then I demand, most peremptorily demand, to know why you dare to intrude into this hallowed room?"
               "Demand?" asked Charlie.
               "Yes, sir? is not that word sufficiently strong?"
               Again Charlie bowed.
               "Had you possessed any delicacy of feeling you would not have so insulted your own dignity."
               Charlie again bowed and pointed to the likeness. "'Tis my birthday, the day of the year on which she died."
               "'Tis the likeness of the last one you should dare to insult with your presence."
               "You are master here?"
               "I am. All power in this house has been delegated to me by my honored uncle, whose reputation you have sullied by defaming the name of Jocylen."
               "Do you bear that much abused name?"
               "In actions, breeding and thoughts I do, and when the Assembly meets will have it legally confirmed to me."
               "And you are master here, and own my mother's picture, say you so?" said Charlie, advancing a step towards him with a wild stare glaring from his eyes.
               "I say not the picture, but represent my generous, noble uncle, and I was sent here to demand to know of you why you have insulted your father's house with your disgraced and degraded person."
               "Why I am here, in fact, I know not, unless it was my mother's better promptings, my nature yielding to the attractive influence of her gentler spirit, that urged me to her presence on that canvas. Why I am here, indeed? Because it is my father's mansion, my birthright to be here. I bear his name, christian name as well as that my ancestral race have borne for centuries back. Look, thou cold, conniving man, into my face, see in the lineament of every feature, and in the contour of the whole combined, the lines, the visage of my father's race. But why I am here is no fault of thine or his. 'Tis her's—if you dare own it a fault, as applied to her blessed image. I come not as a thief to steal your golden treasure, heirlooms of my family. I come not as a stranger, for my body and soul first saw the light within these sacred walls. I come not to cheat you of your legacy when my father's bones lie mouldering in the tomb. I come as a son to gaze upon my mother's likeness, that parent who suckled me in infancy, that mother who died in my arms on a foreign shore. Thus have I come, not to stay, not to fret you with my presence, for were I to remain I would call thee a craven-hearted villain, a fawning slave, sold, body and soul, to the god of avarice; a hypocrite, vile, vile as the carrion flesh on which the vulture feeds. Make way!" And Charlie, with flashing eyes and trembling limbs, advanced towards the door, but Thomas refused to move, saying,
               "You shall rue your blackguard speech."
               "Make way, 
                     avuant
                     avaunt
                  , thou coward, cunning, plotting knave," and he grasped Hayden by the throat, and flung him from his path, as the lion would the jackall. Then closing the door after him, he slowly descended the stairs. The hall was vacant but when he reached the pavement he found Robert, the footman, Dave, the coachman, and all the servants awaiting his coming. He shook each one by the hand in silence, and then handed a twenty dollar note to Dave to be divided among them, to drink his health.
               "This time, if I live, next year I may see you all, again, my faithful friends, may you all be happy till then and prosper."
               "What a pity," said the maid, "and so aristocratic, so handsome too, and then a prisoner and no one to pay his debts."
               "There you're wrong," said Robert, "he's so proud he wont let 'em do it. Pride runs in his race and that's the reason there is so much misery in the family with all our wealth."
               "You speak as one of the family," said the maid.
               "I am one," said Robert, "I've been with them fifteen years, I'm naturalized in it."
               And there was a jolly laugh all round, and they called in Dave to treat and divide the proceeds, as they entered the basement door.
               As much as Hayden hated Charlie before, he now was burning hot with the spirit of revenge. It was some half hour before he dared to present himself before his uncle, so distorted did he know his features to be from the effects of the terrible scene through which he had but now passed.
               With pride insulted, and with a passion aroused to that intensity of hate as to produce a choking sensation in his throat, he lingered in the hall and on the stairs, nor was he fully master of his feelings, when he presented himself before his uncle an hour afterwards.
               "Ship ahoy, I say small craft, where are you bound under such a press of canvas."
               Charlie turned and looked at the stout sailor-like form who had accosted him as he passed the corner of the street.
               "I believe I recognize your voice. Captain Travator, I believe."
               "The same at your service. Where go you to-night, young man?"
               "On a friendly visit to some young ladies, will you accompany me?"
               "That I will," said Travator, "as I wish to talk to you on a certain affair, I as a relative, you as the accused culprit, by your own family."
               "Good God, and do they suspect me of such a crime."
               "Aye, and your father heads the list."
               "Impossible," replied the son.
               "So I was informed by Robert, the same footman who attended the family in Paris. He told me to tell you."
               "I thank you both. But pray come with me, I wish to pay Fanny a short visit at a person's house, named Jasper, where Mike has taken her."
               "Go not there, I have my reasons for it. Ask no questions, I have my reasons for it. I will explain all. I will go and bring her to you, to the meeting with the girls."
               "No," said Charlie, "she must not get accustomed to such sights as she would witness to-night, but go you and tell Mike to bring her to me at the corner of the street."
               "I will do it, for be assured, I do not wish you to be seen by any one in that house, save by Fanny and Mike; now then let us leave when we get to the next corner."
               Shortly after leaving Charlie, Mike made his appearance with Fanny. Charlie stooped and kissed the child, who remained silent, and then took her hand and led her off a little distance from the captain and Mike.
               "Why are you silent, Fanny?"
               "You don't love me any more," she replied while she wiped her eyes.
               "Indeed I do, with my whole heart, but I could not call and see you during the daylight."
               "I want to show you my room, it's so pretty."
               "Fanny you must tell no one you have seen me. Mike will bring you to breakfast with me to-morrow. I want to talk with you, I have got a heap to say to you. Here's my photograph likeness let no one see it but Mike, now kiss me good night."
               "Oh; I shall be up so soon to-morrow, and ready, and I wont tell where I'm going. Once more," and she held up her little pouting lips.
               "There now, good night, Fanny."
               And they returned to the captain and Mike, and Charlie gave Mike his orders for the morrow, and he parted with Fanny for the night.
               They knew when they approached Mattie's house that unusual stir was taking place therein, and when he rapped at the door there was a rush towards it by the guests: being Clara, Laura, Mrs. Spray and two other ladies.
               "I knew you'd come," they cried as they each and every one received a friendly embrace.
               "Captain Travator, my friend, Laura, I believe, he is a relation of yours," said Charlie, and as the young girl extended the hand of welcome, she seemed confused, but not entirely abashed.
               "Wick, Fling, and Dick, will be here presently, they're gone for cigars," said Mattie, "they are the most useless mortals, living all day complaining about not finding you."
               "It matters not, complaints are useless now," replied Charlie, "I'm here in person, ready for any fun or frolic, let's make the most of the forty-eight hours. Ah! here comes the boys, I hear Fling's merry laugh."
               Nor was he deceived, for the two entered and grasped him warmly by the hand.
               "What became of you," asked Dick. "You gave us the slip, should'nt wonder if you had lingered in some secluded bower with some fair inamorata."
               
               "Some other time I'll give you a history of my adventure. Now for really pleasure, full, overflowing goodness of heart."
               "One moment," said Mattie, as she glided front the room. "I must have an eye to our feast. Come, girls, lend a hand to mother."
               While they were absent, Charlie, as briefly as possible, gave an account of his interview, with father and nephew in the vacant chamber.
               "We'll not stand it," said Wickman. "The fellow's insolently avaricious."
               "The fact is, said Fling, "he's playing for a great stake, which Charlie has ventured on the chance-table of human life. He plays to win. No timid manœuvring, no foolish restraints of conscience, no thought of failure. He throws down his challenging card, and with it his risk of reputation. All he asks of you, Charlie, is to cover it, and meet his demand upon your skill and knowledge of the same. Thus far, and to all appearances, he has the best of the game."
               "In rascality, yes," said Dick, "but after all, right is right, and you can't make evil out of it. There's a channel, a current, a stream in life, where virtue and truth swim, float, survive, but on the surface of whose waters vice cannot sustain itself but for a little while. It must go down at last. It must perish by its own guilty weight. Virtue's light; guilt's heavy."
               "Why Dick," said Hick, "since when have you taken to metaphysics and moralizing."
               "Since he has grown so thin, and looking so ill," said Fling.
               "I feel at times," rejoined Dick, "as though my stomach was on fire, and as if I had a steam engine in my brain, bumping, thumping and knocking away, as though striving to force its machinery through my skull. I don't think family cooking agrees with me. I always feel better when I spend a few days away from home."
               "Take up your board with me, in prison," said Charlie, laughingly. "You're sure to be cured of dyspepsia then, you'll not lose so much flesh by unnecessary 
                     fretings
                     frettings
                   and exercise."
               The girls now entering, supper was announced, Mrs. Spray, took the end of the table, and Miss Wiggins, the other, while Charlie, was seated between Laura and Clara.
               "Rise up all," said Clara, and then passing behind Charlie, she placed a wreath of beautiful flowers upon his head.
               "I crown thee monarch of the feast. Dub thee lord Bacchus, and now we'll drink to his health;" speedily the corks popped, the champagne flowed in foaming fountains, and every one's health was drank, in half glasses, bumpers all.
               "A story from Wick," said Laura. She was seconded by all, when the Beau related one as follows:
               "While lodging at one of the principal hotels in a neighboring city, I retired early to bed on a certain evening and heard a gentleman enter an adjoining room; my baggage was not concentrated into any confined or given space, being scattered round generally, if not profusedly, at different places of abode, for to tell you the truth I was short of the essential oil of life. About that period, and on the identical night, I was so unfortunate as to upset a pitcher of water which stood on the edge of the table, the contents wet my clothes to the skin, for I was already prepared for bed. In looking round for some dry garment, I espied a gentleman's long night-gown, hanging on a peg at the head of the I bed. Immediately disengaging my body from the wreaking vestment, which adorned it, I applied the towel with vigorous pressure to my person, and then appropriated the royal night-gown, which, when I had encased myself in its frilled collar, and braided skirt, led me to believe I was mistaken in the article as to its being a part and portion of a male's habiliments. But there was no remedy, so I extinguished the gas, and threw myself upon the bed, and was in the very act of subsiding into oblivious sleep, when some one in the adjoining room distinctly cried: "Count the money, take all, but spare my life!" again and again, the same pleading voice, repeated the entreaty, until my very hair, began to lift itself from the pillow, and my heart to stop its beating. At last I could endure the cries of the pleading victim, no longer. I lit my gas, opened my door, and cautiously turned the angle in the passage, and then found the door of the chamber, adjoining mine was standing ajar. At this moment I heard a great fluttering and noise, behind the door, as though the two 
                     person
                     persons
                   were struggling. My imagination already excited by the previous cries of distress, was now most painfully agitated, and I had just entered the door when I heard some one coming up the corridor. On looking, I saw a very dark complexioned man, coming toward the room leading a ferocious bull dog. Thinking to escape observation, until he passed, I retreated into the room, closing the door until he passed, but he stopped in front of the room, all the time pacifying the large, ugly beast, with most pacific phrases such as:
               "You shall guard the door of your master and mistress to-night, so that not even an 
                     appollo
                     Apollo
                   can enter, to disturb her repose."
               To avoid exposure, which I detest on any occasion, I resolved to secret myself under the bed, and when he entered, I so found my will had forced my body under the bed.
               After securing the dog's chain to the handle of a heavy trunk, and flinging wide open the door, he rose, lit the gas, and cast on the bureau a paper of crackers and a Bologna sausage, and after a few encouraging remarks to his guard, he left the room, promising to return as soon as he partook of a drink at the bar, and so urging the dog to greet his wife in a most friendly spirit when she should arrive. My situation was most precarious. For lying under the bed, and having mosquitoes to tease every exposed member, was certainly not very pleasant. Some move of great importance in regard to my own comfort and safety must be made, and that in a hurry. The dog was a dangerous sentinel to pass. His glaring eyes, his capacious jaw, his grim-visaged bull-head, and large thick set body, as reposing upon his haunches, were truly a ferocious obstacle to my egress. A lucky thought now struck me, and that was the Bologna sausage. So I glided over to the bureau, grasped it with eager trepidation, and advanced towards the dog, holding it towards him as a tempting morsel. The bait took. He leisurely opened his heated furnace armed with ivory spikes, took it from my hand and deposited it between his stout, firm legs. But I was out in a jiffy, and as I turned the angle of the corner to get into my own room, I saw two ladies coming up the passage in their travelling dresses. Scarcely had I shut my door, for it had no key, and extinguished the gas, when they reached their chamber guarded by the dog, I lying in breathless suspense the while.
               "Oh the villainy of man," said one of the ladies; "to think that my husband should be guilty of such treachery."
               "It certainly, ma'am, was a woman in her night-clothes who but now left the room, and she must be familiar with your master, or the dog would not have let her pass."
               Let's follow the audacious whelp," said the wife, "and teach her a lesson not to interfere with any married woman's rights," and then they used most abusive epithets, until they had world themselves into such a fury of passion that they entered my room. And the wife boldly accused me of adultery with her husband. In vain I protested that I was a man but my unfortunate nightgown was dead set evidence against me. In their desperation of excited wrath they pulled the clothes off the bed, and set upon me with claws, jaws and nails, and never before nor since did I receive such a furious pulling, hauling and scratching. The husband now having made his appearance, they left me to my shame and misery, and poured all the phials of their remaining wrath upon his protesting head. He sought my room and demanded an explanation. I told him all as it had occurred. When I had finished my story, all three burst out into a merry laugh.
               "The voice you heard calling," he said, "was that of a parrot which I have but lately purchased from an actress, the dog from a butcher, and the fluttering behind the door was the bird's falling from the peg on which I had placed it. However," said he, "it's too good a thing not to be substantially remembered. I will bring you a shirt, and then you will join us at supper," which I did and heartily enjoyed myself.
               The servant-maid who cleans up the rooms remarked to me next day, that "I should procure some of Tom Rafter's hair restorative, as it was astonishing how my hair was falling out, the bed being literally covered with it."
               
               All I can say is, be careful about your night-clothes when at a hotel.
               After receiving the company's thanks, Mr. Wickman called on Mr. Fling for a song. Then came the supper and pleasant chit-chat all round, and the ladies sang and played on the piano, while Mr. Travator was busy exchanging experiences with the two elderly ladies. Night wore on apace, and the stars became more vertical over head, when the party broke up.
               "Another glass," said Wick.
               "Narry 'nother bottle alive," replied Mattie.
               "Let's hold a wake over it," said Fling.
               "You shan't leave us," said Mattie, casting her arms around Charlie. "Prison life don't agree with you. You are looking pale."
               "Indeed you are looking white," said Clara, throwing her arms around him from behind.
               "It taint fair. It's mean. I won't stand it," said Laura, also casting her arms around him.
               "They will smother the man," said Mrs. Spray.
               "Indeed they will," said Fling, and he threw his arms around Mrs. Spray.
               "Just so," said Wickman, following suit.
               "Glory," said Dick, "I never yet refused to embrace my host," and he was soon in the circle.
               And there, in promiscuous jostle and swaying and twirling, they bade one another good night. And so the happy revellers parted.
               When Mike, returned with Fanny, to Jasper's pictured abode, they found him in deep thought, with his hands resting upon his knees, and his eyes fixed upon the candle.
               "Mr. Mike," said he, "where have you been with the child."
               "To meet a friend," replied Mike, passing Fanny into the room to the old woman.
               "And who was that man, barring being impertinent."
               "Captain Travator," replied Mike.
               "Ah, ah!" said he, "then he's returned; his presence is worth a hundred to me," said Jasper, slapping his knees with his open hand several times, "and what did he want with little Fanny?"
               "He took her aside, what he said, you can ask her, that's is if she'll tell you, for she refused to tell me."
               "Fanny, Fanny," called Jasper, and Fanny came.
               "What is it, uncle Jasper," she asked smiling, for she was full of pleasure, on the prospect of going early to breakfast, with Charlie, next morning.
               "What did the gentleman say to you? Fanny?"
               "Not much, he asked some questions." All this time Mike, was shaking his finger, at her, when not observed by Jasper.
               "What was it my child? tell uncle Jasper."
               "No, musn't tell. He told me not to tell. I can't tell any one."
               "But he meant strangers, not me and Mike."
               "He said no one, uncle Jasper."
               "And you won't tell uncle Jasper?"
               "Should like to tell, but can't. Nothing though about you or aunty or Mike; only about my going to school, that's all. So good night all."
               And Fanny again sought aunty's room.
               "I don't think it was much," said Mike; "only if it had been, he would not have told it to a child."
               "Now, Mr. Mike," said Jasper, "I haven't lived knowing of Mr. Charlie's and the count's family in Europe and not knowing of things particular. Now I'm going to confide in you, and if you betray, it will go hard with both of us."
               "I'll swear to you," said Mike, "not to speak of anything you choose to tell me."
               "I trust so," said Jasper, "I can see by your keeping many things from me that you believe me an enemy of Charlie's. It's not so. Look here. Would I have warned him of his danger at the roost? Not a bit of it."
               "How came you to hear of it, Jasper?"
               "While taking a drink there at the bar. But no matter. I have the means of hearing many things. It's part of my trade to gather news and sell. But to these families. Both Mr. Charlie and a certain count fell in love with a lady in Switzerland. The count came one night and carried her off by force and married her, Mr. Charlie's father was there at the inn at the time, and his son leaving on the same night, it was thought he did it; and the father believed it, and cursed and swore at a furious rate. He wrote Mr. Charlie a letter disowning him, since which time they have been strangers."
               "Was it not found out who did it afterwards, by Mr. Charlie's father?"
               "What made it worse," resumed Jasper, "Mr. Jocylen had made a very rich match for his son, and Charlie was engaged to be married to the lady at the time."
               "It was too bad," said Mike.
               "As to that I can't say," continued Jasper. "There's a deal of mystery about it I can't understand, and some things I must not tell. All I can say is, that Charlie's father wrote to the lady and condemned his son. Mr. Jocylen is a man of great honor."
               "Yes, but without feeling, or he would not reject his son so," observed Mike.
               "You don't know the ways of thinking and acting, as I do, of these great people. Everything must be just so, or they push you out of their way, even though it's their own children. Mr. Charlie has been dissipating ever since."
               "And who is this Captain Travator?" asked Mike.
               "The brother of the countess," said Jasper, "Mr. Charlie visited this Miss Ellenor after her marriage with the count at Naples, the count heard of it, challenged the son, they fought with swords and Mr. Charlie was severely wounded in the arm, and the count in the hand."
               "Where's the count now?" asked Mike.
               "Hist, not a word. He's in the city. I'm in his pay but only for good; I expect to do three or four persons."
               At this moment there came three slow raps at the door.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE SPY.
               JASPER limped to the door and opened it, and then conversed in a low tone of voice for a few moments.
               "Get your hat and follow me," said a deep mellow voice.
               Jasper took his hat, and after making a sign of silence to Mike, closed the door as he went out.
               "My lord count, he's here in the city."
               "I've lost my title. You are addressing Mr. Smith. 
                     Whose
                     Who's
                   here?"
               "Captain Travator."
               "Then stick by his ship, and find out where resides the countess."
               "It shall be done," said Jasper, "but is she in the city?"
               "Unless she has left since a week ago. The child is still with you?"
               "Aye, and doing well."
               "And Jocylen, still in prison?"
               "Yes, and likely to remain there."
               "You must move your quarters, you are beset with thieves."
               "Indeed, I was not knowing of it."
               "Yes, and you will do so when your month expires. Be watchful, good-night," and the count was soon beyond the reach of Jasper's voice, but scarcely had he crossed Broadway when a hand was laid upon his shoulder.
               "Ay, Hayden, my friend," said he, as he held out his hand, "been looking for you to-day."
               "Well met, my lord, I have been seeking you for the last hour at your hotel. That villain Leonard Jocylen is at large."
               "Impossible," replied the count.
               "Nevertheless, it is true," rejoined Thomas Hayden, "he had the modesty to venture into his father's house about dusk this evening. I had to threaten him before I could bring him to his senses. I've put a quietus upon his troubling us again. He was shockingly insulting though, and struck me."
               "And you dare not resent the blow?" 
               "I hurled him from the room. It was only in consideration of his honored father."
               "And the great legacy in perspective," interrupted the count, "a proper adjunct."
               "You in part do me injustice, count. It is but reasonable, it the scoundrel is to be disinherited by my uncle, I might as well fall heir to the estate as any of his relations."
               "Play your part, Hayden; man was made for that, the same as a monkey to play his tricks, but what have you to propose."
               "Let us to a private room, count."
               And they both sought a fashionable saloon, both calling for coffee.
               "I want your advice, count," said Hayden, when they were seated, "this rogue has picked up a child in the park—a lost child—claiming to have a mother."
               "Which of course she must have had," replied the count.
               "Exactly, but to my statement count, by some unaccountable freak of nature; some strange, inexplicable reason or cause, the child resembles him."
               The count started to his feet, while a dark, desperate frown shaded his brow; "go on," said he, as he suddenly resumed his seat, "I am listening."
               "You appear in pain, count, better call for brandy."
               "Tush, man," replied the count, "go on with your story, old age is a complaint. I feel the incipient stages of the advance."
               "You talk of that which is a long way off. But to resume, this child has been sent to the house by the man, Mike, and my father has met her with Miss Hardwick at the park."
               "The same who was engaged to him," asked the Count; "why I thought she was dead or crazed, or something of that sort, long ago."
               "The very same. Neither crazy, nor dead, Count. Since then my uncle has taken a great liking to the child, and often speaks of her, and I fear if she is not sent out of the way, a door through her interposition, may be ultimately opened for a compromise, and as for Miss Hardwick, my uncle fears her love for that coward still exists."
               "Coward," exclaimed the count. "Believe me you mistake your man. Rude, treacherous, unfeeling, debased, but no coward. Remember he has crossed swords with me, and to call him by that name would be to point a stigma on my shield of honor."
               "As you will," resumed Thomas; "your definitions as applied to him convey all proper extenuation of his character. Yes, sir, my lord count, he fears her love for him may be revived in case they meet, for the fellow is not bad in graces of person, and dresses at times to perfection. And he is always surrounded by a class of friends, as desperate in circumstances as himself."
               "I'll attend to him," said the count, "at a fitting time. As for the girl I'll look to your interest, she shall trouble your uncle no more."
               "And how, count?"
               "By sending her into the country."
               "She may return," said Thomas.
               "Very well, then, look to her yourself, she is too weak a thing for me to trouble about."
               Men conversant with the world and its inhabitants readily detect inferiority of mind, when brought in contact with the unfortunate individuals, who, having not the gift of common sense, supply its place by a vain assumption of importance and frequently place themselves in positions where their defect is only rendered more conspicuous by drawing upon itself the scrutiny of master minds. The count knew he was listening to the chatter of a man whose breast was filled with the venom of hate, but yet had not the capacity of intellect to devise any apparent way to gratify the malignant passion. Early next morning Jasper got a note without date or signature, reading as follows:
               "Let not the child he trusted out of yours or Mike's presence. She must be protected." Jasper knew the hand-writing and read the note to Mike.
               "Whose child can it be," asked Mike.
               "More than you think for, perhaps," said Jasper.
               "Of course it does not apply to Mr. Charlie," said Mike.
               "No, but then he ought to be warned," said Jasper.
               "What devils men must be who wish to injure innocent children like that," said Mike.
               "'Taint the hurtin' of children like this," replied Jasper, "its their standing in the way of some fortune, or some revenge, or punishment. I've heard enough of it in Europe and there be enough of it done here, if the country lives to be old enough."
               "If it was merely wanting the wickedness of the people, they'd be plenty of it done now."
               "I'm going to take her to see Mr. Charlie," added Mike, as Fanny made her appearance, looking as bright and blooming as a morning rose in May.
               "That's a lady," said Mike and Jasper, as she turned her cheek for them to kiss.
               "Don't I look nice enough, now, Mr. Jasper and Mike," said she, as she smoothed her apron and then stood straight up before them to be admired, "aunty had great trouble in fixing my hair, she says its very thick, but I mustn't have it cut, and that it ought to have been done in the spring," and Fanny smiled a cheerful smile.
               "Get your bonnet," said Jasper. "Mike's going to take you to see Mr. Charlie, and don't you, Mr. Mike, forget to tell him about the note to-day and the warning."
               Fanny, delighted at the idea of breakfasting with Mr. Charlie, bade aunty good bye, and telling Jasper she would return soon, showed herself out the door, and with her hand clasped in Mike's, they both hurried along as fast as their steps could carry them. It's something very pleasant to behold, to see a young child, 
                     bouyant
                     buoyant
                   with hope and expectation, tripping along at the extent of its speed, with every muscle braced with the vim of youth and every feature beaming with joy.
               Charlie was waiting at Delmonico's to receive her. On spying him she broke from Mike and ran to him with all her might.
               "Now then," she said as she saluted him, "you mustn't set up so late, your hand trembles like Jasper's does sometimes," and Charlie and Mike both laughed.
               "Come, Mike, let's go up, you both must breakfast with me to-day."
               "I've been to breakfast, thank you," replied that individual.
               "Well, you can talk with us while we are eating."
               "I can wait on Fanny," said Mike.
               "No matter, come up anyhow, I've engaged a private room."
               And no one would have thought from the pleasant smile which illumined his features, that aught of trouble or vexation was preying upon his mind, and that before twelve o'clock next day he would be a denizen of the prison walls.
               "Ain't everything nice and splendid though," said Fanny, as she cast an admiring glance upon the tables and flowers as she passed up the stairs, "to live here a week, Mr. Mike, would spoil us, wouldn't it, eh. My mother used to tell the servants not to spoil me."
               "And what else did she tell them," said Charlie, smiling.
               "Oh, a heap of things," she replied. "She'd make me sit just so at the table and wouldn't let me reach for anything, she always told me to ask the servants."
               "Would you not like to see your mother, Fanny?"
               "Oh, yes, Mr. Charlie, she's never out of my mind. I pray for her every night. Some day I'll see her walking in the street and then she'll know me, and we'll both cry, won't we, Mr. Charlie? and I'll bring her to see you in the dark prison house."
               Fanny praised the eggs, fish, and other splendid good things, for breakfast, and when they had finished, said "I thank you very much for such a nice breakfast, only I want to take something home for Jasper and Aunty."
               "And they shall not be forgotten," he said, as he beckoned to the waiter, and whispered in his ear. "Now then wait awhile Fanny, while I settle the bill, and get all ready to start when I return."
               "Where are we going now," said she, as he took her to one of the street cars.
               "You know the locket round your neck."
               "Oh yes, here it is, Mr. Charlie."
               "Well then, we are going to have your's and my likeness taken at the photographers. It being a double locket your portrait, shall be on one side and mine in the other."
               "Oh, won't that be delightful," said Fanny, "for then I can see you when you're in prison without going there, Mike's too, but we have no place to put it."
               "But you can put it in a book, Fanny."
               About noon, Fanny, and Mike returned, bringing her own and Charlie's photographs in the locket, and Mike's looking as natural as life on a copper plate. Shortly after their arrival a servant entered with a large basket, filled with an excellent, and ample dinner, from Delmonico's, being for Mr. Jasper and his sister, with the compliments of Mr. Charlie.
               "Blood will tell," said Jasper. "It's a family that always thought of the least as well as the greatest of their friends."
               "Yes," said aunty. "The wonder is where he gets the money for all this."
               "That's the question, now," said Mike, "for all we both have got, worth anything, except our clothes, lies snug in our uncle's chest."
               "He must borrow it," said aunty.
               "No, his friends made up a purse for him, and sent it as a gift," said Jasper.
               "And I'll warrant," said aunty, "it's the very ones for whom he's done the least. It's always so, those inclined to give and be merciful never measure the value of their gifts by what they expect in return."
               "I can 
                     scarcly
                     scarcely
                   walk the streets in the lower parts of the city," said Mike, "but I am stopped a dozen times by people, both men and women, enquiring after him. It's wonderful how many people he must know."
               "He'd better run for an office, when he gets free," said aunt.
               "Be assured," said Jasper, "he'll have enough to worry him then. It will be no child's play, the work he's got to go through with."
               How or where Champagne Charlie spent the balance of his time, being a night and a day, we shall not too closely scrutinize.
               Suffice it to say, that in one of the morning papers, appeared under the head of local news:
               "Hearing a boisterous outburst of gleeful music, issuing from one of our most commodious saloons, we surmised, and with a verity, ascertained, Champagne Charlie was again at large—we may therefore, expect a rise in the price of this delightful beverage."
               As the age becomes more individualised, men grow more selfish, and women more industrious, and self-reliant. At times the world seems to grow wearied of too much liberty. Or it may be more desirous of a change, which ends, in either internal commotions or foreign wars. And so it is when the rule is applied to human beings singly unlimited, or unchecked power to do as we please, soon makes us tire of a freedom which we use, abuse—and finally, surrender to the follies of our passion.
               Champagne Charlie was merely but an exemplification of the progressive spirit of the age, being misdirected in the aim of his ambition, foolish in the expenditure of his efforts, and wild, vicious, and extravagant in the application of his money. But it the world is ever so free from war or financial difficulties, still there is a latent fear resting upon the minds of nations which always renders them uncertain as to the solidity of the future. Be this the result of past experience, or the conscious knowledge of the commission of some great crime against the moral or religious laws, or the great predominating law of nature, we are not prepared to discuss, but certain it is, that this tear exists at all times among thinking men, and renders all things uncertain in the course of time and events.
               This secret fear oppressed Charlie, both night and day, unless listed from his soul by the madding influence of the bowl. Nothing could rid him of the pressure out a constant state of vinous excitement.
               That evening, while yet he lingered o'er his glass, a strange event had transpired in his favor, but he knew it not, and we shall reserve it for future mentioning—when we have more time to relate it in full.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE CAPTURE AND RESCUE.
               THE next day before the hour of ten, Champagne Charlie, was again a prisoner in Ludlow street jail. He had been like a school boy taking a holiday. He was now being taught a great lesson, the lesson of reflection. We will see in the end how much it availed him in the social sphere of existence.
               On the evening following the one of Charlie's imprisonment Jasper took Fanny to the Park, to show her the animals and let her view the various aquatic fowls, floating in all the pride of native grace, upon the beautiful pond of water that stretches through this wild and delightful retreat for all careworn citizens. On returning home, in order to vary the sights and render the walk more interesting for the child—he struck out into a different path from that which they had entered.
               "Look," said Fanny, "there comes the same two men that rode with us in the car, and talked so many queer things about the animals."
               "People have great liberty to roam about here," replied Jasper, "no one can interfere with you unless you tread on the grass, or injure the 
                     shubbery
                     shrubbery
                   or the buildings."
               "Yes," said Fanny, "but they were looking at me so hard and talking all the time, and only look, one of them is waving his handkerchief to that man with the cab."
               "They want to ride home, that's all," said Jasper, "they are tired like we are. I fear I've dragged you along too far, and it will be dark soon, we will have to call a cab, too."
               "The cab's corning this way," said Fanny, "may be they will give us a ride home."
               "Yes," said Jasper, "and I will pay him well too."
               "Will there be room for all, if the gentlemen will let us go with them?"
               "I think so," said Jasper, "when they see you are tired and I'm a leetle, only a leetle lame."
               "Still you're lame, Uncle Jasper, and that's a good excuse, aint it?"
               By this time both the men and cab had drawn very near to them, and when the vehicle had stopped at the call of the man, Jasper said:
               "Will you pardon me, but I think we have lost our way, and it's getting late, and we are both tired, will you pardon me if I ask the privilege to ride with you to where the street cars stop?"
               "By all means," said the two men, glancing at each other with a meaning smile.
               "I'll pay the whole reckoning for your journey into the city, my good sirs," added Jasper.
               "No need, no need of that extravagance, we can accommodate you with pleasure," said the taller of the two roughly dressed men, "get in and let's be off."
               Jasper was placed on one of the back seats while the same tall passenger took his seat beside him, and, despite her bashful struggles, took Fanny upon his knees. The other man sat with the driver. The word was given to start and the cab moved off at a brisk rate of speed.
               One hour from the date of the above occurrence, Captain Travator left his cabin and sauntered from his ship upon the dock. Twilight had just faded into the dusky hue of night. He had been writing nearly all the evening in the cabin of the ship, which was moored to the dock. The evening air, fresh from the ocean, refreshed his heated temples, and he was just in the act of lighting his cigar, when a boat with two men in it was rowed to the dock. The boat was not made fast, but one of the men climbed upon the dock and appeared to be expecting the arrival of some one, by the constant glances he cast towards the city. At last came the rattling of wheels over the boards and then a cab furiously driven, made its entrance upon the pier head.
               "All right," shouted the man who came in the boat, as he saw one of those who came in the cab alight from its steps and the other drag out the form of a resisting child, assisted by a man sitting in the cab.
               "Oh! take me home! take me home to Mike!" cried the child; "you are going to kill me as you did poor Jasper!"
               "Hush, my child, we're going to take you to your mother," said the tall form.
               "Pick her up and carry her to the boat. Put your hand on her mouth and stop her fussing," said one.
               But the child struggled so violently that he shouted to the man on the dock—"lend me a hand here, will you, and that very quick."
               "Aye," shouted a voice at his elbow, as he received a blow that sent him whirling, and turning behind the cab, "crew of the Bedford lend a hand," shouted the same loud resounding voice "lend a hand to secure these villains;" and, as several of the crew made their appearance, and the two men cried, "turn, cabman, turn and drive with all speed," and then the one who had been struck by the powerful arm of Captain Travator staggered into the cab which was speedily turned round and driven off, even with more speed than it had arrived, while the man on the dock jumped into the boat which was then rowed off as fast as the oars could touch the water.
               
               "Come with me, my poor little girl, I'm glad I saved you from those ruffians, but I'll catch and finish them yet," and he took the child in his arms and carried her up the gangway, and deposited her motionless form in the ship's cabin. "Sally," said he, to the chambermaid, "attend to the little one."
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               SOME ACCOUNT OF THE KIDNAPPING OF FANNY.
               AFTER Sally had pacified the child and forced her to drink a cup of warm tea, the captain had returned, for he had gone to the police station to notify them of the attempted abduction of the child and the probable murder of Jasper at the park. And the telegraph sent the news from station to station in the twinkling of an eye, and search was instantly made at the park for Jasper's body. Captain Travator descended into the cabin and found Fanny still laboring under the effects of fright.
               Whether the count suspected any immediate action upon the part of Hayden in regard to the child, or whether it was his great anxiety to ascertain the presence of the countess in the city that led him to Jasper's house, we are unable to determine, but certain it was, that at nine o'clock he rapped at Jasper's door three times, as was his custom.
               "Come in," said Mike, as he cautiously opened the door, and on seeing the count, exclaimed: "Bad luck to you, if you bring bad news from Jasper and the child."
               "Jasper at home," enquired the count.
               "No, nor I hope you've had no hand in keeping him away, whoever you bes."
               "What has happened, my good man. Jasper nor the child, not at home at this late hour?"
               "Went out walking to the park, sir," replied Mike, "heard nothing of either of them, have been watching at the corner for the last hour."
               While they were yet speaking, a cab drove up to the door, and Jasper, accompanied by a policeman, arrived.
               "Ah, Mattero," said the count, "who could have so injured you."
               "I know not, only the child's stolen, and my scalp is fearfully cut by a slung shot," and he raised the handkerchief from his skull, displaying a mass of gory matted hair. "But let me to bed, and let a doctor be sent for."
               "What of Fanny, my darling," exclaimed aunty, running towards Jasper, who was being assisted into the house by the policeman and Mike.
               "Mention her not, sister," solemnly ejaculated Jasper, "she's in the hands of robbers and thieves, she screamed for mercy but they would not harken to her, they have stolen her away, and no doubt, beyond the city limits, now. Put me to bed."
               Scarcely had the doctor arrived and dressed his ugly and dangerous cut upon his head, just above the right temple, when another cab arrived, and Fanny was carried from the coach into the house.
               "Thank you, Mr. Captain Travator, I feel safe now. I'll thank you to-morrow, you must tell Mike all about it, I want to see aunty."
               "God be praised," exclaimed Mike, "aunty, look to the little child," and while tears ran down his cheeks he took the child by the hand but was unable to speak to her any more.
               The child appeared as yet stupefied, and looked wonderingly around.
               "Come here, Fanny, don't you know aunty," said the old maid.
               "Oh, yes," replied Fanny, "but Jasper, Mr. Jasper's killed."
               "Not killed," said Jasper, calling from the next room, "I'll be well to-morrow."
               "I'm so glad," said she wiping the sweat from her feverish brow, "if you aint up to-morrow, good Jasper, we'll nurse you, won't we, good aunty."
               "God bless you, my child," said Captain Travator, as he drew her towards him and raised her upon his knee. "It is impossible not to love you. I only wish I could be assured of one fact; though, I ought to believe his story, as he was willing to submit to the test of the ordeal."
               "Oh, yes," replied the child, "you should believe Mr. Jasper, it wasn't his fault. They struck him with a lump of lead with a string to it, and when he fell down in the cab, they dragged him out and threw him in the bushes, and placed their hands over my mouth to keep me from screaming. All the way through the streets I tried to scream, but they held their hands across my mouth, and told me they were taking me to my mother, and that Jasper was a bad man, and was keeping me away from her. But I'm glad good Mr. Jasper aint killed. He'll get well soon, now the doctor's come, eh, aunty."
               When Mike turned his eyes upon the seaman he discovered large tears glistening in the eyes of the robust captain.
               "I must go now, Mike," said Fanny's rescuer, "see to the child and Jasper, and let no expanse be spared."
               But Mike could scarcely speak, "Depend on me, captain." "Poor little sufferer," he lisped, "who is that dark looking personage standing by the door, outside, Mike."
               "I don't know, captain, I think he's been here once before."
               "I'll speak to him," said Travator, but as he approached the door, the dark mantled form receded into the darkness of night.
               "Halt," said the seaman, but the count heeded not the challenge, and hastened his strides towards Broadway.
               "Ask Jasper if he knows him, Mike," said the captain.
               "It's Captain Smith," said Jasper, who had heard of the inquiry, "officer of this beat, rooms at the station house, where we stopped to give information while being brought home."
               "It's an ugly piece of business," said the captain, "a regular case of abduction. These villains shall be haunted out if I have to sell the Bedford, they shall be hunted down to the utmost punishment of the law."
               On parting with Fanny for the night, he promised to call and see her on the following day.
               "Can it be that the Count, my brother-in-law, has conspired to deprive Corinne of all peace of mind and followed her to this city, and tracked her into her private retreat. I feel convinced, in fact know, the countess is here and fears his presence, and this accounts for her concealment. Woe be unto him if he but dare pluck one thread of her hair—or again raise his revengeful hand against her. I see nothing but squalls ahead, nothing but a rough sea and a rocky shore, but the sooner it comes the quicker will end the blow."
               While thus musing, he was being driven to his ship—where he arrived at a late hour of the night. The count had retired into his room at the hotel, and was sitting in his robe and slippers, when Thomas Hayden entered, looking much distressed in his manner and countenance.
               "Ah, count," said he, "yours was a most emphatic request, you see how promptly I have obeyed your summons."
               "Glad to see you, remarkably glad to welcome you, friend Thomas, take a seat, and now a cigar. Perhaps a glass of brandy," continued the count, "would restore the equilibrium of our nerves," and he touched the bell, and after giving orders for refreshments he took a seat opposite to his uneasy guest. "What a liberty, what privileges possesses the mind," resumed the count, "an Excelsior little world within herself. With an effort of the will, we can stand in mid-air—float round the surface of the sun, looking for some portal to enter—or then again, sink into the infernal regions and walk on liquid streams of heated sulphur and yet return to earth unscathed. And here too we can sport any character we please, form any combinations for good or evil, from the assassinating of a President to the stealing away of a timid, innocent child."
               "My lord count, you yourself suggested the abduction. The man who fondles the girl is as much your enemy as mine, and every blow aimed to stun his feeling, is a punishment in your favor."
               "You can go now," said the count to the servant who had brought in the decanters, ice, and glasses. "Now, friend Thomas, a glass with you—night is the proper time to indulge—your health, and a merry heart to all christendom," and they both tipped glasses and after sipping their brandy, placed their grog near them on the table, beside which they were sitting.
               "In regard to the abduction of the child, it was not so much to punish the treacherous Jocylen, as it was to feed your avarice. You feared the child's influence with your uncle. Therefore say not that either directly or indirectly, it was to save me or gratify my desire for vengeance, or spirit of retaliation, for, I suppose, aside from the novelty of watching over the child, and the pride some bachelors take in petting other people's children, this audacious ingrate cares as little for its safety as you or I do."
               "It may be as you affirm, but you would not like to see this base scamp rolling in wealth, after my uncle's death, with ample means to circumvent your plans for vengeance, or fly your wrath, or dance attendance on the countess," replied Hayden.
               "Beware," said the nobleman "how you associate my wife's name, with such a villain," and the start he gave, as he sprung from his seat, made my uncle's nephew recoil back in his chair.
               "I was only supposing a case," responded Hayden. "It might never happen, but it's always right to present things in their proper light and correct bearing on any object, or act of importance which it is possible, in the course of events, may happen."
               "Aye," replied the count, "there are some comparisons which even friendship—nay interest, will not tolerate. But what of the child?"
               "I have obeyed your advice, my lord, and sent her into the country."
               "Mayhap to die," resumed the count, "else to suffer—or by chance to grow up a woman of the town. Will you, can you, make amends to her for such treatment when you inherit your uncle's estate. Speak, man, what are 
                     you
                     your
                   intents, for if you want my aid and silence—speak truthfully to the point in question, will you see her rescued from the cold charity of the world's great reservoir of ice."
               "I will then have no cause to fear, no restrictions will be placed upon her freedom. I can well afford to endow her to the extent of a thousand a year."
               "Good—excellentisima," rejoined the count. "I give you my approval, my support, and my positive silence."
               "In regard to this man in prison," inquired Thomas.
               "Wait until he is again at large."
               "But now's the time to stop up the hole while he's out of it and caged. He's not suspicious. He's defiant."
               "Nor revengeful, he's only palsied by drink, so long as you have money furnished him through Fling to indulge in dissipation you have no fear of a reconciliation with his father. But who is this Fling," said the count.
               "Miss Hardwick's uncle—you heard of him in Europe. He's furthering and pushing my suit with his 
                     neice
                     niece
                   for me."
               "Oh, yes, a bachelor, now I comprehend. Jocylen was engaged to her when she was seized with madness or something of that sort and put in a lunatic asylum. I should not like to marry a woman who had once been crazy, friend Hayden."
               "There were great riches left to her on condition that she would not marry Leonard Jocylen after her uncle's death, for if she did the wealth was to go to Mr. Fling and an aunt of hers, Nobles by name."
               "You seem to be well advised upon all these subjects, Hayden," said the count. "And you should be too, as we were all in Naples when these events took place," replied the nephew. "But it may not be fully made known to you how really base is this cousin of mine. He's a blasted seducer."
               "What mean you, you tormenting fiend, refer to the subject again and I'll hurl you from that window," said the count as he sprang to his feet, shaking his clenched fist near the nostrils of the craven, but wily nephew.
               "You mistake me, my friend Marlo. I refer to Miss Spray, a victim in this city—-girl of seventeen. Innocent until he led her from tho confines of duty and virtue. Now you know his villainy. You seem to imagine he's brave, but such a guilty wretch cannot, dare not risk his life on the field of honor."
               "I'm glad we understand each other;" said the count, offering his hand, "I thought you referred to the old sore. Work, work, keep the fire hot and the pot boiling. Paint him a devil in appearance and a very Bacchus in dissipation."
               "I'll do it, count, and when he gets out of prison he'll find himself an object of scorn and contempt."
               "You must aid in getting him out—and give him rope to hang himself. Public sympathy is in his, as it is generally in favor of most prisoners."
               "But I fear my financial agent, Fling; the more I give the more he wants, and I fear he does not legitimately spend the money as designed, and keeps the most of the funds for his own pleasure."
               At this remark the count could not restrain his laughter. "Well, well," said he, "such things are to be expected. They grease machinery to prevent friction, but much of the oil is wasted, still enough sticks to answer the purpose, so it is with the machinery of events, keep on greasing until the job is finished."
               When the two parted for the night, the decanter was empty, and a cock from a neighboring stable, with clear shrill notes was sounding the approach of morn.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE PROPOSAL.
               "SHOW me the figure in the multiplication table, which, by doubling and multiplying, will equal the possibilities of life, nothing is impossible, sir, except a cure for the cancer or consumption," said M. Jocylen, in reply to Mr. Hayden's remarks at table.
               "Why do you deny the possibility of your son's reformation, or that Miss Hardwick may still entertain feelings of liking or affection for him," rejoined Mr. Hayden.
               "For this reason, she is spirited and high toned, and cannot, will not marry the destroyer of two women."
               "But first prove the crimes, Mr. Jocylen. The first was denied, the second is mere hearsay."
               "At all events, a man's reputation must be anything but good who is liable to have such grave and serious charges laid at his feet," said Mr. Jocylen.
               "Mere allegations, mere suspicions, mere inuendos, are as the breath we breathe, vanishes as soon as emitted from the mouth."
               "I think, Thomas," said the uncle to the nephew, who had just entered, "you had better make it a point to call on Miss Hardwick, and definitely ascertain if she will accept you as her husband. You will state your present worth at one hundred thousand dollars, with an assurance upon my part, by legal act properly indented and recorded, of all my possessions on my demise."
               "I was but awaiting your orders, my good, my generous uncle, I am fully prepared to obey your request."
               "Now then go, and report to us at breakfast the result of your embassy. I have already notified her of my intention to make you my heir, and as I am sure my fortune is not interior to hers, your power to win her must rest entirely upon your own personal attractions and merits. Now go, and may success crown your efforts, a beautiful and rich bride endowed with all the charms and graces nature can bestow, and all the blandest merits and perfections, which art can adorn, needs must satisfy the most tame in soul, and inspire it with a passion that will nerve to victory and to conquest."
               "Thomas," said his uncle Hayden, "don't forget to open a seventy-four gunship of abuse upon your prisoner of war, and look out that Cupid didn't douse your fire. The god's a compound of subtle essences, as effervescent as the froth of Charlie's champagne." And the uncle gave forth a guttural laugh, and flashed a quizzical glance at the nephew.
               "Well, really, Hayden," said Mr. Jocylen, "you must have been indulging in one cup too much in the scamp's beverage."
               Not so with the nephew, his coarse features contracted and expanded and then settled into a sullen frown. As his uncle's remarks tingled with lingering distinctness, upon the tympanums of his hearing organs. Thomas visited his barber that same night.
               "Let not a hair be displaced, or disarranged, Floto," said he to the hair-dresser, "touch lightly when you apply the tongs, then wash my face well with lily-white, there are those freckles which bother me, try and efface them."
               Patiently he submitted his elongated skull to the tittivations of the adroit Frenchman, and when he returned to the house, preparatory to dressing for the final interview, Robert did not recognize him, for his hair was curled to a frizzle, and his face bleached almost to the whiteness of chalk. He soon reappeared from his room encased in the best cloth the city could supply, and his person son ornamented with a silk hat, the gloss of which reflected like a black mirror; but still, from the coarse bullet eyes glared the passions of the soul, a lustful glare of effrontery and assurance.
               His uncle's carriage was in waiting for him, he entered and the coachman closed the door, "To Miss Hardwick's," and the attendant footman bowed.
               "It's devilish strange," he mused, while he leaned back against the padded back of the carriage, "that I've heard nothing as to where they've taken the girl. I suppose I'll hear all about it on their return. The count will keep an eye upon the whole affair, once married and a half million to back me and I leave wolves and hounds to cry in vain upon my track across the water."
               Thus lost in his plans for the future the carriage suddenly ceased moving thereby breaking his thread of thought.
               It had arrived before the mansion which contained the object of his fondest desires—on whose lips were to hang the potential words of "yes or no," an affirmative being equivalent to the granting of a very large fortune—a negative, the loss, 
                     propably
                     probably
                  , of a larger one—for he feared his uncle might take umbrage at his want of tact in bringing this lady to a proper sense of his merits as a gentleman, and qualifications as a husband—no unusual display bedecked Miss Hardwick's person on the occasion. The glass lights were no more brilliant than on his previous, and less important visits. The figures in the turkey carpet wore no more glaring luster in their coloring. The blue silk ottomans and gilded mirrors were nothing changed in their garish richness of gloss. Her hair was combed from her brow, in its usual style, nor was there in the expression of her finely chiseled features, one 
                     varing
                     varying
                   shade of thought or passion, different from that she wore on his last visit—sameness in appearance, either of manner or dress, scarcely satisfies a constant visitor, "what mediocrity in intellect and character are in persons," he observed mentally, "so are dress and action when they strike the physical organs of sense, exciting no pleasure-calling forth no effort of comparison, no variety by which we can exercise a discriminating power of taste." Somehow or other, the want of change, or displacement of something, impressed him with an ominous warning of being disappointed, but he soon with all effort of his will, brushed from his mind any predisposition to be foiled in the attempt of this charming conquest, and so he directly went to work in the most improved modern way to plead his cause, and make out his case.
               "You are aware," said he after a few preliminary remarks, "that I have arrived at a period in life, when I must determine the important question of marriage."
               "I should think so, Mr. Hayden, and it has been a matter of surprise to some of your friends, that you have delayed, up to this late day, in advancing the interest, and confirming the happiness of some lady, really worthy of your acceptance."
               "Decidedly encouraging or decidedly indifferent," mused Hayden, who replied:
               "There are many things to be considered. First, as to class, second as to fortune, and third, as to disposition and habits. Now, pardon me," said he advancing with a most profound bow, "if I have presumed too far on your cordial greeting of myself upon all occasions when you have been pleased to honor me with your acquaintance. Pardon me, if I venture to assert, with due deference to your superior excellences, aye, to believe that I have found a similarity in our relations, and in our positions in society, all the essential elements, which in my humble judgement, constitute mutuality of connubial interests which, if coherently united would be promotive of personal and social happiness."
               "I thank you for the compliment," she replied without evincing either surprise or emotion. "Certainly, your opinion expressed as you have done, is a great compliment—indeed, I may add, a profound compliment, and I sincerely thank you for the honor you have conferred upon me, in every way. I can assure you, without 
                     pertension
                     pretension
                   to marital honors myself I deem you worthy of some younger and fairer lady."
               Confounded by her reply, and not having a ready discernment of intellect, he was at a loss how to interpret it. However, he was determined to persevere until he got from her own lips, issued by her own breath, the emphatic monosylable, "yes or no."
               "Permit me to express myself with more freedom and directness. I have deemed you worthy of the greatest position wealth can confer upon any woman, in this or any land."
               "Pray do, now, Mr. Hayden," she interrupted, "place a limit upon your laudation, else I shall believe your visit this evening, was but to test the capacity of my vanity."
               "Indeed you wrong my finer sense of manhood. I now, as but Heaven and we are witnesses, offer, in all humility, my fortune, cash in hand, one hundred thousand dollars, and all my uncle's inheritance after death, if you will but deem me worthy to become your companion through life. Speak, for on your sentence or acquital hangs the destiny of my happiness for ever," and he cast himself upon one knee, while his thumbs were stuck into the arm-holes of his vest, and his bulging eyes rolled and glared in their sockets like the globes of a dying buck.
               "Please get up, Mr. Hayden, such a sight is humiliating and mortifying. Allow me to offer you my sincere thanks for the honor of your proposal, but I have resolved never to marry; we cant remain friends, let that satisfy us, and may you be blessed with some more deserving helpmate, in your arduous struggle through life."
               "Then I am to understand that you refuse Thomas Hayden, nephew of Leonard Jocylen. Refuse a man with a hundred thousand hard cash, nothing bogus and pinchback about it, and refuse me, the heir to ten time that amount in perspective," said he, still kneeling while his eyes rolled round the room as though his senses were doubly confounded.
               "Have I not spoken sufficiently plain, would you be so ungallant, Mr. Hayden, as to force upon any gentleman of your worth and standing in society a positive and direct refusal."
               "Then it's a no, no go," said he, winding up his remarks with a shrill whistle.
               "I'll tell you what," he continued, after he regained his feet, "you can render me a great service by stating to me, that at present you are not prepared to give an answer, and will take my application into serious consideration."
               "I cannot compromise my own dignity by performing an act which might mislead others. It would be practising imposition. Pardon me if I decline."
               "But do, pray, now," he pleaded with clasped hands, and looking her full in the face, "it will help me with my uncle, it will indeed, for he has set his heart upon this match, and all my plans for the inheritance will be disconcerted."
               "It cannot be, pray end this interview or I will be compelled to retire."
               "Ah, I, hold your secret, woman, for you're but a woman, see," said he, all the baser passions taking control over his nature while his face assumed a wild sinister expression, "you love another, but you dare not, cannot wed him, or all that great fortune you now flaunt before the eyes of the public will melt like fat in fire."
               "How dare you, sir, use such language to me," and she raised herself in her full height of womanly dignity, while her cheeks flushed with excitement and anger, "get you gone, and insult me no more with your rude and uncouth presence."
               "Oh yes, its all very fine, so does flourish the peacock, when he spreads his tail feathers, but just let him look at his bulbus toes, and see how his beautiful external appendage slinks down. You are willing to ruin me; I'll see what I can do for your pet love, now incarcerated in Ludlow Jail. Eh, you turn pale, but you can't marry, go back to the asylum, go and live on the charity of the state," and with a loud guffaw laugh, and a swing of his hat in the air, he left the room.
               Outrageously insulted to a degree beyond endurance, she sought her chamber and vented her indignation and wounded pride in a copious flow of tears, woman's best and last solace in trouble, love or sorrow.
               "Drive to the Harlequin," he said to the astonished footman, as he jerked open the carriage door himself, and bounded in, "Drive one block this side of the house, and return at two o'clock."
               On the way he sat on the back seat a tiring mass of tigerish fury, galvanized with a coating of hate, to a degree which prevented him even from thinking. The Harlequin was a species of half fashionable and half citizen affair, in the way of a saloon in drinking and eating, but with private rooms for gentlemen and ladies.
               He walked in, after leaving the carriage, and asked the barkeeper for a person by the name of Scribner.
               "You'll find him in one of the back rooms, he was here but a moment ago."
               To his great joy, Hayden soon espied a youthful looking personage, of very sharp features, long tapering fingers, and slim person.
               Mr. Scribner received him with very flattering demonstrations of respect, when he was invited by Hayden to take a drink, which he readily accepted. He then went to the clerk and asked for a private room which was soon accorded him.
               "Now, Scribner, you are said to be the best imitator in the state, say if you can write a note in a fac simile handwriting as this;" and he threw down a note received by his uncle, from Miss Hardwick, thanking him for some handsome flowers.
               "It can be done," said Scribner.
               "Now then," said Hayden, "take out your pencil and write:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. THOMAS HAYDEN:
                           
                           Dear Sir:—Upon your flattering compliment in my behalf, last evening, personally paid to me, I have to reply, that from considerations I cannot explain at present without compromising a dear friend, I must defer giving a decided answer for the present, in the mean time accept my kindest and sincerest wishes for yours to me, not indifferent health.
                           
                              ELLENOR HARDWICK."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "This must be sent to me at five to-morrow at my uncle's house, as for the lady's house I'll give you the description" and he then fully explained its exact location.
               "And now," said he, "you must go and watch and see how her footman dresses, then rig yourself off to suit, for there must be no failure. Here is fifty to begin with, and to-morrow night, meet me at this hour and you shall have a like sum. Now let us have a bottle of wine, and then I'm off, for I scarcely know whether I'm standing on my head or my heels."
               The wine was soon dispatched, when Hayden left his accomplice in this 
                     iniquitious
                     iniquitous
                   proceeding, and hurried off to meet a person, more interesting, and by far more in accordance in her taste, with the tone of his mind.
               Leaving the Bowery, he struck off toward East Broadway, and soon reached a small brick house, one of the upper windows of which was open and a white curtain drawn across on the inner side.
               "All right," said he, as he deliberately walked up the steps, took a night-key from his pockets unlocked the door and entered sans ceremonie. Turning into a small but neatly furnished parlor, he rung a bell three times—and then seated himself with a lazy swing into a hair backed rocking-chair, soon came the rustling of a flowing robe of silk down the stairs, when a lady entered whom he greeted with a prolonged kiss.
               "Has the count been here to see you today," he enquired as he resumed his seat.
               "No, bless your sweet soul, he left for Washington, early this morning."
               "Then you have passed a dreary day, Charlotte?"
               "Oh, no, I went out shopping. Was in hopes of meeting you in the street."
               "And so you are all alone?"
               "All alone, Tom, and the lady took a seat beside him on the sofa, for he had cast himself there after her free salutatory reception."
               "On looking over the papers, yesterday, I saw, under the head of rewards, two hundred offered for a diamond broach, with reference to this house, to the finder."
               "Exactly," said Charlotte, slightly confused, which but added to her beauty, for she was a strikingly handsome woman, having a brilliant black eye, aquiline nose, dark brown hair, and a very expressive mouth.
               "You lost the broach in Broadway," he continued as he fixed his large glaring rolling eyes full upon the count's mistress.
               "Yes, and a serious loss it was too, being of the value of six hundred in gold, a present from Chevalier Rignon."
               "And you casually lost it," he continued as he walked to the mirror and arranged his collar.
               "Have I not told you," she replied in a vexed tone, while nipping the ends of her finger nails with her white set of glistening teeth.
               "I'm not your confessor, Charlotte."
               "Nor my lover, either," she replied, "but the count's professed friend," the last two words were spoken with an emphasis.
               "Your speech implies a negation, but in reality I came not here to quarrel, but to serve you. A glass of brandy, and then to business."
               "The count's boon companion, what a pity you were not a titled gentleman. But you shall have your stimulator," she said, and then producing a decanter and glasses before him, she left the room and soon returned. After indulging in 
                     severel
                     several
                   drinks in quick succession he seated himself upon the sofa and took her soft white tapering hand in his, and turning one of the rings on her finger, and intently gazing at it, said:
               "A costly jewel this, a very beautiful ruby. I suppose another present."
               "Oh yes, from another friend of the count's, Mr. Noddy. But you was alluding to the broach I lost."
               "Lost," said he, still viewing the ring, "lost, when and where?"
               "In the street, I suppose," she replied, with assumed indifference.
               "The count comes not home to-night."
               "The count comes not home to-night," she repeated.
               "And not coming home will sleep in his hotel at the capitol."
               "I presume so," she replied, withdrawing her hand.
               "Your broach," said he, trying to smile a lascivious cunning smile, "lost in the street, now look here, Charlotte, to be plain with you, I am in possession of your secret."
               "Secrets, I have many," she replied, coloring.
               "I believe you," he rejoined, with something of vulgar hauteur in his manner, "but this secret of the broach, now, you are but a kept mistress, and that's the first and last of it."
               "Sir, you need not remind me of it. If you intend to insult me there's the door, it is not locked."
               "You mistake," he rejoined again taking her hand, "I am a bachelor, and you but a paid hireling. Do not interrupt me. Of the broach I know and have all."
               "Impossible; Hayden," said she, rising to her fleet and looking full in his face.
               "So, so, my charming lady, listen; suppose a friend of the count's should say to him, 'Count Marlo, ask your mistress to show you her broach, present from Rignon,' and my lady should reply to her lord's inquiry, 'I have lost it in t the street, see here, my dear, is the reward I offered in the papers.' The count would repair the loss and sympathize with you."
               "I believe so," she lisped.
               "But suppose on the contrary some one should say, 'In playing last night with some ladies at a fashionable retreat in Broadway, I lost several hundreds at cards, but won this beautiful broach,' and he took the case containing the jewelry from his coat pocket."
               "I do not know what he would say, dear Hayden, but I know what Charlotte would say—give me the broach."
               "And at any price, sweet Charlotte."
               "I did not go so far, dear Hayden."
               "The count sleeps not in this house to-night," he said, as he fixed a meaning glance upon her reddened cheeks.
               Charlotte remained silent as he continued.
               "The broach is yours upon one condition. Do you grant it?"
               "You would avail yourself of the count's absence."
               "Precisely, and if such be your inclination," and he cast his arm round her waist as he spoke, "if such be your consent, the broach is yours. Do you consent?"
               "Provided your demands are never urged again?"
               "I swear it."
               "Then give me the broach."
               "Take it, but never trust its value to cards again."
               "Not half the jewelry and other articles advertised to be stolen or lost in the papers are really so made way with. Some women from the miserly habits of their husbands, or from a passion for play, are compelled to resort to many shifts to supply their necessary wants; now, women have financial operations of their own, in modern times, to negotiate, and it is not to be wondered at if they seek to avoid the annoyance of creditors or supply their wants, if they occasionally slip out of the sphere of their legitimate duties, which rightly pertain to every loving wife. I'll tell you a case in question, a lady friend of mine was partial to a young gentleman, who lost all at the gambling table, he made known to her his destitute condition, well, what does my lady do, gives him her costliest jewelled ring, next day a reward is offered by her father, the young man presents it at the gentleman's counting room as the finder, and receives the one hundred and fifty reward."
               "Sharp, d——n sharp practice," exclaimed Hayden, pouring out another glass of brandy and then went to dismiss the coachman for the night, and on his return, he said as he walked alone, "In married life a man has eighty chances to twenty in his favor on the score of virtue, but in keeping a mistress he has about a hundred against him," and Hayden was about right in this if in nothing else.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE ROBBERY AND LETTER OF ACCEPTANCE.
               SHOWERY weather and plenty of rain, all the better for the fish and ducks, all the worse for the merchants and the bricklayers, how delightful for the novel readers, how fragrant from the new leaves the printer's ink ascends to his nostrils, oh, the new novel, has not the papers extolled it to the very utmost limits of praise, what stirring scenes and pathetic paragraphs are in store for the anxious, panting, and eager peruser of the new novel; and its raining, pouring down outside, and all so cozy and comfortable within, no children to worry the bachelor, no beau to disturb the young girl. "Stand from under and let the rain fall," a new novel upon which the press bestows its laudation, is as good as a new friend any day in wettish weather. It is not very late, but it is raining upon the house tops, in the streets, and upon the fields and rivers. Miss Hardwick sits in her luxurious chamber of wealth, the gas is burning brightly, but yet reduced down to a good angle of reflective rays, she places her ivory cutter on the table beside her book, a new novel by it very distinguished, foreign—mark you, reader, foreign—novelist, "Distance," Campbell says, "lends enchantment to the view." American novels do not suit those who have travelled much, they lose their charm, if they ever possessed any, by being but imitations; not all, let us 
                     ex-except
                     except
                   Cooper, and a few others of note. The name of the novel is true from this course here or abroad, called "Dot in the Eye."
               She has read the two first chapters and manifests the most intense interest. She places down the book upon the table, carefully marking the page with the ivory cutter between the leaves; she locks the doors leading to her chamber, in order that she may not be disturbed by the servants; she stands before the mirror, re-coils her long clustering locks of glossy hair and carelessly ties them in a bunch upon the top of her head, she then partially turns down the gas, to the merest glimmer, and disrobes herself of her costly vestments—and when she turns on the gas to its previous splendor she is seen arrayed in her night gown, of purest white, with ruffles round the neck and bordering the breast and skirt; now all is quiet; and thus arranged she resumes her reading of "Dot in the Eye."
               There's a light movement of the curtain, instinctively she turns her head when a young man of a slim figure, slouch hat, and brown hair, and with revolver in hand, cocked and pointed towards her, stands beside her chair.
               "One scream, one call for help, and you die—die like a dog, Mademoiselle. Silence, and all will go well." A cold chill, as sudden as the appearance of the robber was unexpected, passed through her frame.
               "Who sent you here?" she asked with a faltering voice, while her face became livid pale.
               "Who sent me here? Who or what sends thousands to the prison and the grave! What robs virtue of its purity, manhood of its honor, the father of his child, and husband of his wife! What, or who sends me here! One who is a stranger to you, and to all your unfeeling and usurping class. Know his name for it is grim-visaged Want."
               "May I not relieve your want without violence," she falteringly exclaimed.
               "Yes, and mark each feature of my face, each twirl of my eye, each move of my body for identification, and he  down with the villainous nostrils of the infamous police. You can neither soften nor betray me with your cajoling soft solder. Get you to bed, and lie there." And he caught her by the wrist and with one hand dragged her towards the bed, while with the other, he almost pressed the point of the pistol-barrel against her temple.
               "I'll not be outraged," she gasped, "I will die first."
               "Lie quiet, while I help to relieve my wants, and by God—no harm shall come of it; but once dare call and Hell or Heaven, shall be your portion within a moment."
               So paralysed was she from fear, that she could neither call nor move, while he grasped her in his arms, threw her on the bed, and hurled the clothes over her trembling form, then bidding her remain quiet, he began pillaging the drawers of the bureau, and after obtaining her pocket-book, and several costly jewels, he took his departure, as quietly as he had entered. After recovering the use of her senses, she glanced from beneath the bed clothes, and found, that after turning down the gas to the merest glimmer to light him from the room, he had taken his departure, she arose from the bed, with a bound of desperation, casting the bed clothes upon the floor, and rung the bell with violent and spasmodic jerks, the house was soon alarmed, the police called, when it was found he had ascended to the balcony, by the scaffolding erected before the adjoining house, then under-going repairs, and had out the shade from the window blind. After a hasty examination of her drawers, she found several of her most valuable pieces of jewelry had been taken, but what grieved her most, was the loss of a locket containing the likeness of a young man, encircled with diamonds. She sat down in her rocking-chair and wept scalding tears for the loss, to her more precious than all the jewelry the robber had stolen.
               At breakfast on the morning after Hayden's cruel proposal, to Miss Hardwick, the uncle exclaimed: "Well, Tom, what of the acceptance, may we expect a marriage feast?"
               "My dear uncle, we shall know during the day. She alleged surprise, and requested until to day to decide."
               "Then she's yours," said the uncle, striking his open hand with a startling whack upon the table, which made the china rebound, "when any woman will agree to consider a proposition of marriage when wealth is concerned, be assured, incontestably be assured, she's as good as won and captured."
               At dinner reference was again made to the subject, and they were discussing the probability of the delaying of the answer on her part, when Robert entered with a note, very delicately stamped with a red ribbon affixed. The uncles looked at each other while Tom opened and read the note sent by Scribner, which, after reading, he passed to his uncles who in turn handed it to his uncle Hayden.
               "As I told you," said Mr. Jocylen, leaving his chair and walking round to where Tom was sitting, "as I told you, my good nephew," and he shook young Hayden by the hand, while a happy smile illumined his aged features.
               "Robert," he called, bring a bottle of old port, and small glasses, "we will honor this occasion, Mr. Hayden, for now our nephew, Tom, will be blessed with the most charming lady living, and endowed with her ample fortune."
               "May he apply it to most useful purpose."
               "Trust to him, Mr. Hayden," said Mr. Jocylen, in a most delighted and triumphant tone of voice, "fear him not, he's the very personification of prudence and economy."
               "There was one favor she particularly requested me to grant, uncle, which she alleged was for prudential reasons necessary to be observed at present, and that was absolute silence for the time being of our engagement, in case she accepted, which, of course, I promised, and on the honor of a gentleman will comply with."
               "And you are right, my nephew, always speak, act, and prove the gentleman. From my lips never a word, and from yours, Mr, Hayden?"
               "I promise silence."
               "'Tis well, my boy, now be careful, and while you do not recklessly neglect your suit, do not be too pressing or fawning in your attentions, for women, at times, are whimsical, changeable, and difficult to be managed by the most adroit beau. A part well played, without bloodshed, is as good as a farce any day in the year, except on all fool's day."
               Surely the devil was leading Thomas on, he is said to be a funny fellow at times, but it's only when he is not painted black.
               In regard to Miss Hardwick's robbery the police had enjoined silence, in order to more effectually place the robbers off their guard.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               DISTINGUISHED VISITORS IN PRISON.
               THE act which had transpired in Charlie's favor, hard resulted in his benefit, inasmuch as one of his mother's relations dying leaving all her property to the church. A large number of the heirs had attacked the will upon the ground of his being non compos mentes, and the count having so declared, he was notified while in prison of his being entitled to two thousand, which would shortly be sent to him, but on what day of the month or year it would arrive it was impossible to determine. All he had to do was to wait its coming and he would be free from prison; but would he be less reckless in the expenditure of money. In regard to Charlie many people could not exactly state why they were his friends. A harum scarum, rollicking fellow was he, with little harm, if there was not much good in him. It may be attributed to his being a lively fellow who spent his money freely, and never permitted any of the company in his presence, if he could avoid it, from spending a dollar for eatables or drinkables. If he had the ready cash on hand he would pay for it, otherwise, he would order it to be placed to his charge. Besides he was fastidious in his tastes as regarded his confining himself to one kind of wine—all of one particular brand if he could have a choice—and that brand the most expensive—and then too, his father being so rich and himself unmarried; and, finally, he could write a passable story, sing a pleasant song, and have a ready fund of mirth always on hand for all classes with whom he associated. It was a beautiful day in the fall of the year, when he arose from his bed within the prison walls. He gazed out through his iron grated window upon the rich Indian sky beautifully tinged with a hazy atmosphere of purple hue.
               These days were formerly his hunting times, when he sought the buck on the mountains and glades, and the speckled trout in the running brooks, and he sighed once more to be a freeman. At eleven o'clock, Dick, Wickman or Fling, generally made their appearance; scarcely had the last two made their entre and were smoking in his room, discussing the various topics contained in the morning papers when two gentlemen announced themselves, one carrying a very large jug, the other a bundle, pretzles wrapped in a Dutch newspaper. The one with a jug was decidedly a marked personage. He was tall, spare, and rawboned. His eyes glittered in their diminutive sockets, but were so restless, in the sunken holes in his skull, as to defy all attempts at determining their color. The nose thick, and decidedly Roman, cheekbone high, while the mouth was not badly shaped. A small handful of matted grey hair seemed stuck on both sides of his narrow face which looked more like tufts of dried moss, but it must evidently have been hair, as he constantly twirled them with his long nailed fingers.
               "Who may I have the honor of addressing," said Charlie, as the stranger placed the jug on the table, and removed a half military hat from his thinly covered scalp.
               "Captain Jinks, of the horse marines, at your service, on the field or on deck of a man-of-war," and he burst out into a merry song of "Oh, I'm Captain Jinks of the Horse Marines," and waltzed round the table while he sang.
               "I've heard of his heroic and valorous deeds of daring," replied Charlie, as he took the captain by the hand, and requested him to be seated; "I'm delighted to know you, captain."
               "That's spoken like Champagne Charlie," replied the captain, "and, sir, in seeking this interview, it is intended for your good. Ah, but here's my friend Mr. Vivid Flash, allow me," and here the company were introduced all round, including the keeper of the prison.
               "Mr. Vivid Flash, gentlemen. Why sir, he made a speech last night to my company, and was very fortunate in his expression in regard to great men. He pictured General Grant as the oak, Lee as the beaver, Sherman as the voyager, Jackson as the redoubtable, Sheridan as a trooper, Banks the fox, and Beauregard as a mole. He made an everlasting impression on my company. He did, sirs, this same Vivid Flash, a small man as you see, with blue eyes and vinegar face, which believe me, will never turn red enough from blushing to be mistaken for a wine rose. Sir, he's master and more than master of his profession. He's neither a shister nor a petite forger, he is one of those who was designed for something greater, but somehow or other the machinery which produced him was at fault, and the mould of the clay was imperfect, but as for a liar before a jury, or a quibbler and stickler on a point of law, before the court, you can't find his equal this side of the infernals. I've brought him with me, sir, to render you prompt and efficient service should you stand in need of professional assistance."
               "Gentlemen, I can scarcely express my gratitude for your kind remembrance of one who, I can assure you, though unworthy of so much consideration upon your part, deeply appreciates this visit."
               "Sir," replied Mr. Flash, who though small of stature, was blessed with a loud shrill voice, "sir, there is no evil without a remedy in law, as there is no disease without a cure in nature; your case is one of those funguses, which attach to the body of any man who indulges in extravagance without the means to shake off your debts, for I hold men should live within their incomes!"
               "But suppose the men have no incomes, how then?" said Wick.
               "Then live without them, sir."
               "Exactly," responded Wick, "that's just what my friend has been doing."
               "That's impossible, sir," said Captain Jinks.
               "I beg pardon," replied Wick, "I've done it all my life, and no one has been the wiser of it, or suffered by it."
               "A regiment of just such financiers the government wants now. I would have all placed at the head of the Treasury Department, you could no doubt teach the nation how to live without any revenue, and pay off the bonds without an income. But I came not here to discuss the inconveniences of poverty or politics. But, sir, believe me, with an honest, a sincere intention of reforming a vitiated taste of yours. But, sir, there is one thing for which I must excuse myself, that I have presented my person before you without my invincible sword. I thought it might intimidate the offers of the prison, they, believing I was coming to rescue you, as I did my, Colonel at Chancellorville. Ah, sir, you ought to have been there in the great charges of the 49th. Murder was in the air shrieking like, a steam whistle; and ghosts, sir, the subtle essences of souls whose bodies were slaughtered, butchered on that fatal field; ghosts, sir, I say were floating round like gnats in a barn yard at evening. I say, you should have seen me leading the retreat. I proved the foremost man, and it was through my strenuous use of muscle on that day, the army was saved."
               "He was always a ahead at one end during the war," said Mr. Flash.
               "Right, sir," replied Captain Jinks, "but you've forgot the head-centre."
               "Capital," cried Wick, and his friends, "ahead all the time and yet in the centre."
               "My friend," said Mr. Vivid Flash, "has had great experience with the ladies, and through whom booted and spurred, he dances and flirts with them yet still remains a single war-horse."
               "How comes that, captain," said Charlie.
               "I've been engaged to seventeen 
                     widdows
                     widows
                   but all proved a failure."
               "There must have been some most insufferable objection on their part," said Dick.
               "No, Sir, on mine. I never could find one in the end who belonged to the mare marines."
               A boisterous shout of laughter greeted the captain's excuse for celibacy.
               "What's in that jug, sir? Tell me truly," asked the captain.
               "Let me smell it," said Wick.
               "I'll not put you to that trouble, sir. It is lager 
                     beir
                     bier
                  , and here is a roll of Dutch sausage, and there a jar of olives. Here, sirs, I intend to take my luncheon with the permission of the jailor, and invite you all to dine with me, for this is my breakfast and dinner united. This jack-knife has served me at many a mess in camp on the Potomac."
               After serving all round to a slice of sausage, and the olives being tumbled into a saucer, and the lager emptied into glasses, the captain gave the following toast:
               "Honor, the mirror of the heart." (Applause.)
               "Now, Mr. Wickman it's your turn."
               "Money, the strife of life," said Wick. (Silence.)
               "It's a powerful magnet," said Mr. Flash, "it saves many trials and vexations."
               "Yes," added Charlie, "but it can't save us from the grave, Mr. Flash; but no more of your moralizing remarks, if you please, but give a speech upon the government."
               Mr. Flash then rose up, and spoke as follows:
               "Government is a collection of office-holders, and taxes are collections of sums of money to support the government, ergo—officer-holders being the government, the money goes into their pockets, and if there were no offices to fill, there would be no office-holders, consequently no government."
               "Capital, capital," by the company.
               "Oh, I tell you he's logical, he's death on rhetoric and biled herrings," said the Captain.
               (Hear, hear.)
               "The best liquor to electioneers is lager beer, because it's cheapest," continued Flash.
               "I deny it," said the captain. "It's the dearest in the end; everyone will drink two gallons and some four—and not be drunk either."
               "The gentleman has the floor, I resign," said Mr. Flash.
               "The best is stark, staving, raving, tearing, scalding hot alcohol—it makes votes where there are none," said Captain Jinks.
               "The gentleman alludes to ballot-stuffing," said a voice.
               "He interrupts, take the floor and give us a song, Mr. Charlie," said Fling.
               Charlie accordingly volunteered an original song, on the "Goose Hangs High" theme.
               "What became of the goose," asked Dick.
               "It was bought by a tailor," said Wick, "and though often on the fire, has never been roasted yet."
               "I think you were very wise, in so cleverly getting rid of the old mother," said the captain, "or your uncle might now be in possession of your watch tower."
               "I don't think my breaking off the match, has availed me much in that quarter."
               "Sir, I will redeem it for you, this very hour. Give me the check," exclaimed the captain, emptying his last glass of lager.
               "It would be in again before night," said Charlie.
               Here Mr. Charlie, on pretence of looking at the rogues' photographs, was called aside by Mr. Flash, who told him "not to rely too confidently upon the captain's profuse offers of assistance, that he no doubt had the best intentions, but he was in as tight a fix as any of them, being in debt for his board and to his wash-woman, and on the previous day he had been compelled to soak his sword for a few dollars to pay for the cleaning of his coat, but that if he himself could be of any service in the legal way he would cheerfully lend his assistance."
               To all which Charlie respectfully listened, and then promised to call on him if he ever required his services.
               After a few quizzical remarks all around the Captain took his departure, vowing "that as soon as he got a seat in the legislature, the law permitting imprisonment for debt should be abolished. That it was one of the relics of barbarism, whence the money bugs of society, who were constantly gnawing away the foliage and vigorous shoots from the tree of liberty," and then added with a pompous bow: "at your service, sir—with purse or this good arm, which has often been raised in the defence of our country and freedom!" shortly after this his friends departed, when Fanny and Mike made their appearance and passed the balance of the day with him till five o'clock, when the rules of the prison compelled them to depart.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE COUNTESS—AN INTERVIEW BETWEEN THE COUNT AND HAYDEN.
               COME with us any day, reader, and we will start from the City Hall, that is, if you desire to see the house in which a certain lady was then living in Brooklyn. She is no ordinary personage. She has seen life in all its phases of existence; has traveled over many seas and visited many cities, and for the last four years of her life, until a year ago, had been residing in London. We have only to pass down Broadway until we reach the iron bridge, then turn down Fulton street until we reach the Ferry—a few pennies carry you over, then keep straight ahead for a dozen blocks, turn to the left, and continue two blocks and you come to a very large brick mansion standing on the corner, now enter and see the lady sitting in a spacious reception-room or parlor. Thus in mind you can see her as we saw her then. She occupies only the lower rooms, all of the first floor. She is listlessly holding the newspaper in her hand, and is using with a fixed, vacant stare, at the window. Her dress is a figured black silk, handsomely braided, with a cape edged with black lace and adorned with jet glass buttons. Her gloves are tight-fitting and of a dark green, while her light golden hair is plainly worked up beneath a lace cap of black embroidery, having two clusters of curls peeping from beneath the lacework. In age she does not exceed twenty-six or seven years. The eyes are dark blue, features regular, with a chin and mouth almost faultlessly chiseled. The whole expression of her face is greatly indebted for its intellectual beauty to the smooth and polished brow which imparts a chain to the most careless observer. An Italian servant-man enters, bowing.
               "What news, Lutentio. The count not yet arrived."
               "No, my lady, and as yet you are free from his oppression."
               "I'm not so sure of that, Lutentio; he was four years in London before we were aware of his presence, when all of a sudden we were shocked by his appearance and his violence, and since Ellenor's mysterious disappearance, I am almost persuaded he is present in New York, and has the child in his possession; my poor little darling!" and the countess of Marlo began crying and walking the room, with precipitate haste to allay her emotion.
               "It grieves me, madam, to see you thus moved to tears. The count and his emissaries, would preserve, and not destroy Lady Ellenor. Proof is what he requires; besides, the child has grown so, he would not recognise your daughter. Why not advertise as I advise."
               "Oh, no, Lutentio, it would be but putting up a sign for the wolf to know as to where the lambs were in fold; now go and order me a hack, I will drive through every street daily, until I find her."
               "Observing your incognito, my lady," suggested Lutentio.
               "Tell Julia to come to me, I will now prepare; have you a hack in waiting, and get ready to accompany me."
               Lutentio, bowing, left her presence, when Julia, a very cunning looking English girl, made her appearance.
               "Julia," said the countess, "I will drive to-day and will require your company. Get you ready, immediately, my tissue mask."
               A gauze mask was produced by the maid and properly fitted over the face of the countess. When enveloped by the fine tissue work of the mask, the features varied little from their naked expression, but seen at a distance of a dozen paces off the effect was to produce an entirely different look, being shaded as it were by the merest coating of a thin pink powder, every variance of expression of feature was altered from their original cast, and the result was a complete disguise of the countenance. Thus protected by her mask, the countess sallied out in search of her child.
               People live on expectation as well as they do on hope, for we often expect an event to occur, or a person to arrive, yet we may not hope it to be so; such was the case with this lady, for though she daily hoped and wished to find her child, yet she had little expectation of finding her, believing the count had captured, and concealed the little girl. Why is it that jealousy is called the green-eyed monster? it is because it sees through a green haze of atmosphere, and the object it once beheld through the flattering glasses of love, turns to a most foul gangrene, for all flesh turns green, before it putrifies.
               Why this fearful dread on the part of the countess, of meeting with her husband? it was that he accused her of adultery, and she had no way, as yet, of proving her innocence. Thieving, when followed for a living, is a mean profession, robbing an audacious act, and murder an everlasting crime, but if there be one crime which is most dastardly foul and cruelly infamous, it is that of accusing the wife of adultery, when she is innocent. Wife, children, friends, relatives, father, mother, nay, religion itself, is shocked, and horrified, to the very centre of pride of feeling; for shame is a blazing badge with which to front the world, and a badge that carries upon its brazen signs a foul pollution of soul and body.
               The count suspected, and the wife denied; the count sought revenge; the wife obscurity; the count alleged treachery and deception, the wife asserted innocence and vile persecution. They both loved, yet both feared, one that he might possibly be doing injustice, the other that she might fall the victim of oppression. So stood the situation of both at the time we have brought the lady upon the page of active events.
               The curse of genius is poverty, the terror of love is the disclosure of a secret. The countess was in possession of a secret, but to her the witness who could unfold it, was in her grave. Therefore, she had only to live and suffer; she could only protest her innocence and confide in the certain justice of time to unfold it to her advantage—we often say in the morning, that we had strange dreams during the night, yet to the mind they were as strongly impressed on the memory as any act of real existence, and often are doubly realised. They frequently and most unaccountably come to pass. Churchill, on his tombstone says: 
                     
                        'This life's a dream and all things show it,
                        I thought so once, but now I know it."
                     
                  
               
               The countess often affirmed, "that her life was a dream of terror, and that her dreams were her real life."
               Jasper was fast recovering from his bloody wound, and Fanny said one evening when she bought a cake "that she was invited to a party at Miss Mattie's house. I met Miss Laura Spray, and I'm going to-morrow night, Mr. Charlie told me to go."
               "Bless my soul, in what shall we dress the child, we've got nothing suitable, and its too near at hand to make up any dress, what shall we do?" said good-natured aunty, wringing her hands.
               "Oh, you needn't be alarmed on that 'count," said Fanny pulling her by the apron, and looking up into her face, with an earnest gaze of affection; "Mr. Charlie gave me this ring, and told me to give it to you, Mr. Mike, to take it to his uncle's and he would give you some money to buy some clothes."
               Mike and Jasper burst out into a hearty laugh. "Bless your dear soul," said Mike, "we ain't quite as low as to prove beggars yet. Let me see the ring. Oh, it's the one he always wore, I've seen him in many a tight squeeze, but he would never lend it to his uncle. But you see how readily he parts with it to please the young one."
               "It's a diamond," said Jasper, "it's not very large, but it is a pure stone."
               Mike took the ring and gave it to aunty to take care of, and the balance of the evening was spent in deep and earnest suggestions as to the speediest way to rig Fanny out for the party. At last it was agreed that aunty and Mike should take Fanny to a furnishing store and there buy a dress to suit.
               All next day, until noon, the party was discussed, and how Fanny would compare with the other girls.
               "They are all to be big ladies," said Fanny, "and that I was invited to represent Mr. Charlie, so Miss Laura said."
               "It's a compliment to Mr. Charlie," said Mike.
               "Then they would'nt want me then," said Fanny, "only that they know Mr. Charlie, and I'm one of his friends, eh, aunty. If I was a boy it would be better, would'nt it Mr. Mike."
               And they all laughed.
               But, alas, for the vanity of all mundane expectations. There came a great black cloud up from the ocean, which overspread the earth like a dark funeral pall. The sun seemed rocked to sleep in dark rolling clouds from which the glaring lightning shot out in many directions. Then came the echoing thunder and pelting rain, and then the wind began to howl and roar and the city was flooded from top to cellar. And thus it was that Fanny could not go to the party, but Miss Clara Flair, brought her some cake next morning, and some paper kisses. Fanny did not complain, she only hoped, "that the next party to which she was invited, it would not rain."
               "Yes," added aunty, "and the next time I hope Mr. Charlie, bees at large so as to accompany you."
               "If he'd been out, it would'nt have rained. It was wrong for me to go while he was suffering in prison, Mr. Mike," she replied, "and that's why the Lord made it rain. But I want to ask you a question, Mr. Mike, why don't other people drink champagne, all the time, like Mr. Charlie? I expect it's because water don't agree with him, and that its got no taste to it."
               "He drinks," answered Mike, "because he's used to it."
               "I expect it's to make him not keep thinking about something," replied Fanny, looking very serious; "for I heard him say one day, 'he'd give the world if he could only not think of something.'"
               "That is it," said Jasper, with a knowing wink at Mike; "she's caught the right fish by the gills this time. It's a great secret, I'll be bound; that's weighing of him down."
               "And it will go down to the grave with him," said Mike, in a very low tone of voice, "and if he keeps on wasting away so, it won't be long."
               "If I was as rich as I once was," said Jasper, "I could soon let him snuff air." But the liberty of their friend was going to be restored to him sooner than they expected, for Mr. Charlie a week from that day was to be set at liberty, his legacy, or rather a portion of his relative's estate assigned to him by the count, was to be received.
               Several days after the count's return he was called on at the hotel by Hayden and ushered into his room by Garcia.
               "Ah, Hayden," said he, "what distressing news your face seems to impart. Are you suffering from indigestion?"—
               "No, but I've not been well, but I my bring you important news."
               "Imaginary or real, Hayden?"
               "In part both, Count."
               "Then it's mixed and requires to be sifted, Hayden, but let's have it at a venture."
               "Then know that Lutentio's here, I saw him this day."
               "Bravo," said the count, shaking him by the hand.
               "That's the real part of it," said Hayden.
               "And the imaginary part is that the countess is not far off. The dog 
                     preceeding
                     preceding
                   the mistress. But, Hayden, your news is really important, and I sincerely thank you. You have been more fortunate than all of my paid hirelings. Now, in return for your kindness allow me to inform you that the young girl has returned to the city."
               "Just as I feared," replied Hayden, while a vexed frown settled upon his brow. "I've done your bidding, performed my part. Now, count, if you really wish and intend to serve me evince your sincerity now—now's the time, for I declare to you my very attempts to shake off trouble only involve me in more."
               "That's because you rely too much upon the force of money. You offer too much, which leads your 
                     emmissaries
                     emissaries
                   to constantly keep planning to extort more. Ten to one, your agents in this matter will be pulling at your purse-strings within a week, begging, but in reality demanding, in fact, commanding more gold, or else threaten exposure. The way is to keep the run of your adversaries, or as they say here, keep posted and by tact and watching turn the current of events to run your own mill and grind your own corn—circumvent the manœuvring of your adversaries, involve them in plots and counter-plots, and yet ostensibly avoid complications—at least so far as compromising your own safety."
               "How shall I begin again in this matter, for I tell you truly," said Hayden, as he paced the floor with an agitated stride, "she's more to be feared as to my prospects than a dozen Champagne Charlies."
               
               "Just let her remain where she is."
               "I'll declare her illegitimate," said Hayden.
               "Liar, villain," almost shouted the count, so as to be heard in the street, "utter that sentence again, asperse the character of the child's mother again, and I'll stab thee to the heart," and he drew a glittering blade from behind his coat.
               "Are you going mad, count?" exclaimed Hayden, as he took shelter behind one of the high back chairs.
               "Enough," said the count, resuming his former placid smile, "you speak in ignorance. Your pardon, we all had, or have mothers, and I'm nerved to fury when I hear the mother of a child defamed to serve the purposes of the living."
               "We had better change the subject," said Hayden, as he took the count's offered hand.
               "And for to-night end this visit," said the count. "It grows late, and I'm in need of sleep. I will call on you to-morrow."
               And the two parted in deep musing, for the topics of the interview suggested many conjectures, food for reflection.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE CONSULTATION AND DEATH OF FIDDLER DICK.
               WHETHER times make men, or men make the times, is a vexed question. Certainly our age is famous for no grand ideas, no great achievements commensurate with the advanced state of civilization. It has been said, "The millions spent in war should be applied to the cause of scientific investigations and internal improvements," but it must be remembered that human nature has other passions beside a love for science, and we might just as well expect the human mind and body to be composed of but one essential ingredient of the vital principles, as the times to be governed by one single idea to the exclusion of all other thoughts and incentives to action. Descending from the grander to the lesser application of the progressive principle which controls the spirit of the age, and viewing it as its influence is exerted upon the social relations of life, we can see but little advancement of effectual and useful accomplishments in moral progress. The age has ceased to be jealous and grown to be selfish.
               In any undertaking it is not considered how much convenience will occur to the public benefit. His estimate is only secondary. The question is, how much percentage will it pay, and the rule applies equally to individuals, as upon corporators or companies, should there be any deviation from this mercenary principle or rule of action, by any citizen, he is considered either eccentric or wilfully phrasing into destruction; unfortunately Charlie was liable to this censure. Generous to a fault, sociable to extremes, and reckless beyond ordinary precedent in his expenditures, he became a marked man—a very wonder at the sight of whom the semi-moralist stood aghast, and the weakest man complained, for he satisfied neither party, being too strange a compound of charity find gaiety for the moralist wholly to condemn, and not sufficiently degraded in person and character for the wickedest man to recognise as a boon companion and to congratulate him upon the enormity of the abuses he might inflict upon the moral spirit of the times. Indifference and impudence will do much in retaining, a man in his position in society, but like other attributes of our changeable nature, it has its limits, and carries with them an inherent weakness. Of these qualities Wickman was possessed. Mr. Fling was audaciously careless about whose money he spent. He was a stolid mortal; a man of easy conscience and loving his ease. Fiddler Dick, was true in his friendships, but lacked passion being wanting in an animus for evil. The war is over with Charlie in a financial point of view, he has received his money, Frontz is paid; a pale and sickly hue is stamped upon his handsome features, once adorned with the healthy polish of vigorous manhood. No matter, he is free and walks the streets once more a free man. He has found quarters at a second class hotel, it being congenial to his feelings and circumstances. He fought shy of the public stare at first, and met his friends in his room. Privacy was to be the cure for the shame of imprisonment.
               "Oh, ye gods, what will not this world do for money?" he exclaimed, when alone in his room. "Imprison, murder, blaspheme, rob; aye, suck the warm salt blood of the body if the substance of avarice can but live and strive." But he never asked himself the question, what he would do for money, when in the skeleton clutches of want. We shall see, what he came near doing for money and how he was saved from perdition.
               Mattie was Laura's friend and came with her to his room to consult about that all important question.
               "Charlie dear," said Mattie, "you know we three girls adore you; Clara couldn't come with us, but sent you a kiss; so I give it to you," and she saluted him.
               "Girls," replied Charlie, "I sometimes think you are too good to me; too indulgent. You will make me think I'm better than I really am. But let us once more see the foam sparkle, and the bubbles burst," and he rang the bell and ordered ice and champagne.
               "We had a very pleasant little party—but the rain spoilt it," said Mattie. "Poor little Fanny, how disappointed she was. I saw her to-day, and I declare, save the eyes and nose, she is the exact image of you."
               "Why not say my child, at once?" said Charlie; laughing.
               "We would if we could trace it up to you," replied Mattie. "But what are we to do in this most serious matter of our poor friend here? The spring is coming and the grass will grow, and soon show its verdure above the sod."
               "Why, Captain Travator promised me to attend to that."
               "Yes," replied Laura, looking very much distressed; "he's gone on another voyage to Savannah, but will soon return."
               "The fact is, girls, let's indulge. It may sharpen our wits;" and then they drank a bumper round.
               "
                     Somehting's
                     Something's
                   got to be done soon," continued Mattie, "for her mother, I believe, already begins to suspect, and it will kill the old lady, captain."
               "Captain Travator being a relation of yours, and the scoundrel being my relative I thought he was the proper person to assume the liberty of forcing a remedy, and seeing Laura righted."
               "But you will not desert us in our extremity, I am sure the villain's no friend of yours, and have we not all three long ago, banded together to stand by you till the last."
               "It's not the want of will or spirit," replied Charlie, "on my part, it's a mere question of prudence for Laura's comfort and reputation. You know what my name is worth in this community. It carries esteem, respect, or monied influence with it. Travator's the man, and through him I can reach the scamp. I will watch his return and will not let him depart until the wretch marries Laura or until the clay is tumbled over his filthy carcass."
               Bursting into tears, Laura flung herself into his arms and wept tears of sorrow mingled with those of gratified assurance. Here came a tap at the door and Wickman entered.
               "Ah, Wick," said Charlie, "just in time," and he rung for another bottle. "But what's the matter, it takes a deal of annoyance to make you turn pale."
               "A note from Dick affirms me that he is sick, and desires his friend Charlie to call and see him to-morrow."
               "And I'll do it," said Charlie, "and at an early hour too, be assured of that, Wick."
               "Do you think he is well attended? If he is not you must call on any or all of us," said Mattie. "Dick's a clever fellow, and I'll nurse him with the tenderness of a sister."
               "Is his wife and sister with him?" asked Laura.
               "Sister, he has none. It is his second wife and Miss Helen Darkwest, his cousin, who are with him in the house. A very beautiful fair-haired girl—though Dick don't fancy her much."
               "Now," said Charlie, "as the day is so beautiful, and we all feel so depressed in spirits, let's take a drive. The fresh air will be of service to us, for I feel quite bad at Dick's illness, because he has been complaining so long about severe pains in the stomach, that I fear it's a chronic affection, and the very thought of losing so dear a friend, sends the fear of death to the centre of my heart."
               "I'm so sorry," said Mattie, "really I trust he's not going to die, for true, good hearted friends are so very difficult to be had in these mercenary days of selfishness."
               "Poor Dick," said Laura, as she wiped her eyes, her tears evincing her sincere feelings of sorrow. "He must indeed be sick when he has to write to you Charlie, to call and visit him."
               "Come," said Charlie, "let us hope for the best. A drive will fan off the blues. We'll have him with us in a day or so, and now for pleasant faces and spicy gambols."
               We leave them enjoying their ride, and so return to our narrative in Brooklyn city. It was on the following morning when Fiddler Dick was still lying in his bed disturbed with unpleasant gripings in his stomach, that his cousin Helen rung the bell, and when the servant boy made his appearances she ordered him to go to a neighboring druggist to get her a seidlitz powder. "Now use speed," said she, "here's the money to pay for it, make as little noise as possible, as Mr. Richard's sick and his wife wishes him not to be disturbed." She then seated herself in the family chair in the parlor, and taking the morning paper began reading, yet her eyes wandered constantly from the page to Fiddler Dick's likeness which hung against the wall immediately over the mantle. When her gaze took this direction, a frown of malignant hate would darken her brow, and once she arose and pointing her finger at the inanimate painting exclaimed: "Oh, you fool. Have you lived until this late day and not to know that Hell has no fury like a woman scorned," and then she gave vent to a suppressed 
                     demonaic
                     demoniac
                   laugh, as she heard the servant enter the hall door. "Give me the powder," she said, "now see the cook and tell her to hurry breakfast as some friends of my cousin may call to see him this morning."
               Up the stairs she glides with more than usual alacrity, reaches her room and after closing, locks the door, and to be more satisfied that she is secure from all intrusion, tries the knob. Going now to her trunk she unlocks it, takes out a small bundle of scraps of calico, carefully unties it, in the middle of which she finds a small paper neatly put up as a prescription. Then she mixes the seidlitz powder, reserving a portion of the powder in the blue paper and drinks it, leaving the glasses with part of the diluted powder on the mantle. Taking the blue paper in which the soda was contained, she mixes another powder with it, and folds it up exactly as it was when it came from the druggist's, this paper she places in her bosom, and began cleaning up her room.
               When Dick came down to a late breakfast he looked pale, careworn, and haggard.
               His wife was all kindness and affection. He could partake only of a cup of coffee, and then sought the parlor and cast his emaciated body upon the sofa.
               "I wish Charlie and Wick would come!" said he, "I have no faith in my doctor, he has done me no good, he does not understand my disease. I feel so dreadfully heated, my very stomach seems on fire, and my sight fails me at times."
               Failing to get relief on the sofa, he cast one of the pillows on the floor and stretched himself at full length. At this moment Charlie and Wick entered.
               "Ah, Charlie! ah! Wick, glad, very glad to see you both; was afraid you would not come."
               "What can possibly be the matter with you, Dick? Who's your physician? You are indeed really sick, and I'll not leave this house until you get well."
               "We are on hand at all hours, Dick," said Wick. "We'll soon place you on your feet again. We'll not leave you."
               "Then," said Dick, "it's more than probable you will end your days here. Boys—boys—a lump of fire is burning me in my stomach."
               "Bring a bottle of champagne," said Charlie. "Quick, Wickman. We'll ice it, and give him forty drops of laudanum in it."
               "It can do no harm," said his grieving wife, "if it call be of no service to him!"
               The wine was soon brought, the cork was on the eve of being popped by Wickman, when Dick, rising upon one elbow, and holding up his glass, said: "Get two more glasses; you must drink with me and let the toast be "True friendship and the memory of the past"—and the three friends drank as oft of yore.
               But Charlie turned away his head and wiped away the falling tears while Wick walked to the window to hide his emotion.
               "We must meet these things like men," said Dick; "abide your time. If I go under I at least have the satisfaction of knowing I have been blessed in life and death by the sincere affection of two true friends."
               "And you can rest assured of it," said Charlie, as he took one hand while Wick took the other.
               "Now let's sing one of our old favorite songs," said Dick.
               "Not now." said Wickman, "I am 
                     choaking
                     choking
                  , not now, to-morrow."
               "Then I fear you will sing to my corpse—for I am still burning up internally."
               His cousin Helen entered, and came towards him—
               "Are you better, my dear cousin?" said she, while bending over and kissing him on his pale furrowed brow.
               But he seemed to shrink from her touch, or perhaps, it was one of the twitches of pain from his disease.
               "Better! better!" said he, as he fixed his glaring gaze upon her.
               "Are you still in pain?" she asked, while she wiped her eyes with a dainty embroidered handkerchief.
               "Do you not know it?" he gasped, still intently looking on her with a wild glaring stare; "you know from the nature of my disease. I am burning—burning."
               Some one suggested a seidlitz powder as being likely to afford relief, from its cooling qualities. The boy was instantly dispatched to the druggist and on his return was met at the door by Helen.
               "Let me see if it is the right medicine," and then speaking to the servant, and calling his attention to some passing personage, telling him to mark the person well. She gave the boy back the powder, and told him to take it into the parlor. The wife, procured clean glasses. The powder was mixed by Wick, and Charlie gave it to his friend, who drank it without hesitation. Shortly after this, his pains increased with fearful violence, when with distorted features and deep moaning cries of distress he expired, in the presence of his wife—and in the arms of his friends, as Helen entered the room.
               The terrible writhings of his friend in his last moments, led Charlie to believe he was poisoned. He sought the coroner, relates his suspicious, an inquest was held, the stomach analysed, and found to contain strichnine, an examination followed. The medicine so far as the seidlitz-powder was concerned was correct and the druggist 
                     exulpated
                     exculpated
                   from all blame. Thus died Dick the Fiddler, and he was deposited in the family lot, by Wick, Fling, Charlie, and several others friends. This was the statement of an old lady, whose house stood opposite and professed to have watched Helen, when she mixed the powder in the chamber. But it being beyond all absolute proof, the mystery of his death still occupies the public mind. One day perhaps there may be a confession which will fix the cause of his death where it properly belongs, and make the lips of a fair and beautiful woman confess to her being a murderess.
               It was three weeks after Dick Fiddler's body was consigned to the tomb, when Mattie Wiggins paid his grave a visit. She was accompanied by Charlie.
               "The letters are very distinctly cut," said Mattie, "Charlie, a true friend is one who thinks of us after we are gone. This was very noble and thoughtful of you, to adorn his tomb with that beautiful white marble slab."
               "Fling and Wick, must share the nobility of the act," said Charlie, "we have done our best to honor his grave. And we will strike to render his wife and cousins as comfortable as our limited means will permit."
               "And you must allow me to add my mite," said Mattie with a thoughtful brow.
               "Yours is a confiding and generous nature," replied Charlie, as he pressed her hand between both of his; "but Mattie you are young and of prepossessing appearance, your parents are old, and not over healthy."
               "As to that, Charlie," she replied, "we are in comfortable circumstances, and have a handsome sum, laid by for the future," and she pressed his hand, and gazed into his face, with a longing smile.
               "You are my true, kind hearted disinterested friend," he responded. "I'm not much in any way, Mattie; dissipated reckless, and all that, but have never yet intentionally 
                     commited
                     committed
                   a great sin;" yet scarcely had the last words escaped his lips, before he withdrew his hand; folded his arms across his chest, and looking at the wondering girl, while he placed his form full elect before her, said: "A secret have I, in my possession, of terrible import. It is not one of blood, murder, or wrong against woman's honor, but one so refined in its structure, so acute in the effects of its working upon my senses, that I am wretched whenever my soul is jarred by the workings of its machinery. One day—Mattie, one day, I will transfer it to your keeping."
               "And why not now," said Mattie, while tears were seen to form in her eyes. "I always suspected you were unhappy. But, Charlie, may I not know it? I might share your sorrow, condole, with you."
               "I am but as a lone solitary pillar," replied Charlie, "standing in a desert wilderness; during the day I cast my shadow on the sand of life; shadows are all dark, it matters not the color of the light which shines upon them. At night this shadow seems to shrink within, and render darker the centre of my existence, cold, dreary, not illumined by one cheering spark of hope."
               "Poor fellow," said Mattie, taking his hand and averting her tearful cheeks. "And must it ever thus be, Charlie? Have you no just or useful purpose for which to live, no longing desire for which you wish your days to be prolonged?"
               "None—by heaven, none."
               "Cannot love, by its galvanic power, gild the future prospect of existence; cannot hope lend but one charm of its youthful beauty, to lure 
                     yon
                     you
                   onward in the road of life," and she now turned a training glance upon him, rendered more melting and subduing by the earnest, pleading luster of her eyes, being like sunbeams shining through a summer shower; beautiful in the softened effulgence of their rays.
               "Mattie, mistake me not, I cannot love again."
               "Not but you might live and cherish one who would strive in all ways and in all things to unfold to you the real charms of life. Take you by the hand and with friendship's constant burning flame lead you on the path, which honor, duty, and the memory of your mother bid you follow."
               "It cannot be, Mattie, let us not vex our souls with the useless question. My mother, I loved her, who would not revere the memory of such a mother, but, Mattie, come, we are not born of wise extremes, our thoughts, actions, and scenes have been of a class equal in their lessons."
               He then drew her arm within his own, and he felt the throbbings of her heart, against his breast, more eloquent to his senses than the glistening of her tears, or the pathetic wisdom and truthfulness of her words. In silence he led her to the hack, and it was not until they reached the ferry that they both recovered their equanimity of thought and feelings.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               CONFERENCE BETWEEN HAYDEN AND FLING—A VISIT FROM MISS HARDWICK'S FOOTMAN.
               AND now we must refer to an appointment made by Mr. Fling and Hayden.
               They met at a private room which Hayden had rented and furnished in Sixth Avenue.
               "You say you are my friend," said Hayden, as he walked the floor with an important stride, and snapped his handkerchief on either side in the tart jerks.
               "Do you doubt me, Hayden," said Mr. Fling as he lit a cigar, and then seated himself near a large spittoon.
               "You have not so proved yourself."
               "No! then you have not watched, nor understand the playing of my hand thus far."
               "You must have reserved your trumps till the last, for you've not yet played a trump," said Hayden with an enquiring glance.
               "No, but I've drawn many of his," replied Fling.
               "You should have kept him in prison."
               "If the law could not do it, how could I?" replied Fling.
               "Why not have sent him on a dangerous voyage. Presented a treacherous horse, brought him in contact with ruffians bent on plunder, paid him money in their presence, and left him, bloated, blasted, filled to repletion."
               "Because he would not go, though I urged him to his own destruction; had he but followed my advice he would not annoy us now. Once I had him encircled by the gambler, the robber and the skulking, sneaking thief, and when I forced a quarrel, they hurled me from the contentious ring, and they swore he was a trump, and that they would stand by him until the last. And one savage beast did seize me, and would have brained me on the spot with a slung shot, when Charlie cried, "Ben, he's my friend strike him not," the villain's threatening arm fell to his side, and with his left hand he grasped mine, and said, "It's all a mistake, you're safe here at any hour."
               "And your niece, she is still defiant?" said Hayden.
               "Egotistical," replied Fling, "not defiant."
               "You do not press my suit as you promised. My uncle will soon tire of the delay."
               "Has he made his will," said Fling, "and are you certain 'tis in all, legal form, wherein there is no flaw to be punctured by the short mode of the law."
               "It is in due form, and stands on a legal basis, as solid as the rock of Gibraltar."
               "And you know this fact," said Fling, fixing a meaning glance upon the nephew, who changed color and replied, "I am his confidant."
               "Women are not the only people in this world who change their opinions. I've seen a man so affected by the transitory vapors of a dream, as actually to change his will from the living to the dead and leave his fortune to the imaginary thing, a spectre, creature of an idle dream, never as yet having had a substantial form, endow it with his riches."
               "I don't want you to talk in that way, Mr. Fling," said Hayden, turning very pale and trembling, "your speech implies foul play."
               "Sir," said Mr. Fling, darting towards Hayden, and grasping a chair which he raised above his head and held in a threatening attitude, "dare you insinuate aught of a dastardly criminal act to me, or that I even suggested the crime of murder."
               "None, sir, none; but a corrupt conscience could place such an interpretation upon my language intended for your good."
               Hayden had likewise grasped a chair as a weapon of self-defence. Whether Fling's apparent indignation was real, or whether Hayden's display of bravery was only assumed, we are at a loss to determine; but upon the last named gentleman saying, "He might have placed a wrong construction upon Mr. Fling's remarks." The agent set the chair upon the floor, and resumed his seat with as much nonchalance as though nothing of an unpleasant character had occurred.
               "Now this was the intent of the remarks, Hayden," began Mr. Fling. "If you were positively certain beyond doubt or chance of failure, as to your heirship, then you would feel justified in furnishing sufficient funds from your own private purse, to send Charlie and myself upon a voyage to Europe where he could be kept until all your plans, both of conquest and acquisition of the estate, could be accomplished."
               I'll think upon it, Fling, sorry I mistook you. Hasty conclusions, uncalled for—ridiculous."
               After further discussion upon some ordinary matters, the two separated.
               Mr. Fling was acting a double part; but aside from indulging in certain peculiar vices of his own, of which gambling was the chief; he was true to Charlie, who, in fact, was unknowingly a channel or medium from two sources of supply, for replenishing Fling's purse.
               One source we are now acquainted with, the other we will hear of when we further progress with our narrative.
               One morning early Miss Hardwick's man called at Jasper's house and asked to see little Fanny.
               "You serve some great people," said Jasper to the footman.
               "Only one, sir, and that bees a lady," replied the visitor.
               "Walk in and take a seat. The child's not up yet. Take a whiff of this pipe and Swedish tobacco. You'll find it, my man, that it hasn't its equal in this country."
               The footman took the proffered seat, and then began puffing the pipe.
               "I don't suppose you'd care for a morsel to eat?" said Jasper. "Your larder being so full at home—full to overflowing. But if you'll take a cup of our coffee, you're welcome to it."
               "I cant say as I feels inclined," observed the servant, "none the less thankful to you though. Quite a picture gallery."
               "Stuck up all for the amusement of the little one," said Jasper. "She's fond of pictures, and Mike and me collects 'em everywhere we can pick 'em up."
               "I've got a message for Mr. Mike, from Mr. Fling, I wants to see him."
               "Ah, here he bees," said Jasper, as Mike entered the door.
               "I'm glad to see you," said Mike, who had a partial acquaintance with the footman.
               "The same to you," says the servant, "and Mr. Fling say's you are to take this letter to Miss Spray. It's from Mr. Charlie."
               "And where is Mr. Charlie?" asked Mike; "we aint seen him for some days."
               "I heard Mr. Fling say he'd left the city, and wouldn't return until next week."
               At this moment Fanny made her appearance with her hair brushed back from her forehead, and tied up in a knot behind, which gave her a womanish appearance. With eyes beaming with the sparkle of youth, and a face all aglow with the ruddy hue of health, she presented her cheek to Mike and Jasper to kiss.
               "And you will do me so," said the footman, as he drew Fanny towards him, and also kissed her.
               "I know you, you live with the grand, pretty lady in the great house."
               "Indeed I do, my nice, sweet child. Yes, my dear, the lady thinks a deal of you, und my lady thinks also that she will see you at the children's party to-morrow night; given in honor of the birth day of one of her friend's daughters. But she aint as pretty as you, Fanny."
               "That is," interposed Jasper, "when Fanny's good."
               "I try always to be so, uncle Jasper," said Fanny, "but we can't always be so, because we don't know what's afore us. I trust Mr. Dick was good and has gone to heaven."
               "That was a sad piece of business," said the footman, shaking his head. "Mr. Fling was at the funeral; and was quite sick from it. Whoever poisoned him is certain to burn," and they all three shook their heads and looked sorrowful. "Now about the party?" continued the footman; "of course you will come, Miss Fanny."
               "I should like to," said Fanny; "but there will be so many little girls dressed all so fine, in silks and satins, and my clothes, aunty says, are not overly fine."
               "Dress in white. Miss Hardwick told me to tell your sister, Mr. Jasper, she'd send some little parcels, so don't be worried all of you. If Fanny appears in a white dress with blue ribbons round her waist and head, it will set off her fair complexion to advantage."
               "I'll go and tell aunty," and Fanny ran into the old good-hearted maid's room, closing the door after her.
               "A strange child, that," said the footman, "Everybody likes her, one day, I trust she'll find her mother."
               "I can't understand Mr. Charlie's movement," said Mike. "Be jabbers, do you see, I've been after looking to his room, and he's not vet returned. Fanny and myself have been there every day, and devil a bit of it can the bird be found. The child begins to grieve after him. For some how or other too, the last day he met us, when he returned from Mr. Dick's grave, he appeared so moved, he scarcely spoke to us, and Fanny cried all the way beck agin."
               "It's a hard things to lose a true friend, Mr. Mike," said the footman. "It's taking from one the best tooth in the head, or it's like having an eye knocked out."
               "It's more an that," said Jasper, as he knocked the ashes from his pipe, against the chimney wall. "It's taking all hope from us, and its making the air all cold around us."
               "Now," says the footman assuming a very important attitude, and looking mysteriously wise. "Hark ye, my men, in all secrecy."
               "What is it," says Mike, in all seriousness.
               "Mind," replied the footman, "it musn't be repeated, for I merely tells it as it comes to me. They do say, and its whispered round, that my Mistress, is to be married to Mr. Thomas Hayden, but I say no, 'cause it's impossible. Look here, would'nt he call to see her."
               "Well he may write to her," says Jasper.
               "Or meet her at his uncle's house or elsewhere, not wishing folks to know about it," added Mike. "Be jabbers, these girls have sly ways."
               "That can't be, or the maid would find it out and tell me."
               "She's bought off," said Jasper, in reply.
               "That can't be, for I'm a confidant of her waiting-maid, and she'd tell me. Besides Miss Hardwick is very proud."
               "But I heard another worse thing, a bad report about Mr. Charlie."
               "Be jabbers," said Mike. "I'm tired of hearing of 'em. It's been so the last year, and yet never seen any of them, all hear say."
               "I allude to this affair, of seduction, and breach of promise of marriage with Miss Spray."
               "And you believe it," rejoined Mike. "Now look here, Captain Travator of the ship Bedford, is her cousin, and do you think I'd be so intimate with Mr. Charlie, if it was so."
               "Maybe he don't know of it," said the footman.
               "That's so," said Jasper. "But Mr. Charlie would'nt go there if it was so."
               "That's the strangest part, and then this letter too," said the footman.
               Aunty now entering, the conversation turned upon the party.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               ANOTHER PARTY—VISITS TO JASPER AND MIKE AND TO MISS HARDWICK.
               IT matters not much to the reader, where at any particular hour of the day Champagne Charlie could be found. There are saloons on the first floor, in the cellars, and even in the third and fourth stories. The lager bier saloon is generally the most popular resort, and their name is a legion. A short counter with cold cuts, cheese, sausages, and brown bread, most generally greet the sight as you enter. A half dozen round tables, and twice as many or more cane back chairs comprise the furniture, and when added to these a few Dutch paintings or Flemish daubs, you have an ample and full description of a lager bier saloon of the present day; as for the casks of lager they are usually placed on stands at the open end of the counter, or are stowed away behind the bar. Mine host or proprietor, can readily be known by the bundle he carries in front of him when he waddles from table to table. It is a heavy load but as yeast renders dough light and spongy, so lager has rendered less burdensome the load he sportively carries from kitchen to bar. The breast seems to have been pushed up and the head left to slide down, thus avoiding the necessity of a neck tie, collar or cravat. But mine host has generally a smile for his customers, a smile like the red, red man in the harvest moon, and the oftener swie lager is called, the brighter grows his visage, the more active his stubby legs. If we speak of a ferry over which Charlie passes, what needs it to state what ferry, unless we wish to pay a visit to the countess in Brooklyn, or the hospital on Staten Island, or Jersey City to hear the misquitos sing. The fact is, Charlie has been invited to go fishing with some of the fire boys, the brave fellows who fight the flames when the unconscious citizens are snugly reposing in their feather beds on stormy, snowy, blustering nights. A jolly time they had of it. His secret sorrow lay dormant then, and on their return he invited them to a champagne feast. There were only twenty of these dauntless warriors of the fire brigade. He took them where he ordered champagne.
               Some one, more thoughtful than the rest, suggested that the company should share the expense.
               "No," replied our hero; "It is as much pleasure to pay the bill as to assist you in drinking wine. Its a custom of mine, so long as I have, so long will I pay."
               "Take care, Mr. Charlie, you find it now a luxury to give. You may soon find it a labor to borrow," so spoke a voice.
               The foreman calls the rank and file to order; the glasses are all filled to the brim, seeming to be crowned with sparkling rays of reflecting brilliants. Now mark you he is a fine looking man, well formed, neatly clad in his flannel shirt of blue, with his glazed belt adorned with the number of his company. He is not only well put up in limbs, but in fine condition possibly a trifle too sparse of flesh, but this only serves to render his appearance more supple in its aspect. And then his angular nose, his flowing locks of brown hair, partially inclined to curl, his vigilant rolling black eye, and resolute lines about his mouth, such was Rodman Strong, Chief Foreman of the Fire Brigade.
               "A toast and speech," cries the guests.
               He complies with their request and begins with much composure in his address.
               "Ladies and Gentlemen," the guests shout with laughter.
               "All but the ladies," cry several voices.
               "If they are not present, the ladies, God bless them, and if they are not here they ought to be here, for depend upon it, boys, in the hour of danger from flame or smoke they rely upon the firemen for protection," and he continued, "in the trials of life, when grim want raps at the door of the honest poor, where will the widow and orphan find a more ready response to the demands of suffering humanity than to the daring and dauntless fireman. Whose hand is ever ready to save and whose heart is ever ready to share, both its sympathy and earthly store."
               Three times three with rapturous applause were given in honor of the Fire Brigade.
               "I now give you the toast of the evening, being no less a person than our jovial host—an active member of our brigade." This was honored by three times three, and a short speech from Charlie in which he concluded as follows:
               "No one can kindle a fire in the heart of the ladies like the fireman, some of which they strive to put out, but the flame continues to burn in spite of their spoutings, their pipings, and their sprinklings, and brave as I know firemen, usually to be on all occasions, when called to extinguish the raging of the dreadful element, yet, I've seen them run from such a fire, and shun the very shadow of such a flame, (applause.) Sir, were I in pursuit of happiness in the matrimonial line, I would rather encounter any opponent, any rival, than the dreaded fireman. For when I hear the blow of the call-whistle of his machine it seem to me that all the marriagable ladies in the neighborhood put their heads out of the windows, seeming to say in my imaginary experience; "Whistle and I'll come to you, my lad."
               Loud applause followed this 
                     impromtu
                     impromptu
                   effort, when the crowd struck up "Champagne Charlie is my name," after which followed: "We'll not go home till morning," and then came, "Not for Joseph, no!"
               Leonard Jocylen were you never to profit by experience, with poverty, ruin, and perhaps absolute destruction, staring you in the face; with one of your truest friends but lately placed under the sod, are you not susceptible of any impression, have you become blase. We trust not, yet it seems you are lost to all serious consequences resulting from your wild, reckless dissipation.
               Thousands and thousands are more vicious than you are in reality, yet, few can be found who have thrown away so many chances to be rich, honorable, and happy, with so little enjoyment derived from the pursuit of the luxuries of vice, which, upon reflection, turn all transitory pleasure into a venomous viper to poison the minds. Pursue your way. You are weakening in limb, and becoming jaded in mind as you dance attendance, upon the alluring forms of vice. Were you naturally of a depraved nature, were you loving pleasure or vice from a congeniality of thought, feeling, and taste, you probably would not feel the certain trials which were fast crowding around your shadow. For if there is no retribution to be made in the next world for vicious actions while on this earth, certain it is, there is a moral responsibility here, and one too, that carries with it into every grade and class of society, its judgments and its punishments.
               Poor little Fanny was again doomed to disappointment. The following day at noon, the maid made her appearance, stating "that the little girl, in whose honor the party was given, had been taken sick, and the party was to be postponed until the next week."
               "It will give aunty more time 
                     
                     to sew
                   the ribbons on my dress, and m to sew look nice, like the other pretty little girls," said Fanny to the maid, "but you must be tired and hungry, Miss," she added as she went into the next room, and brought her two cakes carefully wrapped up in a piece of newspaper.
               "Bless your sweet soul," said the maid clasping her in her brawny arms, and kissing and hugging her. "
                     Your
                     You're
                   as sweet and pretty as any of them in your clean white apron. Whose child can this possibly be?" continued the maid, in a low tone.
               But Fanny overheard the enquiry, and replied.
               "Oh, I'm Mr, Charlie's now, since he sends me to school, and I'm Mike's and uncle Jasper's too, since I live and eat with them, but aunty dresses me and washes my clothes. I belong to all of them I suppose, until I find my mother."
               "And won't you be sorry to leave them?"
               "Not if I find my mother, because it's right to live with my mother, and I can come and see them, and my mother will make them presents."
               "And Mr. Charlie, what will he do, my child."
               "I don't know;" she said, looking serious, "he'll have to get another little girl to keep him company."
               "But she won't look as much like him as you do," said aunty.
               "I don't know," she said as she walked towards the door, and took her handkerchief, and wiped her eyes.
               "I believe the child thinks she is related to him," said Mike, "everybody is so constantly telling her of looking so much like him. I wish they would hold their blatharin' tongues."
               "She's never out of humor and only seems sad, when we talk of her mother," said aunty; "she has a pleasant word for every one." And they conversed awhile and the maid started to go.
               "Here's your cakes, Miss, if you don't want 'em, give 'em to the grand lady. I don't want 'em; Mr. Mike brings me some every day. He's making a dollar a day, sweeping out stores."
               Here they all broke out in a hearty laugh, in which Mike boisterously joined,
               "Be jabbers," said he, scarcely able to speak, "if it wasn't for the child we would die of the blues."
               When the maid went home, she found Miss Hardwick, impatiently awaiting her arrival.
               "Well, Susan, you saw the child. I suppose she was dreadfully disappointed."
               "Oh, no, she's a sweet darling;" and then she related all the conversation which took place, in Jasper's abode.
               "I know not what to think," said Miss Hardwick, as she threw herself back in her rocking-chair, and was lost in deep thought for nearly an hour. Susan after taking her departure, sought the servants in the kitchen, then related her story over again. Shortly after this Mr. Ferret was issued into her presence.
               "Ah, good-day sir," said she, starting from her reverie. "You are the person delegated by the department to discover the robber; pray, sir have you been successful;"
               "In part, yes, Miss; this is your watch. It was pawned by a woman, had it been a man we could have traced him to his beat."
               "It's my watch, but pray sir, I care not for the jewelry, if you can only restore to me a portrait of a young man, set in gold casting, with a wreath of brilliants, sir. I thank you for your attention, accept this as part payment for your services;" she then presented the Detective Ferret, with a fifty dollar bill. After some further questioning, she escorted the officer to the door, and retired to her chamber.
               "Hallo, Tom," said Mr. Jocylen, that same day at dinner, "when may we expect to hear something of this intended wedding?"
               "Next month, uncle," replied Thomas Hayden.
               "Better call this evening, as I wish you to travel with me for a few days at the north."
               "Robert," said Thomas Hayden, "order the carriage at seven."
               Robert bowed an assent.
               "Now, my dear nephew," said the uncle—for they were alone—"after the wedding I propose we all take a trip to Europe. It will be a kind of honeymoon affair, and we will visit some of the places where I spent many a cheerful day with my wife, and that scamp, your cousin. The cold weather will soon be setting in here, and the south of France is a most agreeable place to pass the winter. In fact, we shall have frost to-night," and the uncle left the dining room rubbing his hands to warm his circulation. "Here, then, Thomas, was a poser for you. Well may you set at the table alone and sip your wine. There's work for that contriving head of yours. This was a match for that subtle brain."
               "Shave it," he said; "the devil, how fortunate. I have a message for him. If not at home, I'll wait awhile for him."
               At seven, punctually at seven, he was in his uncle's carriage.
               "Drive to Miss Hardwick's," and he flung himself back in the carriage; and gave vent to his feelings in muttered curses of hate against the woman who had refused his suit.
               "You see," said Robert, who sat beside the coachman, as they drove along the street; "you see he did not visit the barber's this time: sure sign he's got it all right fixed. If he's so careless now, while he's only engaged, what will he be when he's married?"
               When he reached Miss Hardwick's residence, he enquired of the footman, "if Mr. Fling was in."
               "No, sir, but walk in; we expect him in directly. Miss Hardwick is in the parlor with some ladies."
               And with a most audacious step he followed the footman into the parlor. Miss Hardwick looked surprised, still, she was compelled to take his offered hand, and politeness required her to introduce him to the ladies present.
               In order to relieve any embarrassment, and to prevent her flying from his presence, he said:
               "I have called to deliver a personal message, from a friend of his, to Mr. Fling, who has just left the city, and have taken the liberty to await his arrival for a few minutes."
               Exerting himself to his utmost to control his feelings, he spread himself, as the saying is, and flourished in a most animated style of conversation.
               While thus engaged, his uncle entered. He saw at a glance he was either to be damned or saved. Thus far fortune had favored,—chance had stood his friend. Miss Hardwick expressed the greatest delight at meeting with his uncle, and Thomas stood ready at any moment to counteract any remark that might lead to his detection; but his uncle, true to his promise, in nothing alluded to the intended marriage.
               "Come, Tom, I don't wish to hurry you away; but you desire to see Macbeth to-night, you can join me; otherwise, the carriage can return for you.
               "That is," he added, looking at Miss Hardwick, "if our good friend will excuse you?"
               But he gave her no time to reply, for with an impudence and assurance scarcely to be equalled by the most desperate courtier, he deliberately walked up to her, and in a mysterious voice, said—"Tell him I called."
               Thus by the force of circumstances and a combination of trivial events, did he escape for several weeks any further fears of being proved a cheat, a liar, and a villain, but not a silly snob.
               Fanny, a few days after her invitation to the party, received a visit from Charlie.
               "Run in, Fanny," he said; "I'm here for the express purpose of taking you and Mike to the theatre. Tell Granny to rig you up in your best."
               "Oh, I'm so glad to see you," said Fanny, clinging to his neck with all the grateful child's fondness. "I thought you would never come back to the city."
               "How could I leave my dear little Fanny," said he, returning her embrace. "But run, or we'll be too late, and tell Granny to make haste."
               While she was gone he held some private conversation with Mike, and gave him some money.
               Fanny was delighted with the idea of going to the play. Taking Charlie and Mike's hand, she asked many questions all the way along, as they briskly walked to the play-house in Broadway.
               "Now," she said as she clung to Charlie's coat, while he was buying the tickets; "now I will see my mother. Oh! how beautiful!" she exclaimed, as her eyes first beheld the drop curtain. The play was the Lady of Lyons. In vain she cast her eyes from gallery to parquette. She was doomed to disappointment; no mother was there to greet her anxious gaze. All at once she started to her feet, and pointed to some person leaving the dress circle.
               "What is it?" whispered Charlie, placing his hand upon her arm—as her face flushed with excitement.
               "I thought I saw Lutentio."
               "Lutentio, and who's Lutentio?—Lutentio."
               "Oh, no matter, Mr. Charlie, I mustn't tell, till some day I tell you, Mr. Charlie, when I find my mother." Her face displayed the greatest disappointment when she saw the gentlemen leaving and passing out of the door.
               Mr. Charlie explained to Fanny as well as he could make her understand, the plot of the play, and as late as it was when they went home, she spent an hour or more in explaining to aunty all she had seen, and Charlie, who remained talking to Mike and Jasper on purpose to hear Fanny expatiate upon all the strange wonders she had seen, and it was not till he heard aunty tell the child to say her prayers, he took his departure.
               "Poor gentleman," said Jasper, "so good, so kind, so handsome, to see him wasting away."
               "Be jabbers," said Mike, "and its wine, the bubbles of the wine, that's got into his food and filled his body with air, and, do you see, when he's dead, I'll be blamed for it by his old father, and his mother's ghost will come down and upbraid me, and maybe haunt me after I'm dead. Be jabers, bad luck to the wine that's bubbling the blood out of him. His mother and himself was the best friends myself and family ever had, and when he's gone I don't care how soon I follow him," and a tear dimmed Mike's eye while he knocked the ashes from his pipe preparatory to retiring for the night.
               The child's quick and searching glance for her mother had detected the presence of Lutentio, but not till after the footman of the countess had observed Fanny and Charlie.
               Instantly calling a cab on leaving the theatre, he was soon driven to the Fulton street ferry. It was past the tenth hour of the night when he reached the room of the countess.
               Knowing his step, she opened the parlor door as Lutentio entered. "Good news. I know it, Lutentio, by your early return," she eagerly exclaimed.
               "My lady, I've seen her."
               "Mercy, quick hand me a chair. I feel very sick;" the maid now brought her a glass of water. "Go on, Lutentio, tell me all."
               "I was searching round for the count, thinking that if he was in town I would be likely to meet him at the theatre, when, to my utter surprise I beheld Ellenor Corrine."
               "Great Heavens! and with the count?"
               "No, my lady."
               "Then with whom, Lutentio, speak?"
               "Madame, I will offend you."
               "Speak, I charge you, speak."
               "With Leonard 
                     Jocylin
                     Jocylen
                  . The same who fought the count at Naples."
               "Great Heavens! then I'm lost!" exclaimed the countess, as she fainted in the chair.
               When she had recovered from her weakening sensations of alarm, she said: "Go on, now, I can hear you."
               "Madam, he is much changed. He's very pale; but his features are more marked, more manly."
               "Then," she added, while she shaded her face with her handkerchief, "your information concerning his death was erroneous."
               "It appears so, my lady."
               "Call me 'madame,' you forget Lutentio."
               "Do you think the count would recognise Ellenor, if he were to see her."
               "No, madame, unless Mattie is with him, then you may be assured he will not fail to discover her abode, and they will strive through her, to discover your place of residence."
               "But do you really believe the count is here?"
               "No, Madame, I should have discovered him."
               "Take care, remember four years in London, and none of us aware of his presence."
               "Ah, madame, London's a large place."
               "True Lutentio, but four years is a long time, and he may have altered."
               "Not since I saw him last to such a degree, as to prevent recognition. Depend on it, my lady, it will not be a week before I find out where the child is kept."
               "A week? Lutentio. Mercy, do you wish to drive me mad; let it be to-morrow and get your reward for my most faithful ful agent in this holy work, in restoring a child to its lost mother. Now, Lutentio, I do believe the count's here. My letters to-day, from London, notify me of his having sailed sometime ago for this port. But if it comes to the worst, Lutentio, I will ask the protection of the law," she exclaimed, as she walked the floor crying.
               "But, madame. You have but to call on your brother Signor Travator."
               "Oh, no," replied the countess, "You informed him of my being here, and he has not deigned to call and enquire for my health, and would hold no communication with you in regard to myself."
               "Yes, but he hates the count, and if he knew he was here and desired to oppress you, he would protect you, if only to anger and annoy him, and be revenged."
               "I believe you, Lutentio. You are always right. Good-night, be off early to-morrow and restore my child to me, and both heaven and the mother will reward your noble success."
               And next day Lutentio crossed the Ferry, and took his station on Broadway opposite the City Hall, the very last place which ought to have been chosen to meet with Champagne Charlie, or little Fanny, on her way to school, or Mike on his way to work. However, while there standing watching with a patience, which was truely admirable in a man of his restless disposition, his patience was at last rewarded, for a person having fallen and injured a limb, a crowd speedily gathered round the fallen man, Lutentio being one of the number. When turning to resume his scrutiny of every passing countenance he found himself in juxta position with the count, who, fortunately for the agent, and waiting man of the countess, did not recognise him. Cautiously Lutentio retired from the crowd of spectators, but he thought the count was following him, on his way to the ferry, and the count may in fact have noticed him without his perceiving it.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE OLD BEAU.
               WICKMAN, in the beau monde, was a gold fish, and was always floating on the surface of the current of life, ready to display his brilliant scales, or seize with avidity, the merest morsel of adulation gliding on the top—nicety of person and exactness in dress were accorded to him by a certain class of professional bummers, who were always seeking advice from him to the gratification of his vanity and, at times, at the expense of his purse. Nor was Wickman, only celebrated for the style of his dress and the assumed fastidiousness of his ways. He had collected from different locations and noted personages, a vast amount of anecdotes and much valuable information which, on all occasions he made use of in his intercourse with the higher order of persons, either to render them subservient in extending his acquaintances or replenishing his purse. Possessed of an even temperament of disposition, insinuating in his address, combined with great tact in drawing out personal and private information from those with whom he was brought in contact, he failed not to manifest a vast amount of sympathy for their distressed condition; or to evince an exultant joy at their success. His most difficult adversaries to manage were the hotel clerks, whom he denounced as the most incredulous class of people to be met with in this, or any country.
               To call him a fop, a dandy, or a flash, would scarcely do justice to his attributes of taste, and varied fund of general information, and had he been reared up in any other country than Democratic America, he would have fought his way up in public circles until he stood beside the throne of a young Prince, a jewelled courtier of the first water. Hotel proprietors familiarly accosted him in the bar-rooms of the hotels, while he paid particular attention to the new arrivals, and most graciously, and without vulgar fawning, rendered his services useful in various ways, in adding to the pleasures of those whose acquaintance was worthy of being cultivated and continued. If the clerks neglected to call on him for his board bill, it was not his fault, but he was particularly sensitive in ascertaining the exact theometrical lease of their patience, and whether a change was desirable for the improvement of his health or the 
                     refiting
                     refitting
                   of his wardrobe.
               "My dear fellow," said he to Charlie, one fine morning, "sorry, d——n sorry to leave, but the force of circumstances, the pressure of the times, require a change in my location. Winter is coming on here, and a more southern location will be conducive both to my health, and be more in keeping with the description of a certain class, or style, of dress—of which I am possessed.—I've been accustomed to wear."
               "I shall miss you very much," replied Charlie; "now that Dick, poor fellow, has ceased to exist."
               "You will have Fling left to you," replied Wickman; "and you must enlarge the sphere of your acquaintances; just as death takes off your friends, so strive to supply their places, as a merchant, when his stock diminishes replaces it with the most recent style of goods or other material."
               "But, old friend, Wick, these will all be new, and may perform badly in harness."
               "As for old friends, they were, before the war, reliable; but now I doubt if they be more so than the fresh importations. Old friends wear out. You know what Bacon says—"Variety is the spice of life." You will find employment for your time 
                     iu
                     in
                   studying the characters of the new ones, and comparing their respective qualities of mind and habits with those of your broken-down old ones. To be popular with the world, you must be often heard of, but seldom seen. For the discovery of a new planet is more discussed than the beauties of the noon, which we constantly have with us, and whose usefulness we are constantly enjoying. Let your name be in every man's mouth, and your person scarce—a very scarce article on the public thoroughfares. Change your dress as often as possible. Its effect on the public imagination will prove immense. You will daily be a different man to a thousand people, and after a spell, in the place of being a single individual, with one dress, you will seem in their eyes, a host within yourself—a man with many forms—losing your identity in the gush of popular favor; then your reputation becomes general. You become a name. No one being able to measure your dimensions of form, or estimate your moral intelligence, or political calibre. You become a revolving mystery, a fixture in the public mind; and it will be long after your death before you can be shaken from the memory of the age. But one thing remember, as a parting advice, cease to be common if you wish ever to be thought great."
               After this most profound lecture upon human nature, the two friends retired to a saloon and drank their two last bottles of champagne. That night Wickman took his departure from this extensive city.
               "I salute you, queen of commerce," he said; "thou great city of New York. Your prince consort being the Devil. Your children are numerous, and multiply; but they fear neither their stern parent, nor the 
                     parient's
                     parent's
                   master."
               And 
                     be
                     he
                   replaced his polished beaver upon his glossy hair, as he stood on the deck of the moving steamer.
               Charlie and some few boon companions responded with equal severity, and with as pointed remarks, and Beau Wickman was destined no longer to be a witness of the vices he condemned, or partake of the follies of Champagne Charlie, which his presence inspired and his taste had approved.
               One by one Charlie's intimates were dropping from him as the long winter nights were coming along. True, the theatres would be open and the ball rooms filled, but he none the less looked abroad on the ocean of time with feelings akin to the spirit of misfortune. Purchasing a new novel, he sought his room and read himself to sleep, for his body and soul were almost exhausted by the heavy tax he had levied upon his system, the endurance of which began to fail him.
               Next morning when he returned from breakfast, he found Fanny waiting his coming.
               "I'm so glad I came, Mr. Charlie,' she said.
               "And why?" said Charlie, as he caught her in his arms.
               "Because you are looking so pale and sleepy."
               "Are you not mistaken, Fanny?"
               "Oh no," she replied, "Mr. Mike, old uncle Jasper, and Aunty, all say so; and the picture in my locket makes your face look paler and redder," and she drew forth the locket—"Take it and go to the looking-glass, and then you'll see a difference."
               
               Merely to oblige the child he did as requested, and was strangely struck with the comparison, which told strikingly fair against him.
               "You see," said Fanny, "we don't tell stories to frighten you ;" and she looked at him with eyes of pity. All this time Fanny was turning a little roll of newspaper in a fidgety manner in her hand.
               "What is it, Fanny, you wish to tell?"
               "Only this, I'm so glad you are here. Aunty bought me a handkerchief, and I hemmed it myself, and its a present from me to you. You must keep it for my sake. Don't loose it," she added, as she placed it in his breast pocket, making the ends stick out.
               "Be assured I shall not lose it, Fanny, your my everlasting treasure;" and he once more embraced her.
               "It's a fine day, and being Saturday, we havn't any school; and I thought you'd like to take a walk with me, and not be all the time with Miss Mattie and the other ladies."
               "That I will," said Charlie, as he took his hat.
               "Now come;" and they soon found themselves walking in the Bowery. Two, three, four blocks they had passed, when they saw a very stout woman sitting on the steps crying.
               "Look," said Fanny, "poor thing, I expect she's run something in her foot—not having any shoes—and it hurts her, and she's crying."
               "As I live," said Charlie; "it is Mrs. Shae, my wash woman, and he immediately approached her and held out his hand.
               At first Mrs. Shae did not seem to recognize him; but when he spoke she knew his voice.
               "Here I've been sittin' for the last two days in hope of seen' of you, and it it had been yourself had passed a dozen times I had not known you. Mr. Charlie may the angels bless your sweet soul, and the ghost that's painted you so white be sweated out of you."
               "I'm very glad to see you," said Charlie; "
                     yon
                     you
                   went to the country, I believe?"
               "Oh, yis, sir; and my husband took the faver and died. I think he's in Heaven, where's it myself would like to be. I returned to the city with my little bit of furniture, and it's all been seized for rint. These last two days I have been sick, having no friends to aid me to get work."
               "You musn't cry," said Fanny. "You call at Jasper's house and we'll give you something to eat."
               "And its an angel speakin' through you," said Mrs. Shae. "And it's your father's face, Mr. Charlie, himself, that you carry before you. But I did not know you had been married."
               "Mr. Charlie, do you hear this good woman?" said Fanny, swinging his hand to draw his attention.
               "Yes;" replied Charlie, "but its all imaginary."
               "What's that?" said Fanny.
               "They only think so," said Charlie.
               "A good many think alike, then," said Fanny.
               "Now, Mrs. Shae, call on me at three o'clock to-day, here's my card. And in the meantime, buy yourself a pail of shoes"—and he handed her a five dollar note. "You can repay me in my washing bill."
               Mrs. Shae was so moved by this act of noble generosity, that she began crying. And Charlie moved on with Fanny smiling up at his face.
               "She's pleased now, and forgot her hurt," said she.
               "We must always be good to the poor, Fanny, we must try and not see them want."
               "The rich people don't want anything, Mr. Charlie, do they?"
               "It's the duty of the rich to aid the poor," replied Charlie.
               "It makes 'em feel happy. I like to give people; when they are given anything all look so happy."
               They now met an old man, who begged for a penny.
               "Let me give," said Fanny, as she saw Charlie feeling in his vest pocket for change. "There," said she, "is a penny, you can buy a big ginger cake with it."
               "I should like to sit down. I should like to get a drink of water," said the old man. "But all seem engrossed with business here. Not a seat for the weary citizen to rest his limbs; nor a fountain at which to quench his thirst."
               "He's nearly right," mused Charlie; "there is a scarcity of both his wants it our public places of resort. Before they should have wasted water in fountains, they should have supplied the city with public hydrants—the useful before the ornamental, say I."
               After seeing Fanny home, Charlie went in search of Mr. Fling, at a saloon called Free and Easy—and free and easy it was—but so veiled in tobacco smoke—and so densely bathed in the smoky atmosphere was every individual, that on first entering from the street it was difficult to determine the exact location of customers or tables. Free and Easy; yes, free, foul, and smoky; but as the smoke from burning tobacco does not blind and stifle as from the consuming of more solid bodies, one soon gets accustomed to it, and feels but slightly annoyed by its inhalation.
               "And sure this must be the end of the devil's smoke-pipe," said a son of Hibernia.
               "Maun," exclaimed a Caledonian, "the sun no shines here."
               Though Charlie was aware of the presence of the speakers, yet they were invisible though but a few yards apart.
               The flame of the gas-lamp looked like a tulip half-blown, suspended in the air, scarcely extending its feeble rays beyond the radius of the flame.
               Gradually his sight came to him and he was enabled to fix the exact location of the guests and furniture. He saw present around him, representatives of nearly all civilized nations, interspersed here and there, with a few old codgers from the Exchange and Wall street, old English, Scotch and Irish residents of some fifty or thirty years standing on 'change, and whose chief sport was to avail themselves of the eccentricities of the raw material of their respective countrymen. Thus some old champion of song, on the Old Lang Syne order, would call for a song, while he sat sipping his smoky punch and then another would insist upon a story, and probably a third would call for a speech.
               But what would strike a stranger as remarkable in all these daily tests of the vocal and story telling qualities of the respective nations, was the good humor that seemed to prevail in every part of the large room.
               "Hallo, Charlie," said Strong, he of the Fire Brigade, "it will never do to drink Champagne here."
               "Ah, is that you Strong. I'm glad to see you, seldom venture in here, but knowing Fling's propensities for Scotch whiskey I have sought him here."
               "Have a punch," said Strong. "Capital compound here, I can assure you. It's time for that old notion of your's, 'that champagne is alone the 
                     healthest
                     healthiest
                   of all wine, be got rid of. Do to oblige me, as I have an hour to spare from the house.'"
               "If it will oblige you, I am at your service, I would any time take a dose of medicine, to oblige a friend."
               "Unless it was poison," said Strong.
               "That, properly so to speak, is poison, not medicine, the last implies an article to save, the other to destroy. But order the punches as I'm always ready to serve a friend."
               And then a voice spake:
               "When I first came to Americy, I was landed on the Battery, devil a cint had I in my pocket, and the captin', when I ask him how I should get a farthing, told me to knock down the first man I saw with money in his hand and take what I wanted and give back the balance. Well I did so, jist as I was tould, and do you see, it was no cat's blow I struck him either, for whin he got up, he was bleedin', so he couldn't, count the money I returned to him, and he wint off bleedin', sure, and I offered him my nose-wrapper to stop the blood, but, the divil, he stove it at me, just as if I hadn't a right to help myself when a man's got more than he wants, and its myself that's wantin' of a drop or morsel to eat.
               "When the captain who was standin' out on the ship's deck, had stopped laughing at the fool; the fellow made off himself not taking my nose-wrapper to stop his blood. I wint to the captain.
               "Bad luck to him," says I. "I took no more than to serve me until to-morrow."
               "Bravo," says the captain, slapping me upon the back, "Capitally done, at any time help yourself. But don't give them a chance to refuse, because if they refuse, and you take it, you're liable by law to pay it all back again, which gives trouble."
               "Be jabbers it does," says I. 'Well,' continues the captin'. "Hit 'em quick and hard, and they can't refuse, but do not kill 'em,' and there's no difference, says I, any one did you say?"
               "'It matters not,' says the captain, 'who it is. Do as I told you, and you comply with the law, and relieve your own wants.'
               "And the crew laughed, and be jabbers I thought this the aisyest country to live in this side of Halifax. That all one had to do was to watch, and when he saw anyone with gold or bank notes in his hand and you wanted bread or a drop to drink, all you had to do was to drop your man and supply your wants.
               "'Patrick,' says the captain at breakfast, next day, on the ship's deck, 'don't forget the law in case you get out of funds,' and then all the crew laughed.
               "And sure I will not, says I, for its the cheapest way to make a livin,' and they all laughed again. So, after breakfast I walked about town until I was hungry and dry, when I met the captain on the battery counting out his money on the head of a barrel, and I sent him whizzing on his back; sure, and I took a dollar or so and went away; next day, the ugly brute, the first man I accommodated myself with, had me put in prison, and when the trial came up, the captain swore I was crazy and had me sent to the lunatic asylum. After this, a Caledonian sang a song, but, having proceeded as far as the first word in the third line, his memory and his voice seemed to fail him, for, from a base alto he dwindled down to a squeaky tenor, and was told to stop and treat the crowd.
               "Quot now," says he, as he began groping his way through the cloud of smoke to the door. But the members of the Free and Easy, would not quot now, for having called the Hibernian to the floor, it was a rule of the house that if called on, he was to acquit himself before the company without failure, or treat, which he did after some lengthened complaint about his feet. Having again the call to the floor, he called up Fritz 
                     Schnieder
                     Schneider
                  , and we shall see where the joke was hatched, and where the laugh comes in.
               As we are all aware, Mr. Schneider has been a long time on this continent, and spoke passably fair English. But Mr. 
                     Schnieder
                     Schneider
                   like his family was like the sun, is inclined to rotundity and enlargement about the center; on this occasion he wore a long checked cotton coat, most convenient for business, having numerous pockets in front and behind.
               "Vell," says he, for he never could pronounce the 'W,' "ven I first comes here I be a miller, so I brings a stream of water, and makes one damn, mill damn, so I courts a gall's, and she marries me, and becomes mine frow; so I grinds my neighbor's corns and wheats and sells mine toll, and den next year I doose de same, until min frow died, I berries min frow, and another gal marries me." The hearers evidently began to grow tired. Sundry hems and haws were distinctly resounding in the saloon, when Germania grew more 
                     exhilerated
                     exhilarated
                   and by a chance swing of his arm, knocked his pipe off the table. The Hibernian thinking he was rendering a service, placed the pipe in the pocket of Mr. 
                     Schnieder's
                     Schneider's
                   long coat.
               Cries were now distinctly heard, calling for the subject, and mine host of many jokes grew excited, and began to repeat his former narration, with great violence, for he had forgotten the joke intended for the ear of the company. The air was full of the smells of burning papers, matches, and gas, with a great variety of mullen weeds, brown paper, and real tobacco, when, to the surprise of every one, a bright flame was seen to shoot up from behind the orator. But Schneider, had been placed, in the course of his life, in many situations of peril. He was a man for almost any emergency, especially in warding off danger from himself. Instantly defining the cause and supposing some one had set his coat on fire, he quickly flung it off, and seeing Mr. Strong, whom he knew to be a fireman, and no doubt thinking him the proper person, best fitted to deal with the blazing article, he hurled the coat into his lap, but Mr. Strong revolted at the idea, and flung the garment from him with disgust, nor was he particular where it fell. The Hibernian of lunatic notoriety received it on the side of his head, but fully alive to his critical situation as to the danger of his position, sent it, all blazing and blackened, on to the shoulders where it properly belonged, and Mr. Schneider believing the best way to extinguish the flame was to roll it out, flung himself upon the bar room floor, and turning over and over called for water, when nearly every glass containing various kinds of liquors, were poured on him, while he lay in terror; nor was it until the company assured him of his safety did he leave the floor. This was the joke on Schneider, and where the laugh came in; it was endorsed three times three, and repeated. So much for the Free and Easy crowd, a fac simile of which, for all lovers of the curious, and all desponding mortals, may see at almost any time of the night or day.
               It certainly is more pleasant to witness the full there, than a stale play, or than to indulge in a game of Keno.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               VISITORS TO JASPER'S HOUSE.—THE PARTY AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.—INTERVIEW BETWEEN MR. HAYDEN AND MR. FLING.
               "OH the party, the party's coming off to-morrow night. I'm so glad," said Fanny, dancing towards Mike, when he came home. "Susan's been here. And Miss Hardwick is going to give me a beautiful pair of white kid gloves—Susan's going to bring them here this evening."
               "And you're deservin' of thim," said Mike. "I only wish I was able, I'd buy a pretty sash I saw in the window in Broadway."
               "Well, it don't matter, Mr. Mike, I'm glad as it is, 'taint every little girl, Susan says, can get invited to such grand parties."
               "You're good enough for any of them," says Mike. "Your protector, Mr. Charlie, aint behind any of them in edication, bringing up, and good looks, and if he had his rights, he could take the gilding of the best of the crowd."
               "Still its very kind of the great lady to take so much trouble about me."
               "I think I could tell Mr. Charlie a thing or two worth knowing, but he won't let my old head talk about family affairs, or his rights, or may be about ladies. It's always so—when they have a secret—they're 'fraid 
                     your
                     you're
                   going to talk to them about it, if you begin to talk to them when they are 
                     al ne
                     alone
                  ;"—and then ha added, "Didn't see Mr. Charlie to-day—did you, Fanny?"
               "Oh," replied the child; "his door was open, but he wasn't there."
               "I want to see him, he's going to have more trouble."
               "Maybe," said Fanny, "he's gone to pay 'em off like he did before."
               "Now come, little one," said Mike, "I want you to dress up fine, I'm going to take you to the Museum, so run in and tell Aunty to take off your apron and dress you in your best. You may meet your mother there."
               Fanny had scarcely left the little front gate, before a person of dark yellow complexion, and very regular features, stopped before the house. His dress was not exactly that of a gentleman, nor was it the suit of a footman.
               "What is it?" asked Mike.
               "I was looking for Mr. Jocylen's abode," replied the person, with a slight foreign accent.
               "It's myself can tell you," said Mike. "Is it the old snob, or the young colt?"
               "Either will do," replied the man, resting his arms over the gate post.
               "Do you want to see them immediately?"
               "Oh, no;" replied Lutentio—for it was he—"I merely wished to enquire after their health, and the health of the little girl."
               "Then it's myself can tell you. Be jabbers, do you see me now? Well then, just think of what I was when I was young, and you'll find 'em all so now, except the old horse, who's an ungrateful fogy; because, do you see, he's taken a strange bird to his nest, which he had nothing to do with, not even in painting the feathers. But I'll call the young lark to yer; you'd swear by your mother's best cow that she was a chip from the old stump."
               So off he started to bring Fanny; and when he returned, and they looked out of the gate, they only saw the back of a cab, as it was being driven rapidly down the street.
               "He's up to the findin' out of somethin'. I'll give him his cue when he calls again, the teasin' spalpeen—furiners all want manners. Be jabbers, and I'll teach this one some in the place of his mother, when he call's agin."
               "Who was it, Mr. Mike, and how did he look?"
               And Mike, in his coarse way, described Lutentio. Fanny replied not a word; but with a silent and thoughtful face, walked into the house.
               She was revolving in her mind what was best for her to do, when Mike told her to get ready for the Museum—to which place he took her that same evening—and when she returned home she minutely described the wonderful sights she'd seen, from the giraffe to the monkey.
               As regards Champagne Charlie's prospects for better or worse, all seemed in a state of abeyance. Even Thomas Hayden complained of being annoyed with ennui, and was preparing to accompany his uncle to the north. The count was confined to his room by a slight attack of rheumatism; and the countess became more cautious in exposing herself in public—now that she was informed of the count's presence in the city.
               "Would it not be as well to go and get Miss Ellenor, madam, and quit this city?" said Lutentio to the countess.
               "And of what avail, Lutentio?" she replied, with a sorrowful tone of voice.
               "Oh, we could go south by some untravelled road, some village inn, my lady, unknown to him."
               "Here, Lutentio, drop the lady, if you please."
               "Pardon, madam. But the child he has not yet got into his possession."
               "I fear you are deceiving yourself, Lutentio."
               "No, madam, the person in whose charge I found her is an Irishman."
               "Well, I must brave the risk in seeing her, good Lutentio. I will hang round the block on Saturday, and trust to meeting the child by chance."
               "Exactly, madam; that was what I intended to suggest. Will you ride this evening?"
               "No, good Lutentio; I will walk with my maid."
               And Lutentio bowed himself from the room.
               Well, the night of the party arrived; true to her promise, Miss Hardwick sent Susan with the gloves, and it was really deserving of all praise, the tidy, if not gaudy manner, in which Aunty had managed, with her limited material and beans, to rig Fanny off for the party—a pretty pair of bronze gaiters; a white cambric dress, with a blue belt; and a small lace collar, with a locket suspended from her neck. Her hair was parted in the middle, and bound with a blue silk braid, tied behind, and a solitary red rose decorating the left temple, with a ribbon bow on the other.
               "We musn't go so early," said Fanny. "Susan says it ain't polite; and to come about nine o'clock."
               "Well we won't have long to wait," said Mike. "Its after eight now."
               "Will Mr. Charlie be there, Mr. Mike?"
               "No child, no;" said Mike. "Why do you ask?"
               "Only this: when I asked his father to forgive Mr. Charlie at the park, and he wouldn't, then she cried and kissed me." Fanny then went into Aunty's room. At this moment a stylish carriage drove up to the door, and Susan jumped out, bonnet in hand, and rigged in her best, exclaiming-"I've been ordered to bring two other little girls, and I've stopped to take Fanny with me."
               "I promised Mr. Charlie not to let her leave the house; since the villain hit old Jasper, and tried to carry her off."
               "How's that?" said Susan, taking a seat—her curiosity being aroused to the utmost tension of expectation. "I never heard a word about it before, nor has my mistress. Pray, tell me all about it."
               And Mike, as briefly as possible, related the whole history of their being lost, put in a cab, and Jasper being knocked in the head; and her rescue by Captain Travator.
               "Mercy;" said Susan, when Mike had finished his story. "Miss Hardwick will be perfectly shocked when she hears of it. Poor child; how frightened she must have been."
               Fanny now entering, Susan exclaimed: "My! what a fine noble looking child! Come here, you darling, and let me kiss you."
               "I ain't so fair as the other rich little girls, whose father's are rich," said Fanny; "but Aunty says I'm clean and fresh looking, and that when a person's clean dressed, and face washed, and hair combed, they're fit to go to any place—even if it was to a wedding."
               "If you were my child," said Susan, "I'd carry you to the part on my back; but don't fail, Mike, to bring her—not before a half hour. I want to be there when she comes. I'll make Dave drive fast."
               Saying which, she bounded into the carriage, and was soon on her errand for the honoring of the children of the great.
               Several cotillions had been gone through with, and the young quills of the distinguished wealthy were promenading along the costly rooms.
               When Susan came into the parlors and beckoned to Miss Hardwick. "The child is here," said Susan.
               "Well then send her to me. But stop, does she lack jewelry?"
               "She's only got a pretty locket, miss."
               "Here, go and bring down the coral necklace, with the pearl clasp."
               "Had you not batter attend in person," said Susan, hesitating.
               "Oh, no, go. If I cannot trust you I had better part with you."
               Fanny had been taken into the house through the basement door, when Mike and the coachman, sought the servant's eating-room.
               When Susan had arrayed Fanny in the beautiful necklace, she led her through the parlors, to where Miss Hardwick sat near the mirrors.
               "What a fine handsome child," exclaimed several of the mothers of the children present.
               "What a brilliant eye," said young Harry Brickle.
               "Only look at her skin," said Bob Slocumb. "Its lilly whited."
               "'Tain so, its natural," said Harry. "Can't I tell."
               "That's my style," said Dick Lee, "but she's a stranger and I'm going to ask her to dance." But stopping for a moment when he reached Miss Hardwick, Harry Brickle has already asked Miss Hardwick to let him dance with her.
               "Come here, Cora Stratton, and you, Millie Winmans," said Miss Hardwick to two lovely girls, and most superbly dressed, and older than Fanny. "I want you two charmers to take my little cousin under your protection."
               "Your cousin," and the two beauties looked surprised.
               "But you'll be attentive to her, as she's slightly diffident."
               "With pleasure," cried Cora and Millie, and were about to run her off to another part of the room, when Miss Hardwick stopped them and asked:
               "Do you dance, Fanny."
               "Oh, yes, miss, many dances."
               And Miss Hardwick looked at the young girls and they looked at Miss Hardwick.
               The music now striking up for a cotillion, they led her off.
               "I want to dance with Miss Fanny, that's your name," said Harry Brickle.
               "You shan't do it, she's under my care, I want her to dance with my brother, she's Miss Hardwick's cousin," said Cora.
               "I'll do it before the party's over, see if I don't," said Harry.
               "And I will too," said Dick Lee.
               The dance went on at intervals, while the lights poured flood on flood of lustre upon the heads of the dancers. The air was filled with fragrant odors of the roses and most costly flowers, while the wreaths of evergreens which adorned the walls, lent a pleasing and springlike appearance to the party.
               "I declare," said Susan, who with Mike, and the other servants from the neighboring houses were looking in from the back portico, "I declare I never saw any one so thoroughly at home, she seems to know every step of time to the music."
               At this moment, Mr. Fling entered, and on spying Fanny, he went to her as soon as the dance was over, and said:
               "I'm so glad to see you, my dear," kissing her, "you look as fair and fresh as a new spring dream. We have just left Jasper and aunty, I knew you were here, and told Charlie so."
               "Oh, why didn't you bring him along, Mr. Fling, and," she added, "maybe he was not invited," this caused a titter, all round, Fanny turned very red and began to cry.
               But Cora and Mattie acted the part assigned them, like true little ladies, and told her it was nothing to cry about, and dragging her into the hall at almost running pace, they soon caused her to dry her tears.
               At last the hour for retiring arrived, "My dear," said Miss Hardwick, "you have acquitted yourself with such excellent grace, and with such good sense, for a child of your years, that I intend seeing you home myself in the carriage, as I wish to find out more particularly where you live and if you are comfortable."
               "Oh, I'm nice fixed here. Mr. Mike's a great hand for pictures, and Jasper, too."
               "Never mind that now, my dear, the little belles and beaux are going, and I must see them to the door."
               "Miss Hardwick please," said young Lee and Brickle; "let us go home with Fanny."
               "Not to-night," said Miss Hardwick; "some other time."
               "Oh, it's not a great place like this where I live," said Fanny. "It's a small house; but its clean and nice, and filled with pictures;" and though Miss Hardwick colored, she could not help laughing at the child's simple remark; so natural, and yet so at variance with the unbending rules of 
                     ettiquette
                     etiquette
                  . While Mr. Fling could not restrain his laughter, as he drew the child towards him and kissed her.
               "Come, now, boys and girls; you four, I mean," said Miss Hardwick. "Harry Brickle and Dick Lee; and Cora and Mattie—I'd send you off, too, were it not that your folks are to send for you."
               "Can you write?" said Mattie to Fanny.
               "Oh, yes, my name; and I wrote some letters in French to mother."
               "Now we'll see who writes the best hand;" said Miss Hardwick, as she took from her escretoir pencil and paper.
               "Harry and Dick, you write your names first, and then Mattie and Cora, and Fanny," she added, "you and I will write ours together."
               After the children had written they handed the pencil to Fanny.
               "Write," said Miss Hardwick, as she saw the child hesitate; "don't be afraid. Don't you know how to spell your name, or can't you spell, Fanny?"
               "Oh, yes, Miss," said Fanny; "but it's not that, only Mike gave me the name of Fanny."
               "And what may be your other name?"
               "I mustn't tell," said the child; "I'm afraid some one will tell Mike and Jasper, and some one will hear it that I don't want to and my mother will suffer from it."
               Instead of Fanny allaying by her objections, she only excited Miss Hardwick's curiosity.
               "I'll let nobody see it, and nobody shall know except myself."
               "Well, go away, my pretty playmates," she said.
               "Now, Fanny," said Cora and Millie, "let us see. You know how kind we were to you to-night, and were coming to see you. Do, Fanny."
               "Well, I will, but mind; you are to hear it only from Miss Hardwick."
               Going to a table she wrote in quite a perfect hand: "They call me when at home Lady Ellenor," and then she handed the paper to Miss Hardwick.
               "Tell me Fanny, the rest," and she grasped the child by the wrist and whisper in my ear; and Fanny whispered 'Lady Ellenor, Corrinne Marlo.'"
               "Do not speak to a living soul, Fanny."
               "Catch her there," said Mr. Fling, as several of the servants rushed to Miss Hardwick's assistance, and placed her on the sofa.
               "Take the child away," she exclaimed when she had recovered.
               "Miss, I'm sorry to see you sick, I didn't mean to do you harm," said Fanny beginning to cry.
               "Take the child away and never let me see her more. In God's name speed her away."
               Terrible was the excitement among the servants, and the children who remained, as Fanny was led home crying all the way, though Mike tried hard to comfort her.
               When she reached home she told Jasper and aunty all that had occurred.
               "I wouldn't let her ride in their grand carriage. It all went well until she made Fanny write, where she fainted," said Mike.
               "Well," said Jasper, "Fanny might have written more, if she had known more." So much for the party, and now for Mr. Fling, who is the sole occupant of the parlor, and has picked up the paper.
               "Lady Ellenor, ah, ha! here's a go for a head in a mouse trap. Oh, here's a dot for memory, Lady Ellenor," he repeated as he lowered the gas. "I'll solve this mystery."
               "I will call on that chuckle-head nephew. Eleven past" said he, looking at the glass domed clock upon the mantle. "He desires to see me; Ellenor thinks it was pretence. The carriage—no Ellenor is too much smitten with horse flesh, dandy horses for parade. Now then here's for the club, ah, I have it. I'll take the car." Suiting the action to the word, he was soon ensconsed it one of the street cars, then he quickly found himself in Eighth Avenue and crossed into Broadway. To pull the bell of the lodge-room and enquire for Mr. Hayden, is but a moment's work. When he entered he sends up his card, and Hayden quickly presents himself.
               "My dear fellow," says Hayden, "come in."
               "A private conference, Hayden."
               "By all means, plenty of room, private as the tomb."
               So up the stairs they go, Mr. Fling following until they reach a room, the front of which is hung with a green barage curtain fringed with braid.
               "My dear fellow," said Fling. "I come, to speak to you about my 
                     neice
                     niece
                   Ellenor."
               "I'm all attention," said Hayden, drawing his chair closer to the narrator. "Yes, precisely, my dear Fling, go on, I can assure you we are beyond the reach of eave's-droppers."
               Mr. Fling then went on, and related what had taken place, after the party in the parlor, and added, "Now, having your interest at heart and knowing that Charlie, will ever be disinherited, and can never wed my niece, and considering him off the list, I say now, what do you make of all this, you, with your vast compass of mind, and quick intuitive sense of solving a problem. Tell me the meaning of all this and relieve me of all suspense."
               "It will be bad for you, Fling, not being accustomed to work, if your 
                     neice
                     niece
                   marries, unless to a friend of yours like myself."
               "Precisely, that's what annoys me. There must be some secret connected with that child. Hayden you are master of that secret, now I am going to say, if it is of sufficient weight, can't you force her to marry you on threats of disclosure."
               "In strict confidence, Mr. Fling, on honor, as a 
                     gentlemen
                     gentleman
                  ."
               "On my sacred word of honor, Hayden."
               "Enough, now give me your hand, You have a confused idea of the whole matter, now listen:
               "Your niece was engaged to be married to Charlie, as you call him. Miss Travator, with her father was living at the Inn, I may say keeping it. Your uncle and Charlie, came there to board. Charlie though engaged to your niece fell desperately in love with the girl; Count Marlo fearing Charlie might wed the girl, he made use of the 
                     privelege
                     privilege
                   of one of his class, for he is very rich, and came at night, and took her to Naples, and married her. This reprobate getting wind of the abduction visited Naples immediately. Your niece was then residing near Venice, in a villa. My uncle Jocylen, hearing of his son's treachery, wrote to your niece, advising her to cut him, which she did, but it nearly cost her her life, in fact, for a long time she was in the brands of keepers, for her distress seemed to have deranged her intellect. This ingrate son, finding himself abandoned by both your niece and his father, resolved, to be revenged himself upon the count, so he paid his devoirs to the count's wife, was detected, was challenged, fought, and was wounded, and was never heard of until he turned up in this city. Of course the count abandoned his wife, but still loving her settled upon her a handsome revenue. Now as regards the child she is the issue of this scamp, resulting from his base intimacy with the countess; so last night the child let the cat out of the bag, and your niece, who still loves the infamous scoundrel, was confirmed in her suspicions of his treachery."
               "She must know," said Fling, "that she can never marry him without the loss of her fortune, and beggars make but poor lovers. But the count?"
               "He is here, and she is said to be here, and hid away," replied Hayden; "were he to find her, he would go and spread the fact of her infamy around in the neighborhood, and compel her, by the force of public opinion, to remove, or he would watch for her in the street and publicly upbraid her."
               "I pity the woman," said Fling "and condemn the villainous act."
               "And yet you hug the viper to your breast."
               "For shame, Hayden, this to me when it is at your most earnest solicitation, I am his companion."
               "Yes," replied Hayden, "but it's a very expensive agency. And your efforts have proved but of little avail in finishing his carcass. Why don't you place him in a situation, where some one will brain him, drug him, put him out of the way without all this fussing, manœuvring, and spending."
               "Why—why, don't you do it, Hayden."
               "Because," replied the nephew, "I'm not paid for it, and am not a hireling."
               "You forget yourself, you presume," and Fling bit his lip, while his eyes danced in their sockets like mercury in a heated retort.
               "Take care," said the nephew. "I am armed," and he half drew a derringer from his pant's pocket.
               "Let it go," said Fling, "I know you did not mean it, in the light I was foolish enough to take it, come, let's be friends," and he held out his hand to the nephew who cordially grasped it.
               "I meant no insult, Fling but the very thought of my wrongs, maddens me. This villain—there should be some way," and then he stopped and looked at Fling.
               "Has the man ever wronged you, or done any act by which the law can take hold of him."
               "No," replied the nephew, "that's the worst of it. He's nothing, nobody. But he is constantly standing in my way."
               "You need fear nothing more from the child; this demon jealousy clips her young wings, she never flies again into the realms of fashion," added Fling, "but think over all, and devise means to meet the end in view."
               "I will and call the count to my counsel."
               "Do so, and send me a small check to-morrow."
               "Rely on me," said Hayden, and after a vigorous grasp of hands they parted, Hayden to worry and rack his mind upon the question of turning any secret to account, he might draw form the count, in regard to Miss Hardwick. While Fling, with the insult against his pride still rankling in his heart, sought his chamber, undetermined as to when and where he should strike a blow against Hayden. "So long as he bleeds from his financial artery, I must endure his insults, if they be insults, coming from such a source." Thus he spoke as he drew the bed clothes over his tired form and composed himself to sleep.
               The game of life to some men, is a hard one, and at times a desperate one. It requires more cunning, tact, and villanous conception to play it successfully now, for men are more suspicious, more callous-hearted, and less credulous than before the war. But the more difficulties the world encounters now, both in a national and individual point of view, for the achievements of any conquest or the accomplishment of a given end, the more herculian become its efforts and the more acute its perceptive organ of fraudulent devices.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE BET—FANNY DESPONDENT—JACK AND JASPER AFLOAT—SHE FINDS HER MOTHER—THE MAN IN BLUE.
               DAILY Champagne Charlie grew more feeble in body. The accumulated poisons which had long been secreting in his vital organs, began now to be felt in every member of his body. The sick headache in the morning, the restless and disturbed sleep, and the want of appetite, all evinced that his body was dreadfully out of order, and his nervous system most fearfully deranged. A slight attack of illness, he temporarily fought off by prompt action of mild medicines, but the poison was still in his body though its effect was momentarily neutralised. He had been but several days out of bed when Fling entered at noon, and found him sleeping upon a sofa in his front room.
               "I'll not disturb him," mused the friend. "I've got some figuring to add up, and by that time he may wake," and he sat down beside the baize covered table, and with pencil and paper, began to sum up his gains and losses at the races.
               "A thousand lost on Red Rose," he began speaking in a faint audible voice, "foul on the part of ride.—should be hung. Five hundred on Pike, gray's have no wind, bad eyes, stumble. Four hundred on Pestle, d——n all bolting horses say I, on Rockaway hedged nearly even, wish I'd stuck to the mare," and thus he went on, until his losses amounted to ten thousand, and then he began to count his winnings. "Robin-hood, never was a better foot clapped to the earth, fool did not bet five thousand, only three won. Black Bess, gold, all gold, two thousand. Rhoderick nearly lost, bad stumble, one thousand," and so went on through the whole catalogue, of his losses and gains, and then after running all up, he exclaimed: "Just two thousand ahead," when Charlie awaked.
               "Ah! Fling, you caught me napping this time."
               "And a sound sleep, my boy, but you have need for all the rest you can steal from that old fugitive, Time. You're a little thin, but its all the better, less weight, more speed for our venture. Pocket money ahead for the next month."
               "What's up, any money in it," said Charlie, rubbing his eyes.
               "A thousand apiece, man, a bet of two thousand, with a certain congressman to drive tandem to wagon with two, from Battery, up Broadway, and Fifth Avenue, to the Park, without breaking a trot. Time of day, noon-time; to make the run, one hour; but that's not considered, for if I keep the trot it's all right, we'll buckle ourselves in, old boy, with knife ready to cut ourselves loose if we are cast skywards."
               "A tart bet," said Charlie.
               "Well what's the use living, if we don't make by it. I'd leave' made it five, couldn't reach it. I'm going to put the horses in training. I'm not confined to time, any day within two weeks. There's a secret in it, all fair in betting. The next thunder storm at noon, then be ready, for the rain will drive off the light vehicles, and we'll run the pave, never fear, are you with me."
               "With you, Fling, did you ever know me to fail in any hour of need."
               "Never, my boy," said Fling affectionately embracing him. "I'm going to lift you high up one of these days, no matter now, time ain't ripe for it yet, and then we'll put our heads together to cheat the law, we'll fish in deep water, we've two chances—come, no questions, I'm fixed to silence. I could a spirit call from the dead, which Booth or Forrest says, or some other distinguished actor, would freeze thy warm blood and make thy hair stand———but no matter. Ring for ice, glasses and the froth, for I'm as dry as need be."
               "Have it your own way," said Charlie laughing, "I only wish the stars would shine more propitious in my favor," and so ended their moralizing when they both began to discuss the probabilities of losing the bet.
               "I was never much given to horse flesh. It will do very well for a French speculator, or an Indian chief. Bucephalus was a great horse, Alexander a plucky tamer. Bonner has a pride that way too, but fights dexterously shy of being considered a sporting man, but you'll find the bill, not Billy Boyce, a three and four cyphers are written there in the Ledger. So we go sailing or trotting over the course of life, not caring who's blinded or who swallows the dust behind us."
               "Why," responded Charlie, "Fling, have you been reading the Pilgrim's Progress, of late? But you were speaking about sailing, I've an idea intent for visiting Staten Island in a sail boat. 'The Merry Wife.'"
               "The merry wife," said Fling. "How came you to know aught about the merry wife."
               "Only this," replied Charlie, "I've tried her qualities and like the name."
               "Oh, you have," said Fling.
               "Yes, and have engaged her to take Mattie, Clara, and both of us to Staten Island, and return."
               "I consent, that's the end of it, never was fond of the sea," said Fling, "too much room for drowning, remember our last sail, mistake on 
                     you
                     your
                   part. Laura, would have been better off, but how is the affair progressing, Charlie?"
               "Gone to the country, with her mother, Fling."
               "By the way," he continued, "let me recommend to you a dose of the oxid of iron, it will bring your liver into working order."
               "A 
                     seidletz
                     seidlitz
                   is my only remedy," replied Charlie.
               "Take care," said Fling, "remember poor Dick."
               Being joined at this stage of the conversation by several acquaintances they all retired to take luncheon at the Crusoe-Saloon.
               Young eves, how they sparkle, young lips how they quiver, young cheeks how they glow with the colored hue of youth. But Fanny is sad. Banished from the house of her new found, and great friend, Susan has not even called for the necklace left round her neck, on the night of the party, "Take her away, take the child away, and never let me see her more," is constantly ringing in her ears. Oh, how her young heart is humbled, Mike brings her cakes as usual, and aunty parts her hair with her accustomed finishing smoothing touch, and Jasper is still as careful about attending her to school, and even Mr. Charlie sends her picture books, and walks with her at some hour of the day. But the child is sad, she is sorrowing at heart, her young soul's pride has been dreadfully wounded, she is pale from excessive thinking. Arrayed in her shawl and bonnet, one fine morning she presented herself before Jasper.
               "Where are you going, my dear?" he asked.
               "To find my mother!" she replied.
               "And where will you look for her, my sweet one?" he asked, with a surprised look.
               "Can't say, Mr. Jasper, only I saw her in my dream last night, and she told me to come and see her!"
               "I might as well be walking as sitting here," said Jasper; "I will go with you."
               "It will prevent me from getting lost again, good Jasper."
               "And being run over again," added Jasper.
               "If I hadn't been run over I never would have known Mr. Charlie," she replied.
               "Right," said Jasper, "and never known us all, Fanny."
               "Nor cared for," said she, casting a gratified look at the cripple. "I wish," she continued, with a serious smile, "only that Mr. Charlie was as good to himself as he is to me, and he'd take better care of himself and not get sick."
               And Jasper and Fanny started on their search—certainly nothing would have pleased her attendant more than witnessing an interview with her mother. It would have been a feather in his cap, a figure in his belt, for the count would have handsomely rewarded his zeal in searching out the countess. There is always much of hopeful vigor in a child's disposition, especially if her affections are elicited in an attempt at discovery. All objects are viewed through the golden mirror of hope and all her senses stimulated by expectations of success. Union Square with its fountain and few isolated benches, its joyous bounding fountain, its glassy basin and the golden fish suspended in the clear liquid water from the spray of the shooting flow; sparrows chirp amid the trees, and children gambol, in the walks. But Fanny drags Jasper along, only one idea filling her mind, one aching, longing wish, swelling her childish heart.
               "Now," said Jasper, "here comes an old friend of mine, Jack Scudder. I'll rest on the bench, sit you down, little one, and we will then march through Broadway."
               And Fanny took a seat beside him upon the bench, and then came whistling along Jack Scudder. He was a sailor with tarpaulin hat, blue breeches and jacket, and withall possessed a merry face.
               "Ship-mate, ahoy!" says Jasper; and then Jack turns upon his heel and clasps Jasper by both hands.
               "Let us splice the main-brace, shipmate, as when we greeted Neptune on the line."
               "I have this little lady in tow," says Jasper; "I can't go with you, though my heart wills it," says Jasper.
               "Send her to the cabin for a spell, says Jack, "until the squall floats away."
               "Oh yes, Mr. Jasper," says Fanny, "I cant get lost, I know where home is, I'll walk down Broadway on one side, and come up on the other, and while I'm gone you can talk to your friend."
               "We'll not drift out sight of shore!" says Jack, "and hoist signal when we're ready to sail! So wear away the passenger boat! But she's a fine little craft, Jasper, when properly rigged, I'll wager a month's pay! What may be your name, my dolphin?"
               "Fanny they call me, good sir."
               "Now leave Jasper for awhile and I'll not forget you on your return."
               Jasper said nothing, but nodding to Fanny an assent, she started off in search of her mother.
               Into every fashionable store she passed she cast a scrutinising, searching glance. At every carriage coming along the street she sent a piercing stare. At every fine lady she looked, in hopes of discovering in their features some outlines resembling those of her mother. Vain attempt; for down to the City Hall has she proceeded, and examined in vain. Now then, up she comes, on the South Side. Numberless, almost, are the handsomely dressed women, who pass her. Private carriages pass and re-pass, while cabs and hacks are not less numerous, as far up as the St. Nicholas Hotel she has searched in vain.
               Her young heart does not despond, for she resolves to renew the attempt on the morrow. Many objects of interest attract her notice. The jewelry window filled with brilliants, watches, bracelets, and a hundred different varieties of precious rings, necklaces, etc. Still she plods along with a light step, while many a responsive glance, from man to maid, encourage her hopes. She has reached the New York hotel, has passed to the next blocks, when a lady in a richly figured silk dress issues from a dry-good's store and is about to enter a hack. Her heart palpitates with fearful rapidity. A foreign personage is holding open the carriage door, she recognises him, the lady turns her face, she catches a view of it. It is not her mother's features. But she recognises Lutentio, in a moment she runs to the lady, takes hold of her dress, as she has her foot upon the coach-step, and exclaims, 'Mother,' and the lady withdraws her foot and clasps her child in her arms. Fanny indeed has at last found her mother; she raised her child in her arms, tear, flooding tears of affection, like an overflowing fountain, coursed down her cheeks, "My child, my child," she sobbed; "Oh, God thou art merciful."
               "With due respect, madam, to your joy we must avoid a public scene, for your own convenience," said Lutentio.
               Not replying, the mother as though possessed of unnatural strength, bore her child into the carriage, and Lutentio was about to take his seat with the driver, when Fanny with her eyes glistening with tears, said:
               "Lutentio, Jasper, good Mr. Jasper, is waiting for me at the square."
               "Let him wait, my child," said the countess as she again drew her child to her bosom, and moistened Fanny's face with her tears.
               "I advise, may it please you, madam, that we drive to the confectioners, you will there have privacy and discuss the subject of expediency, as to the proper course to be pursued."
               "Right, Lutentio," replied the countess, between her sobbings. And the carriage was rapidly driven to the confectioner's elegant retreat, abounding in all the delicious ices and choice delicacies of the season. They were ushered into a cozy little room, and while Lutentio, in respectful silence, stood behind the chair on which sat the countess, with one hand resting the top of the back, Fanny on an ottoman sat at her feet looking up into her mother's face and most excitedly gave her a brief but animated description of how she had passed the days since her separation.
               "I will reward this Jasper, and Mike," said the countess, "and I will make them comfortable for life."
               "And what of poor Mr. Charlie," said the child, while her whole countenance expressed her anxiety upon this point.
               "My dear," replied the countess, renewing her grief; "I scarcely know what advice to give. He is the cause, of all my sorrow."
               "But he's good to me," said Fanny still keeping her pleading look fixed on the countess.
               "My dear," resumed her mother, "I will not give you any advice, you must not stay away from him altogether."
               "But must'nt see him too often, eh, mamma," said Fanny with a meaning look.
               "I will make a suggestion, if it please your ladyship, and I do it with due regard to the happiness of all concerned."
               "Speak, Lutentio, my faithful friend," said the countess.
               "It is, that Fanny return to Jasper, at the square, and that by appointment with Mike, she meet you at this place at a certain hour every day, when possible."
               "You will go back willingly, my dear, will you not, rather than see me annoyed," said the countess, taking Fanny's hand and kissing it with an ardent expression of love.
               "My father, the count," said Fanny, "ain't good to me like Mr. Charlie, but if I must go back," she ended with a heavy drawn sigh, "I mustn't tell any one, I suppose, because my father would heal of it and scold you again."
               "That is proper, my dear," said the countess, "he does not know I'm here."
               "Take off your mask, mother," said Fanny, "I want to see your features," and the countess took off her mask, looking a different and more lovely woman than when seen through the meshes and tissues of the gauze.
               Fanny flung herself into her arms and covered her face with kisses.
               "I'd better go now," said Fanny, "Jasper might be alarmed." The ice cream had melted in the saucers, but Fanny filled her apron-pockets with cakes; saying, "aunty must have some good things to eat." Another embrace, and they parted, while Lutentio as he led the child to the street, respectfully raised her hand to his lips and kissed it thrice.
               With a heart 
                     bouyant
                     buoyant
                   with hope and happiness, Fanny tripped along lightly in her bronze gaiters until she came to the square where she saw Jack and Jasper fondly embracing each other—and striving to navigate the straight, (but to them winding) avenues of the square.
               "I'm afloat, I'm afloat on the dark rolling sea," drawled Jack.
               "Ship-mate, avast there," says a man in blue. "What ship do you hail from, Jack?"
               "The America," says Jack, "all the way from Bombay."
               "Will you go and get into that car, and see that you are aboard of your vessel within an hour," and then he tore Jack from the embrace of his land-lubber friend, ordered him to march, and swing round towards the car, which he did with many 'bout ships, with hard aport, to larboard and starboard, singing "In the bay of Biscay O."
               Not so obedient was Jasper whom the liquor had excited beyond all precedent.
               He began questioning the officer's authority, who in return ordered him to leave immediately; but still getting nothing but abuse in return for his leniency, he grasped Jasper by the collar, and was carrying him off, when Fanny ran and threw herself upon her knees before the officer, and with tears in her eyes and both hands clasped, exclaimed:
               "Oh, good, dear sir, Mr. Officer, don't please take poor Jasper to the dark prison, he's too old and lame, this is the first time he's been with sailor Jack whose friend he is," and then she added: "if you don't do it I'll give you these cakes, I've bought for aunty, but you may have them for your little girl."
               "Sit down," said he to Jasper, as he let him fall upon one of the benches. "Now, my little child, whose's child are you? Get up and put the cakes away for aunty."
               "They call me Fanny, good sir," said the child.
               "Fanny what?" said he, going up to her and taking her hand, while she held down her head.
               "I don't know," she replied.
               "Did I not see you go into a confectionary, with a very handsome woman in a mask?"
               "Oh, please, sir," said Fanny, "I musn't tell."
               "You see," said the officer, "I know all about you. It's no use to hide anything from me. Unless you tell me I will be compelled to take your Jasper to prison."
               "Ah, but you'll tell my father," said she, sobbing, "and then my mother will be worried to death."
               "No, my child," said the kind-hearted officer. "I would not harm you for the world, I had once a little girl about your age. Now tell me truly," and he placed his hand upon her head and held his ear to her mouth, for a crowd was gathering.
               And when she had whispered, "Indeed," said he, "and where do you live," and she told him. At that moment Fling and Charlie made their appearance.
               "How are you, my old friend Mack? stay!" said Charlie, holding his hand, which the other instantly grasped.
               "Why, Fanny, and Jasper, what means this?" and he went to Fanny to salute her as usual, but she merely presented her cheek to him.
               "Why, Fanny, have I offended you, why you seem to be displeased with your Charlie. Wherein have I hurt your dear little feelings?" but she made no reply save with her tears.
               "Call a carriage," said the officer, "and send them both home."
               "It's the best course," said Fling.
               Charlie started off, and soon returned with a carriage, into which Jasper was led by the officer and Charlie.
               "I can't imagine what has caused a change in the feelings of the child towards me," said Charlie.
               "Something's up," said Fling. "Depend on it children are excellent barometers as to the feelings of families. Let me talk to a child of a family with whom I have been intimate, and I can tell you in five minutes if I shall prove a welcome guest. It is evident the child has been posted."
               "How, where, and by whom, Fling?"
               "No matter now, we'll find it all out in good time."
               And then they shook hands with the officer, and, arm in arm, walked down Broadway until they reached a restaurant, into which they entered, and after partaking of a light, but choice dinner, they sought a billiard saloon, and passed several hours in practising at the game.
               Leaving the above named gentlemen at their pleasant game, Fanny in distress, Jasper reposing on the couch of Bacchus, and Aunty scolding all drunkards—and her brother in particular. We will press on our narrative to more important and stirring events.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE TWO CONSPIRATORS.
               PLEASURE leaps on with the speed of the Antelope. Crime deters us with its very shadow; but when we grow familiar with its aspect it loses its deformity, and we walk in its presence, first with indifference, then as a companion, and, finally, rely on it for protection and support.
               Slow, sometimes, is the road to ruin. Men hesitate before they commit their first crime; but fly with the wings of light to indulge in their first pleasure.
               Such had been the case with Thomas Hayden.
               Pleasure is only a road to ruin, if pursued beyond the limits of reason.
               But the nephew was endowed with a selfish nature and a suspicious mind, to such a degree of caution as scarcely to trust to his own judgment in matters when material interests were concerned.
               The wanting of either the will or inclination, when we possess the power to do good or evil, shows a lack of ambition, and is a defect in character, being what the world considers indifference.
               Champagne Charlie was of this class. Reckless, without a limit to his extravagance, the votary of pleasures of so doubtful a class as scarcely to style him a criminal, in their indulgence. Properly a convivial good fellow without an aim in life or fixed purpose for living, letting the morrow provide for itself, and only changing his habits to suit the company in which he mingled; for, save a few friends, he seldom endured the same circle of companions more than a week at a time. He was a useless person in the world, a kind of nonentity, and it he was not the perpetrator of many crimes, he was the distributor of few enobling precepts, or moral lessons of excellence. As worthless as was his life it was pursued by an unrelenting enemy, and one, too, as fearful to imbrue his hands in blood as the most virtuous citizen, yet ready to pay the villain who might cause it to flow.
               The sun is sinking behind the hills of Staten Island, throwing a great purple pillar across the bay to the Battery shore, on the granite basement of which two individuals are seen walking in close and earnest conversation. One is of medium height with heavy eye-brows, thick lips and nose, with eyes set wide apart beneath a scowling brow. His dress—blue pants with short jacket of a greenish black; covering his dark curling black, crisp hair, was a glazed cap, with a yellow braid, several times coiled around the rim. This was Garcia, the count's servant. The other person we are well acquainted with, and needs no further description from our hands, yet it may be observed on this, as on all other occasions, wherever seen, though his dress was fashionably unique, still there was a coarseness in the features of his face which always proved repulsive to the casual observer or his usual companions—for he was too selfish to possess a single disinterested friend: Such was the nephew, Thomas Hayden.
               "How do you know positively, that he has engaged the sail-boat for to-morrow to run over to Staten Island?"
               "Know it well," replied Garcia, with a heavy swing of his arm; "was I not watching at the landing for my lady the countess, for she's not in the city, but hid away behind some of those distant hills."
               "But are you certain it was Leonard Jocylen, this Champagne Charlie?"
               "Aye, certain as that sun there is falling behind that land across the bay. Did not the count thrice point him out to me in the street, and did he not thrice exclaim, 'Garcia, mark that man, it is Leonard Jocylen, the disowned of his family, my greatest enemy, the destroyer of my honor and my happiness.' And did I not see the count's hand twice clutch his concealed dagger and frown a dreadful, dark meaning frown, as this Jocylen passed him in the street. Not know my man! Mr. Hayden, believe me, I truly know him, for when I spoke to the point, my master's frown passed away and in his deep guttural tone of voice he said—'No, not now, his time is not yet come. Leave him, Garcia, to the vengeance of my good Damascus blade.' Not know my man! Does the mother know her child, or the bird its young?"
               "No offence, good Garcia. I approve of your noble proposal to revenge the wrongs of your friend and master. I wished to satisfy my mind in regard to his identity."
               "Very well then, you are satisfied that I known my man?"
               "Perfectly," replied Hayden.
               "Well then, listen. This boat, the 'Merry Wife,' is a dangerous boat. Several persons have been drowned by its being upset in a squall. She is owned by a French gentleman who came near losing his life in her. He hired her at a very low figure to Mariva, a countryman of mine, and with whom I became acquainted during our long stay in London."
               "And you heard the whole contract, was it to and from the Island, Garcia."
               "Yes;" replied the Italian; "that is if it is not squally weather, for then they may neither go nor come, unless they, or he goes to the bottom," and they both laughed at Garcia's wit.
               "And it is a very dangerous boat to sail in, Garcia?"
               "Yes; so much so that Mariva always carries hid under his flannel shirt, a 
                     bouyant
                     buoyant
                   life-preserver."
               "And now, Mr. Hayden, what is to be the result of this long interview?"
               "It is evident," said Hayden, "that the count intends to strive and kill the villain, the destroyer of his happiness the insulter of his honor, with his own hand, in fair combat."
               "That's so," said Garcia, "but were I in his place, I would not give the knave a chance for his life."
               "It is different with the count. He is in a foreign land, and were he to shoot him down in the street, or stab him in the bed, he would be arrested, and tried for murder, and if then he escaped, he would most likely be waylaid and killed by some of Jocylen's rowdy friends, for they are as murderous as I have reason to know they are numerous."
               "All of whom he feasts upon champagne, at the expense of the venders, who live in hopes of the fortune of the old man after death."
               And Garcia laughed when he had spoken, while Hayden looked serious; "only imagine a whole company of soldiers feasted on champagne for a year, what spirited fellows they would prove in battle," and Garcia again laughed.
               "As I was saying," resumed Hayden. "The count, like myself, has to move with great caution against this scoundrel, owing to two reasons: the prejudice of this people against all titles of nobility, and secondly, owing to the desperate class of people with whom he at times surrounds himself, who are just beasts enough to follow him with the instincts of dogs, protecting him in his rows and dissipations, and who would be certain to revenge his death if he died by murderous violence."
               "Not if he were killed in a fair, square fight," said Garcia.
               "No, not then," replied Hayden; "but we must consider the chances, as friends of the count. The game, I am told, was tried at Naples, but with doubtful success."
               "True," replied Garcia, "the count would have then killed him but for a wrench in his wrist."
               "Then," said Hayden, "it will go to show what I wish to illustrate, the merest accident in the world might turn the tide of chance against your master and besides," added Hayden, "this vile debased ruffian, is no coward; they say he has been practising weekly with the sword with one of the best fencing masters, and should the count fall, Jocylen would wed the countess, who, I believe, daily or weekly is in communication with him now."
               "Diablo," said Garcia. "If I but thought," and he drew his dagger from his breast so as to expose the handle.
               "Exactly, brave Garcia, I understand and appreciate your feelings. I myself would revenge the count upon this man, cousin as he is of mine, did I feel justified in so doing, but we are like the count wanting proof."
               "'Tis well for him there is no positive proof, as you say, else this very night I would stab him to the heart," and Hayden shuddered as he heard the gritting of his teeth, and saw the dark flashing beams of anger dash from the Italian's eyes.
               "In case the count should fall, and having provoked the quarrel, and being the challenging party, I would lose a noble friend and you a friend and support; aye, protector, and, be thrown upon your own resources in a strange land, and not having a trade, and not accustomed to perform menial labor—and knowing the prejudices against foreigners; and there being a hundred thousand eager hands, stretched out, ready and anxious to obtain the least of employment, and to work for a mere pittance, what would you then do for a livelihood? Where then would be all the hotel comforts and luxuries you now enjoy?"
               "Go on," said Garcia, "I think I begin to understand you."
               "And while you were running from house to house, seeking some menial employment, with a stomach craving for food, where would he be? why, sailing on the ocean in one of the grand steamers, accompanied by the illegitimated child, and dallying with the charms of the beautiful countess."
               "No more," said Garcia, while his face grew livid with rage. "You madden me to desperation, had I the fiend within reach, I'd stab him," and he struck his dagger against one of the granite posts, which gave forth a sulphurous spark as the point recoiled from the stone.
               "He sails to-morrow in that boat," continued Hayden, with apparent calmness, as though being governed entirely by reason, and not by the impulse of passion, by which he wished to impress his excited hearer with the solemnity of his suggestions.
               "Yes;" said Garcia, "and may he never return in it, or count the hour by the clock in the City Hall steeple!"
               "Alone, or in company, goes he on the water, good Garcia?"
               "I care not," said Garcia, with a fiendish scowl. "He goes, and may —— befriend him if he returns!"
               "Softly, good Garcia, gently," observed the nephew, who wished to temper the heat his breath had created. "There's much can be accomplished in a quiet way in this world. With prudence and proper tact you can obtain your ends. Of course," added he, "if this countryman of yours is a friend, he will serve you. You may desire to drink each other's health, and this will be attended with expense. My purse is always at the service of my friends," and he placed a roll of bills into the hand of the Italian. 
               Shortly after this, the two conspirators parted, both intent on doing without remorse, any, and all things in life, that might prove conducive to their interests, nor are they particular as to the modus operandi of proceeding, nor the tools they employed.
               What our different characters did for themselves, and other people, or the benefit of society at large, during the balance of the day and the night following, must ever remain as preserved secrets, canned up in the great store house of time.
               Reader, have you ever asked yourself, and seriously reflected as to what is time. Well, its just about the slowest, meanest cuss in the world, when you've got nothing to do, no money to spend, and plenty of robust health for any enjoyment, if you only had a chance. Under such circumstances the best thing is, try and borrow the latest new novel, with a dash of fun, and a few photographs of the pathetic; and if this don't relieve you of the blues, engage in a pedestrian contest, on a bet of an imaginary pile, to walk the telegraph wire from New York to Philadelphia; and if this don't stir up your latent ambition and arouse your dormant energy, then there's nary quack, even if he were to pump down his nostrums into your stomach with one of the fire engines, could ever reclaim you from the ways which lead to the yawning, gaping, jaws of despair.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE TRAITOR AND STEAMER.
               CHARLIE, in the Merry Wife, on the appropriate day and hour had proceeded to the Battery, where he met his friends, took them aboard and then set sail, and being wafted by a pleasant breeze across the bay, soon reached the sandy shores of Staten Island, where they spent a most delightful day, and now we see them on their return voyage to the city, exhausted by the charms and freedom of the day.
               A gay party of pleasure seekers—the beaming eyes; the foolish joke, no sooner uttered than applauded and stamped with the seal of jovial mirth—the worse, sometimes the better for its very singularity and stupidity.
               "A glistener, for one and all of us," said Charlie, as he counted the bottles carefully wrapped in the straw at the bottom of the hamper. "An arm for every shoulder."
               "No more, not a drop, not a sparkle more for us," spoke the girls.
               "Then, Mariva," said Fling, "Mariva must do his duty."
               "Gracious, Signor," replied the Italian, as he kept his eyes fixed upon a wreath of dark curling smoke from the Battery shore.
               "Can not one of you girls fall overboard, feigning to perpetrate suicide, and give Fling a chance to display his gallantry, while I shout and call on him to plunge to your rescue."
               "Thank you, Charlie," said Mattie, "it might do under other circumstances, on a calm sea, and a day less boisterous. But not now, Mr. Charlie, its too far advanced in the fall of the year—too decidedly fresh for a salt bath."
               "Only try it once, it will prove so encouraging to Fling to see his name in ink, going the rounds of the papers from Abyssinia to Alaska."
               "When you talk of a bath and Alaska icebergs, the very thoughts freeze within me," said Clara, as she glanced towards the hulks of several large steamers, which were resting upon the rolling waves, chained to the surface, awaiting the coming tide which will lift them over the bar.
               "Keep her well aslant, Mariva, and give the helm more play. Keep her well on her course, and to oblige me, just take in a reef, the wings are too large for the body of the bird," thus spoke Charlie as he beckoned to Fling to aid him in taking a reef. "Bring her up slowly to the wind, and luff only for a minute," he added.
               But Mariva so bungled the attempt, and showed such a want of seamanship, when he made the move to 'bout ship that he came near upsetting the boat by throwing her on her beam ends, that had it not been for Charlie's presence of mind, there would surely have been a fearful accident; seizing a knife lying on the shelf he cut the halyards in the twinkling of an eye, the sail dropped and the boat instantly righted. "You must do better than that, Mariva," said Charlie as his eyes shot a meaning glance at the helmsman.
               "I should think so," said Mattie, "I declare I'll never risk myself again on so long a voyage in an open boat."
               "I declare, it's dreadful," said Clara, "to be frightened after such a delightful day's sport."
               "Charlie, you're a trump, a very dolphin, a very porpoise, a whale, a regular spermatic," said Fling. "When in a boat on water you're master of your situation, as I am on horseback or behind a pair of fleet steppers in a crowded street. Don't fret, girls, Charlie's with you, there isn't a better manager of a sailing boat in any of the clubs."
               Mariva now began most truly to aid our hero and Fling in taking in the reef and splicing the cut halyard ropes.
               "All set," said Charlie, as he pulled away on the spliced halyards, and then swinging the helm righted her on her course towards the city. "A good and staunch boat is the Merry Wife, only they have rendered her top heavy by too great a spread of canvas. Now, Mariva, take the helm."
               With a sullen glance the Italian once more took his seat in the stern, but he had seen enough to convince him that he had a master seaman on board, and that under reef sail, and with the fresh and steady breeze then blowing, accident or danger here was the last thing to be thought of. What thoughts of good or evil import were passing through Mariva's mind no one could determine. He cast stolen glances at Charlie and Fling, as though measuring their height and power of resistance to any attempt on his part to assail them while off their guard. He evidently was not pleased with his survey of their respective persons. He saw a combination of limbs and muscles and a watchful caution on the part of Fling, that was not in accordance with his designs if he had any evil intent that way; and Fling was armed with a pocket revolver and practised on Staten beach at a mark; a good shot too, he proved to be.
               "All right now," said Charlie, "the squall's past, don't she move lightly, see how we seem to gain on the coming ferry-boat, with the speed of two long parted and anxious lovers, they seem to rush together."
               "I shouldn't like to stand between their embrace," said Clara, "at the point of contact."
               "I believe you, my pretty chick," said Fling, "but I confess we seem to be nearing each other very fast, in a direct line."
               "Never mind, Mariva knows a steamer from a squid," said Charlie, "pass a bottle to him, but ware first, Fling, that's it," here Charlie hands the bottle to Mariva who ignores the cup, 
                     popps
                     pops
                   the cork and drinks the flying liquor from the bottle.
               "Queer," said Fling; "none but a copper kettle could stand such an inflation of gas. Men used to stealing and robbing drink that way in a hurry," and he looked at Mariva, but the Italian seemed not to heed the remark.
               "Careful, Fling, don't anger him, boy, don't," said Mattie, "though he don't seem to understand much English."
               "I'll warrant you," said Fling, "he not only can understand but can speak it fluently."
               "The more necessity to be cautious," said Clara.
               "Hush," said Fling, "who fears, such a compound. Cut the wires."
               "Ready," said Charlie, "and here's to the memory of Dick the Fiddler. Peace, peace, holy peace to his spirit;" "amen," responded the company, and Charlie and Fling drank bumper after bumper to the memory of the dead.
               "What shall we do with this bottle, girls," said Fling, "it is the last bottle."
               "Let its froth be mingled with the foam of the wave," said Clara.
               "A sip for him that's gone to dreamland," said Mattie, and the goblet was filled and passed from lip to lip, the rest of the wine was then emptied into the sea.
               Intent upon doing honor to the memory of the dead, Fling had ceased to watch Mariva or Charlie to mark the course of the boat.
               "Good God," he suddenly exclaimed as he rushed to the bow of the boat, seizing an oar in his haste; "larboard, helm, Fling, or we are lost! Knock the villain in the head, and stand by to ward off!" The girls flung themselves into each other's arms; and with one awful lingering scream, cast themselves into the bottom of the boat—for a certain conviction flashed upon their paralised souls that an inevitable watery death was before them. They heard the steamer's bell ring in the engine room, and every moment expected to be borne down under the prow of the giant steamer, whose headway was to them most agonizing to behold, when they first saw her advance.
               "Back! back her!" shouted the captain of the steamer. "Lower the boats! Stand ready with ropes!" ordered the captain.
               "Throw over life-preservers!" shouted the excited passengers—and the excitement and confusion grew immense on the steamer's deck.
               When Fling sought to obey Charlie's order, he saw Mariva floating on the water, swimming from the course of the steamer. He had flung himself from the boat.
               The helm was instantly placed starboard; while Charlie, as unmoved as a statue, and resolute as a Nelson, stood ready to ward off contact with the bow of the unrelenting steamer; with an aim as certain as his arms, were braced for the occasion, the oar strikes the steamer near the starboard prow guard, and then the boat is sent several yards back from them, as it seemed the inevitable point of contact. A loud shout ascends from the steamer, again and again is heard the striking of the points of Charlie's and Fling's oars against the sides of the wheel-house; then is heard the snapping of the sail-boat's bowsprit, then more and more knocking on the steamer's sides. When Charlie, hat in hand waves a salutation to the passengers aboard the ferry boat, who answered in repeated shouts of deafening huzzas, with waving of hats and handkerchiefs. "Come aboard, Charlie," cried a hundred voices.
               "I'll never desert my ship!" he responded; and again he stands on the prow and waves that immortal and familiar white. "Go on, Captain, I'll pick up the man, he has on a life-preserver."
               There was an aged man standing on the rear of the steamer's deck, he is surrounded by many friends. It was Jocylen's father.
               "That boy—oh how I love him, and yet how he hates me!"
               "Lean on me," says his friend; as the father places his handkerchief across his eyes.
               Now there was a pleasure excursion party on board the steamer, when the band struck up "Champagne Charlie," and loud huzzas rent the air, as the steamer majestically moved on her course towards the Island.
               The girls, assured by the shouting bursts of applause, raised themselves up from the bottom of the boat, in a sitting posture. But they looked more like corpses which had been suddenly and unexpectedly dug from their graves, and brought forth into mid-air.
               "Rest quiet," said Fling. "Clara and Mattie, Charlie has saved us all from that villain's trick. He's a man for an emergency, every inch a seaman; as for that devil floating yonder!"
               "Port helm! make fast! belay that rope by your foot—that's it! Lend a hand forward with this jib draw!" said Charlie. "Go to the rudder, and let's run that devil ashore—but who comes here? Luff; as I live two men from the steamer."
               "Huzza!" shouted the foremost.
               "'Bout ship, Charlie, water devilish cold."
               "Huzza?" shouted Fling. "Lang and Steel—come aboard."
               "Pick you up in a moment," cries Charlie, as the boat rounded to; and he reached out an oar to Lang, who was foremost, then dragged him aboard, when Steel was also served in the same way.
               "I declare, you must all be infatuated with this man to jump from the steamer to share his company," said Mattie.
               "And look, the last one's got a bottle of champagne in his hand," whispered Clara; and so it was. Steel held it up, and shook it at the fast fading steamer's form.
               "Glad to see you, boys," said Charlie, "lend a hand to run that cursed devil down."
               Slowly at first the Merry Wife turns upon her course towards the floating Italian. He is several hundred yards away by this time and is striving, by swimming, to reach a schooner which is beating its way up the bay.
               "Shake out that reef," says Charlie; "the wind's abating, that's it, boys, there's your landing, my friends," said he, pointing to the Italian, "you've been with me in many a heavy squall—good sailors both. That's your mark, take charge of the boat," Long and Steel wreaking with the briny water, seemingly gratified by Charlie's confidence—took their stations, one at the helm, the other to tend sail, and Charlie now opened the bottle of champagne which Steel had brought from the steamer, and compelled the girls to drink a bumper, saving it was "a matter of necessity. There, Fling, there is not enough left to go around. Pour the balance as a libation upon the prow of the boat."
               When the boat under the able management of Steel and Lang drew near the floating minion, he began to set up a dreadful howl of despair.
               "Stand by," said Charlie, "Fling, pick him up."
               All were silent save the Italian, who when Fling grabbed him by the collar of his coat, cursed at him in English and struck at him with a broad bladed dagger, slightly wounding him in the arm and cutting: a great rent in the sleeve of his coat.
               "I know you, Mariva," said Steel, "and will brain you with this bottle unless you submit," and he rushed over the side of the boat and struck at him with the champagne bottle, while Mariva returned the compliment with his dagger. But Fling now brought an oar with such force upon the villain's arm as to break it, and send the knife 
                     hurlting
                     hurtling
                   into the air when it fell into the bay where it now lies covered with rust and deep in the mud. But Mariva was not to be so easily conquered. He drew another dagger and with his left hand still kept up the fight, and struck at his antagonist just as a wounded fish-hawk strikes at the reaching arm of the hunter, and all the time keeping up a repelling action with his feet. Lang who had watched the manœuvres of the villain, quickly made a running noose out of the tiller rope, and said, "Try him a pop over his head." But Steel seized the rope and flung it, but it fell short—for notwithstanding Lang's able management of the boat they parted several times company with Mariva. The next throw of the noose went over the Italian's head and he was dragged to the boat before he could cut the rope, and then while he was giving vent to the most piteous howlings, they tied his hands and feet together with the tiller rope; threw his body into the bottom of the boat, and once more turned the prow of the Merry Wife towards the city.
               Before reaching shore a consultation was held as to what disposition should be made of the Italian.
               It was urged by the girls, that to surrender him into the hands of justice, would be to provoke a public inquiry into all the little trivial ways they had in spending their leisure hours; and from certain considerations connected with Laura, and for other reasons—such as Fling's and Charlie's extravagance, and their well-known reputations as spreers, and their numerous obligations scattered through the city; and late arrests made at the Roost's Saloon; and for other reasons, too numerous to mention, it was deemed proper to release him, and trust to some other chance to pay him off in full.
               On reaching the landing they left him sitting in sullen silence on the stern of the "Merry Wife," while all six adjourned to a well-known restaurant, when a carriage was called, and Lang and Steel were sent to their respective homes for dry clothing; after which they returned, and partook of a choice supply with the party.
               Thus ended the pleasure party, which came near proving so fatal to the excursionists, and which to this day, is nearly as fresh in the minds of the participants as on the day of the fright. In one of the sporting papers of the day can be seen an illustration of the incident, with a full description of every member composing it.
               As at night in the waters of the sea we discover the beautiful phosphorescent sparks glowing, waving, glimmer, so at night do we more readily perceive within ourselves, those concealed qualities of the spirit's wakings, in which are created by some dormant and imperceptible latent power of action, scenes and images, fashioned into dramas, to adorn the realms of sleep. Nature, true to herself, equal in all her laws of government, and consistent in all the applications of her immutable rules of creation and sustentation, offers to man for guide through life, examples for his imitation. But Charlie, like most of us, took little heed of her precepts as taught in the order of the seasons, and took little heed of the application of her rules, either to his mental or physical organization. To have insured his health and happiness, his nights should have been spent in peaceful quiet, or in the useful acquisition of knowledge. The lamp of conscience then began to glimmer, and a shadow of a form once living, grew into an etherial shape, with form, lace, and features, known too well in his younger days ever to be forgotten. Wronged, had this spirit been while living. Now, as he thought, existing in another world, waiting, waiting at the mortal portal of eternity to upbraid him for the wrongs he had done it when in the flesh. Thus crime, or its effects, may exist in thought, and the body never have been guilty. The thought of the act, or the mind in its conception of the guilt may cause us to suffer; and, so again we may revise it, a random shot aimed at an unlawful mark, the bullet may take effect upon some innocent victim, a guiltless stranger:—The soul knows it not, feels it not, regrets it not. Crime is, but without a knowledge of guilt.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXV.
               STRANGE VISITORS AND SOMETHING OF A FIGHT.
               MISS HARDWICK, was lolling in her rocking chair, seemingly a shade paler than usual. The royal hued window curtains of her bed-chamber send forth a purple glow as the evening sun strikes the meshes of the costly textured cloth; a canary bird appears inspired by the thick mellow richness of the shaded light, and is pouring forth from his tiny throat whole volumes of enchanting and thrilling song. The mind at times, seems to sleep when the body is awake and in full possession of all activity of limb, and 
                     accuteness
                     acuteness
                   of nerve. Not a thought was uppermost upon the horizon of her mind. Memory was enveloped in a dreamy haze; the imagination had shrunk into a silent cavern of the brain, while the desires of the soul had ceased to crave for one single object to gratify taste or appetite. The heart was in a passionless state, disturbed neither by the aches of love nor the chills of sorrow. There comes a knock at the door, she knows the summons for admittance. It is light footed, brawny armed Susan loved by the footman and admired by the grocer over the way.
               "Wanted, Miss, in the parlor; two gentlemen from the country, no cards, needn't dress, on business; coats stuck full of newspapers, victimised by the newsboys, and bootblack, shoes glistening, clean shaved, barber blazed from throat to brow."
               "Have done, Susan," says Miss Hardwick with a half smile, "say I'll be down in a moment."
               "Plague on the houses," said she while standing before the finely polished mirror, extending almost from ceiling to floor. "I wish these agents would not permit me to be annoyed about the leases. It makes not much difference I suppose," she remarked as she gave a finishing twist to a stray curl, which seemed to be growing with a fresh and glossy vigor from beneath her lace headdress. In business, women always wear a serious look. Miss Hardwick was no exception. When she entered the parlor Susan's description of the visitors was exaggerated. Their clothes were either foreign or country cut. Between the yankee and scotch mixture, were their features, but the display of their cambric, from the breast coat-pocket defined them to be of a class of citizens ranging between the mercantile and professional, too restrained in their manner for merchants and too wanting in confidence for lawyers or physicians.
               "Whom may Miss Hardwick have the pleasure of receiving," she asked bowing, which they returned with unusual formality.
               "I presume," said the stouter and more aged of the two: "Miss Hardwick, Ellenor Hardwick in legal phrase."
               "At your pleasure," said Miss Hardwick.
               "We are known as Thomas and Richard Nobles, nephews of the late Gustavus Fling, whose brother is living with you; younger, much younger brother."
               "Go on," replied the lady as she saw them hesitate to see what effect the mention of their names produced.
               "You are aware, Miss Hardwick, by the terms of the will, by which you inherit this very large estate, that in case you marry a certain person the estate reverts to the succession, and you are barred any interest therein, and we fall heirs, by natural rights, and also by the expressed terms of the will."
               "Indeed," said Miss Hardwick, "I know that some such clause exists in the will, to the effect that if I marry Mr. Leonard Jocylen, son of Leonard Jocylen, Jr., I am compelled to surrender the estate."
               "Precisely, Miss," replied the elder gentleman.
               "But as I have not married any one since my uncle's death, I do not perceive your object in calling upon me."
               "Only this, for, to be plain with you, that from motives of family considerations, and to avoid the shame and scandal which attaches to all members of a family, by improper conduct on the part of any female bearing the family name. We have come to you, in all friendly feeling, to effect a compromise which will prove of advantage to all parties, directly or indirectly connected with estate."
               "Precisely Miss," replied the elder gentleman.
               "I do not understand you," said the lady, coloring very red, while the gentleman appeared embarrassed.
               "Miss Hardwick," said the younger gentleman; "in business plain talk's best. The scandal and charges to which my brother alludes, is a simple fact—without mincing matters—that to avoid the loss of the property, you are holding clandestine meetings with Mr. Leonard Jocylen, and ever since his arrival in the city you have been sinfully and most illegally having illicit communication with him."
               Paler than the mantel marble grew Miss Hardwick's face, while her deep penetrating eyes flashed with intense brilliancy.
               "Have the kindness to touch that bell beside you, young gentleman," she spoke, whilst striving to restrain emotions of anger or shame.
               The bell was rung, when the footman entered.
               "Bring me a glass of water," she spoke, when the servant entered.
               "Go on, gentlemen. But first permit me to enquire where you derived this information."
               When the servant came and went the younger gentleman resumed: "From certain letters sent to us from Brooklyn city," and after fumbling in his pockets, the elder of the two handed her the letters for perusal. She read and reread them, they were both short and written in different hand writing. After which she folded them in the envelopes and returned them to their owners, saying, "you have been grossly imposed on. Had such been the case he would not be the beggar he is, wandering about the streets; he would have been elevated to the sphere of a gentleman and living with me in a foreign country, on an equal footing with any gentleman, and then being at liberty to will my property, it might be a question if my children would not inherit the estate; at all events, I could will it to some relative, who would not see them want, without my instructions to that effect from me. I see you are surprised. My legal adviser has instructed me on these points. I have married no one since my uncle's death, nor do I intend to marry any one. As for the honor of the family, you may rest contented, as for my reputation, be assured were such facts the case—as imputed in that letter—believe me, I could not hold my rank in society for a day; nor could it be kept from the public eye or ear for a week. No, gentleman, go home and rest satisfied as to the honor of the family. As for Mr. Jocylen, I have not spoken to him since my return to this city from Europe, and I doubt, even if he knows of my presence, or it he did, whether he would take the trouble to renew our acquaintance. But if my assurance is not sufficient, you can call on his father who has disowned him, or any one most likely to afford you proper information."
               "All you say is plausible enough," rejoined the younger visitor; "but being the principal party interested, it's not supposed you would acknowledge a wrong that would deprive you of the estate; nor would the law compel you to criminate yourself. We came to offer you the retention of one half the estate, which we will deed to you in fee simple. Provided you agree, and do actually marry Mr. Jocylen."
               "And you still persist in believing me the criminal those letters imply?"
               "We have to reply that we believe it possible, Miss Hardwick, for where a woman's affections are, there are apt to be her hand, heart, and body."
               "I thank you for this visit, I am glad you have called. The letters are written by some infamous slanderer, and you are both his dupes."
               Saying which, she walked majestically across the floor, and lifting the bell from beneath their very faces, rung it, and when the footman entered, she haughtily turned towards the two visitors, and pointing to the door, said:
               "Show these strangers the door, they have mistaken the house, the lady whom they have been seeking by the import of their letters, does not reside in this building," and then turning upon her heel she proudly stepped from the room.
               "I will show you the door, sirs," said the footman to the two Mr. Nobles, who sat as two stupefied intruders.
               "Whew!" said the younger Mr. Nobles. "Come, brother. My conscience, but if this don't lift me square out of my boots. What a stylish way they have of telling a man he's a blackguard!"
               
               "My mistress never uses such language," says the footman.
               "But she meant it," says the younger Mr. Nobles.
               "You are the best judge," replies the footman, "you know where the shoe pinches!"
               "Rascal!" says Mr. Noble in reply. "How dare you use such language to me?"
               "I'll not hear my mistress accused of vulgarity in her own house, and not deny it."
               "Her own house;" replies Mr. Nobles, "if we had our rights she would not have the use of a room for a day."
               "Do you mean to say my mistress is a swindler, and stolen any of your property?" replied the footman, turning very red in the face.
               While Mr. Nobles turns up the cuffs of coat sleeves, and walks close up to the footman, and shaking his fist beneath that worthy's pointer sign. "I mean to say that she's not virtuous, and we can prove it, that she's whipping the devil round the stump in order to cheat us out of our rights."
               The footman being encouraged by the presence of Susan, replied, while buttoning up his braided coat and placing his left foot foremost, and assuming a pugilistic attitude: "It's a lie, with a double —— to it!"
               No sooner spoken when a clipper from the right, followed by a left hander on the footman's nozzle, awoke this defender of his mistress' honor to a true sense of his position, when he closed with his antagonist and downed him in the hall, and pounding him in a most unmerciful manner, when the other brother began belaboring him over the back and head with his cane. But Susan was not idle, for she called for the coachman and cook, and seizing the pole of the long duster she began making several ugly thrusts and raps with it around the head of the footman's second assailant, which that gentleman failed not to appreciate, for he caught it with his left hand and strove to pull it from her grasp—but Susan was strong of arm, and of great muscle for a woman of her size—and while they were thus jerking each other to and fro in their struggles for the mastery of the pole, the cook and coachman made their appearance. The last arrival, when he saw the state of affairs, doffed his beaver, threw off his coat, went right straight at the blowing and panting Mr. Noble in the corner, and had dealt him a smasher on the side of the head and got a rouser with the cane in return, when the door opened and Mr. Fling entered—
               "What's all this, William?" said he to the coachman. "Cease this fighting, Sam, get up off that man, and both of you let go the hair—you two on the floor—or by the gods I'll blow you both into eternity," and he drew his pistol. "Stand off William and Susan; and get you all out of this. What the devil does it all mean?"
               "He insulted my mistress," says William, the footman, blowing and gasping for breath between each word.
               "Go up stairs, Susan, and you, too, cook and Sam, don't you hear." But it was not until with Sam's assistance, aided him in disentangling the fingers of the combatants from each other's hair, he was enabled to part them.
               "How dare you," said Mr. Fling, to the two bleeding strangers, "enter this house and raise a fight with the servants;" for Mr. Fling, was not the man to turn on any member of his household.
               "I was not born to be insulted by a servant," said the footman's antagonist.
               "He called my mistress a cheat and swindler, and something more, and I wouldn't stand it, from him or anybody else," said Sam, as Susan wiped the blood from his face with her apron.
               During all this time Susan's tongue was moving with the velocity of a trotter's heels.
               "But what brought you here at all?" asked Mr. Fling of the Nobles.
               "That is our business," the elder replied, as he stood wiping the blood from his brother's face with his handkerchief.
               "He struck me first," says the footman.
               "They're low trash pickles," says Susan "salt and water twice used."
               "There's the door," said Mr. Fling, opening the front door very wide "and if ever you dare venture into this hall again I shall hand you over to the police," and the two brothers, arm in arm, and muttering threats of vengeance descended the stone steps. Leaving the servants condoling with Sam on account of his injury and applauding him for his pluck, Mr. Fling ascended to his niece's chamber, and after being admitted found her lying on the bed crying. She briefly explained to him the gross and unmanly manner her reputation had been assailed by the two Nobles.
               "But what dreadful noise was that in the hall, uncle?" and Mr. Fling explained.
               "Sam and all them shall be rewarded," she exclaimed with great firmness of voice.
               Mr. Fling now handed her a telegraphic dispatch, which on reading she again burst into tears; "my dear father is dead and I am not with him, oh mercy."
               "Yes he was seized with a third attack of paralysis," said Fling, "and the physician, who accompanied him to the springs, writes me he died yesterday morning. I will start up with the undertaker and bring the body to the city."
               "Glory," said Thomas Hayden when in Boston, with his uncle, and Fling telegraphed to Mr. Jocylen, the lamentable fact of his old friend's demise. "A new lease of life, a stave off for at least three months. I wonder how she'll look in mourning attire, but I will go not into mourning unless my uncle so wills it, I most respect Ellenor's feelings. I'll not press her to a hasty wedding, not I, indeed. There is nothing so becoming in a lover as to have a delicate sense of feelings, in matters of death. My uncle will approve, I know he will," and he indulged in a mocking laugh as he sought his uncle's presence.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               LUTENTIO'S ADVICE TO FANNY—THE COUNT AND GARCIA—FANNY'S PERIL AND RESCUE.
               LOVE is a different thing from affection. No man should, or woman should be contented with the mere affection of wife or husband. It is of the essence of a mutuality of interest, founded on a similarity of tastes, likes and dislikes, and the cause in which it originated, ceasing, it expires from want of sustenancy, or exercise of a reciprocal state of feeling. The beauty of a favorite dog or horse, the kindness of some friendly neighbor, or the intimates of our youth, may all attach us to them in a hundred different ways; such is the meaning of the word affection, when properly understood and applied. But love spirits the single star of brightness, and whether obscured by the clouds of sorrow or misfortune, the soul still believes it is shining with all its pristine lustre, in constant brightness, though hidden from the view by distance or darkness—thus it is that mortals maybe ever so fully steeped in crime, or vice, ever so lost in the wilds of dissipation or desert wastes of foreign sands, ever so exalted by station or riches; thus it is, that mortals once having loved love on forever, for love will sacrifice and endure even unto death, for love is inseparable from belief. Miss Hardwick wept, not so much from an injured sense of mortified pride on this occasion. As it was the starting anew within of thoughts, feelings, and emotions, which she had long held in abeyence, and over which she flattered herself she had obtained absolute control, and to strengthen this power she had already displayed over her passion, she sought her uncle's assistance, had disguised her features and obtained admission to Leonard Jocylen's presence, and been an eye-witness to his excesses. Her pride received a new accession of strength upon witnessing his debaucheries. Shame—mortified vanity, all came to her relief, until she grew well nigh disgusted with his person and his character. But as colors will fade, so will impressions wear out, and whenever the sun of reason ceased to absorb the moisture from the bed of pride, up would spring the flower of love, more rich in its coloring and more fragrant in its odor, than when it first bloomed in its hues of beauty; all charming and inviting to the maiden's eyes. Mr. Fling knew of this state of affairs, and whenever he squandered his annual allowance, he never failed to obtain relief by an application for funds "To relieve his friend Charlie, who was in distress," and for whom he had most diligently exerted himself in keeping from his knowledge, not only the presence, but the very existence of Miss Hardwick. A member of several different ferent clubs, a mover in the circles of upper tendom, a gambler, an admirer of fast women, and fist horses, it required all his ingenuity to devise ways and means to keep up appearances and meet his extravagant expenditures. Extremes meet—in disposition and tastes, and thus it was that these two men though wide apart, yet they sought each other's company and, at times, evinced their partialities, and mingled in the same sports and shared the same bed of vice. After any successful application to his niece for assistance for "his friend Charlie," he was wont to exclaim; "Love is even stronger than faith in religion, for when money creeps into the church, the devil crawls in after it, but when love creeps into the soul it excludes all other tenants." A capital gamester was Mr. Fling, in his way of putting up incidents and making a show, but yet he was not viciously inclined, and what honorable feelings survived his dissipations were the relic of a once friendly and forgiving nature. At times he was troubled with a dreadful fear, and which was, that things could not last long in this way, for be a play ever so long in its performance, still, like all things mutable, there must be an end to it. We shall now recur to an incident as distressing as it is painful for us to relate, but which, happily, terminated without loss of life. Lutentio had so arranged with Fanny's teacher, so as to enable the child to visit her mother at different appointed places. Sometimes in Centre street, sometimes in the Bowery, but always avoiding those public resorts where the count or his agents, were most likely to stray, and he daily impressed upon the child the importance of secrecy, and not to be drawn into any conversation about her mother, and to avoid all strange persons and hold no conversation with them whatever; to all which the child listened and promised obedience.
               "Garcia," said the count one night, "you have proved but a poor detective," and then he threw himself back in his chair with a disappointed air.
               "But if the countess be not in the city, my lord?"
               "Then the child would not be here, Garcia."
               "But, my lord, she may have left the child and gone visiting in the country under an assumed name, and New York is not a village."
               "Nor is London; and Garcia, Jasper discovered her abode there."
               "True, my lord, but it took four years to make the discovery."
               "It was only seriously pushed during the last six months of our residence, when we designed moving our quarters. I tell you the woman's here, and neither you nor Jasper have used your wits to advantage; and not only here, but in daily or weekly communication with her daughter."
               "My lord, your daughter is daily watched by some of us."
               "Not my daughter, Garcia, you forget yourself—not my daughter—now, do you hear? repeat it not again!" and the count started to his feet and walked the floor with an excited step.
               "Go, now," he added, "seek out the child; and in the daughter find the mother. If thou wouldst serve me, good Garcia, thou must do so through the child; nor will I prove ungrateful."
               Here then Garcia had his cue by way of an ultimatum. He invoked to his aid all the cunning of his race; nor was he so long in determining as to the course he should pursue in acting upon the count's suggestion, of seeking the residence of the mother through the knowledge of the child; and he acted promptly, without regard to expense or fear of the interposition of the same.
               The count was an honorable, brave, and humane man, save in regard to his wife, whom he thought had both deceived and fatally wronged him, and for this he persecuted and followed her with unrelenting vigor, forgetting that he stole her from her parents and wronged her family and the law by the act. True, he did it for the lawful purpose of marriage, she half consenting, still it was done at night, against the will of her family, and in violation of the laws of Switzerland. And what was the most inconsistent part of the whole question, was, that he still loved her, for at times—with all the convincing evidence before him—so great was his high sense of honor, and pride of birth and feeling, that he could not believe it possible that the woman whom the count should make his wife could be guilty of such a hideous offence against his house, his honor, and his manhood and stranger still, he believed the countess still loved him, which, to a certain extent, he had good reason to believe. It was only these 
                     incongurous
                     incongruous
                   conjectures which prevented the Italian nobleman from consigning her, with his shame, to the grave. Garcia hired a vacant basement room on the street through which Fanny passed, on her way to school. It had lately been used as a saloon. The shutters were closed, and the key left sticking in the door on the outside. Fanny came tripping along on her way to school—for Jasper had only seen her to Broadway expecting a visit from Jack. She was suddenly accosted by a man, with large bushy whiskers, wearing a cap, who put on a pleasant smile, and touched his cap with great politeness.
               "Is this not Miss Fanny?" he said, with softest voice of salutation.
               "That's what they call me," said Fanny, a little surprised.
               "You are my friend's, Mr. Charlie's, ward, are you not?"
               "Oh, yes;" said Fanny, "but I've not seen him to-day or yesterday."
               "He's very busy," said her interlocutor. "He requested me to see you on your way to school—see, he has bought this house, with Mr. Fling, and they are going to set up a toy shop."
               "Oh, my!" said Fanny, "won't that be nice at Christmas time?" and her eyes brightened with joy.
               "Come," said he, "and I will show you where we are going to place the shelves for the toys, and where that jolly old fellow, Santa-Claus, is to stand and welcome the little girls, who come to buy toys with their mothers and nurses," and he led the way, followed by the child, whose imagination was already picturing to her with all the vivid glow of youth, the Christmas presents Charlie would send her.
               "It want's cleaning out," said Fanny, as she took a survey of the dirty floor, and dusty walls and counter.
               "Close the door, my sweet little girl, and then come here and see the toys not yet unpacked," and he walled back to a small room next to the yard. Fanny did as she was bid. No sooner did he find her in his power, than he said—"Now, my good little girl, if you will tell me where your mother lives, I'll send you plenty of toys," and he took from a box several dolls fashionably dressed.
               "I can't tell," said Fanny.
               "Well, my little one, how will I know where to send?"
               "Oh," said Fanny; "you can give them to me, or Mike can call for them to-morrow."
               "But you must tell me. Mr. Charlie wants to know," said Garcia, with much earnestness of manner.
               "I don't know where she lives;" says Fanny, "and Mr. Charlie don't know, and don't ask me!" and she started for the door. But Garcia detained her, by gently taking her by the arm.
               "I must know, my little girl, or you shan't leave this place; I'll lock you up in this cellar!"
               "Oh, please don't, sir. I don't know where my mother lives!"
               "You are telling me false, you do know, and shall tell me now, or be locked up and starve there!" and he dragged her towards the room.
               "I don't, indeed I don't, oh, please, sir, Mike, and Jasper, and Mr. Charlie will be so alarmed if I don't come home."
               "Who cares! I tell you if you don't let me know where she lives, I'll put you into that big box, and nail you up in it, and have it taken in a cart and flung into the river. Come, no noise," he added, as Fanny began crying aloud.
               "Oh, please, sir, spare me. I'll give you anything—oh, sir, I don't want to be put in that dark box—I will die—I don't know where my mother lives—I don't want to die!"
               "And you won't tell; then I will kill you, and your mother will cry herself to death!" and he drew a large knife, with a big bright blade, and raised his arm as though about to plunge it into her heart, while he held her from him with his other arm.
               "Tell, or you die, and shall be cast into a grave to rot and feed the worms!"
               "Oh! mercy!" cried Fanny. "I don't know. Oh, sir, don't kill me! I want to live!—oh, how that knife frightens me so!—oh, take it away!"
               "Tell me at once, or—I'll cut your throat!" and he raised his arm still higher and jerked her towards him, as though about to deal the bloody thrust.
               "I don't know," she cried, as she started aghast, while her countenance shrunk with pale terror from the knife; then she gave forth a dreadful scream.
               "Tell me, or I'll murder you!" and again the knife flourished in the air; but scream followed scream—when MacShae and Lutentio entered in haste to her relief.
               Giving the child a fling from him, Garcia rushed towards the door.
               "Halt!" cried Shae, and he raised his club to deal Garcia a blow as he passed, but it caught in its descent in one of the gas fixtures, and the Italian passed unharmed, dealing Lutentio a stunner in the ribs with his foot as he ran, which nearly knocked the breath out of him.
               As he closes the front door, Garcia turned the key, and then walks with rapid strides around the block, enters the cab in waiting, and thus escapes.
               McShae tells Lutentio to look to the child, raises the window sash, opens the blinds, issues into the street, but the bird has flown; walks to the station with a hurried pace; the telegraph is set in motion; and he returns to the cellar, but Lutentio has taken the child away with him, and he seeks them at Jasper's residence.
               They are not to be found there, but he does meet them at the confectionary, where he saw the lady in the mask, and where Fanny was there clasped in her mother's arms.
               The child was very pale, but she was sleeping on the maternal pillow of childhood—a mother's breast.
               Nothing could surpass the mother's warm expressions of gratitude. McShae promised protection to the mother and child, and that night Lutentio, made the officer his confidant. Lutentio had been watching for Fanny, on her way to school, to take her to her mother. He had seen her coming up the street; seen the man accost her, and saw the child suddenly disappear. Now 
                     McShea
                     McShae
                  , whose eyes are already on the watch to passing events, saw the interview from an opposite restaurant, where he had been taking his coffee, and becoming suspicious upon the door of the vacant room being closed, walked leisurely across the street where he met Lutentio, looking for the child; a few words passed between them; when 
                     McShea
                     McShae
                   hearing Fanny scream entered the vacant saloon, and thus, by their timely arrival, rescued the child from probable murder; for Garcia's Italian blood was fast rising to a boiling pitch of infuriated passion.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE TANDAM DRIVE—CRIMINAL INTENT—THE LAST DESPERATE RESOLVE—IS VISITED BY FANNY—THE COUNT AND JASPER, MCSHAE'S DECOY.
               AN adage like a name springs up in the course of time.
               We shall hereafter in the course of time, when we wish to speak our opinion of a bad man, say, as wicked as John Allen, and of speed as swift as Dexter, and of true nobility of the human heart as heroic and generous as Grace Darling, and of a dissipated man as reckless as Champagne Charlie.
               "Yes," and "no," are not only the strongest words in the English language, but they are most in requisition. Arts flourish most in peace, but wars harrow up the ground for science to plant the seed. Nature always has a tendency to extend and destroy, man to construct and build up.
               Thus the telegraph and emigrants are fast ridding us of our most complex and compound words, the shortest and most expressive words will be retained, the others reserved only for the apothecary or quack; and thus in the course of time a word will express a single idea; a word will contain a sentence.
               These were 
                     the the
                     the
                   topics of conversation, in which Charlie and his friend, indulge as they sat near the window in their club-room.
               "I think we'll make the rifles to-day," said Fling. "The sky looks pluvious, the atmosphere grins as though it were thickening up."
               "By the way," said Charlie, "did you see that article under the head of mystery, the other day, in one of the evening papers."
               "No, what was it?" asked Fling, giving his cigar an extra turn between his lips.
               "It wanted to know," replied his friend, "for what purpose a certain sport was constantly practising his whip at tandem, and why it was for the last week at noon, two stout bays were hitched to a double seat buggy, that was frequently seen standing near the Battery ready for immediate use. Wanted to know if some great robbery was in anticipation, and by what bridge or Ferry-boat the thieves expected to make their escape."
               "Pooh," replied Fling as he relit a fresh cigar. "There isn't a more thoroughly posted class of men in the world than editors, but there is a chance for nearly all dying cynics."
               "Come, let's move, Charlie, let's beat round among the shipping towards the nags. I've provided a water-proof cape, and cap. They won't recognise us, I've had a few extra straps for our legs, nailed fast to the bottom of the buggy, and a knife convenient beneath the seat, to cut loose in case she turns on us and presses too hard. A pair of fast, clean and sure-footed steppers, which are not afraid of the devil's corn fence."
               The two now made their exit into the street and soon found themselves seated in the Folly Saloon, in Broadway. "What's the hour," said Charlie.
               "Near twelve," replied the waiter; "see the champagne well iced," said Charlie, "and bring, sandwiches and olives." Here they were accosted by a man desiring them to take an interest in a flying machine.
               Then another approached with a map of the moon with a treatise how to avoid being moon clipped while at sea, and by another, offering a patent tooth-pick warranted not to injure false teeth, "demand supplied in the most private and secret manner, with mummy oil, warranted to penetrate the pores of iron and forever keep it from rusting."
               "Crazy," said Fling; "crazy as a March hare, half the world is crazy."
               "Inspired only," said Charlie.
               "With lunacy," replied Fling.
               At this moment a queer kind of looking genus homo made his appearance, with a patent skate, in the blade of which he proposed to construct an elongated stove, to be heated with a peculiar gas generated from the heat of the body, and ignited by a gutta-percha tube from the mouth.
               "I tell you the world's going crazy, Charlie. Here, man, take a glass of champagne. Drink plenty before you go skating, and you can readily ignite your skating stove."
               "Your good health, gentlemen," said the man with bushy head and whiskers.
               "I think I know you," said Charlie.
               "If you do, your good sense will observe silence, Charlie," and the man took his skates and passed on.
               "I wonder what's up," said Charlie.
               "How strange are the conclusions of the human mind," said Fling.
               "Don't you know a detective from an inventor," said Charlie.
               "Think they will interfere with our little drive?" said Fling.
               "No," replied his friend, "they are the thunder claps which follow the lightning. They are not on the preventive staff, they seldom start the game, they wait until it moves."
               "Well then, let us move," said Fling; "before some one offers a patent to control the human will, which we will not be able to do if we drink any more of this heating cider."
               At twelve o'clock the sky blackened over head, glazed under with a dull dusky blue, and occasionally an irregular flash of the electric fire glimmered for an instant on the bay; then fell large drops of "humid globes,"—as Fling called them.
               "That's the style, Charlie," said Fling; "twenty minutes and it will be rattling down, as though the bottom had been knocked out up yonder," and he lit a fresh cigar, while they stood watching the falling rain from the door of a saloon near the Battery. "Harness well overhauled, axles strong, wheels high and well apart, pretty beasts, light steppers, inclined to jump," he said, as a boy drove the tandem team near the battery, and hitched the rein of the leader to the railing, and then took his departure.
               "Now's our time, come," and they went into the saloon, and then came out in a few moments with water-proof capes and caps.
               They walked briskly to the buggy, unhitched the leader; then in a moment they both mounted into the seat, the rain pouring down in torrents.
               The leader's head is turned up Broadway, a window opens from the opposite store, and several gentlemen appear at the window, a bugle sounds; he touches the leader lightly with the lash, speaks a few assuring words to let them know that their trainer is behind them, when off they start at a brisk trot.
               "Capital, my boy," said Charlie.
               "I tried to teach them to trot standing," said Fling, "but they wouldn't make progress. Only look how finely that leader steps, but let's look to the straps."
               As Fling had calculated the streets were comparatively free from vehicles, and so the square was passed without difficulty.
               "When we see a gap we'll drive to pass it before its closed; when filled, or on the eve of being filled we'll drive slow; these are my tactics, my boy."
               "Excellent," exclaimed Charlie, "you ought to have been appointed General on the Potomac."
               "A block away, and Canal crossing free, go it, my lads," and he touched them both with the lash, when off dashed the blooded trotters.
               He hears a bell, and soothes 'em down, 'tis indeed, the car, then it comes and he makes a slight circuit to pass it in the rear, when to his horror, another one is closely following, leaving a gap of only twenty feet.
               The conductor who stands on the rear platform of the foremost car, darts into the car for protection—thinking the leader is going to knock him from his stand: but with a desperate bound he answers to the driver's whip, and nearly throws the driver from the buggy.
               The horses in the rear car fling themselves back upon their haunches as the whizzing buggy's wheels rasp their nostrils. But the danger is passed with Fling, and he looks not behind, his fixed, unswerving gaze, is directed ahead of his leader.
               "Room to spare," says he, as he sees two omnibusses driving abreast; he hugs the north side of the street, it is the right hand, when just as he dashes for the break, another omnibus comes thundering along, making three abreast, over the hard smooth granite of the pave, followed by two wheels of the buggy, the other two in the gutter. The omnibus driver cuts at him with his whip but he is again quickly in the street.
               Before the Saint Nicholas stand several hacks. A truck stands on the opposite side, and a private carriage, and dog-cart will surely fill up the opening.
               Could he but break his trot only for a few seconds, the pass would be free, but he must go on; there is only half room; close to the hub of the low wheeled truck he drives his leader. Upon the truck-boards dash the aft wheels and then running to the end of the bed, off the wheels drop with a tremendous bump, while Fling and Charlie brace their limbs and bodies in the most approved athletic style.
               All set and away they go while men begin to run to the doors and the police to glance pointedly at the dashers in the buggy.
               On they go, the rain flooding the gutters on either side, while the electric reports rattle over head with the sharp crack of the paixhan gun.
               Fling was constantly cheering his horses. When in front of the Southern Hotel, two men ran across the street in front of the leader, but Fling cannot break his trot, down goes one of them before the breast of the trotter; by a dexterous twist of the rein Fling avoids his body, and the wheels just graze the victim's head, he quickly regains his feet and sends after them the contents of two barrels of his revolver, but he fires too high, and the scamps are now beyond his reach for another more effective shot. Ahead there is but a narrow passage, they are repairing the streets; piles of stone on either side, then a man with a handcart drawn by himself and two dogs, right in the narrow way—but all that Fling can do is to waive his arm and shout.
               He sees the driver's warning, but his dogs do not understand. He jumps into the sand and then comes the leader bounding with a solid jump over the cart which he clears and which the shaft-horse attempts but smashes it under his battering hoofs. The buggy drags the cart for a few yards when it falls to pieces, while the dogs set up a piteous and prodigious howling and the owner sends after them stones and curses.
               "Go on," said Fling, "the road is clear," and he gave forth a merry whoop and then away flew the steeds.
               Fifth Avenue is now reached; at a steady trot they soon whirl into the Park and Fling touching the post with his whip.
               "Now let's count damages," said he, as he jumped from the wagon; "three spokes gone from the hind wheels, shaft split and axles bent. That's all, Charlie."
               "What next," said Charlie, as he turned the leader's head towards the city.
               At this moment two gentlemen drove up with a fast team. "How are you, Rodman and Fred," shouts Charlie.
               "Quick, change wagons," exclaims one of the gentlemen as they both spring from their wagon; "not a moment to lose. All the street is up in arms against you, and the police think you are bank robbers, and are pressing in cabs in pursuit."
               "The devil!" said Fling; "thank you," and they both got into the buggy, so opportunely offered to them by their sporting friend.
               "Hurry off, you know where to leave the team," said the owner.
               Nor was it long before the two reckless young men were out of sight of the Park. And well was it that they were so expeditious in taking their departure, for soon the police arrived in hacks and cabs, and then gathered round them many a fast man with his dashing team.
               "Who were they?" was asked by every one. But the police made but few inquiries, only taking the battered buggy and panting horses into their possession, and walked the tandem team towards the city.
               Who they were, or what was their object, and what damage they had done they left for the detectives to ferret out. After depositing the horses and wagon in the first livery stable near to the line of the cars, they threw off their capes and caps and quickly seated themselves in a passing car.
               Fling's fingers all the way to the place of starting, itching to grasp the well earned stakes.
               But if fortune favored him in escaping unscathed the dangers of the desperate drive, he was doomed to experience the most miserable disappointment, for he was informed that the stake-holder had that day decamped for Texas in one of the steamships, bound for the port of Galveston.
               The two friends turned livid pale, when they realised the solemn fact that they were ruined.
               They had raked and scraped the amount of the money for the stakes, from every available quarter. The buggy was to be paid for, and the money borrowed to make up the deposit was to be returned, but where were they to seek relief.
               Besides, the police would be on their track in the morning; they not know the amount of damage to life, limb, and property they had inflicted on the community, by their fool-hardy venture. They now began to realise the misery of being fugitives from justice.
               They sought the most retired dens of infamy, and spent the night in the wildest revels of dissipation; so much for the day's proceedings of Mr. Champagne Charlie, and his larking friend, Mr. Fling.
               But the worst was yet to come. On the morrow, for in all the morning papers was found a full statement of the whole exploit, some of them erring in stating that the bet was for a hundred hampers of champagne.
               But there was one crushing allusion against our hero, of the most damning effect.
               "That this wild, reckless young man, had not only proved himself a rowdy of the most vulgar school, but had been guilty of a most dastardly act, in obtaining a friendly admission into the house and family of a most respectable widow lady, whose main hope and stay in life was vested in the charms and usefulness of a beautiful daughter, whom this villain, under the plea of marriage, had betrayed, dishonored, and ruined."
               That was the crusher from which he could not stand from under, such is the power of the press. A few scratches of certain editor's pens had done it all; he was disgraced in the eyes of the public, false or true, it mattered not, the fiat had gone forth, the seal of public condemnation would be forever afterwards stamped upon his brow.
               He concealed his person for several days, and when he ventured among his friends and acquaintances, they knew him not, and upon meeting one of his friends, a gentleman with short, crisp whiskers, clean shaven on the chin and handsome moustache and black hair, and eyes dark gray, trimly dressed, and asking him to drink with him, "Oh no," replied his quisical and polite friend.
               "Oh not with Joe, not for Joseph, no," and Charlie felt he was cut.
               For several days he hung round the saloons of inferior note, but finding himself slighted and cursed, even by the lower classes of women, he made up his mind to obtain money, from some quarter, and quit the city.
               He had paid the rent of his rooms far in advance, and was free on this score. He had not visited them for several days and his friend Fling had left the city.
               Resolving to brave all risks of arrest, so after an early breakfast, he sought his rooms, and paced the floor in a desperate and desponding state of mind.
               The world, its darker side had turned against him; for three nights he had not slept two consecutive hours.
               The perspiration rolled from his forehead while he changed his soiled clothing.
               He had eaten scarcely any food, living on the stimulants afforded by the exciting qualities of the poorest brands of champagne. Money he must have, come from any quarter, obtained by any means of fair or foul acts; money he must have, for fly he must and without delay. Fling had told him that his father and the nephew were out of the city, and he sat himself beside his desk, and thought, and then he started and his hands and body trembled. An idea had crossed his mind, and well might his form shake from bone to flesh; it was the thought of the desperate the last resource of the gambler and the thief.
               It was forgery.
               His mind was evidently bent on destruction.
               The slight quivering impulse of horror, its last lingering touch seemed to struggle for mastery over his spirit, and strive to repel the demon, which was urging him on to the committal of the fatal crime, made but a feeble effort, for it was soon overpowered by the hollow and ravenous cry of want; and then it was he seized the pen, drew the paper towards him, and with trembling hand began reasoning aloud:
               "Now my racked intellect, whatever force of power to plan, plot, or think, come to my aid. Ha, I have it, a happy thought—National Bank, there are thousands of my father's money laying in useless idleness there; while his son is haunted down by the hounds of the law, and his stomach is craving for food. Now mind—hand, do your duty," and he wrote with rapid hand thus:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "BOSTON, Oct. 28, 186-.
                           
                           DEAR SON:—Upon consideration of your solemn promise to reform, and the love I bore your mother, I concede to your solicitation to furnish you Five Thousand Dollars to leave the State, and enclose a check for the same. May you reform and become a useful member of society, of some other State—until then, I never wish to see or hear of you again.
                           
                              "Your once loving, but now sorrowing father,
                              "LEONARD JOCYLEN, SR."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               His nose became contracted to a point, his lips grew bluish pale, while his eyes assumed an expression of glaring wildness, startling to behold.
               He quietly let the pen drop from his hand, and arose from his chair and for awhile paced the floor as one in deep trouble.
               "'Tis the last throw of the dice for existence.
               "He dare not prosecute his own son, he will hush up the affair.
               "Ten thousand would be hurled into the flames rather than his loins should, in the eyes of the world, have produced a forger. What! have the name of 
                     Jocylin
                     Jocylen
                   disowned by the villanous stamp of forgery? Oh, no, and then these suspicious bank clerks. Ha! capital idea, son pleading for mercy and money to leave his presence; father to get rid of his dishonored son, sends the money. Capital, reasonable, natural, and then such a rich and proud man as Leonard 
                     Jocylin
                     Jocylen
                  , Sr. Ah! Mr. Clerk, I have thee on the hip, and the imitation is perfect, and the private mark right to a dot. And now for the check, the paper plaster destined to draw the needful into my empty pockets." Thus saying he again seated himself at the desk seized the pen and, with a steady hand and deliberate will, wrote:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              NEW YORK, Oct, 28, 186-:
                              FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
                           
                           Pay to Leonard Jocylen, or order, the sum of five thousand dollars, value received.
                        
                     
                  
               
               And then he wrote the amount in figures and then he hesitated. His hand trembled as he placed the pen to the check, then he lets fall the pen, seizes it again; and aims to write his father's name, and writes Leonard, when he hurls the pen from him against the wall, exclaiming, "Mother, I had forgotten the love you bore me. I'll not do it, but this is an honorable pen to write my resignation, and blot out the name and existence of a would-be forger, a coward to write but not too cowardly to die;" and he raised the lid of the desk, draws forth a derringer pistol; cocks it, placed it on the paper, walks to the window, his lips move as though in agony of silent prayer, returns to the desk, and with glaring eyeballs takes the pistol to end his miserable existence, when the door hastily swings on its hinges, and the little bounding graceful form, and joyous face of Fanny appears carrying a beautiful nosegay in her left hand, while she rushes towards him, clasps his hand, exclaiming, "see, Mr. Charlie, my mother lady, the countess of Marlo, sends you these beautiful flowers, and this note, telling you to call and see her. But you musn't say nothing."
               "Fanny, thou hast saved Champagne Charlie, from a suicidal act, only to die like a cripple and a coward."
               He staggered towards the sofa, while he strove to bend his form to salute her eager, rosy lips, but a dimness had been flung over his sight, an electric nervous tremor has paralysed his senses.
               Lutentio has followed Fanny into the room and hastens to his assistance, and aids him to gently recline upon the sofa.
               Then he hastens to the opposite apothecary shop, assistance is immediately procured, he is taken to his bed into the adjoining room, and became a raving maniac, before the sun went down.
               The doctor pronounced his disease the brain fever, brought on by great nervous excitement and want of regular nourishment.
               Fanny sat watching and, at intervals, crying beside his bed.
               The flowers she placed in a glass on the mantle, the note she thrust under his pillow, and when she retired for the night with Lutentio, she told the nurse she would "certainly be there next morning, for if he knew she was sitting beside his bed, sure Charlie would get well directly."
               Poor child, you with Mike, Jasper and others, were destined to watch many a painful hour beside his bed and witness a misery you were unable to relieve.
               Champagne Charlie had abused nature; she was now reaping her revenge and most terrible and lingering was her retribution. Charlie had gone on and on, until at last he sunk under the accumulated weight of disease, which his indulgence in dissipation had engendered and solidified into dead weight.
               It would prove tediously unprofitable for the reader to peruse a heightened description of Charlie's sickness; but it will scarcely be doing justice to the excellent traits of character manifested by his friends in the hour of adversity to abridge.
               Irrespective of the count's anger, the countess had taken Fanny to her Brooklyn home—but in this she was favored, for McShae, who being in the confidence of Lutentio, has caused a letter to be written by the countess, signing her name in full, and dropped in the presence of Garcia, by one of his tools.
               The letter was dated Charleston, endorsed in an opened envelope, "requesting McShae to keep her advised of the movements of the count and the health of the child." The ruse succeeded.
               "There can be no doubt, Garcia," said the count, as the two conversed in low tones, in the corridor of the hotel; "there can be no doubt of the genuineness of the writing and signature. I do not wonder she could not be found where she was not living. This fellow will scarcely recover, if at all, before my return, and the sooner we follow in pursuit there will be a greater saving of time."
               "And the child?" asked Garcia.
               "Let her remain with Jasper until our return. I will give him his instructions to-night."
               And the count visited Jasper at the usual hour, when he desired to see him.
               "I presume, Jasper," said the count, "the child will be safe in your hands until my return, as I am called away for a week or so on important business."
               
               "Oh, yes, sir," answered Jasper. "Do you wish to see her, she is in remarkable good health?"
               "No, I have no desire at present, Jasper," and the count took his departure after a few inquiries in regard to Charlie. But what excuse would he have given if the count should have answered in the affirmative.
               The child had been absent from his abode for several days, and Mike had in formed him she was in the possession of her mother; but when that was the question, and thus was he saved the penalty of being convicted of a lie.
               "I say, Mike, I have made a narrow escape, the count's been here."
               "And be jabbers, so has his ghost a great many times!" answered Mike, laughing.
               "Well, this one enquired about the child, and I offered to show Fanny for his examination with his natural sight; but he refused, and he leaves the city, no doubt to look for the countess."
               "And if he should find her," replied Mike, "he'd find it a very different thing to deal with her here than across the waters; there's strict justice here, and more sympathy for woman. Be jabbers he'd better keep quiet or be laughed at for his pains."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               MISS HARDWICK RECEIVES A VISIT FROM MATTIE AND CLARA—CHARLIE RECEIVES A NIGHT VISITOR—HAYDEN AND HIS UNCLE—FANNY MEETS MR. JOCYLEN.
               MISS HARDWICK had heard through Susan, who had called to see the child, of Leonard Jocylen's illness and she was grieved in spirit and she knew not why. This night in a half wakeful dream, she walked through groves and over the hills with him, as they did in their more youthful days, while sojourning in Italy and the south of France.
               He was then her own cherished lover. No one else claiming a part or portion of her faithful heart. But he had defamed their names, insulted her honor, and wounded her pride by his infamous dealings with the countess.
               Yet he was unmarried. Did he, could he still love?
               Did he even know of her existence, could she ever be reconciled to him.
               What would the world say, and she laughed a scornful laugh which implied what do I care?
               Leaving her in morning's dreamy awakening slumber, we now hasten to describe a scene of quite a different character.
               Mr. Advert, editor of one of the most influential daily papers, sat in his office, sanctum sanctorum, ruminating in the store-house of the mind to find a subject for the next mornings leader for his readers, when two young and pretty girls are ushered into his presence, one of whom carried one of his dailies dated a month back. This was Mattie, and the other Clara.
               "The Editor, I presume."
               "Yes, ladies; pray be seated."
               "We have called," said Mattie, in a solemn tone, "to call your attention to a most abusive article contained in your paper of this date," and she opened the paper and pointed out the article, 
                     refering
                     referring
                   to Charlie and Fling's drive through Broadway.
               "He is but slowly recovering from the brain fever," she continued. "caused by this most cruel attack upon his manhood, for be assured," and she spoke with emphasis, "however dissipated he may be in his tastes and associations, he is a gentleman as regards his friends, without reference to his position in society. The charge of wronging injured innocence is without foundation, either in fact or justice, as we are personally conversant with the whole ground of this vile attack upon his honor."
               "Really," replied Mr. Advert, "it strikes me our reporter has made a mistake."
               "And a very great one, and for which you are personally responsible, not only in a criminal, but in a pecuniary point of view. The offence you charge to his account may be justly applied to his cousin. But not to this, our jovial suffering friend; and may it please you, here are our cards;" and she handed their names to the editor.
               They then took their departure, and left the editor and proprietor in anything but a pleasant humor with his reporters.
               Next morning there was a flattering notice of our hero, and a sincere regret expressed that any charge against him of so serious a nature should have been made against him.
               The other papers immediately began to snuff the sneeze of danger in the right direction; and moralised Mr. Advert upon the folly and criminal, nay, reprehensible conduct of circulating such vile slanders.
               There's nothing like shifting the burden of responsibility, it renders the load of censure so much easier to carry.
               We left Miss Hardwick musing in meditative somnolency.
               Her usual hour is past for rising from her curtained bed and laced pillow cases.
               At last, she places her dainty foot of transparent whiteness upon the brussell's rug beside her bed. A morning wrapper adorns her handsome form as she descends to the breakfast-room, to sip her coffee and read the morning papers.
               "Two ladies in the parlor, one wishing to see you in person," says the footman.
               "On business," replies Miss Hardwick.
               "I should judge so," replies the footman, "from the time of day."
               "Invite them in, Sam."
               And the footman ushers in Miss Mattie Wiggins.
               "Decidedly pretty," muses Miss Hardwick, "nor wanting in grace and manners."
               "Pray be seated," says the hostess bowing, "have you been to breakfast."
               "Miss Hardwick, I believe, and I am Miss Mattie Wiggins." "I do not intend to offend," continues Mattie, "by too long or too abrupt an intrusion. But I have to communicate as briefly as possible, that I believe we are both acquainted with Mr. Leonard Jocylen."
               "For myself, to a certain extent," and Miss Hardwick bowed while replying.
               "Well, you may, or not be aware, that he has been very sick with the brain fever, and in his ravings he has constantly called your name with fearful upbraidings against himself—and when you seemed to be accusing him in his ravings, he denied all knowledge of the crime of which you accuse him, and his piteous pleadings for forgiveness were most heartrending to listen to, and we have thought that now he begins to manifest lucid intervals of reason, it may prove conducive to his recovery for you to pay him a visit."
               "Is he in want," observed Miss Hardwick.
               "No, nor has he been, so far as our own humble means would go, he has wanted for nothing. The only person whom he seems to recognize is little Fanny—who, in fact, I believe to be his child, coming from what source it may—and strange to say, he is always looking and feeling a large mole on the child's left wrist."
               "Thank you, Miss Wiggins, extremely thank you. I shall be most happy to make your acquaintance. I will think over your suggestion, and give what assistance lies in my power."
               Miss Mattie and Clara took their departure, but Miss Hardwick remained bewildered and confused. There followed a stagnation of thought, if not of blood and sensation. She has resolved upon a certain course of action—not thinking or caring to think—only determined to act.
               She rang the bell and Susan came. "Go," said she, "and ascertain from Mike, Mr. Charlie's, or rather young Mr. Jocylen's rooms, the place where he lies sick."
               It was about the tenth hour of the night, a lady in a black silk dress alighted from a cab near Charlie's rooms.
               The light from the sick room seems dim and faint. She bids the man, who followed behind, to wait at the foot of the narrow stairs, which she slowly ascends; the door at the head of the stairs stands ajar, she gently taps with her gloved knuckles.
               "Come in," says a soft, musical childish voice.
               She enters, and discovers Fanny looking at a picture book, and Mike dozing in an arm-chair in the corner.
               Fanny starts upon seeing her, and makes a movement as though to glide towards her but stops and hesitates. The child is no more the plainly dressed school-girl, but clothed in rich drapery, with costly ruffles around her fair slender neck.
               "Come, Fanny, let's be friends," said Miss Hardwick, offering the child both her hands.
               "I'm always your friend—if you would let me,"—said Fanny, as she raised her eyes to Miss Hardwick's face, while tears filled her young eyes.
               "There, now, rest content and be happy, I am your friend," she added, after kissing the child. "How is your guardian?"
               "The doctor says he's better," said Fanny, in a whisper; "but the doctor don't want any person to see him—he's afraid of noise."
               "Do you stay here all night, Fanny?"
               "Oh, no, Lutentio will call for me directly, though when he was very sick I stayed sometimes with aunty here—who comes late every night, and stays till daylight, when Miss Mattie, or Clara, comes, and other ladies and men come too."
               "Come with me," and she took the child by the hand and led her to the bed of the sleeping invalid.
               The cheeks were sunken, the eyes closed, the hair matted in clusters round his brow, while the hands hung over the coverlid.
               "Look," said Fanny in a whisper, "that's the ring on his finger, he wouldn't give that to his uncle; Mike says, 'He must be very proud of it, or he'd give it for champagne,'—for he likes champagne."
               Miss Hardwick stooped and looked at the ring, while she held Fanny's arm. 
               "You hurt me," whispered Fanny, and Miss Hardwick released her hold of the child's arm, and then bent over the sleeper's face. Kissing his brow, she then turned from the bed and taking Fanny with her, left the room.
               "My dear," said she, as she kissed Fanny at the head of the stairs, "you must promise to come and see me. I observe from your improvement in dress you have found your mother. You must be sure to call before long. You need not mention this visit, Mr. Charlie would be displeased if ever he could understand it."
               The lady visitor has gone, Fanny has been called for, by Lutentio, and aunty has taken her place by the bed of the improving invalid. And so good-night until the morrow, when we introduce Mr Leonard Jocylen, Sr. in his morning wrapper seated beside a small fire in his chamber; for it is getting to be frosty, this October weather; Robert brings in the papers, damp with the morning's taint of printer's ink.
               His nephew, Thomas Hayden, not yet stirring in his bed, no doubt fatigued by the short and rapid traveling trip, to the north.
               Paper after paper is scanned over by the spectacled eyes of the uncle, until at last his sight is directed to the important head of Personals in one of the great exponents of ideas and expounders of news in this great metropolis of commerce. Singular; "singular—ill, yet scarcely well, public denial by such a responsible paper; who is the party referred to as his cousin, this will indeed be news for Thomas, Robert," he called and then he resumed his seat.
               Robert entered.
               "Send Mr. Thomas to me. It will never do," he said, "for it to he said—that my son, an insult to the name though he be, should die in beggary," and then his son's form arose up before him, as he saw him standing up in the boat, struggling heroically and successfully in warding off danger from those whom he had led into peril.
               "Look at this," said he as he held up the paper and pointed to the lengthy paragraph, half exculpatory, and the balance apologetic; "Tell me, Thomas," he added as that worthy entered in his morning-gown. "Tell me to what cousin this paper refers."
               "Oh," said Thomas, after reading the article, "The old mistake again. He and Mr. Fling are called cousins from being always together, in fact they call each other so in their carousals." "And it may be the case, I only trust it is so, for the honor of the family, but it looks suspicious against Fling, who has fled the city, and dare not return for fear of consequences, so at least, I was informed at the club last evening."
               "His flight, sir, indicates his conviction in this base affair." "I believe your surmise is correct," continued the uncle, "but it is deucedly strange, how this son of mine should retain so many of his revelling companions in his sickness after such a charge. They must have known him a little better than we do, Thomas."
               "Such acts only unite his class more firmly in the bonds of crime," said Thomas.
               "To a certain extent," replied the uncle. "But it must result from the very course which he had pursued in life, sacrificing his time, health, and money, for the pleasure and comfort of his friends."
               "It never did pay," said Thomas, "one gets no thanks for it in the end, and the old adage is in every one's mind while they are profiting by our extravagance. 'A fool and his money soon parts company.'"
               "The fellow has at least made a name for himself, Thomas."
               "So did Dick Turpin," replied Thomas laughing. "But, my dear uncle, rest content in all these matters until I gather up all the news, and impart it to you at dinner."
               "Oh!" added the nephew, as he snapped his fingers, descending the stairs to the breakfast table. "If only Fling was here, and yet if he were here it would give my supposition a telling kick. The girl's gone to the country. She must have got the money I sent her. I must see the count," and, after a hurried breakfast, he went off and sought the count at the St. Nicholas Hotel.
               "Arrived last night from Charleston," said the clerk in response to his inquiry; "any one calling he requested to be admitted at eleven, and not before;" and Hayden strolled towards the club rooms to while away an hour.
               But a fatal move was being made against him by that fickle dame Fortune. Mr. Jocylen had been to the bank and was crossing Chatham Street, near the International Hotel, when a fair child, beautifully dressed in a figured black silk, with beads and braids adorning, came running up from behind and grasped him by his hand.
               He turned and beheld the fresh, open, and beautiful face of a child, glowing with all the inviting hues and liveliness of youth.
               In one hand she carried a fan, in the other a bouquet.
               To say that Jocylen was astonished would scarcely express the sudden and severe check upon his monied calculations, then being figured up in his arithmetical brain.
               "Oh, maybe you dont know me. I'm Mr. Charlie's ward—Ellenor,—no, not that, Fanny," and his own son's handsome features spoke to him through the child; but he remained silent; while the child went on—"Maybe you don't want to know he's been so sick, or you'd been to see him. He called on you many times when they said he was mad and was going to die."
               "Well, what did he say, my little darling?" said the rich man buttoning up his coat.
               "Only for you to forget about something in Europe; and forgive, as he was not very guilty—or something that way."
               "It seems, my dear, you have found your mother?"
               "Oh, yes," replied Fanny; "but she lets me call and see Mr. Charlie, because he was good to me, and other ladies go and see him, because he was good to them when he was well and had money. What do so many people take off their hats to you for?" continued the child, as many passers-by lifted their hats to the man of wealth.
               "Out of respect to my age, my little girl," replied Mr. Jocylen; but he could have given a more truthful answer had he really spoken his mind.
               "It's honorable to be old, ain't it? But I must go now, Lutentio will soon be along, and will see me speaking to you. He don't like to see me talking to strangers, for he don't know you, but I do—don't I? Miss Hardwick, at the Park, you know, said I looked so much like you," and the child started to go on her errand of pleasure, but he retained her hand.
               "And who is your mother, Fanny?"
               "Oh, you know her, the countess of Marlo; she says she knows you, and that you think there's something very wrong, but there ain't. But here comes Lutentio, and you must go your way, and make out you don't know me, or he'll be mad. It's no harm. I'll tell him when we go home to-night," and she bounded away from him with a little 
                     bouyant
                     buoyant
                   step as happy as a rejoicing angel, and with a heart flowing over with cherubic bliss.
               Mr. Hayden, if you had but then been befriended by one spirit friend who could have turned the course of feeling or conversation by its subtle influence, you would have been safe for awhile, indeed, but the gods ceased to be vigilant in your mortal affairs; you were doomed, to all appearance, for vice left to itself dies by its own foul and corrupting influences.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               INTERVIEW BETWEEN COUNT MARLO AND THOMAS HAYDEN—ROBERT TAKEN AS A PARTNER—FLING'S RETURN—CAPTAIN JINKS AND MRS. FLANDY.
               WHEN he called again the count was ready to receive him, and was pacing the floor of his chamber when Hayden entered.
               "We have both been truants," said the count, holding out his hand with a friendly smile; "but you have, at least, had the advantage of me. You went for an object, I went on a wild goose chase."
               "I confess," said the nephew, "it was no fault of mine that I remained away from the city, even for a day, because the old sores annoy me."
               "What, can't they be cured by the greenback plasters?" rejoined Marlo. "It must, indeed, be a complicated case they will not cure. Something dangerous about it."
               "There's the Charlie affair; the Miss Hardwick imbroglio, and that of the girl. I can assure you I am harrassed to death."
               "What a Godsend it would be for both of us, if they were all to die of some sweeping epidemic!" and the count opened his mouth, displaying two rows of white teeth, in a most excellent state of preservation, when forth issued a guttural volume of ringing laughter, sounding hollow and derisive upon the ears of Hayden; who replied:
               "I don't know about that, for we might come in for a share of the dismal slayer. But what's to be done?"
               "Done," said the count, "I think we're both pretty well done for. We've evidently been tricked and you have been balked in all your intricate manœuvrings. By the way, I met that raw blister, that intimate and serviceable friend of yours, that sore festering Fling!"
               "When?" asked the nephew, surprised. "Why, he has left the city. He's been gone a month and more."
               "Correct," replied the count; "but returned with me by rail last night from Savannah."
               "The devil you say, count. Brought back by the officers of justice, I suppose?"
               "No, Hayden; as free as you or I. He never fled from then. But I can't imagine why Garcia has such a dread of him. I observed my man dodged meeting him on all occasions when attending me on the street. Pray don't be so restless, man, you almost move beyond measure," observed the count, after a short pause. "The fellow's not given to wrangling, I can assure you, and there is no fear of him, for he told me the reasons which brought him to Savannah. It appears the stakes holder ran off with the deposit on a steamer. Bearing the vessel was to stop at Savannah to take on board some emigrants for Texas, he followed the scamp by rail, met him there, decoyed him, by some means to the beach, and with the assistance of my worthy brother-in law, Travator, who in fact is a brave seaman—"
               "And deeply loves you," interrupted Hayden, wishing to have his fling at the count.
               "No matter, now," said the count, coloring. "They got the fellow away from the city, when Fling downed the scoundrel upon the sand, put the muzzle of a cocked pistol into his mouth, and made him divulge the place of deposit of the money, and Travator was sent for it,—got it from a trunk in a sailor's boarding house, all save a hundred dollars; and then, after giving the villain a thorough basting, returned to this city, for which port the Captain sailed, two days before us, in his ship the Bedford. So, in a few days, we will have him here—and, from what I am told, he claims relationship with Miss Laura Spray's mother on his father's side."
               "Who ever told you so, count, lies in his heart," replied Hayden, starting from his chair, "there's no affinity or connection between them."
               "I asked Fling if he knew you, but he said but little, only remarking, that he was sorry you were given over to the smiles and wiles of women."
               "Count," said Hayden, "I came not here to be jeered and taunted; now listen to me. The countess is in Brooklyn and Fanny with her, and daring the sickness of my handsome, and most moral, and virtuous cousin, Champagne Charlie, has daily sent the child, mark you, without fail, a precious nosegay, and a kind, a friendly and most endearing expression of her warm and ardent sympathy for his sufferings."
               "Thou art a fiend!" exclaimed the count, springing towards Hayden, and half drawing his dagger, "a very monster of deviltry," and his face changed to a pale yellow hue while his eyes grew doubly fierce in their piercing blackness.
               "Better not draw," said Hayden, backing towards the window and thrusting his hand into his pant's pocket from which issued the clear click of a pistol's spring.
               "Be I what I may," resumed Hayden, "I never sought to draw my dagger on a friend while the dishonorer of my family still lived."
               "Right," said the count, offering his hand, which the wily nephew eagerly clasped and continued. "We are both in trouble, both have wrongs to redress. Let's act together."
               "It is most needful that we should," responded the count, "we're oppressed with the confined air of this room."
               When they left it for the street they arranged their plans for the future. In the beginning of their intercourse the count, in conversation, got the advantage of the nephew, who seldom failed, before they parted, in forcing the count to succumb to his wishes and plans for relieving himself from the many evils by which he was beset.
               But Hayden was not the man to remain idle when Dame Fortune was assembling her hosts to hurl him amid the drift of life's muddy current. He had played his part too long and too successfully, to yield up his superiority without a great effort in his own behalf. But what vexed and thwarted him most was, the fact that while he was bustling, planning, plotting, and stirring, Charlie was absolutely crowding him by his very inactivity and helplessness. 
               After his interview with the count he sought his uncle's house and called on Robert.
               "Robert," he began, when that bedizened individual appeared before him in the parlor, "you have been a faithful servant—and I trust one day to elevate you to a proper social sphere, more in conformity with your really excellent gifts for becoming a useful member of society."
               "May it please," began Robert, "I always strove to do my duty—and I'm glad you're 'quainted with it."
               "I know it, now Robert, we love those who treat us kindly, and honor those who serve as faithfully. My uncle will start for Europe in a few weeks, and I will be left sole master here, and sole heir after his death."
               "You're a lucky man, Mr. Thomas," said Robert bowing.
               "Lucky days come to us all in the course of our lives," replied Hayden, "and these may prove so to you—only see that you do not, like many I have known, sport them away by neglecting the opportunity, for they fall not to our lot once in ten years."
               "I'm ready, and always ready," says Robert, bowing, "to do my utmost to serve you."
               "Well then, continue so, for our mutual interest. I must at present have some confidential servant and you shall be that man, if you so desire," and he walked up to Robert and slapped him upon his braided shoulder.
               "Only try me," says Robert, much agitated by emotions he in vain endeavored to control.
               "Thank you," replies Hayden, "I thought I knew how to select a faithful friend. It is necessary for the advancement of our mutual interest that I should see every letter which comes to the house, hear every message left, and know the name of every one who calls—you must make it a point to attend the door in person and keep me posted concerning all things—and this before anyone else. You know those girls who kept company with the scamp Charlie?"
               "I've seen them at Mr. Mike's," says Robert, extremely polite.
               "Well if they call, say my uncle does not wish to see them, on any account, and here's a letter, one which I wrote at the club. You will call at the St. Nicholas Hotel, inquire for one Garcia, the count's footman, give it to him, and tell him to be punctual at the rendezvous, within two hours. I shall now go to my room to write letters," and he passed up the stairs leaving Robert mystified beyond measure, but hurrying to do his errand. While the above partnership was being confirmed between the nephew and servant, another scene far more pleasant was transpiring at the foot of the stairs leading to Charlie's room.
               Mattie has just descended into the street on her return home from a visit to the champagne drinker when she is accosted by Mr. Fling.
               "Oh you truant," says Mattie, holding out both her small gloved hands.
               "Bless you," replied Fling, with a laughing face. "I've been dreaming, thinking, and I was going to say, eating about you every night or so. since I have been gone. But how stands Charlie. On his pins yet?"
               "As to that," replied Mattie, with a provoking toss of her head, "a desperate case; but he is so rapidly recovering as to walk across the floor without assistance. Though it was only by our constant care he has survived."
               "All hail to the noble and the brave, the good and true," says Fling, "I only wish I bad been in his place, to be coaxed and petted by two such lovely girls."
               "At your old trick, Fling. But tell me your object in leaving, I'm told nobody was killed, only the leg of a dog broken, which was mended with a plaster of patent glue. All hushed up long ago." "Come walk with me, and I'll tell you of my rapid traveling, and anxious beatings of the heart, my last dollar, capture and victory."
               "Let us take East Broadway," said Mattie "it's more quiet," and as they walked slowly along he recounted to her more at length, and more minutely described his pursuit of the stake-holder, his capture, and recovery of the money.
               "And you said you were dreaming of me Fling," said Mattie, placing the ivory nob of her parasol in a musing manner to her rosy lips.
               "Not only thinking, but dreaming about you," replied Fling.
               "Were you not troubled with the nightmare," she coyly replied.
               "Bless your pretty heart no, Mattie. But to be serious I've resolved to turn over a new chapter in the book of life."
               "Been reading Pilgrim Progress, again," drily observed his friend.
               "I've been reading a happier future, Mattie."
               "Where, at Niblo's?"
               "I've given all that up," replies her companion. "I don't mean entirely, for I trust you and I will live many a day to witness a play well played, and actors worthy to be applauded."
               "And only we, Fling?"
               "We in particular, Mattie, now listen: Miss Hardwick will cease to be Miss Hardwick, before many weeks."
               "For the better, Fling?"
               "I hope so," said he, in answer, "but to the legitimate question, why might Miss Mattie Wiggins cease."
               "Hallo," interrupted Captain Jinks of the Horse Marines who accompanied by that weasel of the law, Mr. Vivid Flash, chanced to turn the corner and meet them squarely face to face.
               "Sparking rather early in the day, Mr. Fling, I'll tell you it's generally more victoriously sublime when followed by moonlight. Then you're surrounded by a sentimental mysterised atmosphere, which permeates through the pores, penetrating the vital member, with an oleaginous subtlety which readily subdues all inflammation, and soothes the soul into a melting impression, enabling you to stamp it with any image from the 
                     tarrantula
                     tarantula
                   to the mastadon. But, sir, a charming beauty you have with you. My fair young lady, allow me to offer my most profound obeyance; consider, this trusty weapon, ever at the service, of the fair."
               Miss Mattie bowed and Mr. Fling replied to the courteous flatterer, and redoubtable captain.
               "You have at last recovered your sword, Captain Jinks, and I congratulate you that you have come off thus far to advantage in the battle of life."
               "Hush man, a mere skirmish with my uncle, a drawn bottle."
               "But what are you doing, Captain?"
               "Floating round at the bottom with the tide of life, like a clam, seeking some soft hole in the sand to settle down."
               At this moment Mr. Vivid Flash nudged his friend and started off across the street.
               "Lead the van, the vivid fleshing van. I'll follow with the raw recruit," and the captain began looking before and behind, adown the street, but too late, the enemy was upon him, issuing from an alley way, in the shape of a herculean Mrs. Flandy.
               "And its me, that you're going to pay, Captain Jinks, whin it's myself that's been washin' your dirty linen, and devil a cint from you to buy a mouth ful of vituals for the children, and it isen't you who'd save them from starvin."
               "My good Mrs. Flandy," began the Captain, with a most deprecatory bow, "have consideration for the feelings of this lady and gentleman, who may take you into service and handsomely reward you. And I can assure my wealthy friend," continued Captain Jinks, who would not allow Mrs, Flandy to edge in a word, though she was panting and swelling with indignation to hurl a tirade of abuse upon his illustrious head, "I can assure you beyond cavil, doubt, or contradiction that she will render you ample justice; making your linen look as though it had just dropped from the skies in a snow storm, as pure and brilliantly white as the flaky shower in which it falls."
               "Stop, will you, Captain Jinks?" said Mrs. Flandy; "I'm not the woman to be hard on you, if you will only spare me a trifle."
               "By Heavings!" said the captain; "you are deserving of all honor and patronage, and you shall have it, if I have to sacrifice this good sword with all its immortal glory attached to it. What, defraud a woman? shame would be written upon my manly brow, which never quailed before the despicable rebels: Let my eves be shut out from the great luminary of day, and this arm be cramped by a spasmodic vice; and such a faithful friend, excellent mother, and honest christian—oh, no, never. See there's no tarnish on this blade," and he drew forth the heroic instrument of slaughter.
               "And its a beautiful wiper off of heads, it is captain," Mrs. Flandy replied; "and sure you're a gentleman to compliment me. But I've tried to do you full justice, but compliments don't put bread into my body, the devil a lie you spoke."
               "Help him out the scrape," whispered Mattie, as she hung upon Fling's arm.
               "And sure," continued the inflated Mrs. Flandy, "it's myself and children would be wantin' of you to pay a part of the money, and its myself will be followin' of you all over town, and devil an officer that will stop me when seeking just rights and bread for my children."
               Here Fling slipped a ten dollar bill into the hand of the paling and trembling captain, who immediately, on catching a sight of the size of the bill, began to assume an authoritative tone and 
                     dictorial
                     dictatorial
                   manner.
               "Your bill, madam, if you please," said he, with a pompous toss of his head, as he looked up the street and saw Mr. Vivid Flash leaning against a lamp post at the corner, ready to avoid a flank surprise.
               "And sure you knows it's thirty shillings."
               "Unfortunately, madam, I have never had the exact change about with me. It's unnecessary to be troubled with small stamps. When a man of my standing in the army presents himself before bar or counter, I have but to order and am served, the bill sent, honored, and that's the last of it; but if you will oblige me by going into that grocery, and getting change for this trifling bill, you can deduct your bill and return the balance," and he handed the bill to the astonished Mrs. Flandy, who could scarcely believe her own sight that she wasn't dreaming.
               "You're a gentleman, every inch of you, Captain Jinks," said she, bowing, as she started off to do his bidding.
               Farewell, Captain Jinks; and Mr. Vivid Flash; go your way, you are just as necessary to fill up a chink in the world's structure as the best of us, and when the earth is cracking open by an earthquake, you'll find just as solid a footing, and stand an equal chance of escape. The meeting between Charlie and Fling was most affecting.
               "I've paid up the borrowed money for the bet: paid damage for the buggy, deducted expenses of travel, and twenty-five hundred remains, which, when 
                     devided
                     divided
                   by two makes twelve fifty apiece, and here's your portion," and Mr. Fling counted out the same in the presence of Mike, whose eyes dilated with wonder as he saw the pile of money carelessly thrust into the pocket of his master.
               Mr. Fling then left, promising to call that night, and call he did; but it was about midnight, with orchestra band from one of the theatres, and when many of their old familiar airs had been played, ending with Champagne Charlie, he ascended the stairs and congratulated his friend upon his recovery. He then left with the band, and paid Mattie and Clara the same compliment.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               THE WALK ON THE BATTERY—CHARLOTTE AND THE COUNT—THE STOLEN LETTER—INTERVIEW WITH THE COUNTESS.
               A WEEK or two had elapsed since the occurrences related in the last chapter, when Charlie and Fling walked toward the battery. The Champagne was not over strong though his face gave evidence of his mind and body having passed through a severe ordeal.
               "Proposed and accepted, did I understand, Fling."
               "Yes, and with her mother's consent."
               "You could not have made a better choice," replied Charlie, "Mattie has proved our truest friend, and so has Clara, but there is one request I have to make of you, Fling; I see under head of sheriff's sales, a notice of the suit against Flair, I'm told, like we were once, he's given to drink since his failure."
               "Yes," replied Fling, "and is not expected to live. The sheriff seized the furniture for rent, and he has been taken to the hospital, and Clara and her mother go daily to wait on him, but I'm told he can't live, and they find a home at present with Mattie until they can get employment—and the old man dies."
               "I'm not surprised," said Charlie. "It's Mattie's nature to be true and considerate, she can't help it. Do you know such characters are scarce in this world and should be honored and preserved."
               "I dislike 
                     meaness
                     meanness
                  ," said Fling, "and though a mean man will be mean because it's in him, still we can avoid them and let them prey upon their own meanness."
               "I've been thinking," replied Charlie, "of taking a house for them, I have been offered a place in an insurance company at a reasonable salary. I can board with them, it will help them to get along."
               "And I and Mattie will help," said Fling; "we are going to farming in the country—Mattie is afraid of the temptations of city life; but did she know what the Doctor told me—'stop drink or the heart disease.' But who are they, Charlie, their forms are familiar."
               "You allude to the three men on the granite wall. To look at them one would think, from their wild gesticulations, they were practicing for the stage."
               "By Heavens, I know," said Fling. "They are Thomas Hayden, Garcia, and that villain Mariva, see, they are getting aboard the Merry Wife. Let us walk slowly along to where they got aboard."
               "They will recognize us, Fling, and believe we are watching them. Let us wait awhile."
               After the sail-boat had proceeded some several hundred yards from shore they reached the place which they had but just left and there picked up a letter.
               "Read it, Charlie," said his friend.
               And when he read aloud it was to the effect of a promise on the part of Charlotte, in answer to an offer from Hayden to desert the count, in case that nobleman should make it up with the countess, and a request for him to call that evening and more fully discuss the subject.
               "A new assignation. Don't concern us much," said Charlie. "I intend to call on the countess as soon as I feel strong enough to do so," and then he turned very pale, and Fling, thinking he was going to faint, placed his arm around his friend's waist.
               "I fear," said Charlie's friend, "you will never be happy, my friend, in this city unless a certain event were to transpire. You appear to be subject to great dejection of spirits, ultimately it will kill you. Something very grievous of memory appears to be resting on your mind, and whenever it stirs it stings you to the quick, and you resort to the bowl to hush it to sleep again." Charlie pressed his friend's hand, and asked:
               "What event must transpire to render me happy?"
               "If the count were to die you would marry the countess, legitimatise Fanny, and live in a foreign land; but as his lordship is likely to survive many a day, so many days will you be subject to the throbs of an aching void to be filled only by the possession of that woman's body."
               "The countess has ever proved my friend," replied Charlie, "I respect and admire her."
               "And might have been your wife had he not used the privilege of his European class, and most unjustly, most cruelly stolen her from you, and yet the blow has recoiled upon himself." Thus spoke Fling, but his companion made no reply. We shall see if his words proved true, and if his conjectures were well founded.
               "See," he added, "the boat has gone to the Brooklyn shore, no doubt to bring the count back, who has been watching the countess, disguised. Here we have a strange compound of love, jealousy, and distrust."
               Leaving our friend dealing in random remarks, and summing up loose conclusions, we will present you with Charlotte in her new house in East Broadway, in which the count has placed her, surrounded with every luxury known to fashion. This he did to spite or mortify the countess, in case she bore him any vestiges of love which he still believed.
               Beautifully dressed in a pink silk, with curls peeping from beneath rich folds of lace and blue ribbons which graced her handsome head, and with a face beaming with an inviting smile she that night received the count, and after a most affectionate greeting, the count ordered wine, but as she seldom, if ever indulged in the heating fluid, she took a seat at the piano, and with much elegance of touch swept the keys with her white tapering fingers, while he reclined in the new velvet chair, and sipped his wine. After having performed several choice marches from different operas, he called her to him, and thanked her with a kiss. Here followed some light conversation, when she observed,
               "It is wonderful, my lord, the countess could never 
                     appriciate
                     appreciate
                   your rare combinations of excellencies, and that she devote her life to a lingering fondness for that handsome, but worthless fellow, Champagne Charlie. By the gods, if I were a man, I'd meet him on the threshhold of the grave and send him beyond all mortal aid."
               "You should not complain, Charlotte, her loss has been your gain."
               "And not your gain too?" she said in a reproachful tone of voice while she pressed her warm downy cheek to his.
               "To a certain extent, yes," he replied, "still, its hard to yield up the flower we so admired in our youth."
               "And see others wear it in his button-hole," added Charlotte.
               "How long this may continue, must be determined by circumstances," remarked her keeper with a sigh.
               "He is up and getting his strength again," said Charlotte.
               "It shall never be said," he rejoined, "that the count of Marlo, sought to take advantage of the weakness of an adversary; when he recovers the full use of his nerves and limbs, I will meet him."
               "Always brave, always noble," said Charlotte, "what a fool, what an absolute dunce this woman must be to cast from her such a treasure! ah me, while I dread the issue, I cannot but respect your cause, and your determined will to see yourself righted," and she began crying while the count walked the floor frequently passing his fingers through his curly hair.
               "There," he said going and giving her an affectionate embrace, "we must hope for the best. After I have revenged myself upon her soul, by running my sword through the object of her dastardly love, we will fly to Venice."
               "And make me wife, my love, my dearest count," she spoke between her sobbings.
               "By the gods, yes, as much so as the American law can bind us," said the count, and here we leave them for it as plain that Charlotte had been schooled by Hayden.
               At all events she had the best of the chances, for should the count fall, she could fall back and find a husband in the nephew, and should Leonard Jocylen, fall she would marry the count.
               A mistress has in reality few compunctions of conscience where her sustainers or admirers are concerned, her sole object being to secure a position in life which will give her all the luxuries without any the responsibilities incident to married life. Give her gold, jewelry, dress, and fashionable display, and she don't care a fig who lives or dies; still, like all general rules, there are exceptions, and every mistress may, at times, believe she is classed under them.
               
               Ever since Fanny had met Mr. Jocylen, in the street, his heart in spite of the bitter hatred he bore his son, began to soften, for next day he ordered Robert to take his son's likeness to a portrait painter in the neighborhood and have it cleaned.
               The fact was the uncle had grown suspicious of his nephew, from his too great over wrought zeal to serve him, and from his mysterious manœuverings among the servants and his irregular and late hours. In this he was aided by the uncle Hayden, who never liked Thomas, and who was constantly giving him a left handed blow on all available occasions.
               But more than all, which had its effect, was innocency,—the confiding innocence and simplicity of childhood, and his doubts about the interpretation put on the charge contained in the newspaper.
               He had requested, on numerous occasions, of his nephew to bring Fanny to him. "But the child could not be found," said Thomas, which, as far as concerned him was correct; but the nephew had marked the growing coldness of his uncle. An explosion must soon follow, unless Charlie was gotten out of the way. He had urged the count, and exacted a promise from Charlotte, by giving assurance in return, to prick the nobleman on to venture a trial with the sword. Once the son in his grave, he could whistle on his tombstone, "Champagne Charlie is my name," without fear of losing the inheritance.
               
               Jocylen and Fling, some days after their walk on the Battery, returned from a ride, and on their visiting Charlie's room, he said:
               "I've got a most unpleasant, and a most responsible task to perform to-night. I've got to visit the dearest female friend I ever possessed, or any other man. The countess has written to me to call on her this evening, stating she will be alone, and as certain explanations may be of service to her I cannot avoid going."
               "I envy you," said Fling, smiling.
               "My dear fellow," said Charlie, with so serious a bow as to make Fling start, "she is an injured woman, and as good and true as she is innocent, there's my hand, the smarting lie blisters not my tongue, and foul dishonor blackens not my heart; the countess by, or through me, knows no wrong to her husband."
               "Indeed," said Fling.
               "I have spoken, and by God's blessing or censure, speak truly: Do you believe?"
               "I do," said Fling; "I only wish your father and the count could be made to believe,—and another," he whispered to himself.
               "You cannot do that, there is no way by which you can convince them; proof is wanting, material evidence. But here's her letter," and he began looking among his papers for the note of the countess, then he examined his drawers, and his pockets, but it was of little avail, the note could not be found.
               "Strange, very strange," he said.
               "Are you sure you left it in your room?" asked Fling.
               "As sure as I live, Fling."
               "Then go not there to-night, there is danger ahead, or else permit me to accompany you and wait near at hand."
               "As you please, the count would not have me assassinated, he wishes to kill in fair open combat."
               As regards the three conspirators in the boat, all had been arranged by Hayden. He was fearful of being interrupted on shore, or being overheard, and they had sought the water as the safest place to plan and plot, the substance of which, being that it was agreed that some one of the two Italians should revenge the count in case he fell in the expected duel, by provoking a quarrel, while the others should prove good witnesses for the defence.
               Night came, and Charlie proceeded with his friend across the Fulton Ferry.
               Punctual to the hour mentioned in the note, Charlie rung the bell for admittance, while Fling took his station in a store on the opposite corner. Lutentio admitted him bowing, and in silence. He walked into the spacious parlor, all beautifully furnished, when he beheld the countess seated in a crimson velvet chair 
                     magnificiently
                     magnificently
                   bedecked as a bride, dressed as of yore in her wedding attire.
               "Corinne!" he exclaimed, as he rushed towards her and flung himself in a supplicating attitude upon one knee and covered his face with his handkerchief, and cast his head upon her fan, which rested upon her lap; one long choking sob broke the silence, his heart had spent its long pent up agony in that one outburst of grief, which contained volumes of anguish, accumulated during years of latent sorrow.
               "My poor, suffering, injured friend," said she, as soon as she could master her emotions to give utterance to her speech. A few moments of silence followed when he rose to his feet and the door was flung violently open, and the elegant form of the count stood, with an upbraiding countenance, before them. Leonard Jocylen quailed not before his lordship's haughty and menacing aspect. Pale and excited he took his station near the chair of the countess, while Lutentio hastened behind the chair of his mistress.
               "Thus, villain, have my nostrils scented your track to the hateful den of yon brazen harlot," spoke the count, as with a scornful and derisive smile he pointed towards his wife.
               "Husband, spare me!" exclaimed the wife, as she threw herself upon her knees before him, "my lord, I am innocent of the foul wrong you impute to me."
               "And you still have the audacity to deny, thou treacherous, poisonous, polluted thing!" said her husband, as he moved his foot towards her, to express his utter abhorrence of the character of the pleading wife.
               "Will you but hear me," she continued, "by the light of truth, by all that's sacred, I am innocent, and by my life, I love you still."
               "Speak, sir," the count cried to Jocylen, "fie on thee, thou craven-hearted villain," and Leonard made a threatening step toward him.
               "No, no, let me speak, Leonard," almost shouted the countess, "no bloodshed, no gory pillows in my quarrel. Hear me! You come here for revenge, where there has been no wrong against your sacred honor."
               "Wrong," said he, hissing the words between his clenched teeth, "woman's heart is filled with foulest wrong!"
               "No, not mine, husband, by my life, not mine!"
               "Oh no, thou duplex, treacherous painted mass of corruption. How comes he here. Hid from your husband, you, send a pilot to bear this caitiff to your embrace."
               "But hear me, could the dead but speak, could the grave give up its tenant, could life be present in the living dead, then would my innocence be proved." She had regained her feet and stood with tearful eyes and trembling mein before him.
               "Could the Heavens fall and baptise the world in blood. Could the living dead speaks, but where is that spirit from the grave that you invoke?" "Oh, count Marlo, husband, man, have mercy, mercy, thou hast haunted my existence like a ghostly dream. Thou hast taught the world to hate me, and my family to shun me, thou hast mocked at my claims for justice, and cursed me in thine heart and with thy lips."
               "Because thou art guilty, and defiled."
               "Oh, no," she gasped, "say not so, condemn me not by the past, only by the proof of the future."
               Fanny entered and ran and took her mother's hand and looked with a wild glare at the count.
               "See you, there, beside you, the living image of your crime," and he advanced towards her with his drawn dagger, but hesitated.
               "Mr. Charlie, save my mother!" cried the child, flinging herself beside her mother, who had sunk upon the chair, still continuing to weep.
               "Let my soul be guiltless of blood," she sobbed. "It were well if I ceased to exist, but not by your hand, oh my husband!"
               "No I will not do it," said the count, "and for you, thou deceiving devil, Leonard Jocylen, I call thee villain else thou meet me, as man should meet his man. I say thou art a villain, and thou shall meet me or I'll stab thee to the heart," and he advanced a step towards Jocylen, who stood ready to defend the countess in case the count aimed a blow at her life.
               "I call thee a dishonored knave, a scoundrel, a slave."
               "Thou liest in thine throat, Count Marlo, and thou knowest it. I scorn thee for at cowardly thief, who would make war upon woman. I tell thee, thou furious madman, thy wife is as pure as thou art wrathful, as innocent as thou art foul."
               
               "Avaunt, thou disgraceful thief, thou hast stolen away my honor, degraded my manhood, and brought shame and ruin on that woman who was once as chaste as an angel, until thou defiled her being. I tell thee, I want justice. I have been wronged and thou shalt atone for it with thy life's blood."
               "And, Count Marlo, thou shalt have it or this good arm of mine is worthless to its owner."
               "And when, and where?"
               "'Tis mine to say," replied Leonard. "And yours to die for, by the Eternal, one or both of us shall fall!"
               "Husband, grant me but one week to produce my proof, and prove my innocence—ah, grant it! for this constant fear and struggling is killing me," sobbed the countess.
               "'Tis then as it should be. One week of proof. One week for you to fly with your paramour."
               "Hold, or by all that's good," said Jocylen, "I'll brain thee with a chair!" but Lutentio restrained him.
               "One week to prove that pure, which is already foul."
               "Aye," replied Fling, whose impatience mastered his prudence. "One week to prove, Count Marlo, one week, and I pledge myself—"
               "Not one hour; what, to paint the picture of my shame, and you will meet me. Leonard Jocylen, thou ought not now live to brave my hatred, scorn, loathing revenge."
               "Will asservation, oath, sacrifice, declarations, under solemn affidavit, appease thy wrath, Count Marlo," said Jocylen.
               "Nothing but man to man."
               "Then be it so, Count Marlo; but on one consideration."
               "Name it," spoke the count, haughtily.
               "Lutentio, see to the countess, she has fainted; that you trouble her no more," said Jocylen.
               "I so declare," said the count; "but go you before and I will follow."
               "To be stricken down by the hand of your myrmidons in the street," said Fling.
               "Villain, beware," replied the count, with a scornful frown. "He that would strike you is not my friend or hireling. You are safe, I'll protect you to the boat," and the three issued from the door, the count leading.
               "And you will neither write nor hold any communication with the countess."
               "No, on my life," replied Jocylen.
               They followed, and when they reached the corner the count was joined by three men in disguise.
               Here ended this remarkable interview, long remembered by Fling, and often referred to by him afterwards with feelings of regret.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               MISS HARDWICK AND THE UNCLE—HER DENIAL—HAYDEN'S EXPLANATION—THE FORCED MARRIAGE.
               DURING the events recorded in the last chapter another interesting scene occurred about that time, Mr. Jocylen met Miss Hardwick at the Park.
               "My dear, sweet lady," said he, "when shall we have the pleasure of welcoming you into our household as the bride of our nephew, Thomas?" and he smiled an apology.
               "I trust, never, Mr. Jocylen. I never intend to marry, I expressly told Mr. Thomas Hayden so on our first interview. I'm surprised you should refer to the subject."
               "Why, surely, you forget—did you not promise, under your own sign manual?"
               "Never yet. Mr. Jocylen, surely, there has been some gross mistake, or base fraud here. I never wrote a line to your nephew in my life."
               "It's most incomprehensible, my dear lady."
               "Your nephew desired me to do so for his own selfish business; but I declined, as I did not wish to 
                     decieve
                     deceive
                   one who has always been so true a friend of myself and family."
               "And you never promised marriage, nor wrote a line to him?"
               "Never, Mr. Jocylen, on my honor."
               "Humph," said he. "Good day, my dear lady," and Mr. Jocylen drove off in his carriage, while Miss Hardwick continued her stroll with Susan up one of the avenues.
               Robert had heard the whole of this conversation, and that night repeated it to the astonished and bewildered nephew, who exclaimed:
               "I must see Fling," and he hurried to the club in search of his agent and counsellor.
               To die game, and to the last prove yourself the rascal you have striven to make the world believe, excites our wonder if not our contempt. Thomas Hayden, when called upon next day at breakfast-table by his uncle to account for the extraordinary denial of his engagement with Miss Hardwick, replied :
               "The fact is, my dear uncle, at times Fling will insist she has a lingering touch of the old complaint, this being near the full of the moon it may have its effect. I sometimes regret our engagement."
               "It's not at all in accordance with my impressions," replied the uncle. "She was rational and decided in her demand, and I have never met with any one in the past year more reasonable and sensible in their remarks."
               "You saw the letter, my dear uncle," said Thomas.
               "Well," said he, "have it your own way. I don't understand. I suppose it I will all be made straight some day;" and he left the room when Thomas puffed out his left cheek with that instrument of mischief in women and in lying men. Thomas, your tongue has served you well on this occasion. You are looking the gentleman so far as regards your dress, but you still wear on your face that coarse cast of features. Your hat glitters like a mirror; your boots are polished up to a shine; your gloves wear the gloss of a dark green hue; face in an excellent trim to attend a levee or matinee with the fairest lady in the land. You cross Broadway, touch that light brow of yours with becoming grace as you encounter some stylish belle, who smiles approval at your recognition; keep on your course until you reach the Bowery on your way to Charlotte's new and commodious residence, so liberally furnished by the count. With firm step he treads on ahead, never glances behind to see the two stout personages following at his heels, nevertheless they are there like his shadow. And then they called at the corner of Fourth and Bowery, within easy sight of Cooper Institute.
               "Oh, beg pardon, did you call, gentlemen?" he asked, in response to Captain Travator and his mate. "It is decidedly vulgar to be turning on the heel in the street and compelled to look a block back. Gents, pray, your business, if you please."
               "You are wanted at court, Mr. Hayden," said Captain Travator.
               "Wanted by the Court?" said he, smiling.
               "At the court," replied the captain.
               "Really, you must excuse me, unless you show some positive order," said Hayden. "I am on business of great importance which cannot conveniently be put off, so I say good day to you."
               "I am Captain Travator, this is my assisting friend, Mr. Naylor."
               "Indeed," replied Hayden, turning a shade whiter than when he left the house. "My relative, Miss Laura Spray is desirous of becoming your wife, and as this is leap year, it is a privileged year for proposing upon the part of the women. She has selected you as her intended companion for life," said Travator.
               "I'm proudly complimented," said Hayden; "but would rather decline at present; the move is a most important one. Time for consideration, nothing like it, Captain."
               "There is to be in this affair neither delay nor denial. You must and shall go with us to court. There you will find your confiding friend, Laura. You are to marry her with your own free will, and go to the devil or any place else afterwards."
               "And if I refuse," said Hayden, looking up and down the street for a hack by which to escape.
               "These are our persuaders," and they both drew yellowish long raw hides from their coat sleeves.
               "And cowardly ones, too," observed Hayden, as he followed them to the court-house.
               "Sufficiently powerful ones to compel you to make amends, to this injured female," replied Travator.
               On arriving before the judge, they met Mattie, Clara, and Miss Laura Spray, the last in tears.
               The marriage ceremony was performed amid profound silence, and when ended, Hayden took his hat and asked if that was all required of him, when he bowed and left the court.
               "Ladies," said 
                     Captian
                     Captain
                   Travator, "you will have the kindness to attend Mrs. Hayden home, while I go and have the notice inserted in the papers."
               When Hayden left the presence of the court he hurried off to Scribner's room.
               "Scribner, as you have always stood my friend, you must not desert me now." He then briefly instructed his friendly tool of what he stood in need and what he expected him to do. "To go to the court, get a blank certificate of marriage, to fill it up in the name of Miss Spray, and his cousin Jocylen, visit the newspaper officers, declare Captain Travator had made a mistake and have Leonard's name inserted instead of his own."
               Scribner being promised a handsome reward, made quick dispatch in complying with his friend's wishes, and with what success was determined next morning at the breakfast table, when his uncle called his attention to the marriage of his own son with Miss Laura Spray.
               "This affair is rendered more unpleasant, my dear uncle," replied Thomas, "inasmuch as it was forced on Leonard at the point of the pistol and lash."
               "I had some hopes," replied the father, "that after his severe spell of sickness, he would reform."
               "That may have been his intent, but sin sticks to us like the tax gatherer. This is but one of the results of his previous dissipated career, it is merely the beginning of his annoyances."
               "Send to him, Thomas, or send Fling to me. I will furnish him with twenty thousand dollars to leave the country. He is not married, a forced marriage, though binding in law, is not so in the eyes of any civilised people or in the sight of Heaven."
               And the uncle left the room so moved in speech and temper as never the like had Thomas seen before.
               "Send Fling to him, yes—cut my own throat, let the cat out of the bag, let me see, Gustave Sunders, he is a friend, no matter I'll tell the old gentleman that his most worthy son has fled immediately after the marriage. That will do," and Hayden, after this short soliloquy, rung the bell for a light for his cigar.
               He would consult with both Fling and the count; a few hundred he felt assured would render the former tractable, as for the latter, he was fully persuaded he would advise what was best for their joint interest.
               Without running the risk of tiring the patience of the reader in following Mr. Thomas Hayden through all the scheming reflections that his subtle and fertile brain produced, for sustaining his precarious position in the confidence, and protection, of his uncle, we shall leave him to his surmises, plans, and plottings; while we refer to a conversation which took place between Fling and Leonard Jocylen at his rooms the night before the duel.
               "The fact is, Charlie," said his friend Fling, "I know as little about the rules of dueling as you do, and what little I do know, I have picked out by adroit management, from the Cavalier Darcy, the count's second."
               "I have a full conception of the part I am to perform," replied Charlie, "I am to meet him sword in hand and defend myself. I had rather not fight this duel, Fling. The count imagines himself wronged in a most vital and essential point of honor, no less than the abuse of his honor through his wife. I can readily appreciate his anger and determined hostility against me, but be assured, he is the last man I would wish to injure. As Heaven is my Judge, and my mother's spirit my accuser, I am innocent of all foul wrong against him in act and feeling."
               "I believe you," said Fling warmly pressing his friend's hand. "But we cannot make him believe otherwise, and the proof, to all 
                     appearaces
                     appearances
                   in the features and expression of the child, is dead set against you. He aims to kill, let yours be to slay, otherwise, if you both survive, it will ultimately end in your death by the hand of an assassin. The Italians have friends who are not so punctilious upon points of honor, you have had practice enough before, and since your sickness, to guard your life, even if in so doing you are compelled to slay your adversary, If you fall I will have you decently buried, and vindicate your character to the best of my ability and resources."
               "Thank you, Fling," and they both embraced in silence.
               "My dear fellow, to avoid all interference by the police, your encounter will come off in De Pensey's fencing-room. All necessary arrangements have been made, and he will himself be present. Two surgeons will be in attendance. And I will arrange with the chevalier, to have two carriages in waiting, in case of accident. Be up at eight, I will call at nine, the meeting takes place at ten o'clock—morning."
               "As regards that marriage with Miss Spray, Fling?"
               "Oh," replied his friend, "that has been done by some enemy in order to confirm previous reports, we will attend to that little affair shortly afterwards," and the two friends took a walk towards the battery, their favorite promenade ground. Mattie and Clara were seated in cosy light chat in the parlor of Mattie's house, when Mr. Advert, the Editor, made his appearance.
               "Ladies," said he, when he became seated, "I exceedingly regret you have been the cause of my making a false statement in regard to the conduct of that scamp, Champagne Charlie. You have made me retract, and now I find I was I correct, and this confirms my first statement—by his subsequently marrying her deceiver."
               "Indeed," said Mattie, laughing, "you have been most grossly imposed on again," and she handed the certificate of Laura Spray's marriage with Hayden—for Laura had given it to her to take care of. Mr. Advert expressed very great surprise, and denounced the perpetrator of the fraud in no measured tones. He stated "that after the first names in the certificate had been handed in, a person subsequently called at the office with a certificate—no doubt forged,"—said he, "and 
                     alledging
                     alleging
                   a mistake in the first names, had those in his certificate substituted."
               "The worst of it for you," said Mattie, slyly nudging Clara, and scarcely able to restrain her swelling inward laughter, "the worst of it, is, that you have greatly aggravated your previous offence. You first charge him with a shocking wrong against our friend, Miss Laura Spray, and now, by striving to mend matters, you have plunged further into the mire," and Mattie again nudged Clara, as she continued: "His father, when he discovers he is in error and that his son is not the reprobate you have made the public believe, will certainly compel you to prove your assertions by force of law."
               "Ladies," replied Mr. Advert, "it seems I have unintentionally done the young man injustice, and shall certainly call on his father and do all in my power to rectify any false impression I may have produced upon the public mind."
               "By all means, go and plead for the son," said Mattie, "and avoid a law-suit, which, to say the best of it, is very vexatious." The two girls now began a lively conversation, and insisted upon the editor's remaining for tea. And so pleasant and agreeable did Clara render herself, and so complaisant was Mattie's mother, that Mr. Advert spent a charming evening; and when Mr. Fling made his appearance he added to the evening's enjoyment by several comic songs. And Mr. Advert took his departure humming Champagne Charlie.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               INTERVIEWS BETWEEN HAYDEN AND THE COUNT AND FLING—FINAL ARRANGEMENTS FOR DEPARTURE.
               FIGHTING the world—fighting the great live menagerie of animals embodied in human form—whose strength is 
                     untramelled
                     untrammelled
                   and passions unsubdued. In the desperate struggle for mastery, Hayden, Hayden, how have you fared? such were the ejaculations which issued from the feverish lips of Thomas Hayden, as he sat in his private study before the red coal fire in the grate at his private room, which we have before mentioned. "It is the night 
                     preceeding
                     preceding
                   the duel—one or the other, or, perhaps both may fall. Now let me thoroughly understand my position," he continued, as he lit a cigar and placed one foot against the marble fire-place. "In case the count falls the son will be compelled to fly. In case the son falls the count will be placed in the same predicament, and if both receive their quietus a double grave, Now, then, calmly consider the stand point. Thomas, two enemies gone beyond the power to trouble or cry aloud for vengeance. I will buy Fling, and, Miss Hardwick, in spite of her lamenting grief shall woo me if drugs and tricks can win her to my purpose. They say the countess is fair, perhaps lovely. I'll view her at some befitting moment, crystalized beauty—honey-comb loveliness." While thus musing in vagrant thought there came a knock at the door, when with a hurried step he advanced and opened it, and admitted the count.
               "Right to the moment, my lord," said Hayden, drawing out his watch, and saluting the count with a most profound bow of obeisance.
               "Pray defend me from too much politeness, Hayden," drily observed the Italian, "too much politeness, indicates hypocrisy."
               "My lord, it's natural to some persons."
               "That depends on 
                     predigree
                     pedigree
                  , Hayden," replied the count, "awkward politeness exposes one's breeding."
               "Why not write a book on the suaviter in modo," retorted Hayden.
               "His Highness, the Viceroy of Egypt, Ismael Pasha, gave me two choice cigars, let us smoke the pipe of peace," said he in reply, as he handed one to Hayden.
               "My lord, you are disposed to be captious to-night, but, in view of the doubtful result upon to-morrow, I readily concede to you my forbearance."
               "Come, light your cigar, Hayden, and then to business. You are aware of the meeting to-morrow."
               "All except the place of meeting, my lord."
               "That is a secret, a sworn secret, Hayden," replies the count, "suffice it to say we fight on the morrow."
               "And I pray by all the saints on high, that you thrust the rascal through the heart, Count Marlo."
               "I shall strive my best," rejoined the count, "but as accidents are liable to happen to the most expert swordsman, you will have my body embalmed and encased in a metalic coffin, and sent to my native land for interment in our family vault."
               "I promise my lord, to comply with your request."
               "And further," resumed the count, "that you will see all the behests mentioned in my will fully executed, especially in regard to Charlotte. As for the countess she is fully provided for in the previous settlement."
               "And the child is to be left pennyless, because of her likeness to my cousin," slowly observed Hayden, as he sat quietly twirling his thumbs, and gazing into the fire.
               "You are a malignant devil, Hayden," retorted the nobleman with a contempt look, "let's have no more of your badinage."
               "And what other request have you to make of me my lord."
               "To promise me that under no circumstance, either of time, place, or opportunity, will you permit the son to marry the countess in case I fall in this encounter him."
               "Permit him to wed the countess," added Hayden. "Ha, ha, my lord, would it not be too hateful to my sight, to see him escort her to church, attend her to the opera, lead her to the feast, bask in her smiles of beauty, sip wine from the same golden chalice, and pluck from her rose-bud lips, heated by the nectar breath of love's tender passion of the heart."
               Hayden spoke fast, and when he had finished his poetic strain the count trembled, and then started towards him, with the muscles of his face swollen by rage.
               "Take care, I'm armed, my lord, save your strength for the morrow, I have never injured your honor, I paint but the actions of my mortal foe. And be yours the solemn duty, to right both our wrongs, and blot out his iniquities with his corrupt and contaminating blood."
               "Your thoughtless and impulsive speech moves me to anger, Hayden," spoke the count, as he resumed his seat and motioned to Thomas to do likewise. "I am convinced of your sincerity, and that your offending is more in the words than in the substance of their real intent."
               "How could it be otherwise, my lord, to when this wine cask has ever been rolling in my way. Miss Hardwick, my uncle's confidence, and all his fortune are lost to me through his craven spirit and worthless carcass. But have you any other request?"
               "Only one, and that you take your departure with a certain lady, by the seven o'clock train. You will find in this letter directions and money to defray 
                     expences
                     expenses
                  . You can telegraph to me by twelve to-morrow, and let me hear of your whereabouts—Garcia will accompany you," saying which, the count handed Hayden a sealed letter, and after warmly shaking hands with him, left the room for his hotel.
               Scarcely had the Italian taken his departure, and Hayden had locked the door, when he tore open the envelope and took from a closely folded and briefly written letter, a bank note for a large sum of money—and then proceeded briefly to read the contents, after which he calmly repeated:—"Take Charlotte to Baltimore, and rest there until you hear from me." So speaks the letter, he continued: "but so says not Thomas Hayden. Why let him fall—who cares. Leonard will fly the law, and Charlotte can be placed in some secure abode, while I return to reap the victor's spoils." While he was thus dwelling upon future probabilities, there came a loud and hurried rap at the door.
               "In God's name open, man, and don't keep a fellow in the cold."
               The door was speedily opened by Hayden, when Mr. Fling entered, exclaiming, while puffing his segar—
               "What's wanted, young Othello? why did you send for me? am I not yet an Iago in your virtuous sight? Come, be quick. I smell slaughter in the air; it's tainted with a gory stench."
               "You've kissed the devil on the right cheek this time!" said Hayden, offering a seat.
               "Any smut on my lips, Hayden?"
               "It's all on your tongue," rejoined Thomas.
               "Excellent retort from one of his disciples," replied Fling, giving his segar an extra twirl. "You best know where we carry the foul. But let us to business, as I have much to attend to before daybreak."
               "Well, have you taken the points off the weapons—given him the weakening powder. Ain't you decided on the spot for his grave."
               "Nothing of the kind," replied Fling. "I intend he shall kill the count."
               "And for what end?" asked Hayden.
               "That you may marry his mistress, if you so desire."
               "Not for that exactly; but it will serve my purpose upon the old score. In case of his eclipse, I'll wed the countess. I think I can like the woman, from the description I have had of her. As she will never marry the murderer of her husband, I'll work myself into her favor."
               "And in this case, Hayden, what will become of Charlotte?"
               "Turn her over to your tender mercies, Fling, with all her thousands and precious stones," and Hayden laughed at Fling's confusion.
               "She carries considerable sail for a foreign craft," slowly replied Fling.
               "Yes; but its all silk and satin, and ballast all gold. But pray tell me where they fight."
               "I would, if I could," said Fling; "I've pledged my sacred honor."
               "No matter, Fling, only if it's where they wont be interfered with by the officers of the law."
               "That's provided against," said Fling. "But now to business," when after some desultory remarks, Fling observed—"I shall just want five thousand in gold to carry off the scamp to some foreign shore, and you know greenbacks wont float beyond the ocean."
               "I'll not do it," said Hayden, starting from his chair and thrusting both hands into the pockets of his pants. "The sum is too enormously large."
               "Won't do it," said Fling, enforcing his remarks with a loud shrill whistle. "Won't give such a paltry sum for the countess and Charlotte, and all old Jocylen's wealth."
               "You have a very strange way of enforcing your demands," said Hayden, as he began pacing the floor with a measured tread.
               "As you please, Hayden. All I have to say in ending this interview is, that I will effect a reconciliation and the folly be yours."
               "You have not the power, sir," said Hayden, halting in his walk.
               "I'll drug Charlie to-night, so that he will not be able to leave his bed for a week, and then smooth down all matters ters until I can trump up proper evidence."
               "I tell you," said Hayden, "you are a natural born villain, and I'll send you to the tombs. Now, Fling, stand off or I'll draw on you," he continued, as that individual began looking around for some instrument of attack.
               "Take it all back, Hayden, or your dead body will be tumbled out that window before another second passes over your worthless life. Take it back, I say, and that very quick."
               "No gentleman," said Hayden, "ought to use such language, and on the score of gentility I withdraw my remarks."
               "And produce the money," said Fling, still assuming an hostile attitude.
               "I suppose I must, but it's miserably provoking to be compelled to yield to all your exorbitant demands."
               The 
                     princpal
                     principal
                   and agent left the room, arm in arm. They had ceased to quarrel, they had gone to the club-room to count the money.
               We shall now recur to a busy scene in Hayden's room at his uncle's house.
               Robert, and his confidential female friend, were most active in arranging Hayden's trunks for instant travel, and they had just completed their task when the master and partner entered.
               "May it please you, sir," said Robert, "you told me to call your attention, in case you forget it to—and to mention that Miss Laura Spray."
               "So I did," replied Hayden, "had I but known you but ten years ago we would now be millionaires. Such a memory is deserving of all grateful rememberance. There's a place vacant in the City Hall, I think I will apply to fill the vacancy—and you shall be the man, Robert."
               "Thanks," exclaims that worthy as he locked the trunk, which he had just packed with the costly vestments. "But what of Miss Spray, sir?"
               "Only this—at precisely ten o'clock, visit her to-morrow, and hand her this letter. The family must make some reparation for the sinful wrongs of that scamp, Leonard."
               "I shall obey," says Robert, as he stood, with a consequential air, awaiting the next order. And then added—"Here's the locket-portrait of Mr. Leonard Jocylen."
               "And where did you get it?" said Hayden, so perceptibly moved as to alter the cast of the expression of his features.
               "The girl found it under your pillow, on making up the bed."
               It was the likeness which had been stolen from Miss Hardwick on the night of the robbery, and which he now took from the servant and carefully placed in his breast pocket, and then added, "Now go, and call me at five to-morrow. Have the carriage ready at six, as I shall leave on the seven o'clock train. Yet stay, order the carriage immediately. We must be at the station by daylight or even before. No one must know of our departure."
               "It shall be done as you order," and Robert quickly left the room to obey orders.
               And now he sat before the dying embers of the fire, exhausted both in mind and body. He sat for several minutes apparently engaged in deep thought.
               The past and present scenes of life were vividly pictured before him. He was bathing in the bubbling cauldron of life's troubled water; the torture of his mind was intense from the uncertainty of all surrounding events. What was his position, resting as did his body and soul upon a most insecure foothold.
               He at length rose from his chair, locked the door, and after folding his traveling cloak around his shivering form, he flung his body upon the sofa—and from the weight of sheer exhaustion, sunk into a leaden sleep. He slept, but not to dream, or be disturbed, silence and darkness were his only watchers and companions.
               Day in and day out, days past and days to come, oh, what an innumerable number of hour's time must have been in the storehouse, where he has treasured up the vast accumulation of centuries which are to be let loose upon the world's broad expanse of thought, deed, and animal life. The organic and inorganic will all feel the influence of these gliding centuries; ever rolling, ceaseless in their flow. The world has slept, eaten, thought, and worked many of them away—and sent them on their road to eternity, pregnant with all that is most mighty, most excellent, and most funny in the history of the world. You and I, reader, have all added our mite to swell the burden of the army of time, and, be assured, that every century has its army of followers who march under the banner of death towards eternity.
               A fig for all such moralising. It won't disturb Hayden's sleep. But hark, a key is thrust into the lock from the outside—the door opens, when a female form closely disguised in a long flowing cloak enters, and after closing and securing the door, walks towards the light glow of fire in the grate, strikes a match and turns on the gas to a brilliant glare.
               The suddenness of the blaze awoke Hayden, when, starting to his feet, he exclaimed, on seeing her—
               "Ha, Charlotte—I thought you were the count."
               "And if I were, what have you to fear?" said Charlotte.
               "Nothing—nothing, dear Charlotte but his treachery, yet an arrow-like dream struck me in a tender part of memory."
               "Banish the scene, come, all is ready, Hayden, the city is in a swoon and the horses are impatient for the tramp."
               "What o'clock, Charlotte?"
               "It is the turning point of night, when we can say good night, or good morrow to a friend."
               "Then day is coming and with it our flight and cemented unity."
               "Amen," replied Charlotte, "come, we'll leave the coming storm behind us tho' a desert spreads before us," and she led him from his uncle's hall, wherein he was never again destined to enter.
               When they had departed in the carriage for the rail-road station, Robert went up stairs and awoke his maiden love, who, when she reached the chamber and was informed of the state of affairs, began a promiscuous ransacking of the remaining trunks, and jointly they appropriated all valuables, which were not likely to be missed, or which it was supposed Hayden would take with him in his flight.
               They then proceeded to the kitchen, and regaled themselves with a bottle or two of Brown Stout-Hayden's favorite beverage. Chance offered them the opportunity, and they enjoyed it.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER 
                     XXXII.
                     XXXIII.
                  
               
               FINDING OF THE CERTIFICATE OF MARRIAGE.
               EIGHT o'clock. Early rising for Mr. Fling. The footman announces coffee, as he touches the hall floor with his slippered feet. He's enveloped in his figured robe de chambre.
               "The morning papers, Sam."
               "On the breakfast table" replied the servant.
               "Has one Italian, by the name of Lutentio, been here?"
               "No, sir," replies Sam.
               "When he calls admit him instantly. You will tell the coachman to have the carriage at the door precisely at nine." And Sam bows an exit from the room to give the necessary order, while Mr. Fling sips his coffee and glances over the morning papers. When he starts to complete his morning toilet—Susan enters with a segar-box in hand.
               "May it please you, Mr. Fling," says she, courtseying, "Miss Hardwick desires to see you, she has been quite sick since she saw something in the paper."
               "Shouldn't wonder, Susan, how foolish for me not to have explained; will be there directly. What have you got in that box?"
               "Nothing, Mr. Fling, but some old scraps of paper Miss Hardwick threw into the hearth, in overhauling her old bundle of letters. I'm taking them to the kitchen fire."
               "Bring the box here, Susan, and then get me a light for my segar."
               Then Susan hurried off, while Mr. Fling emptied the contents of the box on the table and began swiftly overhauling the old scraps of memorandum, pieces of letters, and lengthy bills. "Ha," says he, taking up a paper, and opening it, with printed form and red colored ink. "Italian—evidently of importance," he ejaculates; "call after a few minutes," and Susan leaves the match-box and bows herself out the door, while he continues his exclamations of surprise. "Signed Leonard Jocylen, jr., and Ellenor Hardwick. What can it all mean? Venetia, May, 1857—By Heaven's, here's a clue to something. Yes. No, impossible," and he hurries to the hall, doffs his robe, seizes an old coat hanging upon the hat-rack, puts it on, and issues into the street and descends into an Italian barber shop, beckons the barber to attend for a moment. "Read this for me," and the barber translates it.
               "It is a certificate of marriage celebrated between Leonard Jocylen and Ellenor Hardwick, celebrated at Venice, in the presence of the American Consul, segnior."
               "That will do," says Fling, and he gives the astonished barber five dollars. "This is your fee as a translator." When he returns he meets Lutentio, when he says with an impatient gesture, "Lutentio, quick back, hie thee man to the countess—tell her to come instantly over with Fanny, and see you bring them both with all speed, to this address," and he wrote the direction to find Pensey's fencing school. "Take the first hack you meet and spare neither expense nor trouble. Take this certificate, no," he said upon reflection, "I'll keep it. Tell her to fail not to come, as life or death depends upon your bringing her here with the child. Now go, good Lutentio," he said as he nearly pushed him from the door, "you have an hour and twenty minutes," and he replaced his watch in his pocket, and hurried up stairs to his niece's room.
               He found his niece very much agitated, with eyes inflamed from crying.
               "What's the matter, uncle," she exclaims, "Susan tells me you are greatly excited and have ordered the carriage."
               "Only a match, my dear Ellenor," he replies, "a little affair Leonard and myself have on hand. By the way, I have been guilty of a great neglect, in not stating a piece of news. A rich joke. Thomas Hayden was forced by your brother to marry Laura Spray, and the scamp, fearing it would get to his uncle's notice, has managed to have Charlie's name inserted in the public prints in place of his own."
               "Oh, you cruel man," said she, "to keep this from me for a moment."
               "And pray, how does it concern you, Ellenor," he asked with a look of surprise, but his niece left the room, and he sought her carriage. Scarcely had he been driven in front of Charlie's rooms, and given a cordial greeting to his friend when the two Mr. Nobles entered.
               "We have come," said the elder of the two, "to notify you—that in case, as we heard it said—you marry Miss Hardwick, she will be forced to part with the succession property."
               But Fling gave them no time to repeat their warning—for he ordered them to the door and almost thrust them out—and when they had departed cursing and threatening.
               "What can they mean," Charlie asked.
               "A pair of fools," said Fling, "sent here by Hayden; for fear of other interruptions let's drive awhile in the carriage." There was one trait in Fling's character worthy to be imitated by the best business men, and that was 
                     decission
                     decision
                   of character.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER 
                     XXXIII.
                     XXXIV.
                  
               
               THE DESPERATE DUEL AND ITS CONSEQUENCES.
               AS the clock tolled the hour of ten Charlie and Fling entered the fencing room; on either side, resting their elbows upon the shelf of the foils and swords, while iron masks bung over head, stood the solemn dressed and sedate looking surgeons. The count, occupied with his second, Chevalier 
                     Darsy
                     Darcy
                  , was standing in the rear part of the long extended room. He was dressed in blue coat, with dark pants and vest. He appeared perfectly composed and saluted Fling with a low bow, as did the chevalier salute the Jocylen. Then followed some close conversation between the seconds and the surgeons. And while thus engaged, Depensey, the fencing master arrived, who, after cordially saluting the count and Jocylen, unlocked a cupboard and took out two swords, which after examining he presented them to the seconds for inspection, after this he, placed them in the centre of the floor, close together.
               Fling very tardily tossed up for choice of weapons, and was so dilatory in every movement as to arouse the indignation of the impatient Frenchman.
               "You are most reluctant, Monsieur Fling, are you in pain?" he said to Mr. Fling.
               "Monsieur," said Fling, "I was thinking of the time when in Paris—just such a day, at this very hour, and, let me see," and he pulled off his watch, looked at it and held it to his ear—"yes, about this hour of the day, and he walked to the window and looked at the sky—"Just such a day for all the world," replacing his watch in his pocket.
               "Monsieur forgets," said the chevalier.
               "Well, just such a day, monsieur did what?" said the impatient Frenchman.
               "Monsieur Fling shot the duelist, Franco, through the brain," and he gave the Frenchman a scornful look of defiance.
               "Monsieur is moved by unpleasant remembrances," said Depensey.
               "The count will select his sword, said Fling. "The one left is for my friend Jocylen."
               The chevalier bowed assent.
               The weapons were soon in their hands, a moment more and they were stripped for the fight.
               "One word, Count Marlo," said Jocylen, as he leant upon his sword. "In the presence of these gentlemen, I have to declare that if I fall in this encounter, it is no evidence of my guilt, and, further, that he who dare say I have ever wronged the Countess of Marlo, and through her the honor of Count Marlo, lies in his throat!"
               "And I hurl the lie back to you," said the count advancing; but the words "present and read, had not been pronounced by the chevalier, who had won the word, and the swords of the seconds prevented his approach. "I say I fling the lie into the teeth of this villain, of chalk and water, Saxon blood, and Yankee dirt!"
               "Count Marlo you are here to revenge yourself upon your enemy with your sword and not with your tongue," remarked his friend.
               "It well becomes this degenerate man of a noble Roman," rejoined Jocylen.
               "The royal blood of twenty centuries flow in my veins, of a race illustrious in war as in peace."
               "Prove it then," replied Jocylen, and he rushed towards the count, again the weapons of the seconds came in between the impatient combatants.
               A line was drawn by the chevalier, 'the present and ready' was given., and then came the clash of steel, and the ring of the pure metal filled the room. It was a solemn, piteous and impressive sight. Two fine, healthy, robust men in full possession of all their faculties, stripped to their shirts, dealing deadly blows with the glittering and flashing sword, either eager to plunge it into the heart of his adversary—while there stood the surgeons with their cases of instruments ready to stop the life's flow of the gushing wound.
               For the space of twenty minutes they fought back, forwards, and round the room, and as they were both expert swordsman neither seemed as yet to have the advantage—when after a rapid pass at close quarters the count made a desperate lunge at his adversary. Jocylen struck off the point with an admirable guard parry—his blade flying from the hilt which he still retained within his nervous grasp. The swords of the seconds shielded his person in a moment—but it was unnecessary, for the count withdrew several paces backwards—and leaned on his sword to regain his wind—nor was Leonard panting any the less—for the combat had been fierce, rapid, and exhausting.
               DePensey soon presented another sword to Fling, who handed it to Jocylen and the combat was renewed with even more fury.
               Not a word was spoken by the spectators, who were pale with apprehension, for it was evident from the aspect of the combatants and the vigor of their onset a determination was evinced on the part of both to fight it out to the fatal end. Fling, who is constantly, watching the door, hears a carriage stop below, he takes a paper from his pocket, shows it to the chevalier, who beckons to the surgeons. He whispers a few sentences in a suppressed tone of voice, when the door opens and in rushes the countess, leading Fanny by the hand and followed by Lutentio. "Cruel," exclaims the countess while she sinks into a chair overpowered by fright as she saw the flashing and clashing swords of the desperate duellists.
               "Down, rest," exclaimed both Fling and the chevalier as they interpose their swords between the heated weapons, of the opposing antagonists, who step back sending looks of defiance with flashing eyes at each other.
               "You bleed, my lord," said Chevalier Darcy.
               "Find also there, upon the floor, his dastard blood," replied the count.
               "Gentlemen," spoke the chevalier, "an important paper has fallen into my hands. It is of a character to convince you, my lord, that your second has honorably performed his duty as a friend and second."
               "Read it," said Fling. "If I mistake not it will go far to heal an old sore."
               "And he read the certificate written in Italian, certifying to the marriage of Leonard Jocylen and Ellenor Hardwick at Venice, as before stated, witnessed by the American Consul.
               The sword dropped from Jocylen's hand as he sought a chair supported by Fling.
               "It is true, by Heaven," said the countess, raising from her chair. "Husband, it is true as the light of Heaven."
               "It proves but a marriage," said the count when he had read it.
               "It proves," said Fling advancing towards him, "It proves my niece's marriage, and Fanny to be her child, see you not the resemblance. Beware how you condemn an high-minded and honorable woman, my life on it, when the curtain is lifted, your wife's virtue will stand as fair as the noon day sun."
               "And you knew of this 
                     marraige
                     marriage
                   certificate before," remarked the count with a reproachful look.
               "On my life no," said Fling, "I found it by accident among some papers which the servant was carrying from my niece's room to cast into the street. It was but two hours ago it fell into my possession, and I sent for the countess, with an dispatch. Was it not so, good Lutentio?"
               
               "I can vouch for its truth," said Lutentio.
               "Madame, countess of Marlo," said the count advancing towards the countess, I trust in God you are not guilty."
               "So help me Heaven, I am innocent," replied the countess, with a grieving voice.
               "Is this in truth my child," he asked.
               "Lutentio remove the child," said the countess.
               "I'll not leave my dear mamma," said the child clinging to her mother. "I'll die with her."
               "Only for a moment, they intend no harm, darling," and then removing her handkerchief from her face she kissed the tear moistened cheeks, when the child, casually cast her eyes towards Leonard Jocylen, and on seeing the surgeons cutting the sleeves of his shirt, from which the blood was dropping, she clasped her hands together and with an agonising scream, rushed towards him, exclaiming, "they're killing Mr. Charlie, Lutentio, they are murdering him, make them go way, oh, see the running blood."
               "For God's sake stop the flow of that blood," said Fling.
               "Directly," replied one of the surgeons. And directly it was stopped.
               "My friend, Count Marlo, you bleed," said the chevalier, taking him by the arm.
               "Answer my question," and he still kept his fixed gaze upon the form of the countess.
               "No, no,—take your answer, and have done your questioning."
               "Yet, once again, and I have done forever. Is that child?"
               "Never!" replied the countess, starting to her feet, and then calling to Fanny, and leaning on Lutentio's arm, she hurried from the room, and with tottering steps entered her carriage and was driven to her home.
               The count now approached Leonard, and offering him his hand, said—
               "I believe we have both been deceived by appearances, and until I am convinced of your treachery against my honor, consider me not your enemy."
               "Could but the dead speak," responded Leonard.
               "Through the living, Miss Hardwick, still lives," added the count.
               "Lives!" ejaculated Leonard, as he arose to his feet, but was immediately forced down again into the chair.
               By this time the loss of blood was telling upon the countenance of the nobleman. His boots were removed and found to be nearly filled with coagulated blood. He was placed upon the floor and stripped and found to have received a serious, if not fatal wound in the side.
               After their wounds were dressed they were removed to a private hospital; and thus ended this most desperate of duels.
               Both surgeons declared that neither upon the stage, nor in real life, had they ever witnessed a scene of so sensational, or emotional a character.
            
            
               CHAPTER 
                     XXXIV.
                     XXXV.
                  
               
               THE EXPLANATION—MISS HARDWICK REMEMBERS—FANNY'S DECISION—THE END OF GARCIA AND CHARLOTTE.
               NEXT day, at his request the countess accompanied by Fling, Lutentio, and Chevalier Darcy, visited the countess, when she made the following statement. We give only the substance.
               "That she had formed Miss Hardwick's acquaintance in Switzerland, and was acting as the mutual friend of both Leonard Jocylen and Miss Hardwick, and was privy to their courtship—which happened in Naples, before her own abduction with the count—but as Mr. Fling, her uncle, was a man of great wealth, and publicly stated that in no case should any of his property be left to his niece, in case she married Leonard, for whom he had a personal dislike, it was thought best to conceal the marriage. And Leonard met his wife at the count's house in Naples; which gave rise to the these conjectures regarding his illicit intimacy with the countess. While so visiting, Leonard's father's letter, which had been lying sometime in Paris, was sent to Miss Hardwick. The contents of which, and coming from such a source, had such an effect upon her mind as to cause her to go deranged. Shortly after this she was delivered of a female child—which, of course, in her then state of lunacy, was removed from her and a nurse supplied for its sustenance.
               The count being away from Naples, the countess thought it best to await his arrival home. On his return home he was informed of all the suspicious circumstances, when he refused to see the countess, and challenged Jocylen.
               The countess becoming attached to the child, after Miss Hardwick's removal to Paris by the physicians, she adopted it as her own, and neither enquired for its mother, nor divulged the secret of its birth.
               There is corporeal evidence of the child's being Miss Hardwick's issue, by the large mole on its left wrist, similar to its mother's, and by the color of the hair and eyes.
               The count groaned aloud when she had concluded her statement, and requested his wife to kiss and forgive him.
               "Poor Mrs. Jocylen, what a surprise is in store for you," he said.
               "My niece must be informed of this, for, I do solemnly believe every word to be true," said Fling.
               "Leave to me the task," said the countess; "I will pay her a visit on the morrow.
               
               MR. FLING was a man who waited neither for time nor opportunity. When a thing had to be done, and there was nothing to be made by delay, he was up and doing. Next morning after breakfast he ordered the carriage, and then requesting his niece to attend him at the table, said—
               "Ellenor, my most affectionate, I am going to get married to Miss Mattie Wiggins."
               "Indeed," said the niece, "I am very much surprised. If your allowance is too small to attach you to my person and service, I will double it," replied that lady, evidently taken much by surprise.
               "Listen, I am all affection for your person," said Fling, "we have lived together as brother and sister, I feel most grateful and loving towards you. But city life came near being my ruin. She is the young lady who called on you to inform you of your husband's sickness."
               "My husband, uncle?"
               "Yes, Leonard Jocylen. You should have told me of it before, and your silence in this matter has nearly cost two worthy gentleman their lives."
               And he then went on and related all that had transpired since he parted with her on the following day, avoiding any allusion to Fanny being her child.
               "Come, Ellenor, remember your duty as a wife," and he took her by the hand and raised her from the chair and, after affectionately embracing her, said:
               "Arouse yourself from the lethargy into which you seem to have fallen."
               He rung the bell, and, when Susan entered, he added, "attend your mistress to her room. I will call in the course of an hour to take her out driving."
               With the reliance and obedience of a child, Miss Hardwick, suffered herself to be led from the room. She spoke, but little, while Susan was arraying her mistress for her interview with her wounded husband.
               Memory was busy at work, for the mind was thrown back upon itself to recover strength and consciousness.
               When Mr. Fling led his niece into Leonard's room, she approached his bed with diffidence until bursting into tears she bent over him, placed her cheek to his, and wept for many minutes.
               Mr Fling had left them to themselves and started for the residence of Mr. Jocylen.
               He found the old gentleman walking the room in great anguish of spirit.
               "Terrible accident on the Erie Road," said he as Mr. Fling entered, and among the killed I find the names of my nephew, Thomas Hayden, and his wife Charlotte. I did not know he was married. He is lost to me poor fellow. Lost to me, Mr. Fling."
               "If he is lost, which is but a small affair, Mr. Jocylen," added Mr. Fling. "you have found your son a worthy representative of your name and house."
               "My son is on his way to Europe. Mr. Fling, I bought his absence with twenty thousand dollars. Thomas had the money paid to him, to quit and never return."
               "Which Thomas put in his own pocket, and taking the count's mistress and servant, Garcia, with him, left on the Erie train yesterday evening for parts unknown; and the devil finding him likely to prosper and likely to escape him in the end, settled his leash for him right then and there, in the general, smash up of life and baggage."
               His uncle stood as one stupefied, while Mr. Fling went on and described, for over two hours, the whole of the previous and late 
                     occurences
                     occurrences
                  .
               "Now then you attend your son, and exchange at mutual forgiveness, while I go to the scene of destruction; rescue the money and baggage, and have the bodies decently buried, I will return to-morrow."
               Saying which he took his departure for the rail-road station.
               Towards night the father had sufficiently recovered his composure of mind, and summoned resolution sufficient to visit his son, which terminated in a most affectionate manner.
               Miss Hardwick was there, and he embraced her with all the affectionate kindness of a daughter.
               The countess was in constant attendance upon her husband whose wound, though not very serious, was at least quite painful.
               Lutentio was instructed to amuse Fanny with tramps around the city, for it was deemed advisable to keep her away from the hospital owing to remarks she might make and preference she would show towards the countess and Leonard Jocylen.
               But she insisted upon visiting Mike, Jasper and aunty, whom she was delighted to see.
               Her little bed was as she left it, and the pictures round the room were kept as free from dust.
               "You must all go and see Mr. Charlie," she said. "He's been punched with a sword-knife; oh, aunty, ever so much blood flowed from his shoulder. My father did it because he was jealous of Mr. Charlie. I don't understand much about it, only it was a big fuss, and, ah me, you ought to have seen 'em cut round with the big swords, my mother was so frightened she had to sit down and do nothing but cry and tremble. There was some big talk all round, and they made it up; but I don't know 'zacly how."
               "Would'nt you have been sorry," said aunty, "if they killed Mr. Charlie, Fanny?"
               "If they had, Mr. Fling would have killed em, for he had a sword, and if he was not strong enough, Mike and Jasper could help him. Eh, Mike?"
               "Then, there was a merry laugh all round as of old.
               Fanny went into her room with aunty, and gave her plain but dear chattels a thorough overhauling, and nearly talked the tongue out of aunty, telling her where to put her toys so they could be seen when her mother, the countess, called to see the little room in which she slept when she was lost.
               "I don't think, you Jasper, Mike, and Aunty, will have to work any more, for my mother says you are all to be taken care of while you live—for you are getting too old to do anything but smoke tobacco pipes."
               Here there was another laugh.
               "You can take a kiss, all of you," she added, as she presented her cheek to I the old friend.
               "You needn't be afraid mother says I'm so healthy and fresh looking there's no need of paint," and there came another hearty laugh, which done them all good, for they had been very dull and stupid since she left their humble, but, by Fanny, well remembered abode.
               Mr. Fling returned with the baggage of Thomas and Charlotte.
               Nearly all the twenty thousand dollars were recovered to Mr. Jocylen.
               The count sold out his elegant establishment, which he had arranged for Charlotte, and sent the money to her mother, whom he heard was in destitute circumstances, with a house full of grand-children.
               It was deemed advisable that the countess should call on Miss Hardwick at that lady's horse.
               The interview was most singular.
               The countess was accompanied by her maid with an old worn-out pasteboard box, in which were contained the little dresses and swaddling clothes which Miss Hardwick, had made while staying with the countess when she expected to become a mother, and when the fatal letter of the father caused her derangement.
               After a minute recital and explanation of all 
                     preceeding
                     preceding
                   events, the countess gradually drew her attention to the very day of her loss of memory.
               All of a sudden, Miss Hardwick exclaimed, "My child, my child," and then fainted in the arms of the countess.
               Restoratives were quickly applied, and she speedily recovered, and gave vent to her feelings in a copious flow of tears.
               The curtain, by the skillful and adroit management of the deserving, and considerate countess, had been lifted from the past and the chain of memory unbroken in a single link, connected the present with the past.
               Getting into the carriage with the countess she was driven to that lady's house in Brooklyn, where she found Fanny expecting her mother's return. She was perfectly bewildered at the eager embrace of Miss Hardwick, and her constant exclamations of "My child, my own dear daughter," and many such endearing epithets.
               "I never heard of any little girl having two mothers, did you, mamma?" said Fanny, as she was freed from Miss Hardwick's arms, and threw herself upon the lap of the countess, and gazed up, with a flushed but smiling face into that lady's countenance. "But I don't know any mother but you—do I, my lady countess?" and she climbed up upon her lap, and gave her the warmest kind of a hug.
               "I have found, yet lost my child, she knows not her real mother," said Miss Hardwick.
               "Her affection for you, my dear Mrs. Jocylen," said the countess, in a tender and sympathising tone of voice, "will come to her by degrees, as she grows older, and understands the real merits of your relationship."
               "But she will never feel to me as she does to you—I could not do it—I do not blame her, it is natural."
               "I'll tell you what," said Fanny, as though struck with a happy idea; "Miss Hardwick and Mr. Charlie can come and live with us. The count and Miss Hardwick can get married and buy another little girl for me to play with, when I will be yours and Mr. Charlie's little daughter."
               The countess could not restrain her laughter, while even Miss Hardwick smiled through her tears.
               "I think I've got some say in all this matter," said Mr. Jocylen; "now, not a word, ladies; there now keep quiet. I've thought it all over, and seen both Charlie and the count about it. We are all to start for Europe as one family, and to live there in peace and quiet for the balance of my days. For it will be impossible both, on the part of the mother, countess, and Fanny, to separate them. We must not strive against nature—she is omnipotent in her power, and unalterable in her rules of action. It is both the father's and the count's wish, as best under the circumstances of the case. Mrs. Jocylen will have the duty—the pleasing, and natural duty, of taking charge of Fanny—jointly with the countess, until Fanny learns her connection and grows old enough to appreciate it. But, if I had my way and absolute say in the matter—and the count agrees with me—Fanny should grow up as the Countess of Marlo, and my daughter here, Miss Jocylen, should trust to chance, or something surer, of supplying her place with an heir to my estate," and the old gentleman stamped his cane upon the floor, and added, "am I not right, and to be right we must be natural;" and then followed a general laugh, and Fanny asked, "what they were all laughing about Mr. Advert."
               Mr. Fling married Mattie Wiggins and gave Clara and her mother a comfortable home, being most bountifully aided in this by his friends, and it may not surprise the reader that Clara afterwards married her admirer.
               But Laura Spray went down to an early and sorrowing grave; her child unknown to the light or its mother.
               Fling took aunty, Jasper, and Mike with him on his farm, but nothing more was heard of Garcia.
               Thus was the great secret exposed which had surrounded the life of Champagne Charlie, and driven him into excesses which nearly proved fatal to his existence. Had he been more true to his own interest and followed the excellent and virtuous teachings of his mother, he would have lived a wiser, better, and happier life.
               Captain Travator was absent with his good ship the Bedford, and upon his return found a letter at his merchant's from Mr. Fling, requesting him to call out to his farm and see him, of which invitation he speedily availed himself and was most gratified at the favorable termination of the differences so long existing between the count and his lady. On his return to the city he caused a chaste tombstone to be placed over Laura's grave, and his next voyage was changed to Liverpool. From whence he took sail to London, and became reconciled to his sister and the count.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
