
    ----CITATION----
        Beebe, Carrie D.. Violets .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5764 wright2-0245
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               VIOLETS.
            
            BY CARRIE D. BEEBE.
            
            
               MIDDLETOWN, N. Y.
               "BANNER OF LIBERTY" PUBLISHING HOUSE,
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1873, by B. L. BEEBE & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress, at Washington.
            
         
      
      
         
            Violets
            VIOLETS.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               Mrs. Hamilton was a woman of indomitable energy and ambition. She was not ambitious of fame in a literary way, for her early education would hardly admit of that; and, though a professed Christian, she was not particularly "zealous of good works." But in order to outshine her neighbors, especially in the matter of dress, she worked with a zest and energy worthy of a better cause.
               She was an excellent manager, as Mrs. Judge Tracy, the wealthiest woman in Meadville, and Mrs. Hamilton's natural enemy, was obliged to acknowledge; especially when Miss Sharpe, the village dressmaker, informed her that Mrs. Hamilton's new black silk suit which every one declared must have cost a ruinous sum, was her old one turned, matched with a few yards of new silk, and pieced under the bottom flounce!
               Not that Mrs. Tracy confessed it to Miss Sharpe. On the contrary, she held up her hands in dismay, and declared she really couldn't tell what next to expect!
               And Miss Sharpe, who always agreed with her customers upon everything but the value of her services, looked dreadfully shocked, and echoed "what next?" in a very impressive manner.
               
               Mrs. Hamilton had been trained to habits of industry and economy by her mother, and when, at the age of twenty-five she married, she was the owner of a thousand dollars, which, in those days, was considered by the people of Meadville, a very snug sum, indeed.
               Her husband possessed a like amount, which was all that remained of a legacy several times larger, bequeathed him by his father. Mrs. Hamilton's property, on the contrary, was the result of her own exertions; being the profits of a millinery business which she had conducted successfully for a few years previous to her marriage.
               Mr. Hamilton was a lawyer; a man of intellect and respectability. His practice, however, was not large; owing, partly, to the dearth of law practice in Meadville, but more especially to his natural indolence.
               After their marriage he proposed to purchase and partly pay for a handsome house in the centre of the village, and mildly suggested that his wife's money would furnish it neatly.
               But Mrs. Hamilton negatived the proposition at once.
               "Whatever we do, John," she said, "we will not become indebted to any one. There is a neat one-story cottage for sale on Mill Street, and the owner has had so much trouble with his tenants of late, that he is very anxious to dispose of it. He will sell at a bargain, and what you have will purchase the house, and furnish it, too."
               "But, Anne," protested Mr. Hamilton, "we ought to be able to support some style."
               "Yes," she answered, "by and by, if you will trust to me. I think I have demonstrated the fact that I am a better manager than you are. I am as fond of display play as you can be, only I am more judicious about it. My money is safely invested, and will bring in a snug sum each year. But your practice is small, as yet, and we must commence living in a rather quiet way."
               She was the stronger-willed of the two, so she had her way, and they commenced housekeeping in the little cottage.
               Mrs. Hamilton furnished the house in a style of her own. In the parlor there was no lack, and everything was in perfect taste and keeping with the surroundings; but the kitchen at first contained only a stove, table and three chairs, while the pantry was slightly stocked. But the front windows looked out upon a smooth meadow, and when Mrs. Hamilton's deft fingers had placed everything in order within, her husband acknowledged that "it was a pretty place, after all, with a remarkably fine view."
               Here they remained for several years, until one morning Mrs. Hamilton seemed suddenly to awake to the fact that they had three children about them, and the place was altogether too small. So, having a neat sum laid by, and a fine opportunity occurring, they purchased and paid for a large house upon a fashionable street.
               Mrs. Hamilton was now enabled to indulge her love of display to a greater degree than she had ever done before. The Meadville gossips sagely predicted that the Hamiltons were living beyond their means, and such extravagance could not last long. But Mrs. Hamilton had a way of economizing very closely in the kitchen, and so managed to live within her income.
               At length Mr. Hamilton conceived the idea that business would improve if he removed to Clinton, a town about fifteen miles distant from Meadville, by rail. His wife, sighing for new worlds to conquer, for once, agreed with him in opinion. Clinton was a large country town, almost a city; and as Mr. Hamilton had often attended court there, he was well known, professionally. So the house in Meadville was disposed of, and another bought in Clinton.
               Moving day came. Mrs. Hamilton bustled about, with a broom in one hand and a duster in the other, giving orders to her maid-of-all-work, Jane; her eldest daughter, Eliza, who, though married, resided in the same village, and had come to assist her mother in packing; and John, a sort of jack-at-all-trades who worked by the day, and was particularly valuable in moving time.
               "Let me see," said Mrs. Hamilton, pausing a moment as she tucked the duster under her right arm, and leaned against the broom in the attitude of an old soldier resting upon his rifle, "the best mattress and feather bed were packed in the box with the piano: the others were used in putting up the pier glass and large pictures; the mantle ornaments went in that box of clothing; and that picture of Violet, when she was a baby—I shall carry that—as it's not very heavy and I wouldn't trust it out of my hands. Then we took the heavy comforters to line the boxes that held the books—John! tie those carpets with the clothes' line, securely, now! that oldest Brussels outside, and wrong side out. Jane, have you swept the chamber floors carefully?"
               "Yes, mem."
               "Right! John, we must have two more medium sized dry-goods boxes, and some chaff or cut straw to pack the dishes in. And, oh, John! ask Mr. Lambert if he won't please send Jasper Douglas to mark and direct the boxes. They will all be ready when he goes to his dinner, and it will take but a few moments."
               She had followed him to the door, and stood reflecting awhile as she looked out on the bright spring day.
               "I wouldn't send for Jasper," thought she, "but his fingers are so nimble, and he is very accurate, too. He is altogether too attentive to Violet to suit my fancy, and I'm glad on that very account we are going to leave the place. It's true he is very young, and if it were any other boy of his age, my fears would appear ridiculous; but he has been obliged to depend so much upon himself, he seems a great deal older than he really is."
               Jane now came out for further directions, and Mrs. Hamilton returned to her work.
               "Eliza, my dear," she said, "you must be completely tired out. Do go home and take a rest; Jane and I will finish, as there is nothing left but the dishes, and I will be at your house to dinner at one o'clock. We shall be through by that time, all but sweeping out after the carman takes away the things. He will come in an hour, in order to get everything to the depot in time for the way-freight, which leaves at half-past five."
               Eliza, a stately appearing young matron of twenty-four, slowly turned from the work she had just completed.
               "You are just as tired as I am, mother," she answered, "and I am quite willing to remain and assist you."
               "No, I don't need you in the least. I'm glad we decided to spend the night at your house, for we can take the early morning train and reach Clinton quite refreshed, in time to unpack everything we need before to-morrow night. But go home now, and you, Violet, had better accompany your sister."
               
               Violet, her youngest daughter, had taken but little part in the active work of packing, though she hovered about, handing one person this article and another that, singing snatches of songs, or sighing, as her spirits rose or fell.
               "I would rather remain with you, mamma," she said, "for I want to see the last of the dear old house."
               "And an interview with Jasper Douglas would not be objectionable either, I suppose," thought Mrs. Hamilton. "However, no harm can come of it if I am present," and she assented to Violet's proposal.
               John soon returned, and the packing was completed at once. Jasper arrived just as the lids were nailed upon the last boxes. He proceeded at once to mark them, conversing with Violet in a low tone as he did so.
               Mrs. Hamilton stood near the window, apparently lost in a reverie, but not a syllable of their conversation escaped her. Jasper soon finished his work and approached her. She did not seem to observe him, though he waited a moment, hat in hand, before he addressed her.
               "Mrs. Hamilton!"
               She turned slowly toward him with a patronizing glance, which involuntarily changed to a look of admiration as she met his honest, fearless eyes.
               "Business is dull at the store to-day," he said, "and Mr. Lambert has given me a half-holiday. Stanley Tracy, Dora Lambert and I are going out into the meadows by the woodside, in search of early violets, as we used to do when we were school-children together. Will you allow Violet to accompany us, please, as it is the last afternoon she will spend in Meadville for some time?"
               She had heard him make the request of Violet, and was trying to frame an excuse for a refusal when he asked her. But she hesitated a moment as she looked at Violet's wistful face.
               "I'm afraid it will tire you too much, my dear," she said, "for you have been unusually busy for two or three days. Would you really like to go?"
               "I would, indeed," Violet answered.
               Mrs. Hamilton hesitated.
               "Very well," she said at last; "I am quite willing if you will not walk too far."
               Jasper thanked her with a bow, and turned to go.
               "I'm very much obliged to you, Jasper," she said, detaining him a moment. "You are kind to come and help us." The words were all that could be desired, but the tone and manner patronizing and cold. "John, you had better hurry over to Mr. Hamilton's office, for he will need you. Are you going too, Jasper? Good-by, then, and don't forget to be a good boy, always."
               She gave him her hand in a distant, matter-of-fact sort of way, as though it were hardly worth the trouble, and dismissed him in as indifferent a manner as she did John. Jasper's cheek flushed a little as he observed it, but he bowed respectfully, turning for a word or two with Violet as he moved away.
               Mrs. Hamilton's eyes following him as he walked down the street.
               "There is something noble and manly in that boy's appearance," she confessed rather unwillingly to herself. "And his eyes have such a way of looking right through one. If he was only wealthy! But of what am I thinking? I have great hopes of Violet's future, for her wonderful beauty would captivate any man, however noble or wealthy he might be.
               She pinned her shawl neatly over her plump but still graceful figure, for she was "fat, fair," and fifty, though she looked at least ten years younger.
               "Come, Violet, dear!" she said, briskly, as she tied her bonnet over her heavy blonde hair. "My child, there are tears in your eyes. Are you not glad we are going to Clinton?"
               "Yes, mamma," Violet answered, a thought sadly.
               "Then you have no cause for tears."
               "But at the same time I regret leaving the old house, and our Meadville friends, too."
               "Of course,"—Mrs. Hamilton nodded approvingly—"the feeling is perfectly natural; but then it will soon wear away. Our lives are full of changes, my dear, and we must not make ourselves idols of wood or clay, as they are apt to be broken or taken away from us."
               It was a favorite maxim with Mrs. Hamilton, this "broken clay idols," and perhaps she made ambition her idol because she thought it could never change or be taken from her.
               Leaving Jane in charge of the house, they proceeded to Eliza's; Mrs. Hamilton busy with household plans, and Violet silent and sorrowful, now she had really left the old house where nearly all the years of her life had been spent.
               Soon after dinner, Jasper, Stanley and Dora called for Violet, and they set out at once for the meadows. The air was warm for early spring, and the violets were peeping up through the grass. By the edge of the wood there were mounds blue with the tiny blossoms, and the fragrant white ones starred the more moist hollows near them.
               "Now, Violet," Jasper said, "you know your mother charged me particularly that you should not tire yourself by rambling about, so you and Dora had better sit down on this mossy rock and rest, while Stanley and I gather the flowers. Then you must each form two bouquets, and we will keep them in memory of to-day."
               The girls assented, and took their seats upon the rock, which was bordered with ferns. The sky was filled with fleecy clouds, and the fields and woods wore a wonderful shade of delicate green. A mist gathered over Violet's eyes as she looked over the landscape.
               The scene was unusually quiet; only a level stretch of lowland meadow, skirted by trees in the distance. No rocky ledge or abrupt hill-top suggested hardihood or energy; it was as mild and gentle as Violet's character and life. A stranger's eye might not have been impressed with its beauty; but it was the same landscape which Violet had so often looked upon from the windows of her old home, and she always saw it with the glamoured eyes of childhood. So, to-day, she sighed as she thought how seldom it would gladden her sight in the future.
               Jasper, gathering violets at the base of the rock, unconsciously echoed the sigh. Thus far his life had been one of toil and struggle. His mother was very poor, and in delicate health, and he, fatherless since his early infancy, had been her main support for years. Mrs. Douglas was highly respected, and had brought up her son very carefully; and Jasper, being a bright, handsome boy, was quite a favorite in the village.
               Their little cottage was near Mr. Hamilton's house, and Violet had grown up to be the sunshine of Jasper's life; though of late Mrs. Hamilton seemed to frown upon their intimacy. When Violet was younger, her mother did not care if Jasper was attentive to her, for she seemed to need a protector of some sort, when a child. But now that she was seventeen, and old enough to begin to think of marriage, it was quite a different affair.
               Violet, however, always encouraged Jasper's visits; and vigilant as Mrs. Hamilton was, she often was out-generaled by Jasper's boldness and strategy. So she was very glad to leave the place, especially as there were marriageable men of wealth in Clinton.
               Jasper understood this fully, and his heart sank within him when he first heard of their intended removal; and this afternoon, though outwardly quiet and cheerful, he was planning a bold move for one of his years.
               "I don't see how I can ever leave you all," Violet said at last, "for though I have friends in Clinton, it doesn't seem as though it would ever appear like home to me."
               "You must come back when the wild June roses are in bloom," Jasper answered, "and we will take a ramble in search of them. You will write to Dora often, I hope, and I'll send you messages by her, sometimes."
               "Yes," added Dora, cheerfully, "and write a postscript whenever you like. You must make me a long visit this summer, Violet, dear."
               Violet assented in a more hopeful tone; and by this time Jasper had filled his hands with the flowers, which he gave her to arrange.
               Stanley Tracy, who had wandered a little away from the rest of the party, now came forward with two clusters of the violets, one white, and the other blue, for Dora.
               "Why, Jasper," he said, "you have mingled the two kinds together. You should have kept them apart, like mine."
               "It did not occur to me to do so," Jasper replied, "we were so very busy talking; but I'll separate them now."
               So he sat down by Violet's side, and commenced to cull out the white ones.
               "I'll pick these out first," he said, "for the centre of your bouquet. In what form do you intend to arrange them?"
               They were Violet's favorite flowers, and she had a pretty way of weaving them into shapes of one color, and filling out the bouquet with the other.
               "I hardly know," she answered. "What do you wish me to make, Jasper?"
               "A heart," he replied. "A pure white heart for the centre. Make two bouquets exactly alike, please."
               "Mine shall be a diamond," said Dora, "for that is so easily arranged. I believe, if the truth were known, I have more taste than talent for bouquet-making."
               Stanley Tracy, who was watching her, was about to disclaim, but she interrupted him.
               "No compliments, Stanley," she laughed, "we'll waive those now, if you please, for you can pay them as well after Violet is gone."
               In the meantime Violet's nimble fingers were busy arranging the flowers. Jasper sat silently watching her as he assorted them, his fingers sometimes touching her's as he placed them in her hands. She seemed flushed and nervous, and to have lost her accustomed skill. There was, to Jasper, a sort of sorrowful fascination in the thought that she dreaded the parting from him most of all.
               "She must love me," he thought, "and I know she will be true to the impulses of her heart. Her mother, though ambitious, loves her too dearly to sacrifice her peace; so all may yet be well."
               By this time the bouquets were completed, and Violet held them up for inspection.
               "Make your choice, Jasper," she said.
               "No," he returned, with a smile, "you must present me with one in due form."
               "But they are precisely alike."
               She chose one, however, and placed it in his hand with a mingling of shyness and friendliness in her manner that was quite bewildering.
               He thanked her, and touched his lips to the white heart in the centre of the bouquet. She blushed rosily in answer, and toyed nervously with her own flowers. It was well for Mrs. Hamilton's plans that Dora and Stanley were so near, for Jasper felt an almost unconquerable desire to learn his fate at once.
               "I'm thirsty," Dora said. "Wouldn't you like to go down to the little spring in the woods, once more, Violet?"
               Violet expressed her willingness, and as it was only a short distance, they set out.
               It was a cool spring, the clear water bubbling up through the silver sand, and flowing out into a crystal rill. The trees surrounding it were large and high, with a smooth carpeting beneath them, which the needles from the pine and hemlock only give. There was no undergrowth, except here and there a clump of rhododendron, with its dark, glossy leaves. A cluster near the spring had furnished drinking-cups to the children of the village for years.
               After drinking from the fairy cups they seated themselves near the spring, under a tall pine tree. A little further on, the maples and beeches mingled their branches, just budding with delicate green leaves. The air was filled with that subtile fragrance which only floats upon the woodland airs of spring, and the silence was unbroken but by the notes of the early birds.
               "This is like Fairyland," Violet said, "and the bird-songs are like little tinkling bells."
               "Yes," returned Jasper, and he repeated the lines from the Spanish of Gongora:— 
                     
                        "They are not all sweet nightingales
                        That fill with songs the flowery vales,
                        But they are little silver bells,
                        Touched by the winds in the smiling dells.
                        Magic harps of gold in a grove,
                        Forming a chorus for her I love;
                        Think not the voices in the air
                        Are from some winged sirens fair,
                        Playing among the dewy trees,
                        Chanting their morning mysteries.
                        O! if you listen, delighted there,
                        To their music scattered o'er the vales,
                        They are not all sweet nightingales;
                        But they are little silver bells,
                        Touched by the winds in the silent dells."
                     
                  
               
               His voice was clear and low, and the tones dropped into Violet's heart as no other sound on earth could ever do. The tears were falling over her cheeks when he finished. The others sat in silence for some moments.
               "I am very weak to give way to my feelings in this manner," Violet said, at last. "But it seems so hard to leave you all."
               "Don't mind us, dear," said Dora, simply, "we all love you dearly, and cannot bear to have you leave us."
               The sun was setting, and they rose and walked slowly through the meadows, toward home. Dora kissed Violet an affectionate good-night when they separated, but Jasper paused a moment as he left her at her sister's door.
               
               "I'm coming this evening, as early as I can be spared," he said, "to bid you good-by—may I?"
               "Yes," she answered.
               He touched his hat gracefully and walked quickly away.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               Eliza and her mother were in the parlor when Violet entered. Mrs. Hamilton was sitting by the open window, for the weather was very mild, though a fire was burning in the grate.
               "My dear," she said, addressing Violet, "I'm afraid you are very tired."
               "No, mamma," returned Violet, quietly, "we only went as far as the spring in the woods. Dora and I did not ramble about in search of violets at all. The boys picked them for us and we arranged the bouquets."
               She stole up to her room to place the violets in water. Then after taking a peep in the mirror to assure herself that all traces of tears had left her face, she went down to the parlor. Eliza had gone out to rock her little Harry to sleep, and Mrs. Hamilton was sitting alone.
               "My dear," she said, as soon as Violet closed the door, "did Jasper say he would call this evening to bid you good-by?"
               "Yes, mamma."
               "You are not engaged to him, are you, daughter?"
               "Oh, no, indeed!"
               "I'm very glad to hear you tell me so. If he should ask you to-night, to become his wife some day, remember you are both too young to enter into any engagement."
               "I am seventeen, mamma."
               "Yes, and he is scarcely a year older. A man ought to be at least five years older than his wife, for his judgement does not mature as early as hers."
               "But you are as old as papa, and you have lived very happily together, I am sure."
               "You forget that I was not married young, Violet."
               "And I may not be, mamma. But Jasper really seems much older than I do. He is very tall, and possesses more information than boys of his age usually do. He has supported his mother for five years, for he left school at the age of thirteen. He has studied very 
                     dilligently
                     diligently
                   since then, and still recites an evening lesson to Mr. Hale. Although I graduated at the Clinton Seminary, he could teach me in many things to-day."
               "I am aware that Jasper is intellectual; he is a very good boy, too."
               "Mr. Lambert can never say enough in praise of Jasper's 
                     dilligence
                     diligence
                   and faithfulness in the store. He takes charge of everything, and keeps the books also. Mr. Lambert has liberally raised his salary lately. Liberally, Jasper said, though I know he earns every penny of it; for he is faithful in everything he undertakes, although he does not like the store—I mean he would rather study to be a physician like his uncle, who resides in the West."
               "His uncle is wealthy, I'm told, and childless," Mrs. Hamilton answered, slowly. "But that will not do to build upon. Jasper may never receive a penny of his money, for the Irvings all live to a great age."
               "Mother," said Violet, slightly annoyed, "Jasper will never need his uncle's assistance if he has his health. He is able to carve out his own fortune."
               "You are very romantic, my dear. But I felt just as you do, when I was of your age. This will all pass away, in time. Jasper would not be old enough or rich enough to marry in several years, and by that time, you would be quite an old maid."
               "I should not mind waiting for him; and I don't care much for wealth, either."
               "But my child, I object to long engagements. They are often the cause of much sorrow, and bitter feeling. I wish for your good, your happiness. Will you not yield to my better judgement, and promise him nothing?"
               "I will obey you, of course, mamma," Violet answered, sadly. "But I am not sure that he wishes to enter into any engagement at present."
               "I cannot be deceived," Mrs. Hamilton replied.
               Violet drew up her chair before the grate, and sat for some time, silently gazing into the fire.
               "My dear," said her mother, "I wish you to remember that I do not object to Jasper, except on account of his extreme youth. If neither of you marry until he is old enough, I will not be displeased if he addresses you. But I have seen so much trouble result from long engagements, that I wish you to avoid them."
               Violet rose and left the room, kissing her mother affectionately as she went out. For the time she felt quite relieved, for Mrs. Hamilton had said she would not object to their engagement when Jasper was old enough to marry.
               But, after tea, as she sat alone in the parlor, waiting for his coming, she reflected that it was quite improbable that her mother would allow her to remain unmarried after she reached the age of twenty.
               In the meantime, Mrs. Hamilton, who was never idle, took her tatting, and went up to Mrs. Stanton's room. Eliza, who was much like her mother in thrifty housewifery, though she was able to afford more style, brought her sewing and took her place by Mrs. Hamilton's side.
               "Violet expects Jasper to-night, mother," she said, as she fitted her thimble upon her slim finger and proceeded to unroll her work. "Don't you think his attentions begin to assume a serious form?"
               "Mrs. Hamilton smiled, and looked as though she could say a great deal upon the subject if she felt so inclined.
               "Eliza," she said, "I am not blind."
               "No, mother. But I did not think you would consider Jasper a proper husband for Violet, especially as Laura and I have both married so well."
               A look of supreme satisfaction settled upon Mrs. Hamilton's face.
               "You have both married remarkably well," she said. "But do you remember who planned the matches for Laura and yourself?"
               "Of course, you did, mother dear. Some persons object to match-making mammas, as they are called, perhaps because so few women have your tact and ability. I, for one, honor your judgement. Laura's husband is very wealthy, and mine is certainly well-to-do. James and I are very happy together; but I know he could never have found courage to ask me to be his wife, if you had not helped him. Laura is very pleasantly antly situated and enjoys herself exceedingly, no doubt, although Mr. Mason is rather old for her. She was always passionately fond of style and show."
               Mrs. Hamilton made no reply to Eliza's remarks. She did not seem to hear them, in fact, she was so lost in thought, though her shuttle flew swiftly in and out of the white loops of thread.
               "My dear," she exclaimed, abruptly, at last, "you certainly must be too clear-sighted to suppose, even for a moment, that I would allow Violet to throw herself away upon a poor clerk."
               "I couldn't believe it," Eliza replied. "But I do wonder that you allow Jasper to visit her. They are certainly very fond of each other."
               "I have warned Violet in a very quiet way," Mrs. Hamilton said, "for open objection should only be used as a last resort, and then very guardedly, and in extreme cases. With Violet it is altogether unnecessary. I first ascertained that she was not engaged to Jasper, and then merely told her to remember he was too young to think of marrying yet; and that long engagements were, of all dreadful things, to be avoided. Of course I praised Jasper as a most excellent boy; said I had no objection to him but his youth, and they must wait."
               "Did Violet appear willing to do so?"
               "Yes; though she seemed slightly disappointed at first. I shall manage very adroitly, and show my hand as little as possible; but when we reach Clinton, I'll see that she is married before Jasper is old enough to address her."
               "But suppose Violet should object, mother?"
               "There is no fear of it. If she does, I must do my duty, that is all."
               She looked equal to any emergency, as she sat there, with her calm brow and determined air. Eliza regarded her for a moment in silence, mentally hoping that Violet, for her own sake, would soon forget her love for Jasper.
               "There he is now!" she exclaimed, as the door bell rang gently. "He is a good boy, and handsome, too. I cannot help pitying him, for I know he loves Violet dearly; and no wonder, she is beautiful enough to turn the head of any man."
               "Yes," replied Mrs. Hamilton, pausing in her work a moment. "And what is better, she seems entirely unconscious of the fact, I'm glad it is so. I can do all the plotting that is necessary, and fortunately, she is like her father; very yielding in disposition, and easily influenced by me. I have tried to do my duty by her—by you all, in fact; and I acknowledge that, thus far, I am entirely satisfied with the result of my efforts."
               Violet was a pretty little blonde, with a complexion like a lily, pleasing regular features, and clear violet eyes. Her mother had always dressed her simply, but with matchless taste. To-night she wore a dress of soft blue material, with dainty ruffles at the neck and wrists, and a white, fleecy shawl, crocheted by her own deft, dimpled fingers, thrown carelessly around her slight form.
               She was sitting before the grate when Jasper entered, the firelight bringing out the golden tints of her hair, which was so bright it had won for her the pet name of Sunshine.
               "Dear little Sunshine!" Jasper said, as he sat down by her side, "you can never know how much I will miss you, or how lonely I shall be when you are gone."
               
               "But I'm not going so very far, Jasper, and we will sometimes see each other."
               "I hope so, indeed; but you know, dear, that a poor clerk like me has but little time to spend away from home."
               "I will come back to visit Dora, though, and then we will be sure to meet."
               He seemed despondent this evening, and sat for awhile silently gazing into the fire.
               "Violet," he said, "do you know how much I love you—do you care, I mean?"
               "You know I care; and I hope you will always be the same kind friend to me you are now."
               "A friend now, Violet," he said, "but something nearer in the future, I hope; for I love you better than anything else on earth—better even than myself."
               "How can that be?" she asked, unsteadily, but wondering a little in her embarrassment.
               "I cannot tell. I only know it is true; for I prefer your happiness to mine, and I would lay down my life to serve you."
               "I believe you," she answered slowly, "for ever since I can remember, you have always given up your will to mine. And you can never know how much I thank you for it. You have made my life much happier by your love and kindness than it would otherwise have been. I cannot forget it, whatever may come to pass in the future."
               "Violet," he asked, earnestly, "why do you look so sorrowful? Do you not care for my love? You surely must understand me. I want you to be my wife as soon as I am able to take care of you. Promise me that you will be, dear, so I shall have something to work for when you are gone."
               She did not answer, but sat very still, shading her face from the firelight with her hand. Jasper seemed slightly surprised, but drew his chair a trifle nearer.
               "Dear, it has been the hope of my life—that you will one day be my wife. It has soothed me in many a despondent hour, for poverty is harder for the proud to battle with than you know. My salary is liberal now, thanks to Mr. Lambert's kindness; and I can lay something aside each week, for the blessed time when you shall be my own. Tell me, dear, that I am not deceived—that you love me well enough to place your future life and happiness in my care."
               She looked up now, but her face was very pale, and her eyes sad.
               "Jasper," she said, sorrowfully, "I love you, more than you think—more than you know; but I cannot promise to be your wife—yet."
               "Why?—Tell me why?"
               "We are both—too young."
               "Not if you love me, dear."
               "Jasper, my love for you has grown with my life, until I believe it impossible to separate one from the other, but I cannot promise to be yours, for to-night mamma told me we were too young to enter into any engagement. I wish you had not asked me—I hoped you would not—but she, it seems, knew better than I did. She says she has known so much trouble to result from long engagements, that she objects to them, seriously."
               "So your mother dislikes me."
               It was a bitter disappointment to him. Violet could see it plainly.
               "Oh, no!" she hastened to say. "If when we are older, we still love each other, and desire it, she will not object to an engagement. Dear Jasper, you know I must obey her in all things; do not urge me to act against her will. I will be true to you—if she will allow me—and I think she will, for she loves me, and desires my happiness."
               It was scarcely a comfort to him. "When we are older," he repeated to himself. "And I shall hardly see her twice a year under this arrangement."
               Violet could not bear to see him look so sad.
               "Don't seem so disappointed—so despairing, Jasper," she pleaded. "It will kill me if you do, for you must know this sorrow is just as hard for me to bear as it is for you."
               "If your mother could only know how I love you," he said, "she surely would not be so stony-hearted. I will work and wait patiently; but the fear that she will urge you to marry some one wealthier than I am, or can ever hope to be, will almost drive me mad!"
               "Do not fear that, Jasper. She cannot do it when she sees that I would rather die first. But you wrong her. She is not heartless, but loving and tender in all things—but this."
               Jasper rose and paced the floor hastily.
               "'All things but love, when love is all we want!'" he quoted impatiently. "Your mother is in the house, is she not? Let me see her. I wish to speak with her a few moments."
               "I will call her," Violet said, "but I fear it will be useless to urge her against her will."
               "Wait!" he said, as she rose to go.
               Violet turned back, wondering why Jasper, who had always been so gentle, should seem so imperious now. He caught her hands and kissed her twice, almost fiercely, and then said, still in the same mood, "Go!"
               He sank into a chair before the grate, and Violet went up the stairs, trembling a little with the thought of Jasper's vehemence on one hand, and her mother's displeasure on the other.
               Mrs. Hamilton received the message quietly, and, laying aside her tatting, she stepped to the mirror to smooth her hair. It was partly from force of habit, and partly to give herself time to collect her thoughts.
               "Remain here until I return," she said to Violet, and then she slowly descended to the parlor.
               She swept into the room with a distant bow, but Jasper, who had risen from his chair at the sound of her rustling train, for her step was noiseless, met her quite as haughtily, giving her back stare for stare. He did not look like a suppliant as he stood there, as proud and calm as herself, only his restless eyes.
               "Madam," he said, "I love Violet as my own life. She informs me that you will not consent to our engagement, because we are so young. I do not desire a formal betrothal now, but I ask you to allow me to visit her occasionally, as a friend. I am poor, and I would never wish to marry her until I could care for her properly; but I have health and energy, and shall be a rich man, some day—and that too, before I am old. I know Violet's disposition so well—her pure, gentle heart, and I believe I could make her happier than it would be possible for any one else on earth to do. She too, feels our separation deeply, and I fear she will, at first, be lonely in her new home. Allow me to come and see her sometimes, please, and I will bring Dora Lambert with me each time, if you desire it, that I may not appear in the least like a lover. It is but a little time since you yourself were young; please don't refuse me this."
               
               He had commenced speaking with a cold, almost scornful air, but his voice and manner changed as he proceeded, and his eyes were earnest with entreaty as he closed his petition. Mrs. Hamilton watched him, out of her coldness and quietude, admiringly. She even wavered a moment, now that he was waiting for a reply.
               "You plead your cause well," she answered, and then she paused and looked steadily into the fire for some moments.
               Violet was very dear to her, and she sincerely desired her happiness. And there was something in the boy's manliness, something in his pleading eyes which made her heart throb and flutter strangely. She had so longed for a son of her own. James Stanton and Mr. Mason seemed scarcely nearer to her after their marriage with her daughters, than before. She liked energy in a young man, and she could not help thinking that if a son had been given to her, she would wish him to be like this fearless, manly boy.
               "Laura and Eliza are both wealthy," she thought, "Jasper's earnings, besides what I could give to him and to Violet, would make them very comfortable, in case they married within a few years. The other girls married for wealth; cannot Violet, my youngest, my darling, afford to wed for love?"
               Still she sat in silent thought. Jasper would make a man of whom she might be proud; and then his assertion, "I shall be rich some day," was not an idle boast, she knew his indomitable will too well. He had done wonders already, for he had educated himself and supported his mother for years; in Meadville too, which was not a thriving town. But the path to wealth was rough and tedious, and had almost unsurmountable mountable barriers; it might be long before the desired haven was reached, and Violet would grace a palace. No, she must not yield to tenderness. Her darling might be slowly weaned from this childish love, and as for trampling upon Jasper's heart—why, it was, after all, of but little consequence.
               "Jasper," she said, "I have been foolish enough to consider your petition seriously. I would not startle Violet by such an assertion now, but it is not at all probable that you will ever marry. In the first place, she is too near your own age. You will not be old enough, for years to come, while she is almost of a marriageable age now. Then she is frail and delicate, and could not struggle with poverty."
               "Poverty is not the only ill which she might suffer, and I would shield her from all others, at least, as no other person on earth could do."
               "You are young, Jasper, and, therefore, very sanguine. You do not, as yet, fully know your own mind. Boys of your age are never safe to depend upon; they are so very changeable, so unstable. I do not doubt, that, in a few months' time, Violet will be almost, if not quite forgotten by you. You say you will yet be rich. If, within five years your dreams are realized, and you are able to give Violet a luxurious home, you may woo her if she is still unmarried, but not until then. I do not wish to seem unnecessarily harsh, but I must be true to my child. You have my best wishes for your success. Good-night."
               With a stately bow, she passed from the room, and hurried up the staircase, as though she feared her firmness of purpose might forsake her if she tarried longer.
               "Violet," she said, as she entered the chamber where her daughter sat in silence, "go down and bid your friend good-by. It is growing late, remember, and we must leave on the early train. Don't stay long."
               Jasper was stunned for the moment when Mrs. Hamilton left him, for he had not thought she would openly defy him. But he did not once think of giving Violet up. He still hoped that another marriage might not be thrust upon her, and he would work, oh, how hard! that he might win her sooner. He knew, moreover, that his only chance in winning Violet lay in quiet submission to the decree her mother had put forth; so, crushing back his sorrow and disappointment, he roused himself, as he heard Violet's light footstep, to meet her with a cheerful face.
               "Ah, Sunshine!" he said, as she entered the room, "your mother is incorrigible. She says I may not have you until I am old enough and rich enough to care for you properly. Perhaps she is right. But, right or wrong, we must yield to her judgment with the best grace possible. You must come back to Meadville as often as you can. In the meantime I shall work hard; and you—you must keep up a brave heart, little girl."
               His voice faltered a trifle over the last words; and turning suddenly, he took her face between his hands and looked down upon it earnestly. It was a fair, fair face,—such a fair, childish, sorrowful face!
               "Do all men see you with my eyes, I wonder?" he asked. "If so you are dangerously beautiful. And you are to be kept so far, so far from me, that I can only see your charms at a distance, just as I would look upon a star; when I want you to be mine, like a woodland flower, to care for and call my own. I need you, God knows, to make my life better and happier!"
               Violet did not answer him, but stood with calm, tearless eyes.
               "If I could only bind you with one word!" he said, more quietly, "but no, it would not be right. I must leave you now. I shall see you sometimes, I hope—shall think of you always. Good-by!"
               She went out upon the porch and watched him as he walked down the street. The moon was full, and brightly shining; and Jasper turned once, twice, to look at her as she stood bathed in the glorious moonlight, with the April night-wind fluttering her glistening hair.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               Mr. Hamilton's residence in Clinton presented a more imposing appearance than his house in Meadville. It was a neat, three-story brick, with brown-stone trimmings, for brown-stone fronts had not yet been introduced in Clinton, except in one or two instances. The house was situated upon one of the most fashionable streets in the town; and Mrs. Hamilton fully intended to become one of the leaders in society.
               "It is very fortunate," she said to Violet, "that our furniture and clothing will be entirely new here, for we can make quite a show with what we already have on hand."
               Violet made no reply. She cared but little for outward show; perhaps it was because it had been her mother's one ambition, and constant subject of conversation when they were alone.
               "Come, my dear," Mrs. Hamilton said, "I want you to select your own room at once; for we must commence to set things to rights."
               The room was soon selected, and, her brain filled with plans of future happiness, Mrs. Hamilton proceeded to set it in order, calling upon Jane to perform the heaviest part of the work.
               Violet, meanwhile, stole up to a vacant room, and drew from her pocket where she had kept it carefully concealed throughout the morning, the bouquet of sweet violets which Jasper had culled the day before. Already they had begun to wither, and, laying them away in a secluded place, she went down to assist her mother.
               Busy days followed; but all was finished at last, and Mrs. Hamilton surveyed the work of her hands with evident satisfaction. The three houses over which she had presided during her days of housekeeping, were all similar in one respect—the parlors contained at least half the furniture in the whole house. The dining-room was fitted up with a table, sideboard, and a dozen chairs; all good of their kind; yet the room had a barren look about it. Her guest chamber was furnished with a cottage suite and a east-aside parlor carpet; while the other chambers, with the exception of Violet's, contained scarcely more than a bed and chair each. Violet's room was furnished very simply, but tastefully: an oak suite, with a buff and blue carpet and curtains; these, with two or three pretty pictures and a few ornaments, made the room appear quite cheerful.
               In the parlor the furniture was really elegant, and there was a variety of paintings and handsome ornaments, while two book-cases in the back parlor were well filled with interesting books, Mr. Hamilton's selection.
               "We do not often have company to dine, or to remain all night," Mrs. Hamilton said, "at least, only our nearest friends, and it is not worth while to furnish the chambers expensively; and whenever we have a dinner party, or anything of the kind, we can bring pictures and ornaments for the mantle from some other part of the house. We receive so many calls, however, that the parlors must be well furnished."
               Aside from the gratification which Violet received, from having her room pleasantly furnished, her mother considered it a piece of economy.
               "She often has calls, from intimate school-girl friends," said she, "and then she always takes them to her own room, as I do not wish the parlor to be used for them, and I cannot have young girls running about my dining-room, sewing-room, or kitchen, prying into everything."
               Mrs. Hamilton had a plated tea and coffee service, and neat china, for state occasions, but, for ordinary use, the plainest kind of table-ware was used. And so, by these hidden economies, she managed to make a show, and still lay aside something from a moderate income.
               As she had predicted, Mr. Hamilton's law practice began steadily to increase from the week of his removal to Clinton. It was really a fine opening for a lawyer, as the health of the most reliable 
                     practioner
                     practitioner
                   of the place, was rapidly failing. The other lawyers of Clinton were either young and inexperienced, or unreliable. Mr. Hamilton, having already a good reputation established, and being an honorable man, soon found his time almost constantly employed. He was also of a social disposition and always had many warm friends.
               In view of all this, Mrs. Hamilton decided, as soon as her house was reduced to order, that Violet should dress more expensively than ever before.
               "There is no reason why she should not," she soliloquized; "she is quite old enough to marry, or will be, by another season. Clinton comprises all the comforts of the country in summer, and the pleasures of the city in winter. By next fall, when I have found out who are the most eligible young gentlemen in the place, I intend to give a large party, and then I'll see whether she remains unmarried long or not."
               Some of the most fashionable ladies of the place had already called upon her, and as Violet graduated at the "Clinton Seminary" a year before, she was acquainted with several agreeable young ladies. Among them was Adela Burgoine, the eldest daughter of one of the wealthiest men of the town, who resided in the same street, and who, of course, at once called upon Violet, to express her delight at the prospect of the many pleasant hours they should spend in each other's society, now that they lived so near to each other.
               Mrs. Hamilton encouraged the intimacy, and during the first few calls, the parlor was placed at Adela's service. But Violet, under her mother's directions, fell into the way of inviting her at once to her own room.
               "We shall not be interrupted here," she said, "and it seems less formal, and more homelike."
               Adela was a sparkling, showy brunette, although not handsome. She was very vivacious, and sometimes not altogether discreet in her remarks. Mrs. Hamilton was quick to 
                     preceive
                     perceive
                   this, and she at once decided that through Adela she would learn whatever she desired about the relative social positions of the people of Clinton.
               Mrs. Hamilton had also another object in cultivating Adela's society. Ever since their removal to Clinton, she had observed a marked change in Violet's manner; and she thought it best to keep her mind closely occupied. Adela was so gay, Violet could not resist the charm of her conversation, and was always cheerful in her presence. Not that Violet was morbid or melancholy, but her face at times wore a weary look, and her eyes had caught a trick of looking fixedly before her, as though striving to pierce the veil of the future. She had always been rather pale, but now her face seemed to have lost something of its freshness and bloom, and hopeful expression. A stranger's eye might not have observed the change, but her mother quickly detected it.
               "No doubt she is pining for Jasper," thought she, "but she will soon recover from it. Luckily the mind of youth is mobile and elastic, quick to grasp new impressions, and from which griefs and cares may easily be erased."
               Almost in the suburbs of the town, on a gently-sloping hillside, and in full view from Mr. Hamilton's, was a large, handsome brown-stone house, surrounded by gardens of the rarest and most beautiful flowers. A few lofty trees were interspersed here and there, but not too many to prevent the flowers from growing and blooming constantly. Without and within, all the appointments of this elegant mansion were as tasteful and perfect as the most fastidious could wish.
               
               The owner of this beautiful place, which was appropriately named Bloom-Centre, was the wealthiest man in Clinton, and a gentleman of refinement and pleasing address. Mr. Langdon was still young, and a bachelor, and, of course, greatly sought after by parents with marriageable daughters.
               To this place Mrs. Hamilton often turned her longing eyes, and after she laid her head upon her pillow at night she would sometimes lie awake for hours, devising means for becoming acquainted with its owner.
               One day when Adela had called and was shown to Violet's room as usual, Mrs. Hamilton entered, and after greeting Adela quite warmly, threw herself upon a lounge in a weary attitude.
               "I'm wretchedly tired to-day, girls," she said, "and wish to be entertained. Do amuse me, Adela, with a little gossip about the people of Clinton. I have Violet upon my hands, you know, and I wish to be quite particular about our associates. And I know of no one's judgment which I could trust like yours, for I perceive you are a young lady possessed of remarkable discernment."
               Adela felt highly flattered, and at once decided that Mrs. Hamilton was very amiable and friendly.
               "Of course," continued Mrs. Hamilton, growing delightfully confidential, "this conversation is entirely between ourselves. But really, Adela," and here her voice assumed an almost plaintive tone, "you do not know how dreadfully inconvenient it is to be unable to tell whether people are just what they seem to be, or not. Now you know I am almost a perfect stranger here. No one could detest deceit more heartily than I do; and I wish you to put me upon my guard. Violet here," and she smiled over to where her daughter sat, "is the most unsuspicious person in the world."
               Adela laughed.
               "I know it," she replied. "And really, Mrs. Hamilton, I do believe, if I hadn't taken her under my wing, she would often have been imposed upon by some of the school girls—real nobodies, you know."
               "I'm sure I do not doubt it, my dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, "and I am so much obliged to you for your kindness to her. She was always a delicate, clinging little thing, turning to some one stronger for encouragement and support."
               Violet sighed.
               Adela, seeing her grave face, fancied she had spoken too lightly of her conduct at school, and at once sprang up to give her a kiss, school-girl fashion.
               "You little dove!" she cried. "Don't look at me so reproachfully! I did not mean to blame you. For I often wish myself as beautiful and innocent as you are, though, to be sure, one never gets along in the world half so well for being so."
               Mrs. Hamilton viewed this little scene with evident satisfaction.
               "It is just what I wished," thought she, "Adela is most desirous of Violet's society, and is the more demonstrative of the two."
               Then turning to Adela, who had seated herself by Violet's side, she asked carelessly:
               "Adela, who is the most eligible gentleman, all things considered, in the place?"
               "Oh, Mr. Langdon, of course. I don't mean that I should prefer him—" here she blushed as if to say she knew very well who she did prefer—" and although our families have been very intimate for years, I know he only cares for me in a friendly way."
               "He is very proud, I suppose."
               "I don't think so, though he is rather select in his associates. But you know he is immensely wealthy, he does not need to marry a rich girl, and as he is rather dark, and I am a decided brunette, we don't fancy each other at all. Violet here, would be much more likely to captivate him, for I happen to know that he admires blondes." And she laughed as though she had said something very witty, indeed.
               Mrs. Hamilton also smiled; but Violet's face was graver than ever.
               "Don't speak so, Adela," she said. "I am too young to think of such things yet."
               "Indeed you are not. I am only a year older than you are, and I'm sure I would marry at once, if I found any one to please me."
               Mrs. Hamilton rose and looked out of the window.
               "Mr. Langdon is rather old for Violet," she said, carelessly, "or I should suppose he was, although I have not met him, as yet."
               "He isn't old; not over thirty, at most, and he is very agreeable."
               "Is he fond of society?"
               "He attends all the parties in our set, and gives a large one, every winter, himself: but he seldom, if ever, calls in a friendly way, except upon gentlemen. He is fond of reading, and has a splendid library. He likes to ride and drive also, and always keeps beautiful horses. He rarely pays particular attention to any lady, although once he seemed to almost fancy Miss France."
               "Who is she, Adela?"
               "You don't know her yet. She is a blonde, and quite pretty, but very silly indeed. Of course, it only took a short time for Mr. Langdon to discover this, and he gradually ceased his attentions to her; so very gradually and quietly, that it occasioned no remark, whatever."
               "Is Mr. Langdon fond of music?" Mrs. Hamilton asked. "I have heard he was a musician or singer, or something of the kind."
               "He makes no pretensions to being a musician, although he sings well, and is very fond of music."
               "What kind of music does he prefer?"
               "He is particularly fond of ballads. He used always to ask me to sing, whenever I played for him. I invariably refused, until one day, when he happened to call at the house, I sang for him 'The Lords of Creation' (which you know is as old as the hills) in my most dulcet tones; and he was so much pleased with the performance, that he has never requested me to repeat it."
               Mrs. Hamilton smiled.
               "He doesn't fancy a strong-minded woman I suppose," she said.
               "Not for a wife," Adela replied. "Few men do. And it is because I am so large, and so forward in my manner, that no one fancies me."
               Here Mrs. Hamilton protested, and added a few flattering remarks, until Adela was completely captivated. Then she remained for a few moments in silent thought.
               "Adela," she said, at last, "is there a riding school in the place—a good one, I mean?"
               "An excellent one; and father wishes me to learn to ride on horseback; but I don't think I should like it, for I am afraid of horses. Father is really ashamed of me, but I cannot conquer my dislike for them."
               "But it is such healthy exercise, I think it is just what Violet requires; and if you will consent to take lessons, I will allow her to do so."
               "I should like it exceedingly," said Violet, appearing for the first to take an interest in the conversation. "I am very fond of horses, but seldom have had an opportunity to ride. I used occasionally to ride, when we resided in Meadville, with—a friend."
               "Are you not afraid?" asked Adela.
               "I haven't the least fear in the world; and would like to become an accomplished rider."
               "Why, my dear," said Adela, "you look quite spirited. I never saw you take greater interest in anything, before. She ought to ride by all means, Mrs. Hamilton."
               "I am quite determined that she shall," Mrs. Hamilton replied. "I will purchase a riding-dress at once, and then, if you are ready, you can commence taking lessons immediately."
               "I need one also," Adela said, "and we will have them made together."
               After learning all desirable or necessary particulars concerning the riding-school, Mrs. Hamilton left the room, quite satisfied with her morning's work.
               "The pupils ride past Mr. Langdon's house every day, on their way to the fair grounds," soliloquized she, as she seated herself in the sewing-room, and took up her work. "Could anything be arranged more nicely? He cannot fail to observe them, sometimes, and I wish him to become interested in Violet, before I take any decided steps to form his acquaintance. It is the very thing, for she rides gracefully, already."
               Violet herself, was very much pleased with the idea of riding every day, and seemed a thought more cheerful in consequence.
               The riding-dresses were purchased and made up. Violet's was a navy blue, and Adela's a black cloth. They were modeled after the same pattern, and proved very becoming.
               On the following week, the riding-lessons were commenced, and after the first, the girls were both well pleased. Even Adela decided to conquer her aversion to horses, for she loved Violet's companionship; and the bright June days made the country beautiful and inviting to the young equestrians.
               Mrs. Hamilton was delighted to see Violet return from her ride each day with her cheeks rosy from exercise; even though they seemed a shade paler by contrast when the flush of excitement died away.
               "It must certainly do her good," she thought, "and she never looks more beautiful than when riding, for she has a fine form, and the exercise gives her face the animation it has lacked of late. Besides, it is a capital way of showing her off to advantage to the people of Clinton. Mr. Langdon must certainly observe her; and to see is to admire. He will, doubtless, seek her acquaintance, for, through Adela, we shall be invited into his set. And then—well, as I have said, I have great hopes for her future."
               She refrained, however, from introducing the subject to Violet.
               "It is better," she said, "to let things seem, at least, to take their course. She must not see the hand behind the scenes; but everything must move as if by magic. Still, at the same time I shall do all in my power to accomplish my object."
               
               One day as Violet returned from her ride, Mrs. Hamilton was standing out upon the balcony.
               "What a lovely day it is, my dear!" she said; "I don't think I would object to a ride, myself, the country is looking so fine. Bloom-Centre is gay with flowers now."
               She stood looking toward it, apparently lost in admiration. Violet paused a moment.
               "Yes," she answered, "it is a lovely place. We pass it every day."
               "Do you, indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Hamilton, seeming quite surprised. "Have you ever met Mr. Langdon?"
               "No, mamma."
               Mrs. Hamilton thought she detected a shade of annoyance in Violet's manner, and she changed the subject at once.
               "I must be very cautious," she soliloquized, as she took her seat in the sewing-room, her favorite place for planning; "but Violet has fallen in love with Bloom-Centre, and that is one important point gained. I really begin to see my way quite clearly."
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               Bloom-Centre was looking its freshest and brightest, on a clear morning in early June. Roses climbed the pillars of the porch, and tossed their bright heads in the sunshine, peeped out among the shrubberies, and dotted the beds on the lawn, making the air delicious with their fragrance. Geraniums starred the lawn with their brilliant blossoms, and pansies opened their bright purple eyes along the borders of the walks. The brightest and loveliest of the flowers which blossom in glorious June were there, making the place appear like fairyland. Above the house, on the hillside, were tall orchards of various kinds of fruit, which had cast their snowy blossoms upon the ground more than a month ago.
               On the southern side of the mansion stood a lofty elm, whose graceful, drooping branches might have waved for a century, so massive they were, and high. A little to the northward was a crystal lake, willow-bordered, with two pretty boats resting upon its silver surface. By the lake, and near the orchard, and extending in brilliant beds down to the street, bloomed the flowers which had given to the place its name.
               The house itself was broad and lofty, and of graceful proportions. A wide hall extended from the vestibule in front, to the pretty, vine-shaded porch in the rear. On the right were two immense parlors, connected by a massive arch, and elegantly furnished in rosewood and crimson; heavy plate mirrors, crimson curtains, while the Axminster carpets were figured in graceful medallions, shaded from a faint rose to almost black, upon a pure white ground. Tastefully disposed, and hung here and there, were rare statues, and exquisite paintings.
               To the left of the hall was a library in front, finished in black walnut and green, with treasures of books, both ancient and modern. Opening from this, was a handsome private study, where Mr. Langdon usually spent his mornings. Below, was a dining-room finished in walnut, and a breakfast-room in oak, while in the rear were the kitchen and laundry.
               Above, were handsome, airy chambers, furnished with matchless taste. A person educated in the knowledge of æsthetics, might pass through the whole place, without seeing anything to displease the eye.
               Mr. Langdon, the owner of all this wealth, and beauty, and bloom, sat, on this fair June morning, upon the vine-shaded porch, to which his study windows opened.
               He was about thirty years of age, and of medium height; but with square-cut shoulders, and a rather massive, but well-poised head. His eyes were clear and hazel, his hair black and slightly waving, his forehead broad, and good. His hands were not white, but shapely, and his whole appearance was pleasing rather than handsome. He was an only child. His wealth was inherited, and, being safely invested, had grown with his years.
               Naturally of a mild and even temper, and having little to cross it, he was just to the rich, and liberal with the poor. He had studied the law as a profession, and might, had he been poor, have made a first-class lawyer; but, lacking the spur of necessity, and being very fond of his ease, he had never reduced his profession to practice.
               This morning, as he sat, engaged in conversation with his friend, Mr. Burgoine, his face wore an expression as discontented as it was possible for it to assume.
               "I have been greatly perplexed about this business," said he, "and, only for the fact that Paydown is a rascal, and ought to be punished, I should be sorry I ever commenced the lawsuit, for it is my first. Pay-down was, in fact, almost too crafty for Maybus, from the start, although Maybus has usually been very successful in his practice. Now, he is quite ill, just as the June term is about to open, and I am entirely at loss how to proceed. A lawyer, wholly unacquainted with the case, would hardly have an opportunity to prepare himself, and as to myself, I have trusted in Maybus altogether, and could hardly explain the case satisfactorily. How much did you say you lost by him, Mr. Burgoine!"
               "About two thousand. There isn't the slightest doubt but that the failure was a complete sham, and it can be readily proved, too. It is quite time the case was taken in hand, however."
               "His indebtedness in Clinton amounts to twelve thousand, I believe," said Mr. Langdon, "and he owes about the same, elsewhere. For myself, I do not regret the loss of a small sum, but the Widow Lane had lent him all she could spare, only a week before the failure, and he certainly ought to be compelled to disgorge."
               "By the way, Langdon, are you acquainted with Mr. Hamilton? The Meadville lawyer, I mean, who has lately removed to Clinton."
               "Slightly. I have observed him in court, and was very favorably impressed with his appearance. He gained the celebrated Gontil case, I believe."
               "Yes, and he has been very successful in many others. For my own part, I think we could not do better than to place the ease in his hands at once. He is a lawyer of considerable experience, and is a well-informed man, besides."
               "I dare say you are right, Mr. Burgoine. Where is his office?"
               "In Cedar street. It is my opinion, that we ought to lay the case before him, without delay."
               "Can you go down this morning?"
               "Not just now, for it will soon be my lunch hour. But I will meet you this afternoon, at any time you may appoint."
               "Suppose we say three o'clock?"
               "Very well. I shall be punctual."
               Mr. Burgoine rose to go.
               "Won't you stop and lunch with me?" Mr. Langdon asked.
               "Excuse me. Not to-day, for I have other matters to attend to. Good-morning."
               Mr. Langdon rose, and followed his friend to the front porch. He stood for a moment after Mr. Burgoine was gone, watching the flowers, as the fresh morning breeze waved their beautiful heads to and fro, rocking the perfume from their fragrant petals, and laden with its sweetness, swept through and through the house. All vexation passed from his face as he breathed the soft air, and looked out upon the glowing landscape; and he murmured in his delight: 
                     
                        "For O, if there be an Elysium on earth,
                        It is this, it is this."
                     
                  
               
               At this moment, the pupils of the riding school passed by. He recognized Adela Burgoine, and bowed gracefully, in answer to her smile of recognition.
               "Adela will never make a good rider," he said to himself. "But that young lady beside her, is grace itself. I wonder who she can be? Ah, she is looking at the flowers; she certainly has taste, and beauty too, if I can judge rightly, at this distance."
               He mused for a few moments, and then brought out a book and an easy-chair, ostensibly, to read; but in reality, to watch for the return of the equestrians.
               He was not obliged to wait long, and as they passed, he watched Violet closely. There was something about her which interested him. Not that he had fallen in love at first sight; but she was so lovely and graceful, seated upon her white horse, that the beautiful vision remained in his memory for some time after she passed.
               It struck him as being more dismal than usual, as he sat down to his solitary lunch, and the fair vision seemed brighter than ever by contrast. He finished the meal, took a cigar, and walked out under the elm; throwing himself in a hammock, he lay, wearily wondering if Bloom-Centre was not a little dull, after all, and whether he would ever see that fair morning vision again.
               Surprised at the current his thoughts had unconsciously taken, he rose at last, to prepare for his ride.
               "It looks like a shower;" thought he, "and I believe I will set out at once and avoid it, if possible, although it is rather early. John!" he called to his coachman, "I want you to drive me to town. The close carriage, and the bays. And be quick, before the shower comes on!"
               
               In a few moments he was ready to set out. The shower had come up suddenly, and he had not proceeded far, before the large drops began to beat against the carriage windows. As he turned a corner, he came unexpectedly upon Adela and Violet, who were hurriedly returning from a walk. In an instant the horses were reined up to the sidewalk.
               "Miss Adela!" he called, "allow me to set you down at your father's door! Your friend also," he added, as she paused.
               "Thank you!" she replied. "The shower caught us unexpectedly. My dear friend, Miss Violet Hamilton, Mr. Langdon."
               Violet bowed.
               "I'm very glad to meet you, Miss Hamilton," he said, politely. "Are you a stranger in Clinton?"
               "I passed a year at school here, and have lately become a resident of the town," she answered.
               "She is the daughter of Mr. John Hamilton," added Adela.
               "Indeed! I was on my way to his office when I met you."
               A few commonplaces followed, and they soon reached Mr. Hamilton's residence.
               "I stop here if you please," Violet said.
               He assisted her to alight, and she thanked him gracefully, as she bade him adieu.
               She did not invite him to call; the omission struck him at once; not because it was really necessary, but, as he was accustomed to being courted in society, he thought her, to say the least, very reserved.
               Adela asked him to drop in a moment, but as Mr. Burgoine was just about to set out, the gentlemen entered the carriage together, and proceeded to Mr. Hamilton's office.
               "Mr. Hamilton's daughter is a beautiful girl," said Mr. Langdon, as the carriage rolled away.
               "Yes indeed;" replied Mr. Burgoine, "very quiet and ladylike. Adela is passionately fond of her, and of Mrs. Hamilton also. Hamilton has no sons, but his daughters make splendid women. He has two already married. One to James Stanton, a Meadville merchant, a real solid man, and the second one to a Mr. Mason, of New York, who is immensely rich."
               "Not Robert Mason?"
               "I believe his name is Robert," Mr. Burgoine replied. "He is not a young man, I think, although I am unacquainted with him. The marriage occurred about two years ago, while Violet was attending school with Adela. I heard the particulars at the time, but they have passed from my memory. You are not acquainted with Mr. Mason, are you?"
               "Not personally, though I have heard of him, in a business way. He is very wealthy indeed, or so reported, at least."
               "As to Hamilton himself," remarked Mr. Burgoine, "He is a quiet man; but he must have been very successful, for he has amassed quite a little fortune from his practice. Of course, I do not know how much, but he has a fine office, and he paid cash for his house on Elm street; that I happen to know, though he bought it at a bargain. He lives in good style, too; that is, plain and substantial, Adela says. Mrs. Hamilton is an excellent manager though, and a splendid woman, no doubt.
               They had now reached the office; and, after a most satisfactory interview with Mr. Hamilton, took their departure. Mr. Hamilton was well acquainted with the case, and was also cognizant of some of Paydown's practices in Meadville, of which Mr. Langdon was quite ignorant.
               When Mr. Langdon reached home that evening, he was evidently in an unusually thoughtful mood. He ate his dinner in silence, and appeared quite abstracted. It was at once whispered around among the servants, that he was troubled about the lawsuit which he had on hand.
               The coachman sagely declared that the young ladies he met in the afternoon had something to do with his thoughts, and enlarged and dilated upon Violet's beauty, until it came to the ears of the housekeeper, who rejected the idea, with the most intense scorn.
               "Mr. Langdon is not going to throw himself away upon any simple girl because she has a pretty face," she remarked, quite severely.
               "But this young Miss was such a perfect lady," replied John, "and so delicate too. She'd never think of interfering with the management of the house, Wheeler. Of course no one would, when the whole town knows how like wax you keep it," he added, with an approving nod, which quite 
                     molified
                     mollified
                   Wheeler, and restored her to good humor for the time being. "But then, Mrs. Wheeler," he said, "a house isn't half a house, you know, without a mistress."
               Wheeler, whose temper was usually good, declared she had often thought the same thing, ever since her poor mistress, Mr. Langdon's mother, died, two years before. And here she wiped her eyes in a very pathetic manner.
               After this, it was accepted, as a settled thing in the kitchen, that Mr. Langdon, sooner or later, would marry Miss Violet Hamilton.
               It is astonishing to see how soon the servants will find out everything concerning the affairs of the house, and the intentions of their master and mistress, almost before they are themselves aware of them. And, more than this, thanks to their kitchen company, they know all about the affairs of the neighbors.
               Such revelations would have proved quite fatal to the credit of Mrs. Hamilton's style of housekeeping. Her one servant, Jane, had been taken from the alms house when Violet was an infant; and after her term of apprenticeship had expired, she had received low, but regular wages. She never went out of the house except upon errands, or occasionally to church; she had no acquaintances, and, consequently, no visitors. She was not at all attractive in appearance, and her mind was far from brilliant; but, when Mr. Hamilton once ventured to suggest that a more capable girl would be preferable for a servant, Mrs. Hamilton objected.
               "No, John," she said, "Jane knows enough to do just what I tell her, and many a more capable girl would not do that. Besides, she is neat and always appears tidy, and, on the whole, answers my purpose very well indeed."
               While Mr. Langdon's servants were discussing the probability of the advent of a new mistress at Bloom-Centre, he had retired to his study, to muse away the twilight hour. The shower had settled into a ceaseless heavy rain, and the twilight came on early, cold and drear; not cool enough to require a fire, on this summer evening, but the chill, and dusk, and dampness, made even Bloom-Centre seem quite dismal.
               
               At least so thought Mr. Langdon, as he sat, solitary, over his cigar; without a soul in the house except the servants to speak to. He liked quietude—liked to read and study unmolested, but to-night, the most interesting books seemed distasteful. He felt that a little music would be very acceptable; just a few pleasant songs, and then a quiet game of chess by way of varying the monotony of his lonely evenings.
               He was almost cloyed with pleasures. He liked travel—not wild adventures which compelled men to cope with hardships in frigid or torrid zones, to ascend into the clouds or creep into caves in the bowels of the earth. But by steam and rail, where the best of accommodations could be obtained; and these he had exhausted long ago.
               He rose and paced the floor slowly, and at last paused before his mother's portrait. She had been one of the gentlest and best of mothers: blue-eyed and fair she was, even in age, and her face looked serenely from its frame against the wall.
               Blue-eyed and fair his bride should be, gentle and trusting like his own dear mother, and calm-browed and self-possessed like Violet Hamilton.
               "Violet—Violet Langdon," he repeated softly to himself; "it is a sweet name, and would become her well. She rides gracefully, converses prettily, is a trifle dignified and reserved, perhaps, but that will doubtless melt away, when she comes to know me better; and it is certainly much more becoming than forwardness."
               He lighted a fresh cigar, and then, for the first time, wondered if he had been hasty in his conclusions. Violet might, possibly, possess as vacant a brain as Miss France, for he was once really interested in her. But no, it could not be. There was nothing lacking in her look; her eyes were clear and steady, and the light of intellect shone upon her fair, white brow. He was more than interested in her already;—yes, he was sure he loved her as he had never loved before. He did not, certainly, expect to find her an angel; but a true, noble-hearted woman she doubtless was, beautiful, graceful, and accomplished, and this would please him much better than if she were an angel. He was determined to know her better, to seek her acquaintance at once, and if he found his first impressions were true, she should be his wife before another season passed by, if she would accept him.
               So, with his determination fixed upon this point—that he should see her further as soon as possible, he tossed his cigar into the empty grate, and sought his room for the night.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               On the next morning, Mrs. Hamilton rose, bright and early, and, after dressing, softly left the room, that her husband might not be disturbed until breakfast was ready.
               Down stairs she bustled, opening the windows noiselessly, to let in the fresh morning air, and looking through each room, to satisfy herself that everything was in perfect order, or to spy out any portion that required the application of water, soap, duster or broom.
               
               The dining-room was then inspected, where the cloth was already neatly laid for breakfast; and afterward, the kitchen, fragrant with the coffee which Jane was preparing. Finding that breakfast was nearly ready, the bell was vigorously sounded, and Mr. Hamilton and Violet made their appearance just as everything was placed upon the table.
               Everything at Mrs. Hamilton's breakfast table in summer meant bread, butter, coffee, and boiled eggs. The bread was light and sweet, however, the butter fresh, and the coffee real coffee, though far from strong. As to the eggs, there were usually four; two for Mr. Hamilton, one for Violet, and one for herself. Jane was supposed to eat the shells, or make out with bread and butter. But Mrs. Hamilton had long since discovered that Jane was not particular in regard to her diet. She was, really, one of that class of very humble individuals, who seem to be grateful to every one for the privilege of being allowed to exist; so she managed to make out very well.
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, addressing her husband, "you were out late last night; were you engaged in your office as usual?"
               "Yes," he replied, "I had a new case yesterday, and was obliged to sit up late to work it up. I have an unusually large number of cases in court next week, but, fortunately, I am nearly prepared."
               "I am very glad," said Mrs. Hamilton. "Who is your new client?"
               "There are two—Mr. Langdon, and Mr. Burgoine, and several are involved in the suit besides. Maybus was managing it, but he is ill now, as you know. I'm sorry for it; but he is old enough to give up business, and rich enough, too. This is the fourth case of his that I have been employed upon since we came here, and they will pay well, too."
               "Is it possible!" Mrs. Hamilton exclaimed, suddenly dropping her cup of coffee, "I mean that Mr. Langdon has called upon you for your professional services?"
               "Of course; why not? It's about that case of Paydown's. You know he pretended to fail, and so managed to cheat about twenty different persons out of small sums, each,—the fool! He might better have swindled one rich man out of the whole amount. As it is he's raised a perfect hornet's nest about his ears."
               "Violet met Mr. Langdon, yesterday, too," broke in Mrs. Hamilton, who had not heard his last remarks.
               "Did she, indeed? he seems a perfect gentleman."
               "Of course he is, John. She was walking out with Adela Burgoine—Violet, I mean—and they were caught in a shower. Mr. Langdon happened to meet them, and brought them home in his carriage. And after all that, Violet did not invite him to call."
               "I did not suppose he would care to call, mamma, as we are almost perfect strangers," said Violet.
               "I don't consider it absolutely necessary, my dear," said Mr. Hamilton, who disliked to see his favorite child blamed. "It looks well for a young lady to appear somewhat reserved. If Mr. Langdon really desires to continue the acquaintance, he will, doubtless, find abundant opportunities for doing so."
               "It is but of little consequence," said Mrs. Hamilton, carelessly, thinking it advisable not to appear too eager before Violet.
               Before Mr. Hamilton left for his office, however, she managed to have a moment's conversation with him.
               "John," said she, "Mr. Langdon will be at your office to-day, will he not?"
               
               "Certainly. Why do you ask?"
               "Because I wish you to invite him to call at the house, well—say this evening, for instance."
               "You seem very desirous of making his acquaintance, Anne."
               "I am, for Violet's sake."
               "See here, Anne, I'll have no plotting to marry that child off; for if she was to have a score of excellent offers, I wouldn't allow her to leave home for three years, at least."
               "You know I have no such idea, John; but one thing is certain. Violet is very attractive, and we cannot keep her as secluded as a nun. She must have acquaintances, and if we do not select them for her, she will choose them herself. Now, of course, you know her mind is not yet matured, and she cannot judge in such matters as clearly as we can. I'd much rather she would form the acquaintance of such solid men as Mr. Langdon, than younger ones, who haven't two thoughts apiece."
               "Well, I'll invite him, of course, for he certainly is solid, in one point of view—he's immensely wealthy, and that is, undoubtedly, the most important qualification in a solid man."
               "I'm sure he is a gentleman, too," said Mrs. Hamilton.
               "He certainly is, or I'd never invite him. Good morning, Puss," and he set out for his office.
               Mrs. Hamilton turned to her work, singing softly to herself. Jane was dispatched to the nearest grocery for materials for a pound cake, while a rich plum cake, which Mrs. Hamilton only brought out upon state occasions, and which had already been pressed into service more than once, was unearthed from the depths of a cake jar. A bottle of wine was also placed upon ice.
               "He may not come," she soliloquized, "but then it is always best to be prepared."
               By noon her preparations were concluded, but when her husband came to lunch, she was still in doubt, for Mr. Langdon had not yet called at the office.
               He came in the afternoon, however, for he had waited until after the pupils of the riding school passed. Violet bowed gracefully, this time, and he thought her more beautiful, if possible, than before.
               So, when he received Mr. Hamilton's cordial invitation to call at the house that evening, he accepted it with pleasure.
               As soon as the evening meal was dispatched, Mrs. Hamilton went up into Violet's room. Violet sat gazing abstractedly from the window, her head resting upon her hand. She gave a little start as her mother entered.
               "My dear, Mr. Langdon is to call here to-night."
               "Yes, mamma, I heard papa say so," Violet answered, quietly.
               "I wish you to wear your white muslin, with a blue sash, and here are some blue double violets, to wear in your hair."
               "Very well, mamma," and she smiled, a sorrowful smile.
               "Will you need any assistance in dressing?"
               "None, thank you."
               "Then I will go to my room and arrange my own toilet. Call me, if you happen to need me."
               After Mrs. Hamilton went out, Violet rose, and locked the door quietly, to prevent any interruption. She then drew a letter from her pocket. A hopeless, weary smile broke slowly over her lips as she perused it. It was from Dora Lambert. One paragraph ran thus:
               "Jasper sends you his love, though I think it a proceeding entirely uncalled for, as no person who had ever seen you two together, could doubt it for a moment. He misses you very much, I know, and papa says he does wonders in the way of work; it seems impossible for him to remain quiet for a moment, he is so restless."
               "Poor Jasper!" she said.
               She leaned her head against the window-sill, and could have wept like a child, but it was no time to indulge in tears. She must hide her sorrow as best she might, for her mother would expect her to appear all smiles, and make herself unusually agreeable during the evening.
               She rose and dressed, and then passed into her mother's room to see if her appearance was satisfactory. She was very lovely, and Mrs. Hamilton kissed her affectionately.
               "My darling!—my dear child! you know you are the light of my eyes."
               Violet returned the caress mutely, and passed into the parlor. Her mother soon joined her, attired in a dress of soft gray, thin, graceful and trailing. Mrs. Hamilton made it a rule to appear well before marriageable gentlemen.
               "Violet resembles me," she said, "though she is rather smaller than I am, and more etherial looking. Still, I am remarkably well preserved, which is greatly in her favor, for so many blondes fade early."
               They were soon joined by Mr. Hamilton.
               "You are looking very well, to-night, Puss," he said to his wife, with a smile,"and you too, Violet, dear. Do you know, Anne, you look almost as young as when I married you? You are too energetic to ever become faded and worn."
               Mrs. Hamilton smiled. It was so pleasant to be praised even by one's own husband. And to him, with all her ambitious schemes, she was the loveliest and most amiable of women. She loved her husband and children dearly, but she was a slave to her own ambition. Their interests and wishes did not often conflict with this; but if they chanced to clash, love yielded, and ambition triumphed.
               When Mr. Langdon entered the parlor that evening, Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton greeted him with great cordiality. Violet extended her hand, merely saying:
               "I am glad to see you, Mr. Langdon."
               She spoke very quietly, as though she were glad, nothing more. Still, the greeting had a sound of sincerity in it, which pleased him.
               Mrs. Hamilton at once referred to his kindness in bringing Violet home through the shower on the day before. He replied that he was doubly repaid by the pleasure which he received in becoming acquainted with Miss Hamilton.
               Violet seemed somewhat reserved at first, but her mother held the reins of conversation, and guided it upon topics which she knew Violet thoroughly understood, and about which she was also interested; and, though she said but little, her remarks were pertinent and well-timed, and Mr. Langdon could not fail to be pleased.
               "You are fond of flowers," he said, as he saw the violets in her hair.
               "Very," she replied, "and especially violets."
               
               "They are her flowers," Mrs. Hamilton said. "When she was an infant, and before we had decided upon her name, a little child, the daughter of a friend, brought in a large cluster of violets, which she said were for the baby. This suggested her name, so I gave it to her at once."
               "It is very pretty, and appropriate," he said.
               His manner seemed so easy and graceful, that Violet was pleased almost before she was aware of it, and they were soon engaged in earnest conversation.
               "Do you sing?" he asked at length.
               "A little."
               "Will you favor me with a song, please."
               "Certainly. I will do so with pleasure."
               She took her seat at the piano, and began a simple Scotch song; one which her father loved. She sang sweetly, and with expression, for her voice, though low, was clear and tender. Her touch upon the keys seemed almost magical, too, lingering and close, and suiting well the song.
               Mr. Langdon was pleased, and seeing it, Mr. Hamilton called for song after song.
               After thanking her for the pleasure her singing had given him, Mr. Langdon was about to take his leave, but was arrested by a jingling of keys in the corner where Mrs. Hamilton sat. She rose and left the room a moment, and when she returned, Jane followed, bringing refreshments.
               It was quite late when these were discussed, and then Mr. Langdon rose to go, apologizing for his lengthy call.
               Mrs. Hamilton confessed that she herself was unaware of the lateness of the hour, and added that he must come in often.
               "We have made but few acquaintances in Clinton, as yet," she said, and are a little lonely sometimes. Of course Mr. Hamilton has his friends, but I think ladies do not become acquainted in a new place as soon as gentlemen."
               Mr. Langdon thanked her for the invitation, and said he would avail himself of it with pleasure, although he feared his motives in doing so were some-what selfish, as he was sometimes lonely himself.
               Mrs. Hamilton could not repress her delight, when he was gone. Her husband went at once to his room, but she lingered a few moments with Violet in the parlor.
               "My child," she said, "Mr. Langdon is an acquaintance of whom any one might be proud. Do you know, my dear, that he is immensely wealthy?"
               "I supposed he was, of course. He is very pleasant, mamma, and I like him well; but I am a little girl yet, you know, and prefer the society of younger persons."
               "My dear, you are not so very young, and Mr. Langdon is far from old. He has scarcely reached the prime of life, in fact; and he is much pleasanter than any young man I know."
               Violet assented wearily.
               "Very likely, mamma, but I'm tired, and will bid you good-night."
               She went thoughtfully up to her room, and after lighting the gas she sat down in her rocker and rested her face upon her hands.
               "Poor mamma!" she murmured softly to herself. "I sometimes wish I was more like she is. She loves me, and forms so many ambitious plans for my sake; but I am so different. I could never work so hard for mere show, or economize so closely in the kitchen to make the parlors appear as well as they would if we were rich. I do love the beautiful, and would like a luxurious home; but I could never purchase it at the cost of mental or bodily comfort. I prefer comfort to show, and I should rather be loved than be rich.
               Dora had written that Jasper was so busy, and he was working for her. Working, and laying aside as much as possible each week, trying to save for her sake; impatient because the road to wealth was so tedious and rough, and thinking of her always; though he was not permitted to write to her or even see her. 
               Waiting was weary work, even to her, and it must be doubly so to him. She was glad he did not know they were drifting slowly, but surely apart; for her mother, even now, was planning a marriage between Mr. Langdon and herself.
               She had intended to be very cold and reserved with Mr. Langdon, but she had found him so courteous and so kind, she could not help respecting him. She knew he was a perfect gentleman, and felt that she should always like him, as a friend.
               "But I could never love him as a husband," she said, with a little shiver, "never."
               Suddenly a wild thought flashed through her mind. Mr. Langdon was very rich, and it was in his power to help Jasper. She was sure he would, if he only knew their circumstances—that a little, a very little of his vast wealth would bring such happiness to two weary, hopeless hearts.
               "It is impossible!" she said, with a sigh. "I must suffer on in silence, for that seems to be the burden I must at present bear. If mamma only knew how little I care for wealth, she would not covet it so much for me. Oh, life is such a tiresome journey, my feet are already weary, for duty and pleasure seem to lie so far apart. I wonder if the friends I meet each day, who seem so cheerful and happy, carry about with them an aching heart like mine?"
               An inevitable longing seized her—a longing to be back among the friends of her childhood. To be happy as she was when she went to school with Dora and Jasper, with no dread of what was to come in the future.
               It was but a few days since her first sorrow; since she bade them adieu, knowing they would all be changed when they met again; but as she looked back over the past, it seemed as though her days had nearly all been sorrowful, that her happy childhood was but an oasis in the desert of life, for she had grown in those few weary weeks so old.
               "Oh, it is sad, so sad," she murmured, to herself, "to live in fear of what to-morrow may bring forth, and yet be powerless to stay the hand of Time for a moment, or make my lot easier to bear. It is so hard to learn patience in sorrow! I am so impatient at times, it would be a relief to live a whole year in one moment, only to know what is in the future,—only to behold the mysteries which it so slowly unfolds. And again so fearful—ready to change a moment into a year, to stay the hand of Fate which chastens me—oh, so sorely!"
               It was very late, but she did not think of seeking repose.
               "I cannot sleep," she said, "or if I do, I start up from fearful dreams, fleeing, like a criminal from justice, or a victim from some murderer's outstretched hand. If I only had some friend to stay with me these long and dreary nights,—if Dora were only here that I might clasp her hand and feel that I am not alone when I start from those fearful dreams—to tell me that she loved me, unselfishly, devotedly. She does, I know, but what comfort is she to me now? Even Jasper's deep devotion to me is a source of bitter sorrow, when a hand—alas! my mother's hand—sweeps it aside as a useless thing. Even if Dora were with me, could I tell her, that my mother, my own dear mother, is plotting against my happiness? No, it cannot be. I must bear my burden in silence and alone.
               For hours after the rest of the family were buried in quiet slumber she sat thus, trying to wear the weary night away that it might not seem so long and lonely after she sought her pillow. But bodily weakness and weariness overcame her at last, and she unrobed and sought her bed. Turning out the gas, she opened the shutters to let in the quiet light of the stars, and lay, half sleeping, half waking, watching them shine afar off, like Jasper's love.
               She slept at last and dreamed—dreamed she saw Jasper's face pale as death, his eyes wild with mingled entreaty and reproach; but some unseen power was bearing her slowly, but surely away from him, and, unable to free herself from it, she cried out:
               "Wait for me, Jasper! I love you! I have been true to you!"
               Springing from her couch she found the stars were growing pale in the sky, the gray twilight of the summer morning was creeping in the windows, and she was alone.
               Bathing her aching head and forehead, she lay down again, striving to still her throbbing brain and heart, saying to herself again and again:
               "I do love him! but I am weak—so pitifully weak!"
               If her mother could have seen her then, she surely must have been moved to pity. Violet was sweet tempered and mild, but as she confessed to herself—she was very weak.
               She was one of those persons who cannot battle with fate. Perhaps, however, her mother's indulgence in childhood had more fully developed this trait, or more properly, this lack of a trait of character. For, although training cannot change the nature of a child, it may inculcate habits, which soon become second nature.
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               With the first dawn of morning Mrs. Hamilton was astir.
               "John!" she said, "didn't you observe how attentive Mr. Langdon seemed toward Violet, last night? He was, in fact, really devoted."
               "Yes, I thought he was rather attentive, but he is naturally polite to every one, and it may his usual way."
               "I cannot be deceived. He has taken a wonderful fancy to her; but I am not surprised, for she is remarkably beautiful, and I fancied she appeared unusually well, last evening."
               "I thought so too; and was very glad she seemed so well pleased, for I think she has been drooping a little, of late."
               "She is quite as well as usual,"—here Mrs. Hamilton frowned, and spoke rather sharply—"you know she was never strong. She paused a moment, and then added, more cheerfully, "I'm glad Mr. Langdon fancies her, for I should really like her to be well settled in life."
               "Langdon is certainly a fine specimen of a gentleman, and if they loved each other—he and Violet, I mean—I should have no objection to the match, although she is rather young as yet."
               "No objection!" Mrs. Hamilton echoed, raising her hands deprecatingly. "You do try my patience, dreadfully, sometimes, John. Why we should be envied by the whole town, and Meadville, too for that matter."
               "But I cannot see how that would benefit us. I'd much rather have their good will, I'm sure."
               Mrs. Hamilton cast a compassionate glance over to where her husband sat.
               "You are too ridiculous to ever get along in this world, John; I do wish you had more spirit."
               Mr. Hamilton smiled, and shrugged his shoulders, but made no other reply.
               "Now I believe in taking things in season," continued Mrs. Hamilton. "I'm going to commence to lay aside the money for her outfit. It won't take long to do it, if your business increases as rapidly as it has done for the past few weeks."
               "Why, Anne, they are hardly acquainted yet, and may never marry at all!"
               "Trust me for that, John. I'm going to lay aside the money for her 
                     trosseau
                     trousseau
                   at once, as I said, and if they don't marry, there is no harm done."
               Mr. Hamilton was growing weary of the discussion. 
               "Very true, my dear," he said, "you have excellent judgment in such matters. But I shall be very busy to-day, and would like my breakfast as soon as possible."
               At this Mrs. Hamilton hurried down, and in a few minutes a vigorous ringing of the bell announced that breakfast was ready.
               "We will commence at once," said Mrs. Hamilton, as her husband appeared at the table. "Violet may be a little late this morning, perhaps, though probably the bell aroused her."
               Breakfast was soon dispatched, but still Violet did not make her appearance.
               "I hope she is not ill," said Mr. Hamilton, looking a trifle uneasy as he spoke, for he missed his darling's face at the table. "Hadn't you better go up a moment, Anne, and see if she is well, before I go to the office?"
               "Certainly, I will; though she has, undoubtedly, overslept herself."
               Mrs. Hamilton rose, and went up to her daughter's room. Finding the door unlocked, she entered. Violet, looking pallid and worn, was still lying down.
               "My dear, are you not well this morning?" her mother asked.
               "Not very, mamma darling. I cannot sleep, and I have such fearful dreams. The nights seem so long and dreary, I am almost exhausted when morning comes."
               "What are your dreams like, Violet?"
               She hesitated a moment.
               "You must not mind bad dreams, dear," she said, "for they are often caused by some slight bodily ailment. I will give you some strengthening medicines, and you will probably be well in a few hours. Would you like some breakfast?"
               "Not now, thank you."
               "Well, don't worry, and I'll prepare something for you. Shall I send for Adela to come and spend the day?"
               "No, I'd rather you would not, as I prefer to remain quiet."
               "Very well, I'll bring up my sewing in a few moments, and sit with you," and she turned and went down stairs.
               "Violet is not very well," she said, in answer to Mr. Hamilton's questioning glance. "It is nothing serious though," she added, "don't be at all uneasy about her."
               Mr. Hamilton took his hat and went out, while his wife went up to Violet's room. She opened the windows to let in the fresh morning air, and administered to her daughter some simple, soothing remedies. Then she placed the room in perfect order.
               "Now my dear," she said, "everything looks cheerful and bright, and you must cheer up also. You are young—just starting in life, and everything is rosy and serene about you. You will be well and happy in a day or two if you will only take my advice. Don't try to resist Fate, or mourn over broken clay idols."
               A crimson flush shot athwart Violet's face, up to her very forehead, but she did not reply, for a moment. At last she spoke.
               "I do not resist Fate, mamma," she said, "and I have no clay idols to mourn. You know I have been very passive in the hands of Fate, and yours. Only"— and she raised her sad eyes to her mother's face, which was aflame with crimson now—" outraged nature will vindicate itself in one way or another."
               Mrs. Hamilton made no reply, but sat in silence for some moments. Then she rose.
               "You are gloomy to-day, my dear," she said, "which is very natural, for you are nervous and ill. I'm going down into the garden to gather some flowers for you. They will brighten the room, and cheer you up a little, perhaps."
               She stopped in the sewing-room for her scissors, and taking her garden hat, went down.
               "I'm sorely perplexed," she soliloquized, as she clipped the flower stems almost savagely. "Her love for Jasper has proved stronger than I thought. Foolish child! to seem so mild outwardly, with such an under-current of strife within. There's hardly another girl in the universe, who would not be proud of Mr. Langdon's attentions. Well, I must be patient with her. I hope her trouble is the result of physical causes instead of mental."
               She arranged the flowers and carried them up to Violet's room, placing them in a vase near her bedside.
               "Give me a flower to hold in my hand, mother, just one rose," Violet said.
               Selecting the fairest one she gave it to her daughter, who lay for some time silently caressing it, and toying with its leaves.
               "You would like me to be a rose, wouldn't you, mother? the queen of flowers. But I'm only a simple violet—nothing more."
               "I want you to be just what you are, my darling!" said Mrs. Hamilton, "a sweet, fragrant violet, dearer than a rose, because rarer."
               Violet smiled. Caressing words were sweet to her, for she had been petted all her life; every one seemed to fall into the habit naturally. Her eyelids dropped slowly, as she lay, quietly musing, and in a few moments she had dropped asleep.
               Mrs. Hamilton noiselessly darkened the room and crept away, leaving the door slightly ajar, as she went down. Her morning duties dispatched, she took her work and went into the sewing-room, a small room next to Violet's, and steadily plied her needle with her ever-busy fingers, until a movement in Violet's room apprized her that her daughter was awake.
               "How do you feel now," she asked, as she entered softly.
               "Better, mamma dear, only tired, so tired. Don't worry about me. I shall be quite well soon. I think I will throw on a wrapper and sit up for a few moments."
               "I'll bring up a little toast and coffee for you, and you will feel stronger after eating."
               The toast was brought, and Violet ate lightly.
               "Thank you, mamma," she said, as Mrs. Hamilton took the waiter. "I am better already, and shall be quite well to-morrow."
               "You will not mind, then, if I go down and see about lunch, will you? It is nearly twelve o'clock, and your father will soon be home."
               "Not in the least. I don't think I'll go down for lunch; but ask papa to come up and sit with me a moment, please, when he arrives, so he'll not think I'm very sick."
               "Yes, dear," and Mrs. Hamilton left the room.
               Turning the key of her door, Violet took out her little writing-desk, and sat down to write.
               "I must answer Dora's letter," she said, "and papa will mail it for me, when he returns to his office."
               She wrote for a few moments, and at the close of her letter, said:
               "Tell Jasper I would give more for a sight of his face, than anything else on earth, just now."
               She finished it, closed and directed the letter, and slipping it in a drawer she sat down, quite exhausted. Soon after she heard her father's footsteps on the stairs.
               "My daughter," he said, "I am so sorry that you are ill."
               "I'm not very sick, papa; I shall be quite well soon, though I seem to feel very weak now. I have a letter for Dora Lambert, which I wish you would mail for me, please."
               "Certainly. But don't tire yourself with writing; better keep quiet for a day or two, until you have entirely recovered. Isn't there something you would like, that I could get for you?"
               "Nothing, thank you."
               The lunch bell now sounded, and, kissing her an affectionate adieu, he went down.
               "I don't like Violet's appearance, Anne," he said, as he sat down to the table; "there is a wild look about her eyes which is entirely unnatural."
               "I observed the same thing," Mrs. Hamilton quietly replied. "She did not sleep well last night, and is very nervous in consequence. That will account for it, I think."
               "Do you consider it necessary to send for a physician?" he asked.
               
               "No, unless she should be worse to-morrow, which I do not think probable, for I will give her something quieting to-night, and sleep in the room with her. Don't worry about her, John, her health is much better than it used to be. This will pass away in a day or two, without doubt."
               "I hope so, indeed," and taking his hat, he set out for his office.
               On the morning of the same day, Mr. Langdon had placed his chair upon the front porch, a few moments before it was time for the pupils of the riding-school to pass by. It was a little thing, but then it was a novelty for him to watch for any one, and it stirred a new feeling of interest in his breast which was very pleasant.
               The equestrians came in sight at last, but he was disappointed, for Violet was not among them. Adela was there, for Mrs. Hamilton had sent a note urging her to take her ride as usual, saying that Violet was not very well, and needed repose.
               Mr. Langdon went into his study after the riding pupils had passed, and lighted a cigar.
               "I wonder why Miss Violet did not ride to-day," thought he. "I almost fear she is ill; and I believe I'll make an excuse to drop into her father's office this afternoon, and inquire."
               He wandered restlessly about the grounds until lunch time, feeling a trifle disappointed, as though he had been deprived of a pleasure.
               "It is of no use to try to conceal or disguise the fact," he said to himself, "I love that little Violet as I never loved any one before, and if I can win her, she shall be my wife."
               So, that afternoon, when Mr. Hamilton returned to his office, he found Mr. Langdon awaiting him.
               "Good-afternoon, Mr. Hamilton," he said. "I was passing, and concluded to drop in a moment, and see if anything new had transpired in regard to the Pay-down case."
               "Nothing," Mr. Hamilton replied. "It is very clear, though, and I do not apprehend any trouble in gaining it."
               "That is a pleasant state of the case," said Mr. Langdon. "I hope your family is well."
               "Mrs. Hamilton is, thank you. But my daughter seems slightly ill, to-day."
               "Indeed!" and Mr. Langdon's face expressed concern at once. "I hope her indisposition is not serious."
               "Oh, no; we do not consider it so. It seems to be nothing more than a slight nervous prostration. She is very affectionate in her disposition——"
               Mr. Hamilton had commenced the sentence in his free, frank way, but paused a moment, thinking he was unnecessarily communicative to a stranger; but seeing only interest depicted upon his companion's countenance, he went on:
               "Well, I suppose the fact is—or at least I fancy so—that she has been a little lonely since we removed to Clinton, and is, perhaps, slightly pining for her Meadville friends. I don't suppose her illness is altogether the result of this, but she is not very robust, and slight causes seem to affect her health sometimes. She gave me a letter to one of her old schoolmates, Dora Lambert, and I fancied she seemed slightly homesick here. I may be mistaken, however, for I confess I don't exactly understand such things."
               Mr. Langdon bowed.
               
               "Have you consulted a physician?" he asked.
               "Not yet. Mrs. Hamilton thought we would wait until to-morrow, before we did so, and Violet might recover without one, perhaps. By the way, I don't know much about your Clinton physicians. Could you recommend a good one to us?"
               "Yes. My family physician—though I seldom have had occasion to employ one since my mother's death—is Dr. Elliott. His father was our physician for years, and since his death, the young doctor has taken his place. He is not very young, middle-aged, I might say, and settled in life; but I consider him a most excellent physician."
               "Thank you. I shall certainly employ him, if we find it necessary," Mr. Hamilton replied.
               Another client now entered the office, and Mr. Langdon took his leave.
               "And so little Violet has been lonely," he said to himself. "The darling! if she is so hereafter, it shall not be my fault." And he drove thoughtfully home.
               Meantime, Mrs. Hamilton had taken her work to her daughter's room; while Violet leaned her head wearily back in the chair, and rocked slowly to and fro.
               "Mamma," she said at last, "I would like to go to Meadville for a little time—just for a week or two—to visit Dora. Her mother is sick, so she cannot leave her long at a time, but she would like me to go there very much, indeed."
               Mrs. Hamilton's face flushed a little.
               "You are not well enough to go now, Violet," she said.
               "But I shall be, in a day or two, and I fancy the change would do me so much good."
               "I do not agree with you. You are growing old enough to exercise some degree of self-control, and should not yield to all your caprices, like a child. I would, myself, like to visit Meadville, but it is not convenient for me to do so just now."
               "But you might spare me for a short time."
               "My dear," Mrs. Hamilton said, growing slightly vexed at her daughter's persistence, but striving to appear unconcerned, "I should be so lonely without you, and besides, it would not be right for you to leave Adela, and your riding lessons."
               "It would be only for a short time, and I could resume them on my return," Violet replied, earnestly.
               "It would not be best for you to go now. You will become weaned from the place sooner if you remain here a month or two longer before making your visit."
               "That would not be desirable—to me, at least. I hope I may never forget the friends of my childhood."
               "You need not forget them; but you cannot be with them always. Don't be so babyish; I sometimes wish you had more energy and force of character." Mrs. Hamilton had forgotten her resolution to remain perfectly calm.
               "It is better for your plans, mamma, that I am weak and yielding in disposition."
               Mrs. Hamilton waxed pathetic.
               "Violet," she said, "what plans can I have, except for your good—your future welfare—your happiness?"
               Violet had heard the tone assumed too often to be seriously moved by it. She turned her face away.
               "None, mamma, I hope," she answered, wearily.
               There was a long pause in the conversation, during which Mrs. Hamilton's needle flew swiftly in and out the seam she was sewing. Violet spoke at last.
               "Mamma, I have set my heart upon this visit; do please indulge me. I promised them—Dora, I mean, that I would go back to Meadville when the wild June roses were in bloom, and they will soon be gone. I always loved such rambles as we used to take for them, dearly, and one would do me good, I'm sure. If I could go just once more, I think I would be quite content."
               "Who did you say you promised, Violet?"
               "Dora."
               "But you said 'them'—does that mean Dora alone?"
               There was something so cold and merciless in Mrs. Hamilton's look, that it stung Violet, past endurance. She raised her face, white and calm, to her mother's, her eyes meeting Mrs. Hamilton's gaze steady and clear, without the faintest shadow of embarrassment.
               "I mean Dora and Jasper, mamma,—Dora, who has been, next to sister Laura, my girlhood's truest friend, because unselfish; and Jasper, whom I love as my own life!"
               Mrs. Hamilton's face turned red and white, alternately, and for a moment she set her teeth firmly together. But she would not speak in the first outburst of temper, so she waited until she controlled, to all outward appearance, her passion. Violet saw the struggle, and sat, motionless, and with her hands clasped, awaiting the result. She knew there would be no appeal from her mother's decision.
               Mrs. Hamilton spoke at last.
               "Violet," and her words dropped like icicles into Violet's burning heart—"Violet, once for all I will tell you, what I should have said long ago, only from a desire to save your feelings as much as possible,—foolish, because it is better that we should understand each other at once and forever—I would rather see you sleeping quietly in your grave, than the wife of that beggar Jasper—that merchant's clerk—that mere clown! And more, you shall never be his, while I live!"
               Violet sat silently gazing into her mother's face; but her look seemed to grow vacant and stony, and her face was pallid as the hue of death. Without heeding her, Mrs. Hamilton went on:
               "And further than this—for we had better bring this conversation to a close—if Mr. Langdon asks you to be his wife, and you refuse him—my love for you will cease from that hour. I shall not cast you off, because I will not have my family affairs ridiculed before the world; but I will make you repent the deed in dust and ashes—will make you bitterly regret your accursed folly, as long as my life and your's shall last!"
               Violet's look grew more and more fixed and stony, and she put out her hands feebly before her, as if seeking support. Then, without a word or cry, she fell forward, her face buried in her hands, upon the floor.
               Really alarmed, Mrs. Hamilton caught her up in her arms, and laid her upon the bed.
               "She will recover," she murmured to herself; "she must be able to conquer the foolish passion, for I will have it so. I only wish she was not so weak and frail!"
               She chafed Violet's hands, and bathed her face with cologne, until a slight gasp apprised her that consciousness was returning.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VII.
               It was nearly five o'clock, and Mr. Hamilton was sitting alone in his office, when Jane appeared in the door-way, the tears streaming down her cheeks.
               "Oh, Mr. Hamilton!" she exclaimed, "Missus wants you to send for a doctor, right off, for poor, dear Miss Violet fainted clear away, as she was a-sittin' a-talkin' to her mother in her room, and she 'pears kind 'o strange like, sence she's come to!"
               Mr. Hamilton started up in alarm.
               "My dear child!" he cried.
               "Oh, I forgot!" exclaimed Jane; "Missus said I mustn't frighten you, but I'm feared I did, for I was so scart myself. She says she don't think it's anythin' 'serus, but you'd better call in the doctor."
               "I'll go immediately, Jane. Go home and tell Mrs. Hamilton I said so. My darling! I hope she is not seriously ill."
               He set out for the doctor's office at once, and finding him in, they proceeded to the house together.
               Mrs. Hamilton explained Violet's symptoms at some length, but Violet remained very quiet during the doctor's visit, only answering briefly, when questioned.
               "You are quite right, Mrs. Hamilton," doctor Elliott said, at last. "It is a case of nervous prostration, easily remedied now, though if allowed to take its course, might result in fever. I apprehend no danger whatever, in the case. I shall administer a simple course of medicine which will, without doubt, entirely restore her in a few days, at most."
               "Mrs. Hamilton is an intelligent woman," he said to himself after he took his leave. "She understands her daughter's case as thoroughly as I do."
               The truth was, that Mrs. Hamilton repeated the very suggestions, almost word for word, which their old Meadville physician had made, when Violet, on a previous occasion, had been similarly indisposed. If the old physician had advanced the same views to Dr. Elliott, that gentleman would, in all probability, have considered it his duty to refute them. But coming as they did from an unexpected source, he found that they coincided with his own opinions.
               Throughout the night and the next day, Violet was very quiet, never speaking except when addressed, and taking her medicines without remark, when they were offered. Occasionally she would shiver slightly, as if with cold, but no complaint passed her lips. Her mother remained constantly by her side, always speaking to her in the most tender and gentle tones.
               "I may have been too harsh and hasty," she said to herself, "but, on the whole, it is best so. The shock must have come, and I am glad it is over, with no worse result. She will undoubtedly soon recover, and there can be no danger of any misunderstanding in the future."
               Adela called during the afternoon, but Violet was sleeping, and as Mrs. Hamilton assured her that her daughter was not very ill, but needed repose more than anything else, she soon took her leave, only saying that "when her dear friend recovered sufficiently to enjoy conversation, she would come over and cheer her up."
               On the next day Mr. Langdon did not call at Mr. Hamilton's office, for he met him on the street returning ing from lunch, and learned of Violet's increased illness. He was very restless in consequence; for he did not feel at liberty to call during her illness.
               That afternoon Jane came up to Violet's room, her face all smiles, with a basket of fruit from Mr. Langdon. Mrs. Hamilton's face was radiant with satisfaction, as she placed it on a stand by Violet's bedside.
               It looked very tempting—a pretty, open-work basket piled with rosy apples, of last year's growth, golden oranges, scarlet cherries, and tempting hot-house grapes, all gracefully arranged. There was a card attached, and, looking at it, Mrs. Hamilton read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "Will Miss Violet accept this from a friend who earnestly desires her speedy restoration to health?
                           
                              "DONALD LANGDON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Violet lay looking at the tempting fruit, a faint smile breaking over her wan features. It was pleasant to be thus remembered, and the thought banished something of the forlorn sorrow at her heart.
               "Mr. Langdon is very kind to send you this," said Mrs. Hamilton, effusively, "for fruit can hardly be obtained at any price, at this season of the year."
               "Oh, very kind," echoed Violet, less wearily than she had spoken before, since her illness.
               "It is just the thing you need," continued Mrs. Hamilton, "for you have no appetite, and this fruit will be very refreshing. Shall I give you some now, dear?"
               "No," she answered, "I do not care to eat it."
               Mrs. Hamilton looked up in astonishment. Violet seemed pleased with the gift, if she could judge from her countenance and manner, yet she refused to taste it.
               "Don't you think it very kind of Mr. Langdon to send it to you, Violet?"
               "Certainly I do; and because he is so thoughtful, I will keep it a while, at least, to remind me of his kindness. But it is a little thing for him to do, we must remember, so we must not attach so much importance to it, though I am unaccustomed to such attentions."
               "You are a strange child," Mrs. Hamilton said, "and I don't understand you at all. If a friend should send me such a gift, I'm sure I shouldn't hesitate to eat it."
               Violet smiled.
               "You may help yourself to it as it is, mamma," she said.
               Mrs. Hamilton was so glad to see the smile, she could not be angry, though it was at her own expense. Besides, she was too well satisfied with the way affairs seemed to be shaping, to feel ill-humored about anything.
               "Never hide your light under a bushel, is my motto," she soliloquized, as she went down to give Jane some directions about her work. "Now if I had kept Violet at home, or veiled when she went out, Mr. Langdon might have lived all his life in the same town without even having seen her, much less appreciated her beauty. I think, however, I have been wrong in congratulating myself that she was so much like her father in disposition. The worst of this mild sort of persons is that when they get an idea firmly fixed in their minds, it seems utterly impossible to eradicate it. Now, even if Jasper Douglas were wealthy, Mr. Langdon would make the most desirable husband of the two. But nobody could make Violet believe it,—and if I compel her to marry Mr. Langdon, she will persist in feeling that she is a martyr; and, unless I watch her closely, will very likely tell him the whole truth and spoil all. Some girls do have such silly ideas of right and wrong."
               And Mrs. Hamilton began to feel like a martyr herself.
               The next day Violet was much better. Toward evening, as she was sitting in her chair, Jane brought up another gift from Mr. Langdon. It was a bouquet comprised entirely of double violets, blue and white, mingled with fragrant geranium leaves.
               Violet caught the flowers eagerly, and untying the ribbon which bound them, she separated the violets and arranged the white ones in the form of a cross, the blue ones surrounding it, and then edged the whole with a fringe of geranium leaves.
               It was so pretty! her flowers too, fragrant and fair. This time she echoed her mother's "very kind of Mr. Langdon" quite cheerily.
               "She arranges Jasper's flowers in the shape of a heart, and Mr. Langdon's in the form of a cross," mused Mrs. Hamilton. "Well, I am quite willing, especially as she seems inclined to bear the cross more patiently than I thought possible three days ago."
               She placed the bouquet in a vase of water, on a little stand by Violet's side, and left the room.
               Violet leaned her head back upon the cushions of the chair, with strange, conflicting emotions busy at her heart. She had been quite determined to hate him, this Mr. Langdon, but his kindness of manner and the delicate attentions he bestowed upon her had somehow touched her, because he seemed so sincere, and her own heart was so utterly forlorn.
               He had a pleasant voice too, she remembered, now; it had reminded her of Jasper's, but she would not confess it to herself at the time. Still, she could not bear to think of what might come to pass in the future, though she said again and again as she tried to dismiss the subject from her mind, that she was glad Mr. Langdon was her friend.
               Next day she seemed almost as well as ever, and when her father called up to her room at lunch time, she expressed the determination of coming down stairs as usual, that afternoon.
               Mr. Hamilton, meeting Mr. Langdon in the street, communicated the welcome intelligence. He met Mr. Langdon every day, now.
               Violet donned a pretty white wrapper, and throwing a light shawl around her shoulders, went down and took her seat in an easy chair near one of the back parlor windows, where she could look out into the garden. She had taken her violets—Mr. Langdon's gift, down with her, and sat looking quite peaceful and happy, as she inhaled their perfume, and looked out upon the glowing June afternoon.
               There was a ring at the door. Jane hastily donned her white apron, answered it, and a moment after, ushered Mr. Langdon into the parlor.
               "Pardon me, if I intrude, Miss Hamilton," he said, "but your father informed me that you were to come down stairs to-day, and I thought you might possibly feel a little lonesome; so I took the liberty of calling in, a moment."
               Violet's heart throbbed strangely. She was still weak, and this was something of a surprise.
               "I am glad to see you, sir," she answered, a crimson blush overspreading her face. "And I thank you for the very welcome gifts which you so kindly sent me."
               
               "I am happy to have given you even so slight a pleasure," he said, "and very glad to find you convalescent."
               "Thank you. I am much better, almost well in fact, though still weak."
               "I see," he said, as she leaned back in the chair, wearily. Now that the flush had passed away, she seemed paler than ever, by contrast. "I am afraid conversation tires you," he added.
               "Oh, no," she returned, quickly, and observed for the first time that his attention was directed to the flowers in her lap. She moved her shawl, involuntarily, to hide them. "I'm afraid he will think me very silly," she thought.
               He thought anything but that, as he saw that she treasured his flowers, and noted their tasteful arrangement.
               At this moment Mrs. Hamilton entered the room, having dressed expressly for the occasion.
               "This is unexpected pleasure," she said. "I cannot thank you enough for your kindness to my daughter, Mr. Langdon. Your gifts were so admirably chosen, and well-timed. They cheered Violet not a little, I assure you."
               Mr. Langdon again expressed his pleasure in having contributed, ever so slightly, to Miss Hamilton's enjoyment.
               Another ring at the door bell, and Adela Burgoine entered, all affection and congratulations.
               "You little darling!" she exclaimed, stooping to drop a kiss on Violet's lips, "to think you should get sick during such charming weather as this! I ran in a few moments day before yesterday, but you were asleep, and I was obliged to be satisfied with just one little peep at your dear face; and yesterday, I had company throughout the day and evening. I sent James around, however, to inquire how you were, and was glad to hear you were improving."
               After shaking hands with Mrs. Hamilton, and bowing to Mr. Langdon, Adela sank into a chair, quite out of breath, and Violet, for the first time since her friend's entrance into the room, found a chance to speak.
               "I am very glad to see you again, dear Adela," she said in her soft, low voice.
               "You are not angry with me then, for my seeming neglect, and you know I was sorry because you were sick, did you not?" she asked, playfully.
               "I did not doubt it, Adela."
               "What lovely violets!" was Adela's next exclamation; "and how beautifully they are arranged!"
               "They are Mr. Langdon's gift," Violet said.
               "But the arrangement is not mine," he hastened to explain. "It is beautiful; I congratulate you upon your taste in bouquet making."
               Violet bowed her thanks for the compliment.
               At this moment, Mrs. Hamilton became very anxious-about the state of Mrs. Burgoine's health; and Adela took her seat by the side of her hostess, to answer her questions, and to learn all the particulars of Violet's illness.
               "I thank you for honoring my violets," Mr. Langdon said, taking the bouquet which Adela had dropped, in his hand.
               "I am passionately fond of flowers," she replied.
               "Then it was because you loved the violets for themselves, that you treasured them," he said, a slight shade of disappointment in his tone.
               
               She hesitated a moment, and passed her hand caressingly over their satin leaves.
               "Yes," she answered, "it was partly because I love them, but—I—enjoyed them the more because they were the gift of a friend who remembered me when I was ill."
               He was quite satisfied, and bowed his thanks. Then he rose to go.
               "I hope you will be quite well to-morrow."
               "I think I will. Come in again, Mr. Langdon."
               She gave him her hand with mingled shyness and frankness in her manner, quite bewitching; and, bidding Mrs. Hamilton and Adela a hasty adieu, he left the house.
               "It is the first time she has asked me to call," he soliloquized, as he rode slowly home. "How pretty she looks when confused. Yes, she is very, very beautiful, and—I love her dearly."
               Adela took her leave soon after Mr. Langdon, promising to call and spend the next day with Violet.
               When Mr. Hamilton came home from his office, he found his daughter sitting alone, and bringing his chair beside her, he sat down for a chat.
               "I wonder your friend Adela has not been here," he said.
               "She was, this afternoon, papa, and so was Mr. Langdon."
               "Indeed! I think, my child," he said with a smile, "Mr. Langdon seems rather devoted for a new acquaintance."
               A shade passed over Violet's face.
               "He seems very friendly, papa," she answered.
               Mr. Hamilton smiled again, but changed the subject.
               One day early in the following week Violet was sitting ting in the room alone, when the door suddenly opened, and Mrs. Hamilton entered, out of breath with excitement and delight.
               "What do you think, my dear?" she said.
               "I'm sure I don't know, mamma."
               "One can never excite or surprise you, Violet," said her mother, who was in haste to tell the news. "Here is the loveliest bouquet I ever saw in my life, and somebody has sent it to you."
               It was formed entirely of roses, and there were not two alike, although the bouquet was very large. Violet sat admiring their varied form and color in speechless delight. There were so many different colors; pink, crimson, salmon, yellow, blush and white.
               "Oh, they are so beautiful!" she exclaimed, at last. "I never saw so many lovely varieties grouped together before."
               "There is a note also," Mrs. Hamilton said, "and the servant who brought it is waiting for a reply."
               Violet, slightly surprised, opened the note and read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MY DEAR MISS VIOLET:—
                           
                           "Please accept a few of Bloom-Centre's roses, and, if you are strong enough to bear it, allow me the pleasure of driving out with you for an hour or two, this afternoon.
                           
                              "DONALD LANGDON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Answer it at once," Mrs. Hamilton said. "You will go, of course?"
               "Certainly."
               Violet sat down to her writing desk and wrote as follows:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. LANGDON:—
                           
                           "Thanks for the lovely roses; and also for your kind invitation. I accept it with pleasure, and will be ready at three o'clock.
                           
                              "VIOLET HAMILTON."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               She placed the note, unsealed, in her mother's hand.
               "That will do," Mrs. Hamilton said, as she perused it. "I'm glad you write such a beautiful hand."
               Violet was glad, too, though she made no reply, as she directed and sealed the note.
               "Perhaps," said Mrs. Hamilton, musingly, "Mr. Langdon believes in reading character from one's handwriting. I don't know much about it myself, but I dare say it may be done by those who have practiced and understand the art."
               "Very likely."
               Mrs. Hamilton took the note down stairs, and delivered it to Mr. Langdon's messenger, thinking how very submissive Violet had grown, since her illness. She seemed to have become a mere echo, so faithfully did she repeat her mother's sayings.
               Musing upon her daughter's conduct, Mrs. Hamilton went in to dust the parlor, as Jane was busy with her washing.
               "I think I understand her now," she soliloquized, "although it may make no difference whether I do or not, for one thing is certain—she thoroughly understands me. She has always been quiet and mild; so much so, that her sudden outbreak upon the day she was first taken ill, took me completely by surprise. I cannot bear to give her pain—the darling! but I must do my duty by her, though it be ever so hard. I'm sure no rightly-disposed mother could ever do otherwise."
               The last remark was uttered solely to quiet her conscience, which had given her some annoyance, of late.
               "Of course, I couldn't allow her to throw herself away upon Jasper, when Mr. Langdon, wealthy and intellectual, a splendid match for any lady in the land, evidently desires her hand."
               After nodding her head a few times to assure herself that she was undoubtedly in the right, she rose, and dusted vigorously, until everything in the room was clean and shining. Then she sat down, took a letter from the depths of her ample pocket, and began to read.
               "I don't see," she said, as she finished the letter, "why Laura writes home so seldom, and why, when her letters do come, they invariably make me feel uncomfortable. Not that they are written in a gloomy vein, but it seems as though she was very sad, and wrote lightly, to conceal it. I hope the dear child is happy—she must be, surely, for she is so fond of show. That was her one weakness; of course it is natural that it is so, being my child, but I played upon it in hurrying up her marriage before she had time to think. As soon as I get Violet off my hands, (which will be very soon, judging from appearances,) I mean to go and spend a few weeks with her, in spite of Mr. Mason's chillingly cool invitations, and then I'll find out the source of all the trouble. I half suspect that the old fool is jealous; I know he watches her like a dragon, although no one could be more correct in deportment than Laura has always been."
               She rose and returned the letter to her pocket, and then carefully removed the duster and polishing cloth, which she seemed always to carry about with her when alone, in order to give the chairs, table, or pictures a rub as she passed them.
               "How stupid I am!" she suddenly exclaimed, as she entered the kitchen where Jane was busily engaged with her washing. "Jane, did you ever know a greater idiot than I am?"
               Jane looked quite bewildered for a moment, then giving an odd jerk of her head, which was meant for a bow, she said:
               "Yes'm, here's one, Miss Hamilton."
               "That's pretty well for you, Jane," said her mistress, laughing. "But Mr. Langdon has been so very kind to Miss Violet—"
               "Very, indeed, mem," interrupted Jane.
               "And he's invited her to drive out with him this afternoon, and I never thought to send an invitation for him to take dinner with us this evening."
               "That's too bad, mem."
               "Never mind, I'll ask him when he calls for Violet, and he'll be sure to accept, unless he has another engagement, which isn't at all probable. I'll commence preparations at once. Hurry and finish your washing, Jane, so you can help me, for I want to get up a splendid dinner. Luckily there is a part of a cold boiled ham in the refrigerator, and I'll commence with the soup at once. The ham will keep, and if he doesn't come we will have the soup for dinner, at any rate."
               Jane fell to rubbing the clothes vigorously, and Mrs. Hamilton went up to inform Violet of her intentions, and afterwards into the sewing-room to devise ways and means for getting up, as she said, a "splendid dinner."
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               Mr. Langdon sat in his study, awaiting the return of the messenger he had dispatched to Mr. Hamilton's.
               The servant's return interrupted his musings, and he took the note, with its dainty French envelope and graceful chirography, in his hand. There was a delicate odor of violets floating over it, and his name looked really beautiful, written out in such lovely characters.
               He broke the seal and read the note, a satisfied smile stealing over his features.
               "It is so like her!" he exclaimed. "What a faultless hand! clear, graceful sweeps and curves, nothing angular, crooked or cramped about it, but open and honest as Miss Violet's eyes."
               Mrs. Hamilton had spoken correctly, when she said he was a "splendid match." He was one of the very few young men, to whom prosperity had not proved a snare. Perhaps it was owing to the constant watch and companionship of his mother during his youth. She had watched him with a vigilant, but loving eye, and directed both his studies and his pleasures. So he grew up fond of his books, his horses and his flowers, being a really skillful gardener. His horses were the pride of the town; his hot-houses the most extensive and successful in the country; his library massive and well-chosen; and, what was better, well-read.
               At three o'clock his carriage, a handsome phæton lined with blue, and drawn by beautiful, dark bay horses, stopped at Mr. Hamilton's door.
               Mrs. Hamilton at once invited him to dine with them on his return, and he courteously accepted the invitation.
               Violet soon appeared, attired in a neat blue silk, a white shawl, quite fashionable in those days, and a dainty white lace hat, with a wreath of blue violets. Everything about her toilet was in perfect keeping, from her neatly fitting boots and gloves, to the pretty blue parasol lined with white, which she held in her hand. She wore turquoise ornaments at her throat and wrists—presents from her sister Laura on the last Christmas, which she had spent in the city.
               "Blue and white," thought he, "the only colors violets wear," as she took her place in the carriage gracefully, while he seated himself by her side.
               "What drive shall we take?" he asked of Violet, as John waited, with slackened reins, for directions.
               "I have no choice," she replied.
               "Through Elm to Larch street," he said, "and then out Sycamore avenue, past Bloom-Centre."
               John drew up the reins, and away they swiftly sped.
               The air was balmy and soft, the skies clear, and as they proceeded, Violet seemed invigorated. Her cheeks flushed faintly, her eyes brightened, while that soft, twilight smile, which she often wore of late when pleased, settled upon her lips.
               She possessed, thanks to her father's training, a large fund of general information, and could chat very agreeably, upon a variety of topics. There was, therefore, no pause in the conversation, for, exhilarated by the fresh air, she seemed brilliant and sparkling.
               In the meantime, Mrs. Hamilton bustled about, preparing dinner. The carriage had no sooner left the house, than she produced the market basket, and put on her hat and shawl.
               "Come, Jane," she said, "we will go out at once and do the marketing. I didn't like to prepare anything but the soup before we knew he was coming—it's so fortunate that I ordered that soup-bone to-day—and now, we will go out and get whatever else is necessary. I'm going to have lamb and peas, and lettuce, and asparagus. I've nuts and raisins in the house, and I'll make a cherry pudding, too. Hurry, for we've only three hours to get everything ready. How lucky they are out riding! I hope they'll stay until dinner-time."
               They set out at once and procured the necessary articles, and after their return, Mrs. Hamilton put on a large apron and went to work.
               "Now, Jane, you are to get out the silver service, and clean it thoroughly. Next, shell the peas, prepare the asparagus, pare the potatoes, and—wash the lettuce thoroughly. I'll go right to work at the dressing for this quarter of lamb, and then I'll see about the cherry pudding."
               "Yes mem," Jane responded, quite bewildered.
               "And, Jane, after you do those things, you may lay the cloth. I'll bring down that satin-damask table cloth and the snow-drop napkins, to match. I was always glad that I secured that bargain at Lambert's; it was one of the good things Jasper Douglas did, telling me about it. You see they had them on hand a long time, and nobody wanted them, they were so high-priced. But goods went up afterwards, and when I bought them they were just as cheap as the ordinary table-linen."
               Mrs. Hamilton paused a moment in her work.
               "Oh, Jane!" she suddenly exclaimed, "I want to tell you one thing while I think of it. Be sure to bring on the finger-glasses with the dessert, and not with the roast, as you did that day Judge Morgan dined with us. I never was more mortified in my life, and I had to tell a real story to excuse your blunder. Only some little remark about your being a new waiter; but it was dreadful, you know."
               "Yes mem. I'll be sure to remember."
               "Right. You are slow, Jane, but sure—sure to make a mistake, Mr. Hamilton says. But you and I know better, and we won't mind if he is a little witty at our expense sometimes."
               Mrs. Hamilton's fingers were moving as swiftly as her tongue, and while she talked, the savory dressing was prepared and inserted in the tender joint of lamb, which was then rubbed with salt, pepper and butter, and placed in the oven.
               "Now, Jane, this must be basted every quarter of an hour, and if it doesn't come out of the oven juicy and tender, I shall be wonderfully surprised. The cold ham will do for another kind of meat, nicely. Hurry, Jane, I'll bring down the table-linen at once, and the pictures from Violet's chamber, for the dining-room. I'm glad I swept and dusted it so thoroughly this morning."
               The pictures were brought down and hung, and some ornaments placed at either side of the clock on the mantle.
               "There!" said Mrs. Hamilton, viewing her work with an air of satisfaction, "that looks better—more in keeping with the parlors. I must find time to arrange flowers for the vases."
               "Jane," she said, as she returned to the kitchen, "have you finished the peas? Well, wash them, then, and put them over the fire at once. It won't hurt them to stand awhile after they are done, if they are kept hot, and I want the range for the other vegetables and the pudding. I'll pit the cherries, and make the batter for that next. Come to think, though, you may pit the cherries, Jane, and I'll set the table and arrange the sideboard. You might make some mistake that I wouldn't discover, and besides, the cherries would stain my fingers. Hurry, for I want to stir up the batter for the pudding as soon as I am through with the dining-room. I hope the pudding will be light—are you sure the mould is quite clean?"
               It was fully half-past five o'clock, when Mr. Langdon and Violet alighted at the gate. Mrs. Hamilton, neatly attired, sat waiting in the parlor as quietly as though she had been entirely at leisure during their absence, although her face was slightly flushed. She observed, with secret delight, that the delicate rose-tint upon Violet's face enhanced her beauty, and that her eyes were clear and sparkling, without a shadow of the sad expression which had haunted them so long.
               Mrs. Hamilton glanced at the pretty clock on the mantle in the back parlor, and said if they would excuse her, she would go down stairs for a few moments, as it was near their dinner hour.
               "I cannot afford a housekeeper," she said, with a smile, and appearance of frankness, "and therefore, I am obliged, in some degree, to superintend the cook myself."
               Dinner was soon announced. Mr. Langdon discussed it appreciatively, and as Jane had been repeatedly drilled upon the manner of waiting, everything passed off well.
               Mr. Langdon lingered until the evening was nearly spent; engaged in pleasant conversation, with an occasional song from Violet.
               "My dear, I am proud of you!" Mrs. Hamilton exclaimed, when he was gone. "I don't think you can ever realize how near my heart you are. I have such hopes of your womanhood!"
               "If you make as good and true a woman as your mother, Violet," Mr. Hamilton said, his face glowing with pride for them both, "I shall be quite satisfied."
               "I will try, papa dear."
               He fancied there was a little quiver on her lips as she bade him good-night, but he was far from divining the cause.
               Violet went to her room, closed, and locked the door. Drawing down the shades and lighting the gas, she turned her mirror so she could see her full hight, and stood for some time gazing at her own reflection.
               It was a beautiful face which looked out upon her, and a fairy form robed daintily in glistening silk, the soft lace at the throat fastened with a cluster of turquoise violets, and the same jewels embellishing her white, rounded arms, from which the sleeves fell back as if proud to disclose their purity.
               "Mamma loves me!" she exclaimed, a thought bitterly. "Love"—she repeated—"unselfish love—is it to be found available on earth, I wonder? Why are we seeking for everything but love and our own happiness? Why do we crucify our bodies, hearts, and minds, only that others may envy or dislike us—that they may—forsooth! long for the position we hold, not dreaming how unbearable it is to us!
               "If the past were only blotted out! If oblivion could cover it—if I could forget the love that grew with my childhood and youth, I might be very happy. I have tried, faithfully, to do as my mother bade me, to crush it out, but I cannot. I can still such thoughts at times, but again they come back to me and tell me that I am only acting a pretty farce—that, if I could, I would go back to Jasper and live with him in poverty through life,—poverty sweetened by his love and care, rather than become the wife of Mr. Langdon though I honor him, and though he were a thousand times wealthier than he is now!
               "Oh, this love! so uncontrollable, so everlasting! Alas! the weariness of life! I fear I was right when I said to Jasper that my love for him had grown with my life, until one could not be uprooted without destroying the other. If I only had some one to help me in the struggle—but I am all alone!"
               She stood for some time, looking into the eyes of her reflected image, striving to gain strength by doing so, as if they were the eyes of a friend.
               Stepping close to the mirror at last, she pressed her lips to its surface, saying, "Violet, be true to yourself, for you are all alone!"
               June passed, and the mid-summer days came on, sultry and still. As the days went by, something of Violet's accustomed peace of mind seemed to return. Mrs. Hamilton observed it, and congratulated her upon her success in burying the past.
               Violet did not reply. She was very reticent whenever her mother mentioned the past, and never alluded to it in any way. Neither did she speak of the future. She accepted Mr. Langdon's attentions quietly, but never, by word, look or action did she invite them.
               One evening when she was at Adela's, Mr. Langdon called; and, learning from Mrs. Hamilton where her daughter was, he dropped in at Mr. Burgoine's in time to accompany her home. He paused a moment as he left her at her father's door.
               "It is late," Violet said, "or I would invite you to come in."
               "It is late," he answered, "and you are tired. I shall be absent from home, on business, to-morrow, but I would like the privilege of calling upon you the evening of the next day after, as I wish to see you alone. Will you invite me to come then?"
               "Yes," she answered; but she turned her face away.
               He thought she seemed unusually weary, and bade her good-night.
               When he was gone she went into the house and locked the door. The day had been unusually warm, and, though the evening was cool without, the house seemed like a furnace. The hall lamp was burning dimly, and, extinguishing it, Violet passed out upon the back porch. She sat down upon a rustic chair, and leaning her cheek against the railing of the porch, she asked herself aloud:
               "What am I to do?"
               She was startled at the sound of her own voice, the night was so still; and she sat for some moments in silence, watching the swaying shadows which the vine leaves cast upon the floor. The moon shone whitely over the hills in the distance, and everything seemed at peace but her own heart.
               "I suppose I am to do nothing," she answered, impatiently at last. "I have done nothing ever since I can remember, and the habit has become second nature to me. It is too late to shake it off, now. Mother has always taught me to be as indolent as she is energetic; and it is not my fault that I am almost as helpless as a child. No, I must drift on, as I have always done, whichever way the current takes me, for row I cannot. Already I am weary with the hopeless struggle I have made to find some way of escape from the future which fate seems to thrust upon me.
               "Mamma has bidden me to bury the past, and she thinks I have succeeded; if she knew how its ghosts haunt me, she would never congratulate me upon my success. I have become so utterly weary of life, that it seems more dreadful now, than death appeared to me six months ago."
               The clock upon the parlor mantle struck the hour twice before Violet sought her room. She took out her writing materials nervously and hurriedly, as though she feared her purpose would waver if she paused.
               "I must write and tell Jasper," she said, "that I have yielded my will to mamma, entirely, and that I am almost Mr. Langdon's promised wife. It will ease my conscience to write him the truth, and besides it is due to him. It will be a bitter disappointment to him at first; still he will rally from it, but I—I never shall."
               So she sat down and wrote a long letter to Jasper, telling him the whole truth; begging him not to blame her, and never, upon any account, to attempt to meet her. Then, bidding him good-by, she directed and sealed the letter, and wearily sought her bed for an hour's repose.
               When Mrs. Hamilton came down stairs in the morning she met Violet in the hall, ready to go out.
               "You are early this morning, my dear," she said, "and I think you are looking pale, too."
               "It was late when I reached home last night, mamma, and I woke early this morning. I am not very well, and am going out for a short walk before breakfast."
               Mrs. Hamilton was somewhat surprised, but she made no objection, and Violet went out, and mailed her letter on her way home.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               In a quiet street in quiet Meadville, stood a neat white cottage. It was very small, containing only one room and a back kitchen, and two small chambers above. Everything within the house, and around it, was as neat as hands could make it. The path leading to the street was bordered by a flower bed on either side, and the tiny porch in front of the door was adorned with a thrifty climbing rose.
               The furniture was old, but well preserved. It had been elegant in its day, and plainly indicated that its owner had once been wealthy. It was on a mid-summer day, and warm; but a cool breeze came through the closed shutters, fluttering the thin white curtains at the windows, and bringing with it a sweet odor of flowers—pinks, and a few late roses, which bloomed without.
               The table was laid with a neat cloth for two, and a tall, pale woman moved quietly about, preparing the noon-day meal. She was slender, with a slight stoop in her shoulders; and her hair, thinly streaked with gray, was put plainly back from a broad. Slightly furrowed forehead. There was still a trace of beauty about her features, although she looked old for her years; and, though her brow was peaceful now, no one could look into her eyes without feeling that she had borne bitter sorrow.
               When the meal was nearly ready, she took her sewing and sat out upon the porch.
               "Jasper is late to-day," she murmured, and a shadow passed over her face. "Poor boy! how thin he is growing! Men are all alike in one particular—they can plan, work and execute; but suspense, or waiting, they can never endure. These, are woman's lot. This weary doubt is wearing his very life away, and he is so dear to me—almost my only comfort left. His feelings seem to be so intense, and I cannot blame him, for Violet is a very sweet child. Almost—though I could scarcely have believed it—like my very own. I would tell Jasper his case is hopeless, but he could not believe me. He does not know Anne Hamilton's nature as I do. How incredible it seems, that one woman should destroy my own happiness, and that of my only child!"
               She sat for some time, her thoughts wandering back to the past, to the dreary long ago. At length she started up.
               "It is very late," she said, "I am afraid the dinner will be quite spoiled."
               She went in to satisfy herself that all was quite right, and soon after, she heard the gate open, and Jasper's step upon the walk.
               "What detained you so, my son?" she asked, as he entered the room.
               "Am I very late, mother?"
               
               His voice sounded unnatural; she turned quickly, and saw that he was very pale.
               "Jasper, you are not well."
               "Not very, mother dear," he answered, wearily.
               "Does your head ache, Jasper?" she asked, anxiously. "Perhaps a cup of tea would do you good."
               "No, mother—thank you—I cannot eat now." He spoke slowly, pausing at each word. "Don't mind me, mother, I am tired; I shall be better—sometime."
               He threw himself on the sofa, as he finished speaking, with his face turned away from her; and, thoroughly alarmed, she went to him and took his head upon her knee.
               "Tell me your trouble, my son." And she smoothed away the hair from his burning forehead.
               He drew a letter from his pocket and placed it in her hand, without a word.
               She took it—Violet's letter—and read it, still smoothing his hair. Her tears fell fast upon his face as she finished it.
               "My dear child! My poor boy!"
               "Oh, mother! if I might die! But I need not long for death—this suffering will kill me. I have loved her so long, ever since I can remember, have worked so hard for her sake, and now she is beyond my reach! If she were dead I could bear it, but snatched from me so—mother, I shall go mad!"
               "My son, listen to me. Sorrow never kills the strong. I have sometimes thought trouble could not kill any one whose conscience was clear. It is remorse, and a guilty conscience, that prove fatal. If trouble alone could destroy life I would not be here to comfort you. It is a sad world, at best, and sometimes it seems as though the wrong is never righted here on earth."
               He interrupted her, scarcely heeding her words.
               "Violet is so beautiful," he exclaimed, "and she was almost mine! All mine in heart, I thought, three months ago. And now I can never see her—never look into her dear eyes again!"
               "My poor boy! do not think of this!"
               "Think of this, mother! there is nothing else on earth I can think of. She has never been out of my thoughts a waking hour since I can remember. How can I think of anything else now?"
               "You must arouse yourself to answer her letter, very soon, and then strive to forget. Try to put all thoughts of her out of your mind—out of your heart."
               "I can never forget her, mother, until I forget all the days of my childhood and youth. You can never know how I loved her—how very dear she was to me. For aside from your love, she was the brightness and joy of my life."
               "I know it, my poor boy. But you will write her, will you not?"
               "I did, mother. I received her letter just as I was coming to dinner, so I stopped at my desk and wrote the answer, and mailed it as I came home."
               "You did not blame her, Jasper?"
               "I would blame an angel sooner. I said she had done right, quite right. I would try and forget her, except as a dear friend, and would never seek to see her. I said you would not blame her, for you loved her too well; and wishing her all possible happiness in this world and that which is to come, I bade her, as she did me, a last good-by. I spelled out every word before the boys in the store, and tried to remain calm, that they might not observe anything strange. Mr. Lambert came in just as I was leaving the store, and, as I left, I asked him for a half-holiday, saying I was not very well."
               "And he gave it to you?"
               "Yes. He walked out of the store with me, dear, kind friend, and said, 'You must cheer up, Jasper, there is nothing gained by your growing so discouraged. Your salary shall be raised if it does not satisfy you, for you are almost invaluable to me. I have no son, and must try and look after you a little, so don't despair.'
               "I think I thanked him, but I am not sure. I told him money was no object now, except as far as caring for you was concerned; for myself it did not matter.
               "He seemed surprised, and asked me if I had heard bad news.
               "For myself alone, I answered; you will hear of it soon, perhaps. Please don't speak of it until then.
               "He understood me at once, and clasped my hand.
               "'Cheer up!' he said. 'You have too brave a heart to be crushed by one wicked woman's ambition. You are not well, and need a little tender nursing, such as your mother, alone, can give. Go home, and take a week's vacation if you wish, until you get a little color in your cheeks.'
               "I thanked him, mailed my letter, and came home. Mother, if Violet were only stronger, she should yet be mine. I would defy her mother and bring her here as my wife at once, but she is so weak that she could never bear Mrs. Hamilton's displeasure, it would kill her outright. So, for her sake, I will try and become reconciled to my fate. I hope her peace has not been sacrificed—I hope she may forget me and love Mr. Langdon with her whole soul. Poor little darling! I know she suffered at first, and she had no one to sympathize with her in her sorrow."
               "Dear child!" Mrs. Douglas exclaimed, the tears coming to her eyes. "She is very gentle and yielding, and to her mother, like clay in the hands of the potter. Oh, Jasper, you do not know that woman's heart! Selfish, ambitious, deceitful, and all hidden by so serene a mask. Every one praises her housewifery, her taste, her energy of character. Her husband thinks her the loveliest and best of women, and yet she won him by shameful deceit. She must have a bright side to her character; she is, doubtless, praiseworthy in many things, but oh, through her, my own happiness was sacrificed!"
               "Tell me about it, dear mother. It may teach me a lesson to hear how patiently you have borne your own sorrow."
               "Your grandfather, Jasper, when I was young, was considered the one rich man of Meadville. He was a merchant, and for a long time the only one in the place, for the village was smaller then, than now. My father became affluent, for those days, at least, through his good management in business affairs.
               "Mr. Wales, Mrs. Hamilton's father, was the Meadville tailor, and, of course, very poor. Anne was apprenticed to Miss Weed, the milliner of the place, when quite young, and as she had excellent taste she soon became a favorite with her employer. Of course her taste was well known, and customers came from quite a distance to purchase Miss Weed's stylish bonnets. At length Anne took the whole charge of the establishment, as Miss Weed's health became feeble. She went to the city and purchased goods, and seemed to pick up the new styles so readily, that at last, as the old milliner was obliged to give up her shop, Anne purchased the materials at a low price, and took up the business, though she was only twenty years of age.
               "Her father removed to the far West, and, soon after, died, but Anne remained in Meadville. She is four or five years older than I am, but she always looked very young for her age; and, being very lively, was quite a favorite with the young people of the village, especially the gentlemen.
               "John Hamilton, Violet's father, was a young lawyer, then, just entering business, and as he was handsome, and pleasing in manner, he was considered one of the most marriageable men in the place. He always seemed to lack energy and decision, however, though since his marriage his wife's example has aroused him, somewhat, and he has become much more stirring and energetic.
               "I was never as handsome as Anne, but as my father was wealthy, I was considered quite a belle in the village. As I grew up, I observed that Anne seemed jealous of me in some way, though I could scarcely tell in what particular.
               "I had at this time, two suitors—John Hamilton, and James Douglas. Your father was handsome, and very agreeable in manner, though at that time, even, slightly dissipated. I liked him exceedingly as a friend, and, indeed, he was quite a favorite in the village. He was an orphan, but of good parentage, and my father's clerk. In those days, the customs of the place were more primitive, and no one thought the less of him on that account. Even Anne Wales, the milliner, was considered an excellent match for any one.
               "I loved John Hamilton. Don't start, Jasper, or look so surprised. I loved him, but I conquered that love, wholly, in less than a year. He loved me, too, and we were engaged. I was very happy for a time, but at length the busy tongue of Anne Wales sowed the seeds of discord between us. I was very proud, and would not ask an explanation of what he had heard, or endeavor to conciliate him in the least. So we parted. In less than a year from that time, Anne and Mr. Hamilton were married.
               "She is a strange woman. She can be true to her friends, or seem to be, as long as it serves her purpose to be so. But if her whims or ambition demand it, she will not hesitate to sacrifice the happiness of her dearest friend. I believe she has made a true wife, for she loves her husband. But to gratify her ambition she gave up her daughter Laura to an old man, whimsical, and violent in temper, and who, I doubt not, makes his young wife's life intolerable.
               "But I have wandered from my own story. After my engagement with Mr. Hamilton was broken, your father renewed his addresses. I was almost broken-hearted, for I had loved John dearly; but after a weary time I conquered the feeling, though I do not think my life has ever been as complete in its happiness since then. Your father was very patient with me—poor boy! he did love me—and after a time I yielded to his entreaties, and became his wife. I was quietly happy for awhile. Then my parents died. The property was divided between your uncle and myself, and we were considered rich, in those days.
               "Your uncle married, and removed to the West. Soon after, your father, who had in boyhood been subjected to the evil influence of intemperance, drank more and more, until his mind was so affected by it, that he neglected both his business and his family.
               "I had three children, but two died in infancy. You alone was spared to comfort me. Troubles came thickly upon us. We were defrauded by dishonest clerks, and your father engaged in unprofitable speculations until at last, he died, in poverty.
               "Every debt was paid, however. A little furniture was saved, and this house, which my father built for a trusty clerk. I furnished it, and, as soon as my health would permit, took in sewing. Your uncle, who since my father's death has resided in the West, sends me a handsome sum for a present each Christmas, although he has never known the full extent of my poverty.
               "My health was delicate for years; but you have been a great help to me, and since you have been at Mr. Lambert's, I have lived in comparative ease. You are the great joy of my life. And yet, when your first real trouble comes, you are ready to desert me, and in your weakness, long for death. Is my love nothing to you?"
               "Forgive me, mother. Your love is everything to me, because it is truer than any I have yet found. I am not so ungrateful for it as you think, and I hope to live many years to repay, in part, what you have done for me. I did not know that your life had been such a series of disappointments. I wonder if existence is as much a mockery to every one as yours has been, or as mine seems now?"
               "No," she said, "not to every one; though we know every one has more or less sorrow, and each heart knoweth its own bitterness best. But one trouble cannot cloud a lifetime. Time is a healer, and you will yet be able to look calmly back upon this day. You have not been very well of late, or you would not be so utterly cast down and broken hearted. I have observed that your appetite is not as good as usual, and you often have headaches, now. You need, as Mr. Lambert says, a rest. We will plan some pleasant recreation which will help restore your mind to its old tone."
               "No, mother," and he shook his head disconsolately. "You have mistaken, or rather confounded cause and effect. It was that I missed Violet so, and felt in doubt as to whether she would ever be mine, which caused these headaches and loss of appetite. I don't need recreation; I want work to plunge in, to help me forget my trouble."
               "You shall do as you think best, my child," she said. "But you will not be in suspense any longer, and I think you will soon brighten. When we go through the world pursuing one aim or object to the exclusion of everything else, it is the only thing which seems lovely or desirable. But, if this object be taken away from us by God's hand, we will see in time that there are other blessings to be desired, other purposes as worthy of our ambition—other objects almost if not quite as dear."
               "But, mother, I cannot see how life can ever be so pleasant to me as it has been in the past. Everything now looks dull, and drear, and forlorn."
               "It will not always look so. We are always making idols, and when one is shattered, we turn and straightway build another. A second aim may not be as soul-absorbing as the first—we may not be so sanguine about its complete fulfillment; a second idol may not be quite so dear as the first. But it will occupy our minds, and bring back a portion, at least, of the old happiness."
               So she strove to comfort him, patient, faithful mother! She related more fully some of the darker passages of her life, striving to draw his mind from his own trouble. And, though she partially succeeded for the time, her own heart was filled with dread for the future.
               When evening came, she prepared some of his favorite dishes, though he could scarcely eat a mouthful.
               "Don't worry about me, mother," he said, "I shall be better soon. I feel to-night, for the first time, the full meaning of the passage, 'as one whom his mother comforteth!' I shall recover from this, and find the 'second purpose' you speak of, though I am drifting in the dark now."
               He smiled, such a weary, desolate, miserable smile! His mother would rather have seen him weep instead. Then, bidding her good-night, he sought his room, and, shutting out the moonlight which seemed to mock him with its brightness, he threw himself upon the bed, weak as a child.
               But he could not sleep. He lay for hours thinking of his past happiness and present bitter lot, and trying to devise some means of escape from it.
               "If she had written me one word," he thought, "asking me for a last interview; or if she had thrown out a single hint that we might yet thwart her mother's schemes, I would have gone to see her at once, let what might happen. But no, she has given up her will entirely; almost consented to become the wife of another, and begs me never to attempt to see her again. I could only promise to do as she desired, and now, I cannot see one single ray of hope. The suspense, however, will not be over until I hear of her marriage. I shall be hoping against hope, and tormenting myself with the fancy that, after all that has passed, something may intervene to set the marriage aside."
               The clock struck the night-hours slowly, the dreary, slowly-passing hours. The morning twilight came on, stormy and dull and gray, and Jasper fell into a troubled sleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               Violet sat in her room, listening for the trains as they came whistling in town and stopped at the depot.
               "That must be the way-mail," she said, starting up. "I'll go out in a few moments, and see if Jasper has answered my letter. He has, without doubt, for he is always so prompt. I hope I have not grieved him sadly."
               Yes, the letter was there; and, receiving it with a trembling hand, she hastened home. Passing hurriedly up to her room, she tore open the envelope and read:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "VIOLET:—
                           
                           "You have done right—quite right. Forget me, and I will try to remember you only as the dear friend of my boyhood. I shall never attempt to see you—shall never blame you in any way. Mother will not think bitterly of you either, for she loves you too well. May you be happy always, in the enjoyment of heavenly and earthly love; and, for the last time, my darling,—good-by!
                           
                              "JASPER."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She was free now; Jasper had not the slightest claim upon her. But was there anything for self-congratulation in this? Did it bring her any joy, this thought that she should never see his face again? He had been in her thoughts so constantly all her life—could she live without him now?
               Yes, she must learn to live without him, must put all thoughts of him away. She had gone too far to look back. It would be like beginning a new life, a strange new life, in which she had no heart or soul, no interest. She might learn to be happy as Mr. Langdon's wife in time, perhaps. He was not distasteful to her—sometimes she was sure she loved him, and she knew he loved her well.
               He was not a passionate man, this Mr. Langdon, but there was something wonderfully tender in his love for her. Something which she could not explain or understand. But she might be ever so weary or restless, ever so tired of life, and his presence would always bring her peace. He seemed to understand and appreciate all her tastes, all her little prejudices, her likes and her dislikes.
               The dinner-bell here interrupted her musings, and sounded vigorously through the halls. Violet did not go down; and, after a few moments had elapsed, Mrs. Hamilton ascended the stairs to her daughter's room.
               "Did you hear the bell, my dear?" she asked.
               "Yes, mamma, but I do not wish for any dinner. My head aches, and, if you will excuse me, I will not go down to-night. Please send Jane up with a cup of tea."
               "But Mr. Langdon might call."
               "He is absent from home, and will not be here to-night. If any one else should come, please say I am not quite well."
               "Violet, you have been weeping; are you unhappy?"
               "Please don't ask me, mamma!" she returned, sharply. Her heart was very sore, and she dreaded her mother's merciless queries.
               "My dear, you know I am always unhappy when you are troubled," Mrs. Hamilton responded, in an injured tone.
               There was a false note in her tone of assumed sorrow, that grated harshly upon Violet's ear.
               "It is, of course, your right to know," she answered, coldly. "I have tried to be entirely submissive and obedient to you in everything, since you gave me your commands a few weeks ago. But, unless you forbid me, I would like to spend one last evening in mourning over 'broken clay idols!'"
               Mrs. Hamilton was puzzled.
               "I never in my life saw any one so utterly unmanageable as this mild-appearing, quiet-tempered girl," she thought, with vexation.
               She stood for a moment wondering what was best to be done; then, turning to leave the room, she remarked in a perfectly quiet tone:
               "Do just as you prefer, my dear."
               Violet took out Jasper's note and re-read it; then she opened a little drawer where all his gifts to her lay treasured. She laid them out, one by one, casting ominous glances at the empty grate as she did so.
               "I cannot destroy them yet," she said, as she placed them back, together with Jasper's last note; "but sometime, when I am strong enough, I will burn them all. I must be quiet to-night, for Mr. Langdon will return to-morrow; and if I burn these now, their ghosts would rise and haunt me."
               The next morning was cloudy, but toward noon the sun shone out, bright and clear.
               "I wonder if it is a good omen?" Violet asked herself. "At any rate I'm glad to see the sunshine."
               She fluttered about the house, now up stairs, now down, and at last she went to her mother, asking for something to do.
               Mrs. Hamilton, who was busy with the earlier preparation for dinner, looked up in surprise.
               "You will only be in the way," she said. "Why don't you fill the vases with fresh flowers?"
               This was soon accomplished, and, still unsatisfied, Violet again asked her mother for some work.
               "What makes you so nervous to-day, Violet?" asked Mrs. Hamilton. "You had better dress and go out for a walk. The air will do you good."
               "Perhaps it may," she said, and she went up to dress. Just as she was about to set out she received a bouquet from Mr. Langdon, with the words, written in pencil:
               
                  "Please accept these from one who loves you, and would gladly strew your path through life with flowers."
               
               "Roses would not make the most comfortable carpet in the world," Violet said, "they have too many thorns."
               She placed the bouquet in water, and set out to take her walk. She chose a quiet street, one which was thickly shaded, and where the houses stood a little apart. It led down to a narrow brook which fell over a rocky bed. Near the brook was a little gateway which opened to a path used as a foot crossing to a street about a quarter of a mile further on. The path wound beside the brook, and, turning aside, Violet followed it. It was partially shaded by shrub-oaks, and, in places, quite secluded. So it happened, that in pressing on hurriedly, her eyes fixed upon the noisy brook, Violet met without the slightest warning, Mr. Langdon.
               "Miss Hamil—Violet!" he exclaimed, in surprise. "Pardon me for speaking so abruptly," he added, "but the meeting was unexpected. Whither are you going in such haste?"
               "I was running away!" she answered, smiling, but he saw that her manner was restless and unnatural.
               "Ah!" he said, "from whom?"
               "From you!"
               "You came in the wrong direction," he laughed. "Bloom-Centre is just over the hill yonder. You can see from here, a portion of the orchard."
               "I'm sure I didn't dream of its proximity," she replied, in confusion. "But I was only in jest. I came out because I was too restless to stay in the house, and I chose this path because it suited my mood best."
               "Why were you restless?"
               "Because——"
               "Well?"
               "Because of your engagement to meet me to-night."
               "Sit down upon this rock," he said, "for you are tired. Now tell me why my engagement to call upon you to-night affects you in this manner. You are not afraid of me?"
               "No," she answered, hesitating a little.
               "You know I love you, don't you, Violet?"
               "I—thought so."
               
               He laughed.
               "Upon my word there isn't a spark of affectation about you."
               "Why should there be?"
               "There is in most girls of your age."
               "I don't think so."
               "Never mind, let us see if we can agree upon a more important subject. I love you, dearly, and I want you to be my wife."
               For a moment Violet did not answer, and Mr. Langdon continued:
               "Your conduct has been more enigmatical than mine. You know I love you, but I am unable to tell whether or not you care for me. Do you love me well enough to consent to be my wife?"
               "I cannot tell," she said. "I do love you, but not, I fear, as a wife should love her husband."
               "You are honest," he said, though evidently surprised. "But if you do not know, how am I to tell?"
               There was a disappointment in his tone and manner which touched Violet to the heart. She turned quickly and laid her hand in his.
               "You shall be the judge," she said. "Ask me any question you choose."
               He was very much in earnest now; and he reached forward and took both her hands in his.
               "How do you love me?" he asked, with a touch of impetuousness in his voice. "Tell me how!"
               "I heard of you when we came here, "she answered," as the most eligible man in the place. I was told that you were very wealthy, and much sought after in society. I determined at once that I would dislike you. Chance, or fate, perhaps, threw us together. I found you much pleasanter than I supposed, though, as you know, I never invited attentions from you. Still, I did like you, from the first. I was lonely in Clinton, and did not take kindly to the people's ways. There was something very grateful to me in your society. If ever so weary or restless, one hour's conversation with you seemed to set me at peace. Adela is my dear friend, yet our tastes and opinions often clash—yours and mine seemed to agree in almost everything. You know to a thought my likes and dislikes; how, I do not, myself, understand."
               "Love's eye is swift of discernment," he interrupted,, his eyes glowing with delight at her words.
               "Perhaps so," and she smiled.
               "Well," he said, as she paused, "and is that all? You do care for me a little, it seems; but do you like me no better than you did at first?"
               "Oh, yes, I do! I have grown to like you so well that I watch for your coming now. I think, if you had waited a little longer before you asked me—"
               She hesitated, not knowing what to say.
               "I have waited long enough!" he exclaimed; "and if you will promise to be mine, I shall be quite satisfied."
               She gave the desired promise, and at that moment a little girl, loitering on her way home from school, passed by. She eyed the pair with so much curiosity that both burst into a laugh.
               "Let us go home," Violet said, in evident confusion. "This is too public a place for a declaration of this sort." And she laughed again in spite of her annoyance.
               "Perhaps it is," he returned, "but you must pardon me. I had no thought of making such a declaration here, an hour ago. But I returned from my journey earlier than I expected, and finding the afternoon was dragging heavily upon my hands, I came out for a quiet walk, and so met you."
               Mrs. Hamilton had been busily engaged in her sewing-room after Violet went out, and she did not go down stairs until near the dinner hour.
               "I ought to be able to trust Jane to set the table," she said, "when everything is cooked. If she does make a mistake it won't matter for once. John never says anything, though, to be sure, I always try to have the table look neat, at least, whether there is much variety or not. At any rate, I'm glad Violet's dress is finished. It is going to be very becoming; these flutings are so light and airy, just her style, exactly."
               She held up the dress in evident satisfaction, but, hearing Mr. Hamilton's steps in the hall, she put it aside and went down.
               "Are you in a hurry for dinner, John?" she asked. "I've been very busy, but it must be ready. I'll go at once and see. But where is Violet?"
               "I don't know, indeed," he answered.
               "She went out for a short walk, and said she would be home very soon. She never stays out unexpectedly. I don't see where she can be."
               She went to the door and looked up and down the street, but Violet was nowhere to be seen.
               "I think she must come presently," Mrs. Hamilton said, returning to the parlor. "I'll go down stairs and see if dinner is ready, and then, if she isn't here, we'll not wait for her longer."
               Mr. Hamilton took out a newspaper, and his wife went down stairs. In a moment she returned, and went out upon the balcony for a second observation.
               "Oh, John!" she exclaimed, holding up her hands in dismay, as she returned to the parlor, "Violet and Mr. Langdon are coming down the street together!"
               "Well, what of that?" exclaimed Mr. Hamilton, who thought his wife had taken leave of her senses.
               "Why, it's just dinner time—don't you see—stupid! Of course I must ask him to dine with us, and we've nothing but a cold roast and rice pudding! could anything be more unlucky? and now, of all times!"
               "Is that all?" asked Mr. Hamilton, quite relieved. "I dare say you can get up something else, for you are a capital hand to manage. Go down at once and attend to it, and I will receive him, and invite him to remain."
               Away went Mrs. Hamilton, just as Mr. Langdon and Violet were coming up the front steps.
               "Jane!" exclaimed her mistress, hurriedly, "is there any milk in the house? Oh, yes, I remember now, I got a quart this morning, and, thank fortune, there hasn't a drop of it been used. Where are the tomatoes? I'm going to make tomato soup. Mr. Langdon is going to be here to dinner. I'll season the soup well, and perhaps he'll like it—Mr. Hamilton does."
               "Very likely mem, he will."
               "Grind some coffee quick, Jane! two tea-cups full instead of half a cup as usual. And then, Jane, I want you to go out and get four dozen pickled oysters and a box of sardines. And stop on your way home and buy two quarts of blackberries. Let me see—is that all. I think so. Luckily we've cake in the house, and with the soup for the first course, then the roast, and the oysters and sardines for side dishes—Jane, you're a jewel! these young potatoes look as nice as though I had dished them myself. Where was I?"
               
               "The roast and the potatoes mem, and—"
               "Oh, yes! then, with the pudding, cake, blackberries and cream, and coffee, we 'll do very well. I wish I had set one of those bottles of claret on ice this afternoon; but no matter, we'll ice it as it is served. Ow—w! how you frightened me!"
               This last expression was addressed to Mr. Hamilton, who had entered the room, noiselessly, and suddenly appeared at his wife's elbow.
               "What makes you so nervous, Anne? Mr. Langdon declines to stay to dinner, but he will call around this evening. Come up at once, won't you? we've something to tell you."
               "Something about Violet?"
               "Yes, but I shall not tell you until you come up stairs."
               "I'll be there in a moment," she said. "You needn't go out, Jane, but you may finish the soup, as I have commenced it. Make the coffee, too, half a cup, as usual, and put the rest away."
               She took off her apron, and hurriedly bathed her face.
               "It is all right at last, I hope," she said, "but I'm sorry my face is so flushed. It ought, really, to look a little pale under the circumstances."
               Hurriedly smoothing her hair, she went up to the parlor, where she was delighted to find that Mr. Langdon had really proposed to Violet in due form, and she had accepted him. The consent of Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton was readily given, though Mrs. Hamilton was really taken a little by surprise, and failed to make as effective a speech as she had previously intended.
               But little dinner was tasted in the house that night, though Jane had really surpassed herself in making the soup. She had the satisfaction, however, of having it all to herself, which amply repaid her for the trouble she had taken.
               Violet went up to her room, and, at her mother's suggestion, arrayed herself in the tasteful white dress which Mrs. Hamilton had fashioned with so much care. Then, adding a few white buds by way of ornament, she was ready to go down. Mrs. Hamilton was very curious, as usual; but Violet's answers to her queries were very concisely expressed; and, at the first opportunity, she stole out upon the back porch to await Mr. Langdon's arrival.
               It was not very long before she heard his ring at the door. Jane ushered him into the parlor, and he at once passed out to the porch where Violet sat.
               "It is a lovely evening," he said, "and delightfully cool out here."
               "Yes," Violet answered, as she gave him a seat beside her on the rustic lounge, "the moon shines full upon the porch, and it is so near the flowers, too."
               She rose, as she finished speaking, and, plucking a leaf from the vine which climbed over the railing of the porch, she fluttered it nervously in her fingers.
               "Violet," Mr. Langdon said, with his slow smile, "you were named for a flower; but you constantly remind me of a butterfly."
               "How so?" she asked. "Am I 'fickle as a butterfly."
               "No," he laughed, "but you are always fluttering about, just out of the reach of my hand."
               "Am I? I was not aware of it."
               "I don't think you are. But I believe there is something alluring in this very flitting. I think, if you had been less shy, I would not have fancied you so readily. Whenever I see you fluttering about 'so near and yet so far,' I am impressed with the idea that there is a great deal of truth in the little rhythm: 
                     
                        "'The fruit that falls without shaking
                        Is rather too mellow for me.'
                     
                  
               
               "If you had seemed bold or forward, you could not have led me captive so easily; though it would be hard for me to fancy you in any position ungraceful or unbecoming."
               "So you would not have cared for me if I had seemed bold?" Violet asked, musingly.
               "I think I should not have been attracted toward you at once; but why do you ask? would you have tried the part of an Amazon if you had thought it would repel me?"
               "I hardly believe I should," she answered, slowly.
               "Come," he said, "you are growing grave; and you don't behave in the least as I should suppose a young lady just engaged would do. Won't you sit beside me just for a few moments before I go?"
               She came without a word, and took her seat by his side.
               "I have a request to make, and a gift to bestow," he continued, taking her hand.
               His manner was tender and affectionate, and yet she shrank a little from the touch of his hand.
               "Don't fly away, little butterfly," he said, with a laugh which set her at ease more than anything else he could have done.
               He slipped a ring, beautifully wrought, and sparkling with diamonds, on her slim finger; and as she thanked him for the glittering gift he held up her hand admiringly.
               "You have a beautiful hand," he said, "and you look like a bride to-night. We must be married in early autumn, just as soon as the arrangements for the bridal can be completed."
               "I cannot promise to-night," she answered, thinking that between his wishes and her mother's will, she would have but little to say in the matter. "We will arrange it hereafter."
               He rose to go at last.
               "I'm coming to-morrow," he said, "and we will have a long, quiet ride together."
               She assented; and, bidding her an affectionate good-night, he left the house.
               She stood in the doorway watching him for a moment, and unconsciously she thought of the night when she had watched Jasper, only a few months before. But she banished it with an effort, as she closed the door, only saying to herself, half wearily as she turned the key:
               "It is over, and I think—I'm glad!"
               The rest of the household had retired; and, turning out the lights, she went slowly up the staircase, repeating softly, as if for a charm to drive away unpleasant thoughts: 
                     
                        "On my finger is a ring
                        Which I still see glittering,
                        When the night hides everything."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XI.
               Violet rose rather late next morning, for, as Mrs. Hamilton did not wish to disturb her, she refrained from ringing the breakfast bell. She found the coffee still warm for her, when she entered the dining-room, and Jane soon brought in some fresh toast.
               "My dear, what a splendid ring!" exclaimed Mrs. Hamilton.
               Violet held out her hand.
               "It must have cost an extravagant price," said her mother. "I never saw a more beautiful one."
               "I am sure, mamma, it has no monied value to me, whatever," Violet answered, slightly annoyed.
               "My dear," laughed Mrs. Hamilton, "you were certainly meant for a rich man's wife. You are so very romantic in your ideas."
               "We are to take a ride to-day," said Violet, changing the subject abruptly. "What shall I wear, mamma?"
               "Your blue silk would be pretty."
               "Yes, but—I thought Mr. Langdon seemed pleased with white last night, and I would like to consult his taste, in the matter."
               "I am glad you show such a spirit, Violet; it is quite proper for a young lady just engaged."
               "I intend to be very submissive, mamma."
               "That is right. You can wear white just as well, if you prefer it. I happen to have a quantity of tiny white double daisies, which I can use in your hat. I'll remove the violets at once. It is really fortunate for me that I am a milliner, though I wouldn't mention the fact here, for people don't look upon such things now in the manner they did some years ago. Still, it is lucky, for I can arrange the daintiest hats and bonnets for ourselves, at a trifling cost. Now, when Laura was married, for instance, I hardly knew where the money was to come from to make the show I desired. Mr. Mason gave her a large quantity of expensive jewelry, Eliza presented her with a handsome silk, and Mr. Mason's daughter Lena, who fancied Laura from the first, sent her a most elegant bridal wreath and veil, point-lace, and a handsome collar besides. So, with what I saved for her, we had a splendid wedding."
               "Yes, I remember," answered Violet, rising to leave the room.
               "Wait a moment, my dear," called out Mrs. Hamilton. "What I set out to say, was this: I made her some of the daintiest hats and head-dresses, and morning caps, and collars, and such little things which so greatly add to the beauty of a lady's toilet, that she seemed to have a most elegant outfit, although she had but a few dresses, really."
               "I've no doubt of it, mamma dear. By and by we will talk these things over, but I would like to put them all aside for to-day."
               "Oh, I hope you won't give yourself any uneasiness about your 
                     trosseau.
                     trousseau
                   I've been saving for some time, for this very thing, and I mean you shall have the most elegant wedding that ever came off in Clinton. Of course, you will set out upon a lengthy tour immediately after your marriage, but I shall have an evening wedding. I mean to begin preparations at once. Luckily, I've always been embroidering, braiding, ruffling, puffing and tucking for you; and all the dresses you already have are very nice indeed."
               
               "Yes, mamma. You are very kind, and can arrange everything better than I can. I shall rely upon your taste in the matter, altogether."
               "Come up in the sewing-room, dear," said her mother; "I'm going to arrange the daisies on your hat, and I wish to speak with you a little further upon the subject. Then I will go right on with my plans, and disturb you as little as possible."
               Mrs. Hamilton's sewing-room was arranged after a fashion of her own. It was before the days of sewing-machines, or, at least, they were quite uncommon at that time. The room contained two wooden chairs, with patchwork cushions. Two boxes, also covered with patchwork, served for footstools. A narrow strip of old Brussels carpeting was stretched across the room, so worn and threadbare, that it was quite impossible to tell what the original colors had been. A huge, old-fashioned side-board, with large drawers through the centre, and deep doors at the side, contained all Mrs. Hamilton's sewing materials, and articles of work. Two baskets sat upon its top, one with numerous pockets for buttons, tape, thread, &c., while the other held the scraps which Mrs. Hamilton clipped from her work. Behind the door were numerous hooks and nails, upon which to hang dresses, and other large articles of work which were still unfinished. The room was next to Violet's, and had been used for a hall bedroom. It was small, but very neat and clean, and, in spite of its plainness, had a cosy appearance.
               Mrs. Hamilton threw open the blinds, and drawing down the shade a little, she produced the daisies from some remote corner of the ancient side-board, and taking the dainty lace hat, went to work.
               "Violet," she said, motioning for her daughter to take the chair by her side, "you ought to have three bridesmaids. Of course Adela will be the first, Dora Lambert the second, and Sarah Hinton the third. You are not very intimate with Sarah, but she is an old friend, and moves in the same circle with Mr. Langdon and Adela."
               "Just as you please, mamma. I like Sarah very well."
               "It's settled then. We must have bridesmaids who can afford to dress handsomely. Mr. Langdon will choose his own groomsmen, but I suppose, as Adela is to be the first bridesmaid, he will select Mr. Manning for the first groomsman."
               When lunch was over Violet went up to dress for the ride. Mr. Langdon stopped at the door as she was tying on her hat. He came in and waited a moment until she came down.
               "My little, pale flower!" he said, kissing her tenderly. "I have brought you something to add to your toilet; something that was my dear mother's once, years ago." Taking out a jewel case, he drew forth a dainty set of pearls, delicate and rare.
               "Wear them for my mother's sake," he said, "and mine."
               "They are very lovely, and I thank you, oh, so much for them. I will wear them in respect to your mother's memory, and your—love."
               She replaced them in the case, and took it up to show her mother. Mrs. Hamilton admired the jewels greatly.
               "If he begins with such handsome gifts as these," she said, "he will doubtless make you many elegant presents before your marriage."
               
               Violet ran down the stairs, and her mother stood, watching at the window.
               "It is the proudest day of my life!" she exclaimed, as they drove swiftly away. "How stylish they look! But I must improve every moment of my time, for, the more I accomplish myself, the less I'll be obliged to pay for. If I could only get that sewing girl who makes Laura's dresses, I would be quite satisfied. Laura says she fits wonderfully, and her taste is matchless. And Laura found her in abject poverty. The season is dull for her now, no doubt, for every one is out in the country. Laura herself is at Newport with Mr. Mason, Lena and her husband, Mr. Gilbert. I know Laura, herself, would be delighted to come and help with the things, if that cross old bear of a husband would allow it. I will write for her to come, at all events, and then I shall know what to depend upon. Eliza will assist, of course, for she has no one but herself and little Harry to sew for."
               She went up to her room and took out writing materials, and sat down.
               "I'll write to the girls at once," said she, "giving all the particulars of the engagement, and what I intend to do. Violet says that Mr. Langdon spoke of being married in the fall, and it is scarcely six weeks to September. If Laura comes, I'll meet her in the city, and we will purchase all the articles for Violet's 
                     trosseau
                     trousseau
                   there. I think, upon reflection, that I shall be obliged to re-furnish my guest-chamber. I can afford a handsome suite for that, now, and the one in it at present, can go to furnish the large, upper back room, which is quite empty. We shall need all the chambers at the wedding, for there must, of course, be two dressing rooms."
               See commenced her letters, and sat for some time arranging the refractory sentences in her mind, for she was unaccustomed to writing, although she wished to do everything well. They were completed at last, and she read them over with evident satisfaction. Then calling Jane to mail them at once, she went down to the sewing-room, and took out pencil and paper, preparatory to commencing a memorandum of what she should purchase in the city.
               "I'll put down the most important things first," she said, "though I cannot tell so well what will be needed, until I know what presents she receives. Of course, I shall not buy any article of jewelry, for Mr. Langdon will attend to that. And I must find out what Eliza is going to give her, before I go down to the city to purchase the things."
               She was busy with her pencil for a few moments, and then she laid the paper aside.
               "I have been so fortunate in my children," she said, "or, rather, I have managed splendidly for them. I wonder what Mrs. Judge Tracy would say now? I'm sure all the people in Meadville will open their eyes in astonishment."
               She commenced planning in earnest, and had just settled on the dresses for the bridesmaids, when she was aroused from her reverie by a ring at the door. She hurried out of the sewing-room and took her position at the head 
                     af
                     of
                   the stairs where she could hear without being seen, to find out at once who her caller was. It was Adela, and Mrs. Hamilton ran down to meet her.
               "Violet has gone out to ride with Mr. Langdon," she said, "but I want to see you myself. Come in, child! I'm all alone."
               
               "What's this I hear, Mrs. Hamilton?" began Adela, as soon as they were comfortably seated. "Everybody says that Violet and Mr. Langdon are engaged, and the whole town is raving about her beauty. She and Mr. Langdon have rode out so many times, that every one has seen her, and to see is to admire. Do tell me, Mrs. Hamilton, if they are engaged. I am positively dying to know, and Violet is such a sly little puss, I can learn nothing from her."
               Mrs. Hamilton smiled, and looked very important.
               "My dear," she said, in a patronizing tone, "Violet is rather reserved, even to her dearest friends. But until lately," and she emphasized the word, "there has been but little to tell, except that Mr. Langdon has been very devoted from the first. They have been really engaged, only since last evening. Of course, I don't like you to speak of it outside your own family at present, but, upon questioning Violet closely, to-day, I find that Mr. Langdon is quite determined upon a hasty marriage. As you are her most intimate friend, you will, I know, be her choice for first bridesmaid; unless," and here she smiled knowingly, "you are to be married before that time yourself."
               "No, indeed, Mrs. Hamilton," Adela responded, "though," and she looked around to assure herself that no one was near, "I do intend to be married about Christmas time. I shall be delighted with the honor of being Violet's bridesmaid. How many will she have, and what will we all wear?"
               "It is impossible to say with certainty, as yet, but I think she will have three, at least. White tulle would make beautiful dresses, with colored trimmings and flowers.
               "Beautiful!" echoed Adela. "But who would be the other bridesmaids?"
               "Let me see." And Mrs. Hamilton paused to consider a moment, as though it were not already settled in her own mind. "Violet does not like to speak of these things at once. You know she is not at all practical—but we shall be obliged to decide upon all the most important things soon, if we wish everything to pass off well. Of course the planning will all devolve upon me, for she assents to all that I propose. I'll tell you what we will do, my dear. My own mind is hardly clear, as yet, but the next time she goes out to ride, you call around, and we will consult together, and plan beautifully."
               "Of course I will, with the greatest pleasure," said Adela, quite overwhelmed with Mrs. Hamilton's condescension.
               "I think," said Mrs. Hamilton, (her mind becoming suddenly clear,) "that Dora Lambert would make a pretty bridesmaid. She attended school with Violet, here, you know."
               "Oh yes, I know her well. She is a very sweet girl."
               "And Sarah Hinton," continued Mrs. Hamilton. "That would make it just right. You being a decided brunette, should wear scarlet trimmings. Dora, who has brown hair and eyes, would look pretty in pink; Sarah, who is a blonde, must have blue. You will wear scarlet geraniums, Dora, pink roses, and Sarah, blue forget-me-nots."
               "Splendid!" exclaimed Adela, almost at a loss for words, for the first time in her life.
               "I'm going to the city to purchase the things," continued Mrs. Hamilton, "and if I can induce a dressmaker to accompany me home I will have all the dresses made up under my own eye. I think I will order the plum and bride's cake there also."
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               Laura Mason stood in her hotel parlor at Newport, looking listlessly out of the window.
               She was very pale, and spiritual-looking, with a sorrowful face, yet not in the least faded; for there was an irresistible something about her look—a subtitle charm in this very paleness, which caused the gazer to fancy, for the time, at least, that lilies were fairer than roses, and Mrs. Mason's calm purity of style was preferable to the most beautiful bloom in the world.
               Her eyes were brown, serene and clear, though never bold. Her hair was brown, too, and wavy, but put back in the prevailing style. Her mouth was delicately-curved and sweet, her complexion and teeth dazzlingly white. She possessed a willowy, graceful form, and fairy hands and feet. Moreover, she dressed with elegance and taste, and was quite a puzzle to her set.
               As she stood to-day, looking out with a weary, listless air, she made a lovely picture. Her dress was black, thin and airy, through which her snowy arms and shoulders gleamed, symmetrical and fair. The dress was trimmed with deep green, and emeralds flashed on her throat, wrists, and drooped from her shell-like ears.
               "A letter, Susan?"
               She took it and quickly broke the seal.
               "It is from mamma," she said, a flush of interest deepening on her face.
               She read it through twice, and then rested her head upon her palm for a few moments in silent thought.
               "Dear little sister!" she murmured, "God save her from a fate like mine. Mamma writes that Mr. Langdon is very devoted, and Violet is fond of him. Then she minutely describes his gifts to her, and enlarges upon their value. Poor mamma, how like her! She is to be pitied rather than blamed. The arrangements are made for the wedding already, although they had not been engaged for twenty-four hours when this letter was written."
               She tossed it aside carelessly.
               "No matter," she said, with a smile, "they will be married whenever mamma pleases, I am quite sure of that. But I fear she will be disappointed about my assistance; for, of course, I cannot go. I might possibly engage my sewing girl, Miss Giles, however, which would be the next best thing, in mamma's estimation. I would like to go home and spend the remainder of the summer, it would be such a rest for me; and I have seen Violet but rarely in the past two years—dear little sister!"
               A tap at the door; and a pair of bright black eyes peeped through the crack, their owner being quite invisible.
               "May I come in?"
               "Of course, Lena," Laura said, laughing at the singular way in which the question was asked.
               
               "I wanted to see whether you were in a gracious mood before I ventured in," said Lena, "for you know I am mortally afraid of your anger."
               "I don't doubt it."
               Lena closed the door and sat down.
               "Why didn't you go out to ride with papa, to-day?" she asked.
               "I was tired."
               "And he excused you?"
               "Yes."
               "For once. Does your head ache, Laura?"
               "Oh no, it never aches."
               "But your heart does."
               "That doesn't matter."
               "Yes it does. It makes me angry to see it."
               "I am sorry for that."
               "I heard something about you just now, Laura."
               "And you ran in to tell me at once."
               "Of course."
               "Well, what did you hear?"
               "That odious Mrs. Gale says you are a puzzle to her."
               "How so?"
               "She don't see how you enjoy yourself."
               Laura smiled; an odd little smile, without a touch of mirth in it.
               "It is singular," she said.
               "She thinks, though, that you married papa for his money."
               "Indeed!"
               "Yes, and that set me to thinking."
               "About what?"
               "I wonder why you married him."
               Laura's face grew a shade paler.
               "It was not my fault, Lena," she said.
               "But whose was it, dear Laura?"
               "My mother's."
               There was a long silence.
               "I always suspected as much," Lena said, at last.
               "I have a letter from home," said Laura, changing the subject abruptly.
               "Any news?"
               "Yes, my younger sister is soon to be married."
               "What, little Violet? She only seems a child."
               "She is young, only seventeen. Would you like to see the letter?"
               "If you please."
               Lena took the letter and read it.
               "She has done well for her daughters," she quoted, scornfully. "How like an ambitious, managing woman that is! They have not done well for themselves, I suppose."
               "I fear I have not," Laura replied, bitterly.
               "You have done nobly, dear. But you would like to go home now, would you not?"
               "Very much, indeed; but it is impossible."
               "I don't see why. Papa could easily spare you."
               "I'm sure he would not consent to it."
               "Laura, you don't know how to manage him, at all. I wish you would profit by my advice. If you would only do as I bid you, he would order you to go at once."
               "But I cannot stoop to deceive him, Lena."
               "I can I suppose. Don't call names to me, or I'll leave you to fight your own battles," she laughed. "Stoop to deceive, indeed! Why its the only way in the world to manage him. Come, don't look so doleful, and I'll obtain his permission in ten minutes after he returns."
               "There he comes, now," Lena said, glancing out.
               
               "Then you're only to leave the field to me, and the thing shall be done at once."
               "I doubt it," Laura replied. "But I would like very much to go."
               She rose and left the room, and a moment afterward, Mr. Mason entered.
               "Where's Laura?" he asked.
               "How should I know, father? You don't suppose she's going to mope in her room while you are out enjoying yourself, I hope?"
               "That is the misery of having a young wife!" he groaned. "Probably she is out flirting with that idiot, Armstrong."
               "She was in here a few moments ago," Lena replied, "she has just received a letter from home."
               "Any news?" Mr. Mason growled.
               "Yes. Her sister Violet is soon to be married, and Mrs. Hamilton wishes Laura to meet her in the city, and help her purchase the materials for Violet's trousseau, and then go home with her, and remain until after the wedding."
               "She shan't go."
               "She doesn't expect to go, father. You don't suppose it would be a pleasure for her to go broiling through the streets of the city this weather, in search of bargains, do you? I'm sure this place suits her too well for that."
               "You are right there, child. This place suits her altogether too well. I believe that Armstrong has something to do with making it so pleasant for her."
               "Now, father, you know you are jealous without a cause. No one could be more prudent and discreet in her behavior, than Laura has always been."
               "Too prudent and discreet, by half. I always suspect these faultless persons."
               "I'm sure then, you cannot suspect me, in the least. But as to Laura's idea of going home, I'm sure she doesn't dream of it at all. I wonder you supposed she wished to go. We have arranged so many pleasant walks and drives, it would never do to break them up."
               "So you have been helping her, have you? Well, you are a precious pair to be plotting against the interests of you best friend!"
               "Now, father, do be reasonable. We haven't been plotting at all. But you know that Mr. Armstrong—"
               "Don't ever mention that creature's name to me again," he shouted. "Do you hear?"
               "Yes, father," she answered demurely, and walked away to the window.
               "What were you saying about that Armstrong, Lena?"
               "Oh, nothing."
               "I say you were just about to remark something! What was it?"
               "Nothing at all. I'm very glad you interrupted me. But of course Laura couldn't be expected to give up pleasant engagements for the sake of gratifying an old woman's whim. As for her sister's dresses, I'm sure Laura has no time to attend to them. She has quite enough trouble with her own."
               "I dare say she has. But she's going, nevertheless."
               "You are mistaken. I heard her say she couldn't go."
               "Did you hear the remark I just made, Mrs. Gilbert? I said she was going, whether or no."
               "Of course you don't mean it, father. You never could spare her six weeks, for she is waiting upon you constantly while she is here."
               
               "You know, I suppose, that is untrue."
               "Every one at your age needs more or less care."
               "And you are afraid you'll be obliged to look after me a little. Don't trouble yourself my dear. I'm as spry as you are, this minute, and may outlive you both yet, just to teach you a lesson."
               "I never did like lessons, father."
               "Laura is going, though; just to spite you both. If she hasn't any filial or sisterly love about her, it is quite time she was taught to respect her parents, at least in appearance. And I hope you will profit by my advice too, for you are none too respectful. But you haven't told me whom Violet is going to marry."
               "His name is Donald Langdon."
               "Is it possible? Well, there's really no telling how things will turn out until you see the end of them."
               "Why, do you know Mr. Langdon, father?"
               "Know him! I guess I know all about him."
               "What sort of a looking man is he, father?"
               "I'm sure I don't know; I never saw him in my life."
               "But you said you knew all about him."
               "So I do. Don't think you are going to surprise your father in a falsehood, Mrs. Gilbert, I'm the very soul of truth."
               "But about Mr. Langdon?"
               "Nothing, only he crossed my path once."
               "How? You are very provoking! I wish to know what sort of a man he is."
               "Well, you know that block of mine on King street?"
               "Yes."
               "I own it all but one house, and I wanted that too. So I found that the family who occupied it had met with some misfortune, and were in need of money. I lent them the money and took quite a heavy mortgage upon the property. I was careful to have it expire in the middle of summer, when nobody was in town, and nobody wished to purchase. They expected to renew it, of course, but when they found I was going to foreclose it, they got this man—this Donald Langdon, to advance the money to pay it off. I believe their mother was his mother's governess once, or something of the sort, when she was young. They hold the house to this day."
               "I'm sorry he is going to marry Violet then, for you will always dislike him; and I think family feuds are dreadfully disagreeable."
               "Who spoke about family feuds, I'd like to know?"
               "No one, but of course it will be unpleasant for you to meet Mr. Langdon, under the circumstances."
               "I wish you had a little more dignity and pride about you, Lena. Do you suppose I'd notice him enough to show I was displeased? I hope, Mrs. Gilbert, I am above such meanness."
               "Well, father, all I can say, is this: I think it too bad that you should break up all Laura's plans, and send her to that out-of-the-way place to spend the remainder of the summer, when it is so cool and pleasant here."
               "I'm quite decided in the matter, I tell you! She's to write at once, mind, and arrange to meet her mother as soon as possible. You can break the welcome news to her as soon as you like."
               He went down stairs, feeling quite satisfied with himself, for he verily believed that he had thwarted some wonderful plot against him.
               Lena hurried to tell Laura of the success of her scheme; and Laura sat down to write to her mother She appointed an early meeting at her home in the city, and dispatched the letter at once.
               Mrs. Hamilton met her in the city, according to promise. They engaged Miss Giles, and then set out to make their purchases. After three tiresome days of shopping, the purchases were completed, to Mrs. Hamilton's satisfaction, and Laura's great relief.
               "Everything works beautifully," said Mrs. Hamilton. "We have made some splendid bargains, and I think have all we shall need. When Mrs. Gilbert comes, she can purchase the cake for us, and whatever else we may happen to need. I mean to have a wedding that will surprise the country round. I do love to surprise people. Why, every one wonders how we manage to keep up such fine appearances when we are not rich."
               "But do you really think Violet loves Mr. Langdon, mother? You know that is of more importance than everything else."
               "My dear, she loves him devotedly. Her father asked her the question once, and she answered to his entire satisfaction. As for Mr. Langdon, he adores her. I sometimes think it wonderful, when I see him scarcely take his eyes from her face during a whole evening, except to do some trifle for her which she has requested. Violet is never demonstrative, but she enjoys and appreciates his wonderful devotion, I am sure."
               "I am thankful," murmured Laura, turning her face away. "How unlike my own marriage," she thought. "Mr. Mason married me because he thought me beautiful, and I him because my mother bade me,—and he was rich. There was no love on either side." And she shuddered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               The morning of the day after Jasper received Violet's letter was cloudy, and Mrs. Douglas rose with a heavy heart. She pushed aside the curtains and looked out. It was not raining, but a heavy mist seemed to settle down over the village, wrapping it like a pall.
               "Just the day for a heartache," she said with a shiver. "I don't know what we shall do through all the dreary days that are to come."
               She went down stairs carefully, that she might not disturb Jasper's slumbers; for as she had not heard a movement in his room since daylight, she fancied he must be sleeping. All the night through she had lain listening to him as he walked the floor restlessly, or threw himself upon the bed with impatient ejaculations, uttered half aloud. Her head ached severely in consequence of her vigil; but she hastened to kindle the fire and prepare breakfast, for Jasper might wake at any moment, and she must have something to tempt his appetite.
               "Poor boy!" she said, as she moved about busy at her work. "I had hoped Fate would deal more gently with him than it has with me. But at the very best this is a dreary world; and life, I believe, is a disappointment to us all."
               An hour passed, but Jasper did not make his appearance. At last, fearing he might be ill, Mrs. Douglas went softly up stairs, and tapped lightly at the door. She received no response, and opening the door, she went into the room.
               Jasper seemed to be sleeping very soundly, but his slumbers appeared unnatural, and his cheeks were burning. Mrs. Douglas was 
                     throughly
                     thoroughly
                   alarmed. She went up to the bedside, and took his hand in hers, but the movement did not wake him. She touched his cheek, and he turned, muttering something drowsily. Mrs. Douglas watched him for a long time, but at length decided that it was loss of sleep, and the excitement his mind had undergone of late, which made him slumber so heavily.
               "Sleep will do him more good than anything else," she said, "if it is natural. But if it is a feverish stupor into which he has fallen, I must call in a physician."
               She went down to her solitary breakfast, though she could scarcely eat for wondering if a new trouble was about to assail her.
               A knock at the door startled her, and upon opening it she met the honest, cheerful face of Mr. Lambert. He was a man of middle age, erect and square-shouldered, though not tall. His face, upon every lineament of which good nature beamed, was fresh and inclined to be ruddy; but his hair was quite grey, and gave him a more sedate, and older appearance.
               He shook his dripping umbrella, for it was raining now, and set it upon the porch to drain, before entering the door.
               "Good morning!" he said, in a brisk, though not loud voice. "I think we are having a clear-up shower."
               "I hope so," Mrs. Douglas responded, brightening at the sight of his cheerful face.
               "Where is Jasper?" he asked.
               "I'm afraid he is not very well," Mrs. Douglas answered. "He is sleeping late this morning."
               "What is this new trouble of his? Of course, I guess it is something connected with Violet Hamilton; but Jasper seems very reticent upon the subject, and I do not like to question him too closely."
               "Violet is soon to be married to Mr. Langdon, of Clinton. It—"
               "Impossible!" exclaimed Mr. Lambert, starting to his feet.
               "I wish for Jasper's sake, it might be impossible," said Mrs. Douglass. "But there can be no mistake, for he received a note from Violet yesterday, just before he came home to his dinner. He seemed almost wild at first, and scarcely slept last night. I went up to his room a few moments ago, but he did not waken. He seems feverish, but I hope it is nothing serious."
               "I hope not, indeed." Mr. Lambert spoke slowly, a habit of his when disturbed or perplexed. "He is probably sleeping from sheer exhaustion. He has been very pale of late, and needs a rest. I think a change of scene would do him good. I can spare him now, for mid-summer is never a brisk season with me, for the farmers are busy. Of course I would give him the vacation just the same if we were closely engaged. I only say this to set his mind at rest upon the subject. I would like him to go away from the village for a few days, and see if he would not regain his health and spirits. His wages should go on as usual."
               Mrs. Douglas thanked him with brimming eyes, though his words had already giving her comfort.
               "Is it generally known that Violet is engaged?" Mr. Lambert asked.
               "No, I think not. I have not heard a word of it before, and such a report would be apt to spread quickly. I would not like this mentioned in connection with Jasper's name, for of course it will be a sore subject with him, and of all dreadful things, he hates most to be pitied by any, except, of course, his near friends."
               "I don't think his name will be connected with the report," said Mr. Lambert; "for, though he was very attentive to Violet while she was here, they were so near of an age, and the houses were so close, and, perhaps, more than all, Jasper was so quiet with his attentions, that they were never reported engaged."
               "They were not really engaged; though that was not Jasper's fault. Mrs. Hamilton is cautious as well as ambitious, and she did not let matters go so far."
               Mr. Lambert made no reply, except to raise his eyebrows slightly at the mention of Mrs. Hamilton's name. He sat for a few moments gazing thoughtfully upon the floor, and then rose to go.
               "Oh, I forgot!" he suddenly exclaimed; "I stopped at the post-office on my way here, and as there was a letter for you, I brought it down. In my anxiety for Jasper's welfare, it quite slipped from my memory. Here it is."
               He produced it from the depths of his ample pocket, and gave it to Mrs. Douglas with the remark that the handwriting was undoubtedly her brother's.
               "Indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Douglas, hurriedly breaking the seal. "His health has been very delicate for a long time, and, since the death of his wife he speaks quite decidedly of coming back to Meadville to spend the remainder of his days. It is the only hope I ever had of Jasper's and Violet's marriage—for if he had arrived in time, possibly Mrs. Hamilton might have relented, for she knows Dr. Irving is very wealthy; almost, if not quite as rich as Mr. Langdon. Wait a moment, Mr. Lambert, until I see if he has decided to come."
               He resumed his seat, and Mrs. Douglas commenced reading her brother's letter.
               "He is coming on at once." she said, "and will be here on the fifteenth, unless he meets with some detention on the route."
               "He will be here to-day, then," said Mr. Lambert, "for this it the fifteenth."
               "I am so glad!" cried Mrs. Hamilton, the tears coming in her earnest eyes. "He is a skillful physician, and will bring my poor boy back to health once more."
               "I am thankful for Jasper's sake, and yours," said Mr. Lambert, as he rose to go. "Dora will call around this afternoon, and she may be able to assist you in running of errands, perhaps. She would be glad to come and remain with you to-night, but her mother's illness keeps her confined at home."
               "Mrs. Douglas thanked him, and he took his leave.
               "It is a dreary day," she thought, as she looked out. "Oh, if my brother would only come!"
               She went up to Jasper's room, and found him still feverish, but seeming partly awake, for he asked for a drink.
               She brought him some water, and said he had better take some breakfast, or try a cup of coffee, at least.
               "I could not eat," he said, "or drink the coffee either. Please give me another glass of water."
               His mother poured it out for him, and he drank it as eagerly as the first.
               "I'm very tired," he said, "and I ache from the crown of my head to the sole of my foot. I'm not worrying at all, mother dear, but I don't think of anything much of the time. I'm glad of it, for I cannot bear to think—now. I shall be much better 
                     to-morow
                     to-morrow
                  ."
               "I hope so," Mrs. Douglas replied. "I just received a letter from your uncle, and he is coming here at once, to stay with us. He will cure you in a day or two, and is going to take care of us in the future, he says."
               "I am glad," Jasper answered, drowsily.
               He seemed very stupid, though not at all delirious, and as soon as he was asleep, Mrs. Douglas went down. It was now noon-time, and the clouds had disappeared. She busied herself with preparations for the entertainment of her brother, often going out on the porch to watch for him.
               Throughout the day Jasper lay in the same slumbrous state, dozing a greater part of the time; sometimes muttering to himself, sometimes calling for a drink, and when his thirst was satisfied, always saying:
               "Don't grieve about me, mother dear, I shall be quite well to-morrow."
               Then he would turn wearily upon his pillow and lose himself in slumber.
               Toward evening there was a knock at the door, and Mrs. Douglas sprang up with a glad cry to welcome her brother. He was weary and travel-worn, so changed she would hardly have recognized him, if she had chanced to meet him unexpectedly.
               She told him of Jasper's love and disappointment, of his sorrow, and illness, and Dr. Irving rose at once, and asked to see him.
               "He certainly is feverish," he said, "but he may be well in two or three days, perhaps. I will go out and procure some medicines, and administer them immediately. Don't be uneasy about him, Mary. He may be ill for a few days, but he is in no danger, and when he recovers, I'll see what can be done for him. I think that we had better leave Meadville for the present, for Jasper must prepare for college. If he desires to study for a profession, he has only to make his choice. I did not know you had struggled so with poverty, sister. But all that is past. I intend to make my home with you hereafter. My health is delicate, and I have no desire to marry again. So, whatever of wealth I have—and it is a considerable sum—is yours, and his."
               "If he had only returned three months ago," thought Mrs. Douglas, "Violet and Jasper might have married sometime, perhaps. But it is too late to think of it now."
               The story of Jasper's illness soon spread through Meadville. But few visitors, however, were admitted into his room, and in consequence, it was currently reported that he was dangerously ill, with fever. That a physician sat by him constantly, and his death was momentarily expected.
               Luckily for Mrs. Douglas' feelings, Violet's name was not mingled with the gossip; probably because her engagement was not known in Meadville at the time, except by Mr. Lambert's family, who did not speak of it.
               Eliza Stanton alone suspected the truth of the matter, but she kept her own counsel, for she was too much like her mother to issue a report which would place her family in an unfavorable light. One day, when she happened to meet Mr. Lambert, she questioned him very closely concerning Jasper's illness. He informed her that the doctor said Jasper's system had been feverish for some time, so she concluded, upon reflection, that Violet's engagement could have nothing to do with it.
               During the first week of Jasper's illness, Dora came in to tell Mrs. Douglas that Violet had written to her, asking her to be her bridesmaid.
               "I thought that you would like to know that everything is settled," she said. "I am sorry that it is so, but I cannot refuse her, so I will attend the wedding, and be as cheerful as possible. She writes me that Mr. Langdon is very agreeable and devoted to her; that she likes him very much indeed; so much so that she believes she shall be happy with him."
               "I am thankful for that," Mrs. Douglas said, "for Violet is very dear to me, and always will be, whatever happens. I am very glad you told me this, Dora."
               "Her mother hurried her into the marriage," said Dora, against her will, at first. But Mrs. Hamilton's family are all obliged to yield to her in everything. I can hardly imagine how a mother can be so unkind as she is, in some particulars; it is so unlike my own dear mother, and you, too, Mrs. Douglas."
               "It is very fortunate for Violet, my dear, that Mr. Langdon is so gentlemanly and agreeable. I have heard of him often, and always in the highest terms. But if he had been the most disagreeable man in Clinton, I've no doubt that Mrs. Hamilton would have obliged Violet to marry him just the same. I am thankful it is no worse, and hope they will be very happy."
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               Everything appeared to go on as usual in Mrs. Hamilton's household, after the wedding was settled upon. Mrs. Hamilton, herself, quietly returned with Laura and Miss Giles, and on the next morning commenced her work in earnest. Her guest chamber had been refurnished, and as soon as one article of dress was finished, it was laid away in this room, which was darkened and closed. There was no litter, no bustle, no confusion outside the sewing room. Another chair and footstool had been added to the furniture of this room, and Mrs. Hamilton, Miss Giles, and Laura sewed almost constantly. Violet, however, did not assist in the preparations for the wedding.
               Laura shared Violet's room. They both preferred it, and Violet, of late, seemed to dread being alone. Mrs. Hamilton cautioned her, on the first evening of Laura's visit, to say nothing to her sister about the part which she had taken in striving to bring about the marriage.
               "What I did, was all for the best, Violet," she said, "for your own good, although it was very hard for me at the time. But it is better to say nothing about it, for if it should reach Mr. Langdon's ears, it might cause him trouble, and, possibly, affect us also."
               "I shall not mention it to any one," replied Violet, though her cheeks burned a little as she thought of her letter to Jasper, and the hint which she had given Dora of the state of the case, too. She had done so, however, only that they might not misjudge her, and she had no fears that it would reach Mr. Langdon's ear through them. She would not have mentioned it to any one else, even without her mother's caution, for she did not wish to add in the slightest degree to Laura's troubles, and she was too proud to seek sympathy for herself in that way.
               She was very glad of Laura's company, however, for she was only two years older than Violet, and between the two, the warmest affection had always existed. Eliza seemed to them more like an elder sister, as she was five years older than Laura, and was married at the age of nineteen.
               Mr. Langdon usually called in the afternoon, and sat on the little rustic lounge on the shaded porch with Violet, reading aloud to her from some favorite poet, or telling her tales of his mother, and of his boy-hood.
               "I must go down to the city soon," he said, one day, "to make some purchases for myself, and complete some arrangements for our journey. I have been thinking of it for some time, and I believe, if the day is fine, I will go to-morrow."
               "Shall you be absent long?"
               "Do you care?" he asked with a smile.
               "You know very well, that I do."
               "No, my dear. I shall be away but two or three days, at most. I think, if I take the early train tomorrow morning. I shall return on the evening of the next day, unless something occurs to detain me, which is not at all probable."
               He bade her good-by, when he left, saying he would send her a note in the morning, if he decided to go. The next morning when she received her usual bouquet a note came also, saying that he should be gone before it reached her.
               Mrs. Hamilton at once decided that an unusual amount of fitting should be done that morning, as Mr. Langdon would not call in the afternoon, and Violet might lie down and rest if she desired.
               "There, my dear," she said at last, when Violet was almost ready to drop with fatigue, and Miss Giles declared herself tired, "we shall not need you again to-day, and perhaps not to-morrow. You had better go to your room and take a nap before lunch."
               "Violet went out to follow her mother's advice, and met her sister Eliza at the head of the stairs.
               "Good-morning, pet," said Mrs. Stanton, kissing her affectionately. "I ran down to help a little with the sewing to-day, and to see the pretty things which mamma has been buying for our birdie."
               "Of course you didn't come to see me," said Laura, who, hearing her sister's voice, rushed out of the sewing-room to meet her, "you only came to see Violet's dresses."
               "That was all."
               And Eliza gave her a warm embrace and kiss. Mrs. Hamilton threw her work aside, and marshaled her three daughters into Violet's room.
               "I am glad to see you three together once more," she said. "Girls, I am very proud of you!"
               "Violet is the bright, particular star just now," Eliza said, "but it appears to me that she is pale, this morning."
               "She is tired to death with standing like a statue to have her dresses fitted," said Mrs. Hamilton, "and besides," here she shrugged her shoulders and put on a look of mock-despair, "her devoted knight, Mr. Langdon, left town this morning, to be absent two whole days, and she is childish enough to miss his company. Don't worry, my dear, you ought to submit to his brief absence with a better grace, for I've no doubt he will bring you a handsome diamond set when he returns, to console you."
               "I haven't the slightest reason for thinking so, mamma," Violet replied.
               "But I happen to have, my dear, just from a single question which he asked me yesterday, about those precious gems. And besides, although the set of pearls which he gave you were very lovely, they were his mother's, and the only article of jewelry which he has purchased for you as yet, has been the engagement ring."
               "Come," said Eliza, "I dare say mother is right; but I want to see the dresses, and then get to work, for I must go home to-night, as Harry is not very well."
               "In a moment," Mrs. Hamilton said. "You go into the sewing-room with Laura, and take my work until I come back, for I want to look into the kitchen. Violet must lie down at once."
               Mrs. Hamilton went down stairs, and Violet 
                     thew
                     threw
                   herself upon the bed as soon as her sisters left the room. She lay and listened for her mother's return, but at last fell into a light doze.
               When she awoke she heard voices in the guest chamber, which was directly above the front parlor, her own room being over the back one, and she heard her mother and Eliza conversing about the wedding, and discussing the merits of different articles of the trousseau.
               
               "Oh, that lovely lavender silk!" exclaimed Eliza; "positively it would stand alone, it is so heavy"
               "Yes. That, with its point-lace trimmings was Laura's gift. Of course she gave her many other elegant articles, but this was the most expensive of any. Here is a lovely set of opals, a present from Mr. Mason, to wear with it. See how beautifully they look together!"
               "Splendidly!" exclaimed Eliza, emphatically.
               "And that pale blue moire," continued Mrs. Hamilton, "I bought with the money you gave me for her. It is an excellent piece, you see, and was quite low, because it is too heavy to be worn this weather. But it will be the very thing, next winter. And here is a turquoise necklace which I purchased with what James gave me for her. It matches her brooch and bracelets exactly. Weren't we fortunate? We looked fully half a day before we found it."
               "Very!" responded Eliza, apparently lost in admiration.
               "I was tired when the shopping was accomplished," said Mrs Hamilton, "but I never spare myself where the good of my children is concerned. I do want everything to pass off well, and I shall be dreadfully disappointed if Mr. Langdon doesn't bring Violet a handsome set of diamonds."
               "He will, without doubt," Eliza responded.
               Mrs. Hamilton paused a moment to recover her breath, for she had spoken so hurriedly.
               "What a sweet thing that white grenadine is mother, with the violets embroidered in it, in blue and white silk."
               "Very; that quilled white ribbon, with the blue edge, is to trim it. That is Violet's style, exactly. Here are the traveling dresses, four in all. A buff cambric for warm climates, a drab ladies' cloth, and a navy blue; this rich silver gray poplin is for the best. But you haven't seen the wedding dress. Isn't the silk splendid? so very pure; it's to be trimmed with a point-lace flounce and bertha. Here is the veil, a present from Lena Gilbert. Isn't she generous? The wreath is to go so—with that spray falling to the left. The dress will have an immense train, of course."
               "So they are going to Europe," Eliza said.
               "Oh, certainly. Yes, that dove-colored silk is Quakerish, that was Laura's choice. She gave Violet this box of light-colored gloves. You've no idea, my dear, of the immense amount of shopping we accomplished."
               "It would hardly be worth your while to get up such an extensive outfit if Violet were going to marry Jasper, would it? She can't hear me, I suppose!" and she motioned toward Violet's room.
               "Oh, no. She never listens; she is sick of the things already, and besides, she is asleep. I looked in a moment when I came up. You may say whatever you please."
               "I want to tell you something about Jasper, then, while I have the opportunity. He has been dangerously ill with fever, and I fancied that Violet's engagement had something to do with it, perhaps, for I heard of his illness on the day I received your letter announcing that she was engaged."
               "I don't think that he could have heard of it so soon. I hope you were not so imprudent as to suggest such a thing."
               "Oh, no indeed! trust me for that. I'm too much like yourself, mother."
               "I know it, my dear, excuse me. I'm glad I have one daughter that I can make a confidant of, in perfect safety. You'd better not mention Jasper's name at all to Laura, for you know her ideas of love are very peculiar."
               "Yes, I know," Eliza answered significantly. "But while we are upon the subject, I wish to tell you something further about Jasper, and then we will dismiss him, for the day. His uncle has returned from the west, broken in health, and rich as Crœsus. He is going to make Jasper his heir, and as soon as he recovers from the fever they are going to leave Meadville, Jasper is going to college, and then to study for a physician, I believe."
               Mrs. Hamilton sat down, pale with astonishment.
               "Are you sure of this, Eliza?" she gasped.
               "Perfectly. Mr. Lambert himself assured me that it was quite true. Jasper is not going back to the store at all. Mr. Lambert is sorry to lose him, for he loves him almost like a son, and he said he intended to take Jasper into partnership with himself as soon as he was of age, although he rejoices at the boy's good fortune. Every one seems to be glad, for Jasper is certainly a great favorite in Meadville; that we cannot deny. He is a very good boy, and I am sure I myself wish him no harm."
               Eliza could not forbear from giving that parting shot, for although she was just as obedient to her mother as ever, she had really, in her heart, pitied Jasper.
               Mrs. Hamilton was silent. For once—almost the first time in her life, she feared she had made a mistake. She soon rose, however, went to the window, and threw open the blinds, to look out. But even the sight of Bloom-Centre, in all its mid-summer beauty, could not fully reassure her. But it was too late to falter now.
               "See, Eliza," she said, "that is to be your sister's future home. I shall be a proud woman when my daughter is mistress of that magnificent place. They will return to take possession of it before the holidays—Mr. Langdon and Violet, for her health is rather feeble, and I warned him not to be absent long. I suppose they will have a splendid reception when they return, and Violet will wear her lavender silk and the opals, or perhaps the moire and the pearls—unless she has something more elegant, by that time."
               She closed the blinds and sat down again, for she was very pale, and almost purple about the lips.
               "Are you ill, mother?" Eliza asked, in alarm.
               "Hush!" Mrs. Hamilton spoke faintly, "not one word to the girls. I shall be better in a moment. You may go up to my room and bring me that bottle of ammonia from my stand; and be noiseless, remember."
               The ammonia was brought and Mrs. Hamilton caught the bottle in her hand and quickly swallowed a portion of its contents.
               "You will scald your mouth and throat, mother," Eliza said, in alarm; "let me get you some water."
               "No, remain where you are. Better do that than worse, no one must think that I falter."
               She rose and commenced putting away the laces and jewels she had been showing Eliza.
               "I'm better," she said; "this planning and working wears upon me, and I am not so young as I once was. I lie awake at night thinking about the wedding—you see I wish to have everything so nice."
               "But you must not wear yourself out with it all," said Eliza, thinking her mother had suddenly become worn.
               "I do not mean to do so. Remember you are not to say a word to Laura or Violet, about Jasper—not one word. I don't wish Violet to hear of this until she is married. Jasper will be well then, and she will not care. When you go home, caution Dora Lambert about mentioning it, and be careful about your caution."
               "Don't fear for me, mother, I understand you perfectly."
               "And, Eliza!"
               "Yes, mother."
               "I wish you would take Laura home with you tonight, for a short visit; you can take some of the plainer work as a pretense, and Violet is really tired out with so much fitting. I wish to be alone for a day or so, for. I must plan the wedding supper, so as to send word to Lena Gilbert what I shall need in the city."
               "I will do as you wish in everything."
               "Thank you. It will be the only opportunity Laura will have for visiting you, for we shall be so very busy toward the last, and she is to return with Mr. Mason immediately after the wedding."
               "I shall be delighted to have her go."
               "And one thing more. I want you to come and stay with me, well—say a week before the wedding, and bring your chambermaid, Betty, with you. Your cook can make out for James, during that time. I have been to so much expense already, that I wish to economize in every particular, when it is possible to do so."
               "You may rely upon me, mother. Is there anything else you would like to say before we go back to the sewing-room? I am afraid Laura will think we are a long time looking at the things."
               "Nothing more now. Yes, we must go in. Lunch will be late to-day. I hear your father down stairs already. Go down—you and Laura, and entertain him while I hurry up Jane, and give some necessary directions to Miss Giles."
               Eliza went down as her mother directed, and Mrs. Hamilton went to the kitchen. After giving the orders for lunch, she stole up stairs and entered Violet's room.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               
                  
                     
                        "Could you come back to me, Douglas,
                        In the old likeness that I knew,
                        I would be so faithful, so loving, Douglas,
                        Douglas, Douglas, tender and true."
                     
                  
               
               Violet lay half-listening to the voices of her mother and Eliza, scarcely heeded what they said, until her sister spoke Jasper's name. Then she rose up in the bed, and listened attentively, until Eliza had finished her story.
               Jasper was ill—had been dangerously so—she had almost killed him! The thoughts flew like lightning through her troubled mind. He was well when he answered her letter, or he could not have written; and Eliza heard of his illness and her engagement in the same day. She knew her mother had written to Eliza immediately after her betrothal. She had never meant to pain him, and yet, how much he must have suffered by her mother's sin, and her own weakness.
               And Jasper's uncle has returned; Jasper would be rich now. If this had occurred a week ago she might have been his wife some day, but now it was something she must never think of, and quite impossible. If he had not been the playmate of her childhood—if he had not been so closely associated with all her past life, it would have been easier to forget him, but now it was hard.
               She was weak, and weary, and she forgot the present—forgot how kind Mr. Langdon was, and that she loved him as much as she could ever love any one now. Jasper was ill, and she was the cause. She had loved him once, it was not four months since his kisses were upon her lips—how far apart they were now!
               Mrs. Hamilton came into the room and found Violet still sitting upon the bed, her face as white as marble, and that strange, far-seeing look in her eyes. Still she had no suspicion that her daughter had heard Eliza's remarks, and, being in a nervous state of mind herself, she approached the bed saying:
               "Violet! why do you look so strangely?"
               "Mother!" she gasped, "Jasper—it might have been!"
               "Yes, Violet," Mrs. Hamilton answered, more patiently, for she now perceived that Violet had heard all, "it might have been, but it cannot be now. It is useless and idle to mourn over what might have been—brave hearts seldom do it; they press forward, and by the earnest future redeem the past!"
               "But where one has done wrong! Oh, we can never cease to mourn past errors—it is so hard to blot them out!"
               
               "You have not done wrong, Violet; if any evil has been accomplished, I am the one who is guilty, I will bear all the consequences, I will take all the blame upon myself."
               "But you cannot!" Violet exclaimed. "You have sowed the wind, but I must reap the whirlwind!"
               "My daughter, calm yourself. It is useless to grieve so. The girls would think it so very strange to see you thus excited, and remember you are Mr. Langdon's promised wife. What has been done, cannot be undone. We must make the best of it. Mr. Langdon has been so good and kind—try to be quiet for his sake. I cannot bear that he should be annoyed by anything passing in the house now."
               "Yes, he is good and kind," Violet echoed, "and for his sake I will be quiet. I would do anything for his sake; for, weak and strange as am, I do love him!"
               "Laura is going home with Eliza, to-night, and after they are gone I will nurse you up a little, and you will feel like yourself once more. I am sorry you overheard our conversation, but it is the last shock of the kind you will receive, and perhaps it is better to have it over."
               "It is for the best no doubt," Violet said, rising with an effort.
               The lunch bell rang, and, smoothing her hair, Violet followed her mother down stairs, seeing nothing; hearing nothing, though there was a sound of laughter and the hum of cheerful conversation below.
               Mrs. Hamilton tried to attract the attention away from Violet by a constant flow of cheerful conversation. It was an effort for her to do so, however; and she felt greatly relieved when the meal was over. Leaving Violet with her father and sisters, Mrs. Hamilton went up to her room.
               "Who would have thought that this could have turned out so?" she asked herself. "I might have waited a little time, but I did not think Violet loved Jasper so deeply. She has a very strange nature, and I mistook it because she has yielded to me so readily before. If I could have 
                     forseen
                     foreseen
                   that Dr. Irving would return and take such a fancy to Jasper; or even if I had known it would have affected Violet in this manner, I would not have done what is in the past, so far gone that it cannot be recalled. Jasper would not have made as brilliant a match for her as Mr. Langdon, for it is something to have a daughter mistress of Bloom-Centre; but I don't think it would influence her in the least. I did not speak the truth when I said that I would rather see her dead than Jasper's wife. It would kill me if she were to die now, after that."
               Eliza and Laura left soon after dinner. Violet went up to her room and finding Miss Giles did not need her again that evening, she locked the door to prevent interruption. Then she opened the drawer which contained all the little souvenirs of Jasper's affection, and drew them out, one by one.
               They were trifling love tokens, each bringing up a crowd of sweet recollections, which must be exorcised forever more.
               She closed the blinds and lighted the gas. The grate was freshly polished and empty, the hearth black and shining. Violet slowly gathered the remembrances together, and placed them, one by one, upon the grate, the violets which they had gathered upon the day when she saw Jasper last, laying upon the top. Then, striking a match, she lighted the package which had once been so precious to her, and watched the red flames leap up and consume it, until only the dead ashes lay upon the polished hearth below.
               "I have nothing left to remind me of him now," she said. "What did I say? Can I blot out all the memories of my youth? If I only could! I would throw all my memories of him into the flames and consume them, as I have consumed his gifts which were once so precious to me! Oh, Memory! will you ever torture me as you do now?"
               She rose and glanced hurriedly about the room, as if in search of something to divert her thoughts. The bouquet of roses, lilies, and other sweet flowers which Mr. Langdon had sent her that morning stood in its vase upon the stand.
               She caught it up and kissed the sweet flower petals, but while she kissed them her thoughts stole away to that soft spring day when the violets had been gathered whose ashes now was strewn over the grate, dull and grey.
               "Why do those violets haunt me?" she cried, "and why will the old love haunt me when both are dead—when there is nothing left of either but the ashes—the bitter ashes!"
               Alas! 
                     
                        —"The rarest of roses made the air sweet:
                        But she thought of a blossom-time—precious and fleet—
                        Till the ghost of dead violets over her shed
                        Lost odors instead."
                     
                  
               
               Mrs. Hamilton, who had been detained down in the parlor by a chance caller, now came up to her daughter's room. She found Violet musing drearily, with the fragrant bouquet in her hand.
               "Violet," she said, "you must no longer indulge in thoughts and dreams of Jasper—it is wrong for you to do so now."
               "Do you see the ashes in the grate, mother? I have burned all his gifts to me—the little mementoes of him which I had treasured tenderly for years." Her voice was unsteady, but her face was cold and hard.
               "That is quite right, my child. I am glad you take so correct a view of the matter. After all, it is best as it is; Jasper would be only a clever clown, if wealthy; while Mr. Langdon, who was born rich, is very stylish-looking indeed."
               The blood suddenly flamed up in Violet's cheeks.
               "Mother," she said, "I gave up Jasper and his love at your bidding—now you must yield to a request of mine. Never mention his name again in my presence, or I will not answer for the consequences. He is no clown—he is noble and good, and will make his mark some day. But that is nothing to me now. I wish to forget him; to forget forever all remembrances of my childhood, and live only in the present hour.
               "Mr. Langdon is, thank God! a gentleman—one of the noblest of men. I shall make him a faithful and obedient wife—nay, I shall be cheerful, too, because he loves me unselfishly, and his presence gives me peace. I cannot love him with the fullness and completeness of true devotion, because only the ashes of my love and life remain.
               "I said to Jasper on the last night I saw his face, that my life must be uprooted with my love for him, they were so intermingled and grown together. I was right. My love for him is consumed—and a thing of the past. My life will soon follow it—even now I scarcely seem to have any capacity for hope or joy. Another, stronger than I, might have risen Phœnix-like, from such a ruin, but I have no such vivifying power. All seems dull, and cold, and death-like as the grave.
               "I shall not live long—not very long, mother, but while I do, my one purpose shall be to gratify the wishes of Mr. Langdon, in every possible way. Sometimes when I have met his dear, loving glances, I have been sorely tempted to tell him how I had wronged him, in thus giving him in return for all his tenderness and devotion, only the ashes of my love and life!"
               "Violet," Mrs. Hamilton said, "you are mad to speak thus!" And she rose in alarm.
               Violet smiled, a bitter, scornful smile.
               "All my wretchedness does not touch you, does it, mamma? but when I speak of exposure, you stop me, for I am surely mad."
               "You must know it would be madness to do what you speak of. We would be ridiculed by the whole country round."
               "Do not fear me, mamma; believe me, I have no such design now. Mr. Langdon's peace and happiness are too dear to me for such an exposure. There is no being upon the earth that I respect more than I do him. If he should ask me if I ever loved before, I will tell him that I loved Jasper once, but now, no more than I do the other friends of my childhood. This will be the truth. I shall never tell him one word of your interference and commands, for I would not grieve him by such a disclosure. I shall never see Jasper again, shall never think of him if I can help it, but will try to blot out the past—bitter and sweet, and live in the present only, for I have not hopes or desires enough to look forward to the future. My husband's happiness shall be my first duty—I thank God that to me it will be a pleasant one."
               "My child, do you think I would have forced an unpleasant marriage upon you?"
               "You gave me your commands before you knew whether Mr. Langdon was distasteful to me or not. Yes, mamma, I believe you would."
               "I did not think him distasteful to any one."
               "Do you not love Laura—my darling—the truest sister upon earth, and a true daughter, too? Did not you give her sweet young life up to the most horrible slavery? A slavery which she bears with the heroism of a martyr, it is true, but none the less galling on that account."
               "Go on, Violet. A mother may look for nothing but ingratitude from a child. She may be ever so faithful, may make a thousand sacrifices for its sake, yet if she fail—in the judgment of the child, mind you—in one particular, it is remembered against her forever, and the devotion of years is forgotten. I am only vindicating myself—not reproaching you, for I know you are nervous to-night; only, if you should ever have a child, you will realize the truth of what I say."
               Violet's face flushed hotly.
               "If I should ever have a child, mamma," she answered, "I would never make it the instrument to accomplish my ambitious purposes. It should never say, 'I might have been happy in my married life, only for the interference of my mother.'"
               "If your daughter were about to marry an unprincipled man, would you not warn her against him?"
               "If I knew he was unprincipled? Yes, I would do more than warn her, if it was necessary to save her from him. If the man of her choice lacked the ability to provide for her properly, I would advise her against him. But if he had energy, and his only fault was that he was poor, I would not dare to interfere with her happiness."
               Mrs. Hamilton was silent. She was astonished to hear Violet, who seemed the very soul of gentleness, address her in this manner. But she wished to soothe her, if possible, for in the present state of her mind, she feared an exposure of some sort. She excused herself to Mr. Hamilton, saying that Violet was a trifle nervous, and as Laura was away, she thought it best to pass the night with her.
               She conversed with Violet for a short time upon commonplace topics, something she thought might quiet her, and then prepared a simple, sedative draught for her. Violet took it and retired at once. Mrs. Hamilton soon after put out the light, and lay down by her daughter's side.
               Violet soon slept, a troubled sleep, starting and sighing alternately; but her mother lay awake far into the night. Mrs. Hamilton's conscience was usually a very accommodating one. So long as her schemes worked smoothly, it seemed to slumber, no matter what means she employed to insure their success. But when she met with a failure it caused her great annoyance. She told herself she ought to be a happy woman, for she was envied by so many less fortunate than she; but she acknowledged in the same breath that she had not felt so utterly downcast and miserable in years before.
               "I did what I thought for the best," she said, "and what is done, is done. I cannot recall the past. If I could, with my present knowledge, I would act differently ently. I may have erred in judgment, perhaps, but, even so, I cannot think why my conscience should upbraid me. I am sure no one knows what I have done. John doesn't even dream of it. He never observes very closely anything that passes around him; and he did not know that Jasper and Violet loved each other. I hope he will not find it out—I hope no one will find it out!"
               She awoke early in the morning, heavy-eyed and pale. Violet seemed unusually calm, but so silent and taciturn, Mrs. Hamilton was afraid of a reaction. She thought it best to avoid referring to the forbidden subject, but she was ill at ease, and felt thankful when Laura returned on the noon train, saying she thought Violet might be a trifle lonesome, as she seemed so still and pale the day before, and she had come home to amuse her.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               The day had been a dreary one to Mrs. Hamilton; and when the evening twilight came on, she went down and took her place in the parlor. She expected Mr. Langdon this evening, and she was busily engaged in planning an excuse for Violet's paleness and apparent indisposition.
               "I might say she was ill," she thought, "but she persists in proclaiming that she is quite well. I wish she had not put on white to-day, it makes her look so like a ghost!"
               But this was not the worst of it. She was afraid Mr. Langdon might question Violet too closely in regard to the cause of her depressed spirits, and the manner in which she had passed her time during his absence; and she knew that Violet was not given to prevarication, and might, without previously intending to do so, betray enough of her history to arouse his suspicions, at least.
               "Violet believes in him," she said, "in that is my only hope. She knows very well that if she were to tell him the whole story, dismiss him and subject me to ridicule, I would never allow her to marry Jasper, though he were the richest person on earth. And she would miss Mr. Langdon's love and devotion sorely, too; for I believe it is her greatest comfort now. She is far less manageable than Laura was, but Laura had never loved; and besides, Violet has seen enough of her sister's married life to convince her—without one word of acknowledgment from Laura—that she is very unhappy."
               For some moments she seemed engaged in thought.
               "I have it!" she exclaimed; "I will see him first, and will manage to make him think Violet has missed him sadly. This is strictly true, and will account in a most satisfactory manner, to him, for her paleness and despondency. He will not question her further, and all may yet be well."
               The door-bell rang, and Jane ushered Mr. Langdon into the parlor.
               "I am very glad to see you," Mrs. Hamilton said.
               She seemed unusually nervous and excited, and Mr. Langdon could not fail to observe it.
               "I hope Violet is quite well," he asked, quickly.
               "She is not ill, but I think she has missed you more than she would be willing to confess. She is quite childish yet, Mr. Langdon."
               His face brightened.
               "I'm glad she is," he said. "May I see her?"
               "Certainly," Mrs. Hamilton replied, briskly. "I'll go and see if Jane has announced your arrival."
               She met Violet on the stairs. Her cheeks were flushed now, but the dark shadows were still about her eyes.
               "I know he is here, mamma."
               She stooped and kissed her mother as if in token of peace, and passed slowly down the staircase.
               The kiss relieved Mrs. Hamilton of all lingering doubt as to the happy result of the interview; and she went up to chat with Laura about the arrangements for the wedding, with renewed interest.
               Mr. Langdon was not demonstrative, being usually very quiet and dignified in manner. Violet was glad of this, and there was more to her in his sincere and gentle greeting than there could be in the most enthusiastic praise.
               "Are you as glad to see me as I am to be with you again, I wonder?" he asked.
               "I am very glad," she answered, gravely, but sincerely.
               She could not smile, for she was thinking that this man had given her his whole heart, and she had none to give him in return. Only the shadow of a love she felt for him, she knew it now, and this depended altogether upon his affection for her. She respected him, liked him, was glad of his companionship only because he loved her so devoutly, for her own heart was so hungry and so sore, his tenderness toward her seemed like healing balm.
               He was at heart a gentleman, and she knew they would live quietly and peacefully together; perhaps happiness would come by and by. But if it were otherwise—if he were dissipated, or passionate, or even neglectful of her, she knew her love for him would not withstand these tests. All day she had reproached herself with these thoughts; and now, when he had come back expectant, happy, she could not meet him with a smile.
               "Why are you so sorrowful?" he asked. "You, surely, after all that has passed, cannot regret our engagement?"
               "No," she said, "oh, no! But I am tired! I wish it was over and we were away, out of sight of everything that I have ever seen before; for I am tired of everything and every one but you."
               He was surprised at her impetuous manner, but supposed that she had met with some petty annoyance; for, though Mrs. Hamilton was usually so mild and serene before him, he fancied she liked others to bow to her will. Besides, she had said that very night that Violet was childish, and perhaps she was. She had a right to be so, certainly, for she was only a child in years.
               "I am glad you are not tired of me," he said, with a smile, trying to quiet her.
               "I was wrong to speak as I did," she continued, still seeming nervous and excited. "I have so many good and true friends, and so many blessings that others would enjoy. I appreciate them at times, but now I am too weary to take much interest in anything. I am only glad that you are so good to me, only thankful that you are so true."
               Her eyes were brimming with silent tears, and they dropped over her cheeks as fast as the tears of a child. They seemed like childish tears to Mr. Langdon, who could not guess how bitter they were, or how sorely and rebelliously her heart was beating in her breast. So he drew her to his knee as he would have done a loved and petted child, and brushed the curls gently back from the flushed face.
               "You must not grieve so," he said; "it pains me to see it. You are the joy and hope of my life; and you seem like something better and purer than flesh and blood to me—scarcely less than an angel."
               Violet grew quiet suddenly, as still as a calm after a storm. The tears had washed the bitterness out of her heart, and his words brought relief to her mind.
               "Love is only a sublimated selfishness," she thought, "and brings its own reward. Mr. Langdon is content and happy because he loves me, and I need not fear, hereafter, that I am wronging him by accepting his love."
               "We are having April weather," Mr. Langdon said, laughing. "Clouds, showers, and then a calm; I'm not sure but we shall have sunshine in a moment."
               "I believe you always carry sunshine about with you," Violet answered, with a smile. "You always have the power to spirit away any clouds that are lingering about my mind."
               It was late when he bade her good-night. As he left he placed a package in her hand, saying:
               "It is for you, but don't open it until I am gone."
               Violet thanked him and went up to her room, where her mother and Laura were awaiting her.
               
               "Somebody's eyes are brighter than they have been before, to-day," Laura said, with a smile.
               "Because I am happier, perhaps."
               "What have you in your hand, my dear?"
               Mrs. Hamilton's voice grated harshly on Violet's ear.
               "I don't know," she said, "Mr. Langdon gave it to me."
               She opened the package, uttering a cry of surprise, as she saw the flash and glitter she unclosed. It was a jewel case containing a set of diamonds magnificent enough to satisfy even Mrs. Hamilton's ambitious desires.
               Time sped swiftly, until it lacked but one week to the wedding day. Lena Gilbert received numerous commissions, and at last arrived with a box of provisions large enough to have lasted Robinson Crusoe during his solitary sojourn on his island.
               "My darling!" she exclaimed, as Laura met her at the depot, "I thought I should never see your face again! Positively the train stopped at every farmhouse on the way. And one old gentleman who was in the same car with me remarked that the conductor must be a traveling physician, who stopped to attend his patients upon the route. Really, if it is true, his practice must be immense."
               "You should have taken an express," Laura said, "for some of the way trains are very tedious."
               "But I missed the express, my dear."
               "I half expected that Mr. Mason would come up with you," said Laura, although she felt relieved at the thought of another week of quiet.
               "I wholly expected it," replied Lena, laughing. "But I thought it all over, and came to the conclusion that he would be dreadfully in the way, besides spoiling all our fun. So I pictured to him, in my most graphic style, the dire confusion which would reign supreme at your mother's this week—early breakfasts, cold dinners and the like—and added, by way on making my homily more effective, that it would be so convenient to have him here, now of all times; for, as Mrs. Hamilton would impress every one into her service, she would, without doubt, appoint him as errand boy, at once."
               "Oh, Lena!"
               "I did, indeed. And I really begged of him to accompany me out to the confectioner's, before I started. He declared that he would not go up until the day before the wedding, so I came away before he had time to change his mind. Don't look so shocked, my dear. I managed it splendidly, I assure you, and it was real fun."
               "If that huge box is filled with provisions, we will be well supplied, with that, and what has been prepared at home," said Laura.
               "It is rather large, isn't it! Well, to tell the truth, I bought rather more than Mrs. Hamilton directed—father thought I had better, and he added a case of champagne, too, with his usual generosity. He really as very generous, don't you think so, Laura?"
               "Oh, very; but here we are."
               "A neat house for this town, isn't it, Laura? And a pretty street, too;" and she ran up the steps and pulled the bell.
               Jane soon appeared at the door, and Lena rushed in, followed by Laura.
               Mrs. Hamilton greeted Lena in her mock affectionate, patronizing way, which led her to wonder whether her hostess was in earnest, or not. She was shown to the second-best chamber, with the excuse that the house was rather crowded. Mrs. Hamilton then left her to herself, but Laura ran up immediately.
               "What a peculiar woman your mother is—isn't she, Laura? She has the air of a duchess, positively. Do you know, when she packed me off up here I felt as though I was some poor relation that she was tucking away in a place altogether too good for me? She's very handsome, at any rate."
               Laura smiled, but did not reply.
               "Is the house really so crowded that I shall be in the way?" she continued, as Laura still sat in silence, with an odd little smile on her face.
               "No, indeed!" she returned. "We expected you, and were very glad indeed, to have you come. There is plenty of room. Mother's way is a little lofty, but you should not mind it. I thought you were accustomed to such things."
               "So I am, but this was a little unexpected. Oh, I don't mind it in the least; on the contrary, it is very amusing. I never saw her much, except when you were married, but I think I shall like her exceedingly. Father likes her. He says she is a splendid mother-in-law, for she never interferes with him in the least. I'm ready to go down now. Isn't it almost dinner time? I'm fearfully hungry."
               "Yes, dinner will be ready in a few minutes."
               "Where is Violet?"
               "In her room. Would you like to see her now? She would rather you would waive all ceremony; so we will go and see her there."
               "You little darling!" Lena exclaimed, as Violet came forward and welcomed her in her frank way. "Do you know I'm going to be desperately fond of you? and I don't like every one, I assure you!"
               "She doesn't like every one, Violet dear, do you hear?" said Laura, laughing. "Of course, if she is pleased to be so condescending in your case, you must regard it in the light of an especial favor."
               "I see how it is," retorted Lena, with mock-seriousness. "Do you know, Violet, I had that young lady reduced to a beautiful state of subjection before she left me; and now, though she has been away from me only a little more than a month, observe the liberties she takes, and before people, too! No matter, my dear. I'll wait until we go home before I call you to account."
               And so she rattled on. It was best, perhaps, for Laura and Violet that she did so, for both had grown more restless as the wedding approached. Laura's mind had scarcely a fear for Violet's happiness, but there is more or less anxiety attendant upon any marriage, however happy; and the final preparations brought haunting memories of the time when she—unloved and unloving—became a wretched wife.
               Susan, Laura's maid, had become greatly attached to Violet, and, as she was faithful and trustworthy, Laura determined to give her up to her sister altogether.
               "Susan has traveled with me a great deal," she said, "and will be invaluable to you. You will need a maid you can trust entirely, and Susan is kind-hearted and true."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVII.
               The morning of the wedding day arrived. Everything about Mrs. Hamilton's house was in perfect order, except, perhaps, the kitchen, where Eliza was busily engaged, superintending the final preparations for the supper.
               It was to be an evening wedding, at the house, for morning and church weddings were not fashionable at that time. The rooms were all decorated with white flowers, but in the parlors they were placed in every conceivable spot. Bloom-Centre had, for the time, been almost robbed of its floral treasures. The front windows, which were curtained with crimson, were festooned with flowers, and decorated with wreaths; for here, Mrs. Hamilton had decided the bridal party were to stand.
               Mrs. Hamilton, after looking through the house to assure herself that everything was in order, had gone up to her room for a little repose. Laura and Violet sat together in the guest-chamber, both pale, both listless, and neither speaking a word, except when Lena put her head inside the door to "stir them up a little," as she said. Then for the fourteenth time, she went down in the kitchen to beg Eliza for the privilege of assisting her.
               Eliza, who was directing Jane and Betty about the table, instructing Susan concerning the dressing-rooms for the evening, and preparing a chicken-salad at the same time, looked up from the salad-bowl with the shadow of a frown upon her face, and said if Lena would only keep out of the kitchen, she would confer a lasting favor upon her, for she was both busy and cross.
               Lena laughed, and declared she would take charge of the tables. Eliza knowing she was quite competent to do so, turned to her salad with a sigh of relief.
               Mr. Mason and George Gilbert, who arrived the previous evening, had lounged over to Mr. Hamilton's office for a chat. They were soon joined by James Stanton, who had taken a holiday.
               Mr. Langdon, with his usual thoughtfulness, had invited the gentlemen to dine with him at three o'clock, and sent his carriage accordingly. Mrs. Hamilton was especially grateful for this, as she knew Eliza felt unequal to the task of getting up a "company dinner" on that day. So the ladies all took an informal lunch and cup of tea in the kitchen.
               The tables were all set at last, waiters engaged to be in readiness at the required hour, and Mrs. Hamilton and Eliza left the kitchen. A council was held in the guest-chamber, and it was decided that Lena and Laura should assist Susan with Violet's toilet, and Mrs. Hamilton and Eliza were to dress early, to be in readiness for anything that might occur.
               Mrs. Hamilton stole up to her room, shut and locked the door.
               "I wish it was all over," she said, wearily. "I thought I should be so proud and happy—so triumphant over my friends and acquaintances, both in Meadville and in Clinton. But since Violet reproached me so bitterly upon the evening of the day she heard of Jasper's illness, I have not had the same heart for anything. She seems to have conquered her love for Jasper, for she has never spoken of him in any way since, but the struggle has broken her health and spirits. Laura seems to be able to bear any amount of trouble, but she was always stronger than Violet. They are both unlike me in disposition, very unlike me. I hope Violet will rally, and a change of climate may benefit her health. Mr. Langdon loves her so well he will watch over her carefully, better than I could do, for she believes in him, and though I grieve to acknowledge it—she has lost all faith in me."
               She rose and slowly commenced her toilet. She wished to look unusually well to-night. Sitting down before her mirror, she combed out her long hair and let it fall over her shoulders.
               "I am fifty," she said, "but not old. I have no gray hairs as yet, I think, though they don't show so soon through the yellow as in black."
               There was a tap at the door. Mrs. Hamilton opened it, and Eliza entered the room, dressed for the evening.
               "Am I presentable, mother?" she asked.
               "Yes, my dear. I am very proud of you. You have more of my stateliness about you, Eliza, than either Laura or Violet."
               "Although I am not as fair in face."
               Mrs. Hamilton smiled.
               "Exactly so," she said, with a nod which sent the lights and shadows dancing through her wavy hair. "You are far from plain, however, Eliza; and as for your sisters——"
               "I have never seen two other women more beautiful."
               "My dear, you are quite right. I know you are as proud of them as I am. We have a right to be proud of them, too. But you, my child, are a wonderful ful comfort to me. Your clear-sightedness and good judgment never seem to fail in time of need. You have been an invaluable assistant to me in this, and I look forward to quiet days and pleasant visits with you when it is over and Violet gone."
               The weary look came back to her face, and she sighed. Eliza's eyes grew humid with pity, for never before had she seen her mother so worn and sad as of late.
               "Mother," she said, earnestly, "I love you, and would do anything in my power to relieve you of care and trouble."
               "I know it—I believe you, my dear child. I shall be better in a day or two, for I am over-excited now. I am afraid, even yet, something will happen to prevent—I mean, to mar the wedding. Go down, please, and see if the girls are dressed. It is quite time, for the bridesmaids arrived nearly an hour ago."
               Eliza went down as directed, and soon returned.
               "They are all dressed," she said. "Have you seen Laura?"
               "No, but I am expecting her to come up every moment. She promised to do so, if I was not already down stairs."
               "I think Mr. Mason called her. The more I see of that man, the less I like him. He addresses Laura, at times, as though she was a servant—Laura, who used to be so high-spirited and so proud. And she obeys him like a child. I know she fears him; or perhaps she obeys him for the sake of peace."
               Mrs. Hamilton made no reply to Eliza's remarks. When she spoke, it was to change the subject.
               "How does Laura look?" she asked.
               "Magnificently! I cannot tell which is the most beautiful, she, or Violet. Her dress is a lovely shade of pink, with, an over-skirt of white point-lace—a splendid pattern, like frost-work and mist—looped up with delicate peach-blossoms, and there are peach-blooms in her hair. She wears her diamonds. Her lips are scarlet, her eyes glittering. I would give anything for her ease and self-possession. She manages a train superbly, too."
               Mrs. Hamilton interrupted her here. The thought that her daughters would cast every one else in the shade, drove all pain and weariness away,
               "Of course Laura wears her diamonds," she said. "I would never have it hinted that she had them reset for Violet. But you are very self-possessed and graceful, Eliza. No daughter of mine could be otherwise."
               Eliza smiled quietly to herself at her mother's last remark, as she went down stairs. She was looking well to-night, in a dress of rich green silk with black lace trimmings; jewelry of heavy gold, and blush roses in her dark hair.
               Mrs. Hamilton was ready at last, and went down to where Violet was waiting, with her bridesmaids, for Mr. Langdon and the groomsmen's arrival. They were all ready. Laura sat by Violet's side, holding her hand. Adela Burgoine was next, looking remarkably well in white, with scarlet trimmings. Dora, seeming pale and quiet, sat next, and beside her, in white and blue, looking really frightened, was Sarah Hinton. Lena Gilbert, in a handsome straw-colored silk, was flitting about, laughing and chatting to herself, apparently, as no one replied.
               "Come in, Mrs. Hamilton," she said, "we are going to have a wedding, not a funeral, though you would never guess it, by the girls' faces."
               Mrs. Hamilton smiled as she passed in, the long train of her gray silk dress trailing the carpet. Her hair was becomingly arranged, and ornamented by a barb of point-lace, fastened with a soft-colored salmon rose. Her dress draped her Juno-like figure perfectly, and a rich lace shawl drooped gracefully from her shoulders.
               "You look young enough for a bride yourself, Mrs. Hamilton," Lena said, admiringly.
               Mrs. Hamilton had only time to smile in acknowledgement, when the gentlemen were announced. Laura rose and surrendered her place to Mr. Langdon, just as Mr. Mason put his head inside the door.
               "Laura," he called, "I want you a moment."
               She went out at his bidding, and found him standing before the mirror in his room, eyeing himself with a dissatisfied air.
               "Laura," he said, "that stupid Perkins has certainly forgotten to put the padding in the shoulders of this coat. My impression is that I look like an animated walking stick."
               "It looks very well, I think," she answered, laughing in spite of herself.
               Mr. Mason was tall and very thin, with a cast-iron expression of countenance. Though seventy, his hair was not entirely white, but still mingled with black. His beard was closely shaven, except his mustache, which was long, thin and white, giving him a singular appearance. His eyes were very gray, deep-set and small, cold and dull, at times, but when angry, sharp and piercing.
               "Are you laughing at me, madam?" he asked angrily. "If you can find nothing better to do than to make fun of me, I will not stir one step out of this room to-night, nor shall you!"
               "I was not laughing at you," she answered, "only at what you said."
               He seemed 
                     molified
                     mollified
                  , but as yet was hardly decided in his mind whether to enjoy the evening or not. He felt aggrieved in some way, he could not tell how or why.
               "All humbug, this!" he growled. "So much parade, and flash, and glitter, and good clothes, without a particle of enjoyment about it; all to see a couple of idiots make fools of themselves."
               He paused here, expecting Laura to laugh. She smiled.
               "So idiots make fools of themselves. That is a new idea," she said.
               "It is a new idea," he laughed, "and quite original. I think it is far from bad, myself. But, positively, you are very handsome to-night, Laura. You will cast the bride completely in the shade."
               "I am glad you like my dress," she said. "But you must wait until you see Violet before you give your verdict."
               "It must be a very homely girl indeed that doesn't look well in her bridal robes. It's not very long since you made a very handsome bride yourself—eh, Laura?"
               "Did I?" she asked, wistfully. "I wish I could please you always."
               "You do," he replied, with an air of pompous generosity. "You do, my dear. But you know that 'variety is the spice of life,' and a little discussion at times is very amusing, indeed."
               "Oh, very," echoed Laura, drearily.
               "I don't think you understand my disposition, at all, my dear. I'm sure we should get along famously, if you did."
               "No doubt of it," she answered.
               She was glad he seemed to be in a pleasant mood at last; for when displeased with her, he did not hesitate to show it before every one.
               The hour for the marriage had now arrived, and Lena came tapping at the door to say that they were going into the parlor.
               Throughout the evening everything passed off smoothly. Mrs. Hamilton heard Violet praised by many as the most beautiful bride they had ever seen, and all agreed that Mr. Langdon was a most fortunate man. Laura was the most elegantly dressed lady in the room, and universally admired. The band, which was stationed upon the back porch, had discoursed the choicest music, and the supper was a complete success. Occasional glimpses at the mirror, had shown her that she made a pleasant picture herself, and until the last guest had departed, she was almost intoxicated with joy and triumph.
               No such wedding had ever occurred in Clinton before; and she congratulated herself that every penny expended upon it, had shown for at least twice its value. Mr. Langdon seemed very much pleased, too, and of this she was especially glad. She had feared that something might occur to mar the beauty of the scene, but now they were married, she did not fear for the future.
               "Violet did look heavenly, didn't she, Eliza?" she said, aside to her daughter. "When she was dancing, her veil floated back in the loveliest manner imaginable. I could think of nothing but an angel when I looked at her. She is a very graceful dancer, too. Mr. Langdon don was standing by my side at the time, (she was dancing with Mr. Manning,) and he said, 'I am proud of her to-night.'"
               "I was very proud of her, too," Eliza replied. "I was proud of both of my sisters, and my mother, also."
               "Thank you, my dear. But what do you think Mrs. Judge Tracy said to me during the evening?"
               "I'm sure I cannot tell," said Eliza, smiling, for she knew of the old rivalry between them.
               "She said: 'You are a remarkable woman, Mrs. Hamilton, and your daughters are wonderfully beautiful. You have done well for yourself and them, and you ought to be both proud and thankful. As an old resident of Meadville, I am proud of you myself!'"
               Mr. Mason here interrupted Mrs. Hamilton's self-congratulations in a most unexpected manner. He had been down in the deserted dining-room for a smoke, before retiring; and, as Mrs. Hamilton suspected, had helped himself too freely to the champagne.
               He had just discovered that Laura's conduct during the evening had been improper, and he expressed his dissatisfaction in the most offensive manner possible. Laura answered him quietly, trying to subdue his anger, but he ordered her peremptorily, to hold her tongue. Eliza, brimful of wrath, was about to interfere, but a deprecatory glance from Laura prevented. Mrs. Hamilton came forward and essayed to pour oil upon the troubled waters.
               "Never mind, Mr. Mason," she said, in a soothing tone (though her fingers were aching to pull his hair,) "children will be children, you know, and this is a most extraordinary occasion. Laura looked so well to-night, she ought to be allowed a little liberty. Everybody thinks you must be immensely rich to allow her to dress so handsomely."
               His pride was touched, and suddenly forgetting his passion, he concluded that it was time to retire.
               Laura turned to bid her mother and sister goodnight, with a look upon her face that haunted Mrs. Hamilton for months after. There was no unsteadiness about her lips, for they seemed too proud and reticent to seek sympathy; but her eyes wore an expression so sorrowful that it was indelibly imprinted upon her mother's memory.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               On the next morning Mr. Langdon and Violet took an early train to the city. Mr. Mason declared he would not rise so early for breakfast, and so Laura was prevented from accompanying Violet as she had intended. They made their adieus at the house, quietly, for Violet said she would not take leave of her friends before a crowd at the depot.
               They had scarcely left the house, when Mr. Mason arose, saying he was sorry he was not in time for the cars, as he had business to attend to in the city. Laura knew there was nothing pressing, but she made her preparations to go in the next train, thinking she would arrive in the city just one hour too late to see Violet before the vessel sailed.
               It was a disappointment to her to be deprived of the last few hours of Violet's society upon the cars; but her life was made up of little disappointments, many of them much more annoying and vexatious than this. So she yielded quietly, and bade her friends adieu with a smile which made Mrs. Hamilton wonder, if, after all, Laura's home was not more agreeable than she had feared.
               Mrs. Hamilton could never guess how dreary the prospect of returning to it seemed to Laura, after six weeks of rest. It was an elegant home, richly and tastefully furnished; and yet, at times, it seemed to Laura like a cold, damp prison. Two years before she had gone there, a child in experience, though a woman at heart. It was long, so long, before she could become accustomed to having her wishes thwarted on every side; for her life, until she met Mr. Mason, had been a happy one. But now she had learned to expect it, and it did not wound her feelings so deeply. With Mr. Mason's wealth at her command, and her own beauty, she might, had she chosen, have sailed upon the topmost wave of fashionable society, and this, in some measure, might have recompensed her for domestic discord. But, though she dressed elegantly, and gave splendid entertainments, fashionable life could not satisfy her. A happy home she had coveted above all things else; and this, the one desire of her heart, had been denied her.
               But she was proud, and despised pity; so she masked her feelings as much as it was possible to do. Mrs. Hamilton, whose own life had been happy, had not learned that "sobs in the heart send smiles to the lips," so, when Laura bade her good-by with a smile, she tried to cheat herself into the belief that, after all, Laura was as happy as could be expected.
               When Laura reached home she went to her room with a heavy heart. It was a lovely room, with soft carpets and rose-hued curtains, and the place where her happiest hours were spent, with her books or her music, when she was alone.
               Her ride to the city had been rendered very unpleasant by an altercation which Mr. Mason had with another testy passenger, upon that ever fruitful cause of railway quarrels—whether the windows shall be opened or closed. It was Mr. Mason's invariable rule to object to the way the passenger in the seat directly in front of him arranged the window for his own comfort. If the window was closed, Mr. Mason would request him to open it, as the air in the car was so vile it was positively suffocating. If it was open he would insist upon having it closed, for the cinders were putting his eyes out.
               Laura took a bath and attired herself in a tasteful toilet. Then she sat down to her own reflections, being too weary to read. She felt unusually tired, and wished to be alone. She had not heard Mr. Mason speak of the business he was so anxious about in the morning, but hoped it would occupy his mind for the remainder of the day. But he always liked the pleasure of giving people unpleasant surprises, so Laura had been seated but a few moments before he tapped at the door.
               "I supposed you were engaged," she said.
               "Oh, no; I came in for a chat with you, my dear; I never allow business to interfere with pleasure in any way."
               He seemed to be in a pleasant mood, and took a seat at the opposite window from Laura.
               "I'm glad we're home at last," he exclaimed. "Traveling eling is a nuisance. So are weddings and watering-places. I don't mean to stir out of the house for a year to come, unless I'm put out by the sheriff or carried out by the undertaker. I suppose the last would please you wonderfully, madam. You would not mope then as you do now. I like moping, it's so cheerful. Always mope if you feel like it, my dear. Never let 'concealment, like a worm in the bud, play on your damask cheek.' You'd be obliged to use rouge then. I declare I wish I knew whether mourning was becoming to you or not. I dare say it is, though, for I never saw you wear anything that was not. I don't quarrel with your looks, I want you to know. But then, beauty is a dangerous dower."
               She raised her superb eyes indifferently.
               "You are right," she said, "beauty is a dangerous dower."
               "Of course you know that by bitter experience," he laughed. "Somebody says—I really forgot who, but it must be some one, for I know the idea is not original with me—'the beautiful are never desolate, for some one always loves them.' I believe I quoted it correctly, but whether I did or did not, it's true. Too many always love them, that's the greatest trouble about it.
               "Then I am not beautiful," Laura answered, "for few, very few persons love me."
               "I wish I was sure of that. Really, Laura, you are a very pretty piece of statuary. You have just about as much real depth of feeling as a block of marble. But you do dress magnificently—I'll acknowledge that—you get up some artistic costumes. I'm glad of it. I'm glad of anything which shows that I am rich. I suppose you know that wealth is power, Mrs. Mason."
               "I have heard it was."
               "Now we are upon the subject, Laura, I wish to tell you that your conduct at the wedding, toward the close of the evening, highly displeased me. I mentioned it at the time, you remember, and I should have spoken of it again, but I think I must have been in an extremely amiable mood, because I forgot all about it. I suppose you know the circumstance to which I refer."
               "I did not think of displeasing you."
               "Oh, of course. That is the old plea. You are not an idiot, Mrs. Mason. I am under the impression that you have as correct views of right and wrong as any person I know. Didn't think of displeasing me, indeed! That is what I'm talking about. You didn't think of me at all, and you never do think of me if you can help it."
               Laura smiled as if to corroborate the truth of his remark.
               "At any rate," he continued, "you were altogether too familiar with a young dandy at the wedding—had quite a tete-a-tete with him, in fact. Mr.—Mr.—I really forget his name, but you know very well who I mean. He has dark eyes and hair."
               "Stanley Tracy."
               "Yes. I tried to motion to you, but you never looked toward me, and went on with your conversation as coolly as if I were at the bottom of the Dead Sea, and you were planning your second marriage. He is an old lover of yours, I suppose."
               "Not at all. He is an old friend and schoolmate, whom I have not seen for two years before. He is near my own age, and very gentlemanly and agreeable. But I never dreamed of falling in love with him in my life. He is engaged to Dora Lambert, one of Violet's bridesmaids. The one with brown eyes and hair."
               "Pink trimmings?"
               "Yes. A sweet little girl she is, too."
               "Something in your style."
               "Only the color of her eyes and hair."
               "No doubt this—this young man, whatever his name may be—selected her because she resembled you. You and he were engaged, I suppose, and you threw him aside because I was richer than he."
               "We were never engaged, and would not have been, if I had never met you. His father is a very respectable man, county judge, and quite wealthy."
               "Of course he is, or your mother would never have invited him to the wedding. She likes respectable people—the old lady—and style. She is quite a success in that line herself, too. I congratulate you, Mrs. Mason, upon having so creditable a mother."
               Laura leaned back in her chair wearily; and Mr. Mason, for a moment, gazed intently from the window.
               "Laura!" he exclaimed, at last, "Mrs. DeBois has returned from the country. I suppose her present supply of pocket-money is exhausted, and she has come back to live upon bread and water, and save to get something handsome in the dress line for next winter. Do you know, Laura, she was very polite to me before I married you?"
               "And she has been very polite to me since."
               "Of course. But she envies you, nevertheless. Do you know, I heard your names mentioned together last summer. I didn't tell you at the time, because I disliked that Armstrong so; it was plain to be seen that he envied me my wife quite as much as Mrs. DeBois envies you your husband. Don't smile, my dear, and I'll be truthful for once, and say your husband's gold. Shall I tell you what I heard Armstrong say?"
               "If you wish to do so," she answered, carelessly.
               "He has left the country, and it can do no harm now. You see, Armstrong and Colburn were sitting together by a window at the end of the hotel parlor, and I was just outside, although they did not observe me. Mrs. DeBois and you entered the parlor at the same moment, and she was beflounced in the most elaborate style. She came in with that mincing walk of hers, and you glided in just after. You wore something light and misty in the way of drapery, with a wonder of a train which always kept right side out, though it appeared so thin. 'Mrs. Mason and Mrs. DeBois are the most elegantly dressed ladies I have seen this summer,' said Colburn. 'Yes,' replied Armstrong, 'but those two rings on Mrs. Mason's hand would purchase all the finery Mrs. DeBois owns.' That pleased me, Laura, and the best of the whole thing was that it was strictly true. But you are asleep. If there is anything in this world, Mrs. Mason, which inspires a man to eloquence, it is to have such an appreciative audience."
               "I was not asleep," Laura said, with a smile, "I was listening intently."
               "Undoubtedly. But I'm tired, and am going out for a walk. Good-by, stupid. Perhaps your darling step-daughter will come in and condole with you while I am gone."
               To Laura's relief, he rose and went out. She sat and slipped the rings over her slim finger, the only rings she had ever worn. They brought to her mind the time when she wore them first, two years ago.
               She had met Mr. Mason at a pic-nic, and he seemed impressed with her wonderful beauty and gracefulness, from the first. He had shown her marked attention, which she received in a jesting sort of way, never dreaming that anything serious would result from it.
               Hearing this, Mrs. Hamilton issued invitations to a very select entertainment, of which Mr. Mason was one of the most honored guests. She had prepared Laura's toilet with great care, and she appeared to the best advantage.
               Next day Mr. Mason called upon Mrs. Hamilton and asked her daughter's hand in marriage, in terms similar to those he would have employed if he had been purchasing a fine horse to which he had happened to take a fancy. Mrs. Hamilton warranted her "sound and kind," and the bargain was completed at once.
               Laura had little to say in the matter. She was returning from a walk, and was met by her mother and informed that Mr. Mason, who was worth his millions, had asked her for his wife.
               "But I don't love him, mamma," Laura answered, unable to believe that her mother was in earnest in desiring her to marry a man so very old.
               "You will in time, my dear," Mrs. Hamilton said, as she hurried her into the parlor where Mr. Mason sat.
               "Your mother has given you to me, my dear," he proclaimed, condescendingly. "Here is a ring in token of our engagement."
               She twirled the ring upon her finger to-night, as she sat alone in the twilight, thinking how changed she had been since that hour. It was a cross composed of six large diamonds, slanting across the body of the ring. She had been so dazed and frightened at the time, she could hardly believe, until the next morning's light came and showed it still upon her hand, that it was not some horrible dream.
               Then she had gone to her mother and begged her to withdraw her command, but in vain. Partly by persuasion and partly by coercion she was led to marry him.
               Then he had given her the other ring—a heavy solitaire—had said, "with this ring do I wed thee," and so she had worn them both since that day.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               The twentieth of December came, clear and cold. Bloom-Centre was looking as cheerful as possible. The rooms were all delightfully warm, and the doors leading to the conservatories open, so the perfume of the flowers stole through the whole house. Wheeler went from room to room again and again, to fully convince herself that everything was in perfect order; and finally down to the kitchen to see if the cook was exerting all her energies upon the dinner.
               Wheeler was, in fact, proud of her new mistress. In the first place, she acknowledged Violet's wonderful beauty; and then the reports of her master's elegant wedding had reached her ears, losing nothing upon the way. So she was quite contented about the respectability of the bride and her parents.
               Although Mr. and Mrs. Langdon had not yet returned, they had written to Wheeler to prepare for the party; and she plunged into the preparations with great zeal and inward satisfaction; resolved that the reception should only be second to the wedding in magnificence. The other servants caught the spirit of complacency which Wheeler so plainly manifested in regard to Mrs. Langdon's advent; for it would be a novel thing to have a mistress; besides, the house would be livelier, and they were not afraid that their liberties would be in any way interfered with, by the gentle-looking Mrs. Langdon.
               John, who had advocated Violet's cause from the first, shook his head with a knowing smile.
               "I told you so, didn't I, Mrs. Wheeler?" he said.
               "Told what?" asked Wheeler, loftily, for she prided herself upon being the oracle of the household. "Told what, John?"
               "Why that Mr. Langdon had taken a wonderful fancy to the new mistress."
               "Of course you did," replied she, giving her head a toss, "after I'd knowed it for a month, at least."
               John knew it would be useless to oppose her, so he remarked with decided emphasis:
               "Ah, you're a smart woman, Mrs. Wheeler."
               "And if you are as smart a coachman as I take you for, John," she said, "you'll have the carriage ready and start for the depot right away, for its almost time for the afternoon train to be here."
               "That's so!" ejaculated John, as he rose to go.
               Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton were also waiting at the arrival of the train upon which Mr. Langdon and Violet were to return.
               Mrs. Hamilton urged them to call at her house, but Violet declined, saying she was tired; and, on Mr. Langdon's invitation, her father and mother engaged to dine with them upon the day following.
               Wheeler met them at the door.
               "I'm glad to see you home again, Mr. Langdon," she said, "and the new mistress, too. It's a fine choice you've made, in my opinion, sir."
               Mr. Langdon thanked her and seemed greatly pleased. Violet gave Wheeler her hand in such a friendly manner, that she was completely captivated.
               "Come into the parlors for a moment, Violet," Mr. Langdon said. "I won't ask you to inspect the whole house at once, for you are tired. But just take a peep here, and then we will go up stairs. Are Mrs. Langdon's rooms in order, Wheeler?"
               "Oh yes, sir! of course; and fires built, and all. I'll send Katy to show Mrs. Langdon's maid right up."
               Mr. Langdon and Violet passed into the conservatory, which looked very attractive, especially when compared with the winter scene without.
               "How well the plants are looking," Violet said, "and there are so many flowers in bloom, too. They have been well cared for during your absence."
               "Yes, they are blooming finely. Here is a camellia for your hair. And you must go up and dress for dinner. Your trunks have just been taken up, and I'm anxious to see how you like your rooms. I had them re-furnished for you just before we left."
               "Did you? You are very good," and she followed him up the staircase.
               
               The suite over the parlor—two large, airy chambers—had been fitted up for her. Mr. Langdon threw open the door of the front room, and they entered. Susan in the meantime, discreetly withdrew to her own room to remove her wrappings.
               The front room was furnished as a boudoir, the back one for a bed-chamber. They were connected by an arch, from which fell rich curtains of blue brocatel. The carpets had a white ground, upon which clumps of woodland violets were scattered, surrounded by their heart-shaped green leaves. The wall-paper's smooth, white satin surface was dotted with single violets, and green leaves formed the border. A wreath of the same flowers surrounded the chandelier, forming a lovely centre-piece upon the wall. Elegant suites of rosewood and blue brocatel furnished the rooms, a parlor-suite in the boudoir, and a chamber-suite in the back room. In the boudoir were a dainty inlaid work-stand, a bookcase, and a writing desk. Blue curtains shaded the windows, and at one, where the sunshine came pouring in, stood a rustic flower-stand, with white porcelain flower-pots, a violet design upon each. Sweet winter roses were blooming in them. The top of the flower-stand, which formed a pretty rustic bird cage, was occupied by a deep gold-colored canary, who was singing cheerily, apparently a song of welcome to his young mistress; for he stopped at the close of each strain to take a bird's-eye view of her, and give her an opportunity to praise him.
               The walls were hung with a few paintings, quiet landscapes, and flower groups in delicate coloring. The mantel was ornamented with an elegant gilt clock and fairy Parian statues, while larger ones, a Berenice with her long, flowing locks, a Circe with her enchanted chanted cup, a Juno and Psyche, gleamed whitely from their niches in the walls.
               A glowing fire was burning in the brightly polished grate; and before it was spread a thick, velvet hearth-rug, almost as perfect in design and as soft in coloring as a painting. It represented a lady just mounting a graceful white horse, the plume of her hat floating out as if on the wind; the blue sky above, and the green earth beneath.
               Mr. Langdon watched with a smile, the look of gratified surprise upon Violet's face as she noted one by one, the elegant appointments of the rooms. When she had finished she went and stood by the fire, leaning her head upon the mantel.
               "Do you like it?" he asked at last.
               She turned to him, her eyes brimming with tears.
               "I don't know how to thank you," she said.
               "I will tell you," he answered. "You are to enjoy its beauty, and add the only charm which, until now, it has lacked to make it a miniature paradise—your presence—a perfect woman, as beautiful in soul as face."
               He kissed her, and ringing for Susan, left the room.
               Violet turned thoughtfully toward the fire, thinking she was tired of wandering, and glad to be at home at last. Her husband was quite as devoted as ever, and she should be very happy in such a peaceful and beautiful home.
               Susan now came in and disturbed her musings. She praised the rooms as the most beautiful she had ever seen, except, perhaps, Mrs. Mason's, which were ornamented with roses instead of Violets.
               
               "I'm thinking you'll enjoy it so much, ma'am," she said, "without a thing to trouble you."
               "Yes, Susan. I want to wear something pretty at dinner, something which will please Mr. Langdon."
               "Yes'm. Your blue silk and pearls would be very nice I think ma'am, with this white flower which he gave you for your hair."
               "They will be very appropriate—bring them out as soon as possible."
               She was soon ready, and seemed a fit occupant for the pretty room. The blue silk, heavy and trailing, fitted her figure perfectly; and though it did not shame her eyes, it brought out, by contrast, the soft, gold color of her hair to the best advantage.
               Susan drew up a luxurious chair before the grate, and Violet seated herself, resting her pretty feet upon the fender.
               "Thank you, Susan. You may go now, and tell Mr. Langdon I am ready for his company until dinner time. Then you may go down and find Wheeler, who will introduce you to the other servants. You will feel more at home when you are acquainted with them."
               Susan thanked her mistress and left the room. Mr. Langdon was not slow in obeying the summons. Violet did not rise when he entered, but threw a pretty glance over her shoulder and said:
               "You see I'm taking my comfort, Donald; I like an open fire, it is so cosy."
               "Yes," he said, "and so do I."
               "Bring up a chair and enjoy it, then."
               He did as she bade him, taking a seat upon the opposite side of the hearth. Leaning back in his chair, he enjoyed not only the fire, but the pretty picture before him.
               The sun had set, and the twilight shadows were beginning to creep into the room. The bird had hushed his song and folded his wings. The air was tempered to a spring-like warmth, and some orange blooms among the other flowers made it sweet.
               Violet sat opposite him, looking a thought more animated than usual, and wonderfully charming. She rested her elbow upon the arm of her chair, and held a pretty hand-screen between her face and the blaze of the fire. Her flowing sleeve fell back, disclosing a slender arm, faultless in shape, and the fire lighted up the sparkling rings upon her white, smooth hand.
               Mr. Langdon sat and watched her, admiring her grace and beauty; yet he confessed to himself what had been a suspicion in his mind for weeks, that Violet's face and manner had changed since he saw her first. He did not think she was faded; he did not fancy that she was less beautiful than before; but there was a staid womanliness about her face and manner, a listless quietness in her actions, which, if it had been more decided, he would have conceived to be sorrow or weariness.
               She was almost always cheerful, sometimes gay; yet there was a gravity even about her smiles, which was unlike anything he had seen in another. It seemed very becoming to her, yet he hoped it would not increase.
               "You know, dear little wife, how glad I am to have you here, and how much happier home seems to me now than ever before," he said at last.
               She raised her eyes to his face quietly.
               "I do not doubt it," she answered, with the sweet seriousness which characterized her manner. "I, too, am glad to be here, am glad that we are both home."
               He watched her silently for a few moments, a tender glow in his eyes.
               "I never thought to realize so much happiness upon earth." He spoke the words almost reverently.
               "God is very good to us," she said.
               So they sat together in the red firelight, while the dark evening shadows crept into the room from without. The summons to dinner aroused them.
               Mr. Langdon rose and gave Violet his arm, and they passed down stairs. When they were seated at the table he looked over at the fair womanly face opposite, and smiled, a satisfied smile.
               "This is much pleasanter than dining alone," he said.
               "Is it?" and she returned his smile. "It is very pleasant to me."
               Dinner over they went up stairs, and, opening the pretty book-case, Violet selected a volume of poems, saying he must read to her as soon as he had finished smoking.
               So she again took her place before the fire to listen to a poem, sometimes commenting upon it, in her soft, refined voice, as he paused to discuss its meaning, or to watch his wife's fair face.
               Next morning Violet was awakened by the voice of the canary, who was 
                     fiitfully
                     fitfully
                   trolling his morning song. Ringing for Susan, she was soon attired in a pretty wrapper. Then she went out into her boudoir, where Mr. Langdon was waiting for her before the fire.
               "It is later than I thought," she said, half-apologetically cally, as she glanced up at the pretty clock on the mantel. "Have I kept the breakfast waiting?"
               "No," he answered. "But even if you had, where is the harm? Are you not mistress here?" And he laughed, for there was something of the old childishness in her look, which made her seem so young.
               He sat waiting indolently, as she stopped a moment to look at the flowers and chirp a little to the bird. Then she paused a moment before the window.
               "Oh," said she, opening her eyes in surprise, "the ground is covered with snow. It is very clear now, too."
               "Don't beat about the bush, my dear. Of course that is an indirect invitation for me to treat you to a sleigh-ride," he said, with a smile. "Well, I suppose I ought not to refuse, so prepare yourself for it as soon as you wish. Shall we go down to breakfast now?"
               "Certainly, I am quite ready. But I think we must take the sleigh ride this morning, for papa and mamma are coming to dine with us this evening, and mamma will be likely to come early."
               So when breakfast was over, Violet went up to dress for the drive, and Mr. Langdon went out to visit his horses, and to order the sleigh brought up to the door.
               Violet soon came down, wrapped in a pretty ermine cloak, a blue velvet hat, trimmed with ermine, upon her head. Mr. Langdon placed her in the sleigh, and they set out.
               They took a long drive, only returning in time for a late lunch. When that was dispatched, Violet had only time to gather flowers for the vases in her room, when a jingling of sleigh-bells announced her mother's arrival. She went down stairs to meet her.
               
               "I am glad to see you again, mamma," she said; "come up to my room at once."
               "Oh, my darling child!" Mrs. Hamilton exclaimed, fussily. "I'm so glad to have you home once more. And you, too, Mr. Langdon, of course."
               He thanked her, but left the two to go up stairs together.
               "This room suits your style exactly, Violet," Mrs. Hamilton said, casting a hurried glance around to note the arrangements, "exactly." And she sat down with a satisfied air.
               "Yes, mamma. It was very kind of Mr. Langdon to prepare such a pretty surprise for me."
               "Oh, very;" nodding her head approvingly. "I'm extremely proud of you and your position, my dear."
               "But I am happy here, mamma, and that is best of all. I am very thankful."
               "Of course." Another approving nod. "My dear, you ought to be. I saw you riding out to-day. That ermine cloak is splendid! Did you buy any new dresses in Paris?"
               "Only one. A blue satin, with train, and white petticoat trimmed with flounces of point-lace."
               "Very good taste, indeed. Will you wear it at Adela's wedding, or your reception?"
               "At the wedding, I think. Laura is coming tomorrow. She is looking very pale this winter."
               "She was always pale," Mrs. Hamilton said, uneasily.
               "But she was not always unhappy."
               "And she may not be now."
               "There is little doubt of it, mamma. Mr. Mason is positively disgusting, at times, and he takes no pains to conceal it."
               "All men are sometimes cross, Violet."
               "Papa is seldom so, and Donald, never. But Mr. Mason does not hesitate to wound Laura's feelings whenever he is disposed, and that happens very often."
               "It's a pity," Mrs. Hamilton answered. "But appearances are often deceptive. And but few men are as amiable as your father and Mr. Langdon, my child."
               Soon after they were joined by Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Langdon; and when dinner was over, they all assembled in Violet's boudoir for a chat.
               Mr. Hamilton seemed greatly pleased to see his daughter appear so happy, for during the evening she was unusually cheerful. He said she had grown more womanly, and told her any amount of Meadville gossip.
               Mrs. Hamilton was ill at ease, and tried to change the subject of conversation, but she must have lost some of her old tact, for she failed, utterly. Mr. Hamilton, unheeding her frowns and mute telegrams, informed Violet of Jasper's illness and recovery, and of his departure from Meadville. Of Mrs. Lambert's death, and of the devotion of Dora and her sister Maggie to their father.
               Violet listened sedately, and without change of color; but her mother was glad when the conversation turned upon Adela's approaching marriage, and became more general.
               Soon after, Mr. and Mrs. Hamilton took their leave; and when they were gone. Violet sat thoughtfully down before the fire. The flush had left her face, and the weariness was unmistakable now.
               "Violet, are you sad to-night?" Mr. Langdon asked, after watching her listless attitude for a few moments.
               She started, repressing a sigh.
               "No," she answered, hesitating a little. "I feel a trifle weary, but I am not sad."
               "You're not tired of your new home, then?"
               She raised her beautiful eyes, with a slow, shadowy smile upon her face.
               "Donald," she said, earnestly, "there are two things upon earth of which I shall never grow weary. You, and our beautiful home."
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               Adela called upon Violet the next morning, and was easily persuaded to remove her wrappings and remain at lunch. Soon after her arrival, Mr. Langdon went out, saying he was glad Violet had such agreeable company, and he would avail himself of the opportunity Adela's call afforded him, of attending to some business without leaving his wife alone.
               So the two friends sat down to a quiet chat; if anything in which Adela participated could be called quiet; for she was so spirited and full of life, she seemed never at rest. She admired Violet's rooms exceedingly, and retailed all the gossip she could recollect in the short space of time which her visit allowed.
               Mr. Langdon returned in time for lunch, and, soon after, Adela took her leave, bidding Violet, as a last injunction, to be very careful and avoid growing too sedate and old-fashioned in her ways, just because she was married.
               Laura Mason arrived on the afternoon train. Mr. Mason did not accompany her. He disliked to travel in winter, and Lena had brought her strategy to bear upon him, and was successful in gaining a few days' release for Laura.
               Mr. Langdon and Violet met her at the depot with the carriage, and she was soon established in Violet's room, in an easy chair before the grate, seeming as cheerful as it was possible for her to be, and quite at home. As for Violet, a look of genuine satisfaction beamed upon her features as she sat by Laura's side, scarcely taking her eyes from her sister's face.
               So they remained for hours; and Mr. Langdon, dropping a remark occasionally, as he felt inclined, sat apart, and watched the two. He had no thought of going out to attend to business now, for Laura brought no discordant element with her. She despised gossip; and the conversation ran upon various topics of interest; the different countries which Violet had seen on her travels, how she was impressed with this landscape, or that city, for Laura had visited them all two years before.
               Then topics of art were introduced, poetry, sculpture and painting; and at last Laura said she had brought Violet a Christmas gift, a picture which she herself had painted, and which Violet and Mr. Langdon both greatly admired, while at her house.
               Violet rang the bell for Susan, who was unpacking Laura's trunk, to bring the painting at once to her room. Then, ordering the landscape removed which hung over the mantel, she had it hung at once in its place.
               It was a simple picture, its delicate coloring being its chief charm. It was only a sunset sky, its rosy light falling over a dark, white-capt sea; not a living thing or work of art visible. But the tints were glowing and tender, and so true the air seemed misty with a roseate shade. It was a calm, restful picture, seemingly inspirited with serenity and peace.
               "I shall look at it often when you are away, sister," Violet said, "and think of you. The very sight of it will rest me just as your conversation does when you are here. I don't know why it is so, but when mamma or Adela come, I feel a sort of unpleasant restraint; not very decided, perhaps, but still it is there. But when you are here, I enjoy myself and Donald's society as thoroughly as when we are alone. I am never afraid of offending you; I am never afraid of surprising you by any thoughtless act of mine. And I observe, too, that Donald has the same feeling, in a certain degree, for when any one else is here, he seems inclined to stroll away with his cigar, and leave us to ourselves; but now he is perfectly content."
               Mr. Langdon laughed.
               "There is much truth in what you say, Violet," he answered. "But it is owing partly to our similarity of taste and natural inclinations, and partly, perhaps, to adaptability. I have had some people visit me, who could not converse upon anything but personal topics. Others, who were thoroughly good, would always desire something opposite to my tastes. If I proposed riding, they preferred to walk. If, consenting to their proposition, I climbed a steep hill to show them the beautiful scenery, they would scarcely give it a glance, except to inquire the price of land in the vicinity. But it is a great pleasure to have a cheerful, quiet visitor, who falls readily into the ways of the household."
               That night, when Laura had retired, he asked why she ever married Mr. Mason.
               "They have not a taste in common," he said. "I cannot understand why she should ever for a moment, have fancied him in the smallest degree."
               "I don't think she ever did," Violet answered. "Laura was young when she married him, and thoroughly ignorant of the ways of the world. She had never loved any one, when Mr. Mason saw her and fancied her wonderful beauty. Still, she would never have dreamed of marrying him, but for mamma."
               "Is it possible that your mother would urge her to such an act?" he asked, in deep surprise.
               "It is very humiliating to me to say that she not only urged her to it, but positively compelled Laura to submit to the marriage," Violet replied, a blush of shame crimsoning her face. "I will do her the justice, however, to say that she did not know Mr. Mason's nature at the time. Laura rebelled after she had accepted the engagement ring, but mamma was inexorable. Mr. Mason knew this, but papa did not. He went down to the city and found that Mr. Mason was very wealthy, and belonged to a good family, so he gave his consent."
               Christmas-eve, the night appointed for the reception, came. Violet, attired in her lavender silk, with opals, looked as beautiful as ever. Laura, who stood beside her sister to receive the guests, wore a heavy, trailing white moire. There was no trimming upon the skirt to break the outline of the full, glistening folds. The waist was trimmed with soft white lace, and she wore pearls for ornaments. Face, neck and arms were marble white. She might have been a gracefully draped statue, so exquisite were the outlines of her features, and she seemed so still, and calm, and cold. Only her scarlet lips gave her a faint flush of life. Only her glittering eyes showed that her soul was restless within.
               Mrs. Hamilton, moving about in her graceful gray draperies, judged with the eyes of the world. She only saw the rare beauty of her daughters, and her cup of joy was filled to overflowing. Violet made an admirable hostess, the rooms were bright, the air breathing with perfume, the guests gay. What more could she ask?
               The next day was stormy. Not a brisk snow-storm, in which the wind whirled the flakes into wreaths as they floated down, but a dreary winter rain. For two days the storm continued, but on the afternoon of the third, the blue sky appeared once more.
               In the afternoon Laura took her departure from Bloom-Centre. Mr. Langdon accompanied her to the depot in the carriage, but Violet, who was suffering from a slight cold, remained at home. Laura leaned back after she entered the carriage, to throw an answering smile to her sister's face, which was pressed against the window-pane, thinking it was the dearest face on earth to her. When a curve in the road hid it from view, she turned to Mr. Langdon.
               "I thank you," she said, with a suspicion of unsteadiness in her voice, "for your kindness and tenderness to her. She is very weak and frail. I think trouble would kill her!"
               "The kindness and tenderness of love," he answered, seriously, "are the surest upon earth, because the most selfish. They have their own reward."
               They rode on in silence until they reached the depot. Then Laura took her seat in the car and bade Mr. Langdon adieu. He went back to his home, so beautiful and full of peace, and she returned to her's, luxurious, but filled with discord and unhappiness.
               Adela's marriage soon followed. Then came several social gatherings of various descriptions, for Violet's wedding and reception seemed to give a new impetus to the fashionable circles of Clinton. The town was fast growing into a city. There was even a whisper of an application for a city charter, but a few of the more penurious moneyed men held back, fearing a heavier taxation. Numerous houses, fanciful in proportion and profuse in ornament, had sprung up in various parts of the town. There was something of a 
                     mushroon
                     mushroom
                   growth about them, but they were airy, and comfortable enough, and considered by many, as miracles of beauty. It was before our days of pasteboard castles, before there was such a grasping after dormer-windows and cupolas and towers, and these houses lightened the air of soberness which the older and heavier style of architecture gave to the town.
               Violet and Mr. Langdon attended the more select of the winter's gatherings, "just enough to show Violet's elegant trousseau," Mrs. Hamilton said. As spring advanced she flitted hither and thither, now at Laura's, now at Meadville to visit Eliza and Dora, and finally to settle quietly down at Bloom-Centre for the summer.
               It had always been a pleasure for Mrs. Hamilton to watch Violet at church. The congregation was large, and growing rapidly, the church filled to overflowing; so, after Violet's marriage, Mr. Hamilton and Mr. Langdon occupied the same pew. Violet's toilet was always unexceptionable, her demeanor devotional and calm. Her husband was attentive, though unostentatiously so, and there was always a little conscious stir among the congregation when they entered the church.
               It was at church, one day, when Violet seemed paler than usual, that Mrs. Hamilton's satisfaction was somewhat dispelled. The conviction dawned slowly upon her mind at first, but a second glance at the white, shadowy face of her child caused her strange misgivings. It burst upon her suddenly then, that Violet was growing far too slender for health; that her face was not only pale, but it had also lost its roundness and childish expression. She pondered upon the subject deeply, scarcely hearing a word of the sermon; and when it was over she went home in a remarkably thoughtful mood.
               But, when, a few days thereafter, Violet called upon her mother, Mrs. Hamilton fancied she looked unusually well, and so she dismissed her fears for the time.
               The temperament of the society at Clinton was rather lymphatic, and when the first days of June came, the people crept like snails into their houses. The weather was unusually hot and sultry. Mrs. Hamilton folded her hands and sighed for new worlds to conquer. Violet seemed inclined to be domestic in her tastes, and she saw her but rarely. A strange loneliness and weariness crept into her life.
               Laura's letters came, no longer puzzles to her, for they were bitter, almost despairing. Mrs. Hamilton determined to go down for a short visit, and see if she could prevail upon Mr. Mason to allow Laura to spend the summer with her. So with this purpose in her mind she set out for the city.
               For a day or two after her arrival, things seemed to pass off smoothly enough, but it was only the premonitory lull before the storm. Mr. Mason had been absent during the day, only returning in time for dinner. He seemed to be in a very unpleasant frame of mind, and when he sat down to the table everything went wrong. The soup was cold, the fish half-raw, the roast overdone. And afterwards the pastry was tough, the pudding heavy, the fruit stale. Even the wine was flat and insipid.
               He began by ordering the waiter to leave the room. Then, changing his mind, he called him back and began to abuse Laura. Mrs. Hamilton looked in surprise at his face, which was distorted with passion.
               Laura pushed aside her plate and leaned her head upon her hand, without a word. This enraged Mr. Mason the more. He must have a quarrel, a disgraceful quarrel in the presence of the servants, before he could regain any appearance of quiet.
               Mrs. Hamilton had no thought of offering any interference, but when at last he rose and rushed around to where Laura sat, and menaced her with a blow, her mother could keep silence no longer.
               "Mr. Mason," she said, in as quiet a tone as she could command, "there is nothing the matter with the dinner, and, even if there were, Laura is not to blame. You had better sit down and take your meal quietly, for you are making a great fool of yourself."
               This was an attack from an unexpected quarter, and he turned to face the enemy, almost foaming at the mouth with rage.
               "You old Jezebel you!" he cried. "Do you dare dictate to me in my own house? What have you to say about how I shall treat your darling daughter, when you sold her to me, body and soul, three years ago?"
               For a moment Mrs. Hamilton stood transfixed with astonishment. She had seen angry men before, but she had always ruled them when she chose to do so.
               "Mr. Mason," she said, loftily, as soon as she recovered her voice, "you are certainly intoxicated; or possibly, you may be insane. You know, if you are in possession of your senses, that you have uttered an absolute and utterly ridiculous falsehood!"
               "You say this to me!" he raved. "You, who are the very soul of truth and honor! Who sell your elder daughters to the highest bidders, and then beg presents from them to decorate the next one for auction! You play your hypocritical part well though—I'll say that much in your praise. You look as if butter wouldn't melt in your mouth when you get your company face on—you old wolf in sheep's clothing! You old faded flower that won't wilt!"
               This was too much for Mrs. Hamilton. Mr. Mason was so profuse in metaphor, she was quite bewildered. His abuse smacked sufficiently of truth to make it unbearable. So she hurried to her room in tears and fright, to pack her trunk preparatory to leaving upon the early morning train.
               Mr. Mason having succeeded in making some person angry, now sat down and partook of his dinner with a relish; merely remarking to Laura, who was still sitting silently in her place opposite:
               "Attend to it that this old apple-woman leaves to-morrow. And, mind, I don't ever wish to see her again."
               Laura waited until he had finished, and then she went up to her mother's room.
               "My dear child!" began Mrs. Hamilton, wiping her eyes pathetically, "I had not even the remotest idea of the indignities to which you are subjected by the temper of that base man. My only wonder is that you have borne them so long."
               "I am very sorry that he should have insulted you during your visit, mother," Laura answered, with a weary quietness that touched Mrs. Hamilton's heart. "As for myself, it does not matter. I seem to have grown almost insensible to either joy or sorrow."
               "My child, you shall bear it no longer. I am willing to confess now, that I did wrong in urging this marriage upon you. Forgive me, and come home to live once more. We can make your broken health an excuse, for you are really ill. Or, we can tell the truth. I am willing to bear it if you wish—it is the only atonement I can offer. Your father's business is excellent now, sufficient to support us in style if we desire it. Eliza and Violet are well cared for, and I am very lonely. Come home with me, and you shall live in peace, if not happiness."
               Something of the old light came back to Laura's tired eyes.
               "Mother," she said; "I thank you for this offer, this testimonial of your affection for me. I fear I had doubted it else. When your love for me, even in a moment of passion is greater than your pride, I must believe its sincerity, for your pride is very great. Your home would be a very restful place to me, for I am more than tired. But my place is by my husband, who, whatever his temper may be, would miss me sadly if I were to leave him. When I laid my hand in his and registered my marriage vow before God and you—though my soul rebelled against it—it was 'until death do us part.' I have never doubted my duty in the case, or thought of weakly fleeing from it. Though, perhaps," and her lips grew unsteady here, "a woman less sensitive and less proud, might have borne it more patiently."
               "You have been very patient, my child, for you have never until now, uttered one word of complaint to me."
               "It was only pride that kept me from it, mother. To hear a wife constantly complaining of her husband is a fault I deeply despise. But I have not been patient. I have only been quiet outwardly, while my heart was seething within. It was a great wrong you did me once, mother, to bind my young life to withered, peevish, decrepit age. You sowed the seeds of pain for me, and I must reap the harvest."
               Mrs. Hamilton wept still more bitterly, and urged her to accompany her home.
               "I could never pass another happy moment, if I were to go with you now," Laura said, firmly. "I cannot go—do not urge me further."
               Mrs. Hamilton left on the next morning, feeling as though the curse of Cain was upon her. But to no one, not even her husband, did she speak of her trouble.
               She went about her accustomed duties, because it was second nature for her to do so. She still saved and hoarded, and denied herself luxuries in which others of her means were accustomed to indulge. She still kept her house tidy, from force of habit, and put on her smiles when her friends called upon her, just as she put on a tasteful dress when they came, and replaced it by a cheap calico wrapper when they were gone.
               Mr. Hamilton, though slow to notice changes around him, for he did not have an observant eye, saw at last that his wife was losing her spirits, for her trouble seemed greater than she could bear.
               "Are you not well, Anne?" he asked. "Would you not like a change of air and scene?"
               "No, John," she answered, gratefully, glad that there was one person on earth who believed in her still. "Don't mind me, I'm growing old. And I feel lonely, too, since Violet went away.
               "But you seemed brighter in the winter," he said.
               "Yes, but the town was livelier, then. Perhaps I am not quite well, but I shall be better by and by. Don't speak of it to any one. I have always been so strong, so energetic and stirring, I do not like people to say I am changed; I cannot bear their pity."
               "You shall have your own way," he said, "for you are very dear to me."
               "Am I?" she asked, eagerly. "Have I been a good wife, John? I always meant to be."
               "Yes," he answered, "always. And you are all the world to me."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               Jasper Douglas came slowly back to health. He had not been dangerously ill at any time, but his fever, though mild, seemed lingering and slow. It left him depressed in spirit, weary and restless in manner, and weak in frame. It was at first almost impossible to interest his mind upon any subject; for it seemed to him that his old life was gone, and he had entered upon a new one in which there was nothing cheerful or inviting.
               He had just recovered sufficiently to walk slowly a short distance in the open air, when Violet was married. The day before the wedding he came into the house from a walk and found Mrs. Douglas alone.
               "Mother," he said, wearily, "please tell me all you know about Violet, and then we will dismiss the subject."
               "She is to be married to-morrow night—"
               "To Mr. Langdon?"
               "Yes."
               Jasper leaned his head upon his hand, and seemed to be pondering deeply for some time.
               "Mother," he said, raising his face at last, "I am glad Violet is to be married so soon. If it were not so I should still be in suspense. I should hope that something might occur to give her back to me, though well aware that all hope is useless and idle. It will be very different now. I will try and crush all regard for her, will try to forget her as nearly as possible. This will be easier for me to do than it would have been if I had not been ill. The past seems like a dream to me, or like a strange, sad tragedy. But it is ended now. There is no sequel to the romance. The last scene will be enacted to-morrow night, and the curtain will fall. I will try and dismiss it from my mind, and go on through life, taking it as I find it."
               "My dear," his mother said, "it is almost impossible to crush out hope of future happiness from the human mind, least of all the mind of the young. With returning strength, new hopes will come to you, new impulses. You will have wealth at your command, and intellect enough if you but use it rightly. In a short time you will be no less happy on account of this disappointment. It may, indeed, affect your whole life in a certain way, for 'young trees root the faster for shaking.' But I hope and believe it will be only for your good. It may steady and balance your mind more than you may be ever aware."
               "I hope it may," he answered, doubtingly. "But was I ever unsteady in any way? Did my mind ever seem to be unbalanced? Was not my childhood and youth sober and sorrowful enough to steady a more restless mind than mine? I may be wrong—it's quite possible I am. But it doesn't really appear to me that the lesson was needed at all. Others seem to pass through without such lessons—such sad experiences. And as far as I can judge, they are much happier, and quite as capable to battle with Fate, as though they were already worn out with trouble and care."
               "My dear, we cannot judge correctly in such matters. No one, however sheltered and protected he may seem, passes through life without his due share of adversity. It often seems to me as if the desire nearest the heart is always denied. But we do not know much of others' trials, because the greatest are often of the heart, and hidden from sight. No doubt, at this very moment, while you are so despondent and spiritless, there are many of your acquaintances who envy you your lot. There are very few who know that Violet was in any way remotely connected with your illness. They only know that your uncle has returned, and that you are to be educated, and allowed all the advantages that wealth can bestow upon you. Therefore you are an object of envy to those who never troubled themselves about you when you were poor."
               "I do not doubt that you are right, mother," Jasper said, brightening a little. "There are some great advantages which I possess, that I am very grateful for, though I have seemed so unthankful. No one could have a more kind or devoted mother than I have, or a better adviser either. My uncle is as kind to me as if I were his own son. I will study hard, and be just to him, for he expects great things of me."
               From that day Jasper's strength rapidly returned. He seemed to have taken a new lease of life. But he was anxious to leave Meadville as soon as possible. He did not like to visit old haunts, or meet old associates; though every one seemed so delighted to see him. He spent his mornings in study, under his uncle's supervision, to prepare himself to enter school.
               As soon as the arrangements could be accomplished, the house in Meadville, together with most of the furniture, was sold. Dr. Irving, Mrs. Douglas and Jasper then moved to the nearest city, and sought out a comfortable home in a quiet street. This was easily found; for in a city everything may be readily bought with gold but love and friendship, and these can be so adroitly counterfeited that it is almost impossible to distinguish them from the genuine; in truth, they seem to shine far more brightly than the real when contrasted.
               The house was rented, and comfortably furnished; not, perhaps, by any strictly fashionable rule; but it was no less comfortable on that account. The front parlor was scarcely used except to entertain brief callers, and of these they had but few. In the back parlor Dr. Irving's library, which had been sent on from the West, was arranged. Many valuable books were added for Jasper's especial benefit. This room was the general sitting-room of the family, for they all loved reading. The windows looked out upon a narrow grass-plat, from the centre of which rose a willow with a slender trunk, but with a top so heavy it seemed too large for the body to support, only it was so light, and feathery, and graceful; and it tossed its slender branches untiringly all day long, hiding the rear yards of the opposite houses, but breaking off just where the unsightly roofs and chimneys seemed to touch the sky, leaving unhid the broad expanse of blue above it.
               As soon as they were comfortably installed in their new home, Dr. Irving placed Jasper in a preparatory school, to fit him for college the next year. His next act of benevolence was to settle a very comfortable sum of money upon Mrs. Douglas, which was to revert to Jasper after her death. This was to guard against any unforeseen accident.
               Jasper soon recovered his spirits in a great degree, though his cheerfulness would have been gravity in some, it was so quiet and undemonstrative. He devoted himself to his studies with a zeal which was very encouraging to himself, and very gratifying to his uncle and Mrs. Douglas; and his mind was so closely occupied he had but little room for unpleasant thoughts.
               Always, when he returned from school, he would repair to the library, where he would be sure to find his mother, and often his uncle, if he had not gone out for a walk. At this hour Mrs. Douglas had completed her household arrangements for the day, and settled herself for sewing or reading. Dr. Irving would also read or ponder in silence, except when appealed to by Jasper for information upon some subject. Jasper would take his books and sit down by a window, where the fresh, green willow hid everything but the sky, and there was little in either to distract his heart from study.
               Sometimes he would pause, thinking this willow hid all unpleasant objects from his sight, as his studies hid the troubles of his past life from his memory. They interposed a cool green wall between him and his former life, just leaving room to look up to the sky above, and thank God for His mercy.
               He never spoke of Violet now. He thought of her sometimes, and wondered if they would ever chance to meet again. They might, perhaps, when he should be gray with years, and she would look old—possibly faded and worn. If they ever met under such circumstances, they would, doubtless, look quietly into each others' eyes, (all romance long since past) and wonder that they could ever have loved each other so. He remembered her as she stood in the moonlight on the night when he last saw her face, with the glamour of the moonlight about her, and the glamour of love in his eyes; and with that memory in his heart it was hard to believe she was not immortal—it was impossible to fancy that she could ever look faded and worn.
               That look was imprinted upon his memory "as with an iron pen and diamond point;" no willow of present content, on wall of philosophy and study could shut it out. He hoped she would be happy always—always blessed with tender love and protection. God had been good to them both—he would not complain. Yet still, at times, when weary of his quiet life, he felt an insatiable heart-hunger, a longing for a love as sweet to him as Violet's had seemed one year ago.
               Dr. Irving's health was delicate, yet he enjoyed himself and his home in a quiet way; he was a cool thinker, a deliberate man, and whatever he thought, did or said, was done quietly. He had always desired a son, but his wish being denied him before, was almost wholly granted now, in his adoption of Jasper. Mrs. Douglas was very happy. Her brother was so careful of her comfort, so timely with substantial gifts, and Jasper was so affectionate, she felt more protected than she had done before, since her father's death.
               "I never expected to be so comfortably situated as I am now," she said to Jasper one day.
               "Nor I, mother," and he smiled.
               "It seems almost like a miracle, things looked so dark to us a few months ago."
               "Yes," he answered. "Sometimes I feel as though something of the joy and fullness has gone from my life, never to return. Yet, from my experience so far, I know what you told me once is true—that 'time is a healer.' Perhaps I may be as happy in the future as I have been in the past."
               His last remark was said partly to set his mother's mind at rest concerning him, for he had some misgivings as to his future life.
               "My uncle has not many years to live," he thought. "Sometimes I fear my mother has not, for prosperity cannot bring a look of health to her form or face. If they were to die, and I should choose in my desolation a downward path in life, there would be nothing to restrain me."
               He put on his hat and went out for a walk. Turning toward a fashionable part of the city, he passed along the broad, smooth avenues, where the daughters of Fashion, arrayed like the butterflies of the field, were flitting along, airing their gaudy wings in a promenade, or rolling past in their elegant carriages; as helpless, as idle and as extravagant as though there was no trouble, no care, no work or object in life beyond being admired in a careless sort of a way by the opposite sex, and envied by their own.
               A carriage stopped a short distance before him, and an elegantly-dressed lady descended from it. Something in her appearance and manner caused Jasper to observe her attentively. Her form was perfectly moulded, her head gracefully poised, but there was a proud repose about her manner, that, self-reliant though it seemed, suggested weariness. She turned, and he caught sight of a proud, beautiful face. She put out her hand to him and smiled, a sudden flashing. It was Laura Mason.
               "Jasper, I am glad to see you once more. You have not forgotten me?"
               "No one who has ever known you could forget you, Mrs. Mason," he answered, smiling.
               "I have scarcely seen you since my marriage," she said. "I was in Meadville about the time of Violet's wedding, but I did not meet you, because you were ill. But you seem to be fully recovered, for, only that you are taller and more manly, you are changed but little since I saw you last."
               "Do you think so?" he asked, with a touch of earnestness in his tone, for somehow he feared he had grown very old.
               "Sincerely," Laura answered. "And now you shall be equally frank with me. Have I changed greatly in appearance?"
               The proud, almost scornful expression which Jasper had observed before he had recognized her, and which he thought inseparable from her, was gone now. Jasper, thinking either mood was very becoming, replied:
               "Yes, you have changed; or I thought so a moment ago. You do not seem older, you do not seem faded in the least degree, but I should say you are usually colder and prouder than you were before your marriage."
               "I believe you are quite right," she said. "Is your mother well?" changing the subject abruptly.
               "Very, thank you. Your health is good?"
               "Always."
               "And Violet?" he asked, hesitating a little.
               "She is well, also."
               "I am glad. It is months since I have seen her."
               "You are not acquainted with Mr. Langdon, then."
               "No, I never met him."
               "He is very pleasant, and gentlemanly, too, and Violet is happy in her married life. You are studying for a physician, I hear?"
               "Yes."
               "You must come to see me, Jasper," she said, giving him her card. "Come with your mother. I am always at home on Thursdays."
               He promised, bowed, and was gone.
               Laura thought of the incident after she reached home. Lena Gilbert, who had rooms in a fashionable hotel near, was conversing with her father when Laura returned.
               "I met an old friend to-day," she said, "a friend of my childhood. I had not seen him in two years before."
               "You are always meeting old friends or new friends," growled Mr. Mason. Sometimes I think I'll never allow you to go out alone, at all. But then it is utterly impossible to watch you always."
               "It is unnecessary, father," Lena said, as Laura went up stairs to remove her wrappings. "I know of no lady who is more correct in her deportment than Laura. She is really so very distant and proud she is almost inclined to prudishness."
               "You consider yourself a competent judge, I suppose, Mrs. Gilbert," he retorted. "You are such a model of correct and ladylike deportment yourself, you ought to be a judge of it in others."
               "I certainly know enough to tell that Laura is perfectly ladylike, always. Every one wonders how she can endure your dreadful temper with such invariable sweetness."
               "Yourself among the number, I suppose," witheringly.
               "Yes indeed."
               "I wish people would attend to their own affairs, madam. Then perhaps they'd have no time to interfere with mine."
               "There is no other woman on earth but Laura," pursued Lena, determined to have her say out, "who would have borne with you one half as quietly as she has done. And she only receives reproaches from you in return."
               "It is all she deserves."
               "Well, I think it no more than right to caution you a little about the way in which you treat her, hereafter. Her mother is very anxious for her to leave you and go back home to live."
               "That is not true, Mrs. Gilbert. You only think to frighten me, like a child."
               "It is true. Mrs. Hamilton told me so herself, when she was here last."
               "Why in the world didn't her ladyship go, then?"
               "She said whatever happened, she would never leave you while you both lived."
               "Laura never said that," he answered, more quietly.
               "She did, indeed."
               "Honor bright, Lena?"
               "Honor bright, father."
               He seemed for some moments to be pondering the subject deeply.
               "Laura is a good wife," he said at last, rising. "I am sorry I make her so unhappy. She should not mind it, for it is my way. I'm going out now. When she comes down stairs, Lena, you may tell her she is very good, tell her I said so."
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXII.
               The sultry summer passed away, and September came. Before the frosts had blighted the flowers, when the blue autumn mists were hanging over the hills, and the woods were beginning to borrow the hues of sunset, a little child came to Violet's home. A tiny little child, with hair and eyes like her mother's, and so her father named her Violet at once.
               Violet's life passed quietly for a few weeks. Mr. Langdon was more attentive if possible, than ever, seeming to be anxious that every wish of hers should be gratified. The servants, proud of her at first, grew to love her dearly, for she was always gentle, always kind.
               A nursery was fitted up for the child opposite Violet's bed-chamber, but Violet seldom left her own rooms. So the babe was often brought into her boudoir, and Violet sat for hours at a time with it upon her knee, making a Madonna-like picture which Mr. Langdon loved to gaze upon. The little one grew to resemble her more and more, only it was stronger and healthier far than she had ever been in infancy. And while Violet rocked her gently and sang soft cradle songs in that low slumbrous cadence which mother voices only catch, the child would smile and play in response until the song wafted her into that still, soundless slumber which only visits the eyelids of infancy.
               Memories of her earlier days never haunted Violet now. She seldom indeed thought of the past, for it was separated from her by a gulf deep and wide, a gulf which she did not care to cross. The present was peaceful and beautiful, and her little child with its clinging arms and helpless love seemed to come between her and all thought of sorrow.
               Christmas-time, with its merry bells and happy hearts came and went; and as the winter moons waxed and waned, something of the health and strength which came to Violet after the birth of her child seemed to slip away from her grasp. It was the old weariness without the hopelessness; for her mind seemed to grow clearer and more serene as her physical strength declined. She was like a green-house plant which had been placed in the open air before the cold spring winds are over. The frosts of trouble and adversity had cast a blight upon her, a blight which the summer sunshine of love, and the refreshing showers of prosperity, could not remove or overcome.
               Mrs. Hamilton's face grew graver, strangers noticed it now. She pondered upon the subject of Violet's health deeply. It was natural, she thought, that her face should lose its girlishness as she grew older. But it was not natural that it should grow so much paler, her smile more shadowy, her form slender, and her eyes wear a worn, tired look.
               Dr. Elliott was called in, and prescribed for her, gravely. Tonics were administered with little effect. Weaker and weaker grew her frame, until she was not strong enough to take her little babe in her arms, but sat, propped up in her easy-chair day after day. Her husband read aloud and studied various plans to amuse her, but he could see that she was wasting slowly away.
               
               "You will be better when the spring comes," he told her. "And next winter we will spend in the South. I am sure you will recover in the spring."
               "Yes, in the spring," she said.
               But Mrs. Hamilton could not be deceived. More and more anxious grew her face, until she could not longer disguise its wretchedness.
               "Violet is failing fast, John," she said. "She must have help or she will die. I will go and nurse her myself, for so much depends upon that."
               So she went and took her place by her daughter's bed. Dr. Elliott came and prescribed for her; and one day, when he was leaving the house, Mrs. Hamilton, who could bear the suspense no longer, followed him down to the drawing-room, and questioned him seriously as to her daughter's state of health.
               "Her constitution is very slight," he said. "She never had a very firm hold upon life, and I fear it is slipping away from her surely now. I have seen it for some days—though I feared it, six months ago. The only doubt I have in the case now, is whether the decline will be rapid or slow."
               Mrs. Hamilton sat upright and motionless in her chair, without a word.
               "It is hard to be obliged to tell you this," he said, and his eyes grew humid with sympathy, as he watched the still, proud, despairing face before him, and thought how dear, how very dear to her husband's heart, Violet's frail, precious life had become. "I am glad you asked me, for it is best for me to be candid, and women bear these things more quietly than men. It will be your duty to break this to her husband—a thing I, with all my experience in death-beds and mourners—dare not do."
               Mrs. Hamilton's lips moved strangely, and a shadow of a sound came forth.
               "It is just," she murmured, and her eyes looked blankly into the doctor's face, for her thoughts were far away.
               Far away to that afternoon in early summer, when, under her stern and unrelenting command, Violet's face seemed first to take the hue of death. Then they wandered to that evening when the ashes of the woodland violets lay dull and gray upon the hearth, when Violet had said—"My love for Jasper is consumed, and my life with it; all my capacity for hope and joy is gone."
               The words had chilled her even then, though she had thought them weak and childish. Violet's strange—far-seeing look, which had angered her then, was explained now.
               Then her thoughts came back to the present—to a realization of her affliction, and again her white lips breathed:
               "It is just."
               The doctor, thinking her faint, approached her, but she motioned him away.
               "I shall not faint," she said.
               "This is the hardest part of our practice," the doctor said, again taking his seat.
               "You are certain nothing can be done for her, then."
               "Only to strengthen her, and to make the dreary passage down death's valley as smooth and peaceful as possible. Love will do more for this than medicine."
               "Would you like to consult with other doctors?" she asked.
               "Whoever you or Mr. Langdon may choose. We can lessen pain, and sometimes seem to ward off death's blow for a time, but we cannot stay the hand of God."
               She flushed a little here. She had recognized, at least in fancy, God's hand in the numerous blessings which had been showered upon her pleasant path. But it was the first time it had been laid upon her in heavy chastisement, and she could not realize it was the same.
               "God gave her to me," she said, "a thing of joy and beauty, from her childhood up. And now, in the loveliness and purity of her early womanhood, when she is the sunshine of my life, and the light of her husband's eyes; when all that makes existence bright, and fair, and beautiful, is hers,—He takes her from us! In all this I cannot see the hand of a merciful God!"
               It was a bitter thing, this outburst of passion and despair, from a sorely-chastened, but unreconciled heart. The doctor watched her with something of surprise in his face. He waited for a few moments until she grew outwardly calm again, and then he said, kindly:
               "Calm yourself as much as possible, Mrs. Hamilton, for you will have need of all your strength. No doubt your grief is very bitter; but for her husband, who loves her so devotedly, I tremble. Upon him the heaviest blow will fall. I have watched his deep love for her. It is wonderfully tender, and strong, and soul-absorbing. He still hopes for her recovery, and it will be hard for him to realize the truth; but you can break it more gently to him than can I."
               She rose, perfectly calm now.
               "You assure me that there is not the slightest ground of hope for her recovery?" she asked again.
               "There is no hope."
               "How long do you think she may live?"
               "But a month or two at the very furthest."
               "And she might die at any time?"
               "At any time. She will, probably, live some days, however. But you must watch her constantly, and keep her mind as cheerful as possible."
               "Thank you," Mrs. Hamilton said.
               She held out her hand.
               "I will bid you good-morning, for I have much to do. Don't speak of—of her danger—publicly, as yet. If you see any change in her symptoms at any time, favorable or otherwise, please inform me, at once. You will, of course, call every day."
               The doctor bowed gravely, and departed.
               Mrs. Hamilton went up to her room and bathed her face. Then she passed into Violet's chamber. Her daughter seemed to be sleeping quietly, and Mr. Langdon was watching by her side. Mrs. Hamilton turned her head suddenly aside, to hide a spasm of pain which convulsed her features.
               "I have sowed the wind," she sighed, "and now I am reaping the whirlwind. It is just."
               She said it over to herself again and again, that day—"It is just." Not that she felt its truth fully, for her heart was still very bitter—still unreconciled. But she repeated it over and over, as if to try and convince herself that it was true.
               "She was always weak and frail," she said. "I knew it, and yet, to gratify my own pride and vanity I bound her with a weary burden. God lightened it to her tender frame, it is true, but I am none the less guilty on that account. I always grasped for wealth, not goodness. I wished all my daughters to be fashionable, admired, rich. They are all rich in this world's goods now, but how little real comfort their wealth has brought me!"
               She clasped her hands over her forehead convulsively, as if to stay the maddening tide of bitter thought which almost overwhelmed her.
               "I did not know," she murmured, still striving to stifle the remorse of her troubled conscience, "I did not know there was so little difference between moderate poverty and riches. How many, who are struggling on the rugged road to wealth, know this, I wonder? Not one of them all, or they would cease from the race, and rest. Experience alone can teach them the truth, as it has taught me. Oh, weary lesson! sadly learned!"
               But this was no time to indulge in regretful memories. She rose, and composing herself, she went into the nursery. The nurse was sitting there with little Violet in her arms, and Susan was beside her. The room was over Mr. Langdon's study, and across the hall from Violet's chamber. Susan often sat there now, to be within a moment's call.
               The house was almost as silent as death, for since Violet's illness, the servants moved about with noiseless tread, for their youthful mistress was very dear to them all. Mrs. Hamilton closed the door quietly and took the little child upon her knee. It was growing to be very lively and playful, and it laughed, a little laugh of recognition, in its grandmother's face. She drew her slender hand caressingly over the infant's curls of soft, gold-colored hair, in an absent sort of way, for it reminded her of Violet's in her early childhood.
               She had come into the nursery for the purpose of breaking to the nurse and Susan the news of Violet's danger. She had taken the little child upon her knee, for the better purpose of introducing the sorrowful subject, but now she sat, irresolute, her mind wandering back to the time when Violet was a little child like this.
               The door opened softly, and Wheeler entered the room. She came up to where Mrs Hamilton sat, and when little Violet spied her she clapped her little hands and laughed, disclosing four tiny, pearly teeth.
               "Six months old to-day!" Wheeler said, "and four teeth already. Do you know this is the fifth of March, Mrs. Hamilton?"
               She stooped and kissed the little one affectionately. The bright, rosy-cheeked baby had already become a favorite in the household.
               "Yes," Mrs. Hamilton answered abstractedly.
               Something in her face caused Wheeler to pause.
               "How is Mrs. Langdon, poor dear, this morning?" she asked, quickly.
               "Violet?" and Mrs. Hamilton gave a sudden start. "She is sleeping now, and Mr. Langdon is watching by her." And she sat and looked blankly out upon the cold, gray, stormy sky.
               "Yes, it is March now," she continued, "cold and drear. But when the birds come back to us, and the late spring sunshine wakens to new life the violets which Mrs. Langdon loves so well, she will be sleeping beneath them; and this little child, so like her when she was an infant—only she was paler always—this little child will be motherless."
               
               She slowly withdrew her gaze from the clouds, and glanced coldly and calmly around upon the horror-stricken faces near her.
               "There is no hope," she went on, in the same cold, hard tone. "The doctor told me this morning. She may die at any time. Not one word of this to her. I must break it to Mr. Langdon—God help me!" and her voice faltered now. "I don't know how I can do it!"
               They were all weeping, but she grew calm again.
               "We must do all we can for him, and for this little, almost motherless child. It is so hard for a child to be motherless!"
               She gave a quick, gasping sigh, and her eyelids drooped slowly over her stony eyes. Wheeler sprang up and caught the baby from her knee. Her head fell forward in a death-like faint, and Susan and the nurse placed her upon the bed, striving to bring her back to consciousness.
               "Poor lady!" exclaimed Wheeler, compassionately. She takes it harder than some others who make a dreadful outcry. And no wonder! Poor little mistress—poor darling!"
               Mrs. Hamilton sighed faintly at last; her eyelids quivered, and she opened her eyes.
               "She is better, poor lady!" said Wheeler. "Stand back a little, girls, and give her more air. Set down the cologne, Susan, she'll get along now."
               A moment afterward the door of Violet's room was softly unclosed, and hearing it, Mrs. Hamilton strove to rise.
               "Sit down," she whispered, as her head drooped helplessly back upon the pillow. "Mr. Langdon is coming into the room for me."
               He opened the door and looked in.
               "Violet is awake," he said. "Did I disturb you? I don't think she needs you particularly just now."
               "You did not disturb me," she answered, "I have not been asleep. I will go in at once."
               She rose with an effort, and wiped the drops of water and cologne from her face, with trembling hands.
               "I'm better," she said, faintly. "I think I am quite well now."
               "Don't go in yet, ma'am," said Susan, arranging her cap, and brushing the damp hair away from her face. "Your face is as white as a ghost, and you are all of a tremble."
               "Am I?" she queried, absently. "I'll wait a moment, then. We must keep cheerful until the last; it won't do to excite Mrs. Langdon at all, you know."
               "We'll do our best, ma'am," replied the nurse, "all of us."
               "Don't take too much upon yourself, Mrs. Hamilton," said Wheeler, "until you get more used to it, like."
               "About telling Mr. Langdon, you mean. Thank you, Wheeler, you are quite right. Molly, you must be as careful as you can of this dear child."
               Still she lingered a moment, and before she went out she stooped and kissed the lips of little Violet, who sat, still smiling, upon Wheeler's knee.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               
                  
                     
                        "Do not weep so, dear, heart-warm!
                        All was best as it befell,
                        If I say you did me harm,
                        I speak wild—I am not well!
                        For I always was too grave—
                        Liked the saddest ballad sung,—
                        With that look, besides, we have
                        In our faces, who die young.
                        I had died, dear, just the same,
                        Life's long, joyous, jostling game
                        Is too strong for my weak frame."
                     
                  
               
               Violet reclined upon the bed, partly propped up by pillows. Mrs. Hamilton came slowly forward, trying to regain her composure; but a glance in the mirror as she passed it, showed a white, sorrowful face.
               "You have had a long sleep; my dear," she said. "Do you feel better after it?"
               "Oh, yes, stronger for the time," Violet replied.
               "You are looking quite bright again," said Mrs. Hamilton, trying, by arranging the pillows, to hide her face from Violet, but she was not satisfied.
               "Sit down a moment, please," she said. "I have something to say. Not there, but where I can see you—so."
               "You like to look upon me then," replied Mrs. Hamilton, sinking wearily into a chair, and contriving such a miserable smile that Mr. Langdon observed it, and hastened to inquire if she was ill.
               She tried to answer him quietly; tried to evade Violet's inquiring eyes, feeling in torture all the time; thinking she would give half the remainder of her wretched life for an hour to be alone and to be allowed to give vent to her grief in secret.
               "She is very pale," Violet said. "I know, too, why she feels so sorrowful. Dr. Elliott has told her bad news; bad for you all, perhaps, but better than anything else in the world for me."
               Mrs. Hamilton had not expected this. She rose from her chair hastily, and sat down again, unable to utter a word.
               "Did you ask Dr. Elliott about Violet this morning?" asked Mr. Langdon, excitedly.
               "Yes," she gasped, "but I did not know she, or any one else suspected it."
               "I have read your face for a long time, mamma," she answered. "I know you have been frightened about me for some weeks, ever since you came to take care of me. I have known for a long time that I should never recover, but Donald would not believe me; he thought it was only the nervous fancy of a sick brain."
               Mrs. Hamilton, unable to control her feelings longer, began to sob bitterly.
               Mr. Langdon came quickly forward and stood before her chair.
               "Don't!" he exclaimed. "Please tell me without further delay, what Dr. Elliott said. It cannot be so bad as Violet fears—do speak at once and relieve our suspense."
               "It is true—" she began slowly.
               "What is true?" he cried, interrupting her.
               "That Violet's days on earth are numbered," she said, sobbing more bitterly than before.
               "It is not true!" he exclaimed sharply. "I will not believe it! If Doctor Elliott does not understand her case, it is easy to employ other physicians."
               "Donald!" Violet called softly from the bed, "don't close your eyes to reason. The doctor has attended me ever since we came to Clinton, and he does understand my case, perfectly. It is better for you to know the truth now; better to realize it fully while I am here to help you bear it. Then you will grieve less when I am gone, will feel more reconciled."
               He sat down in a chair; his whole face was white.
               "Reconciled!" he repeated to himself. That was all.
               He sat for some time without moving, his eyes fixed upon the floor. Mrs. Hamilton grew more quiet as she watched him, wondering vaguely what he would do or say next. Violet seemed perfectly calm. They had cared for her so tenderly and constantly for a long time; now they had forgotten in their grief her present need of care, and she seemed stronger than either.
               Mr. Langdon rose at last.
               "I am going to see the doctor," he said. "I wish to talk to him more fully about the matter. Don't think I have given up all hope. It would be impossible for me to do that while you lived."
               He went out. When he was gone, Violet asked her mother to come and sit beside the bed.
               "I have something to say to you, mamma," she said, "and I hardly know how to express it."
               Mrs. Hamilton took the chair Mr. Langdon had left.
               "What is it, dear?" she asked, and then she broke down suddenly into another fit of weeping.
               "Don't grieve about me, mamma," Violet said. "I am quite content; and you will be in time."
               "My child, this is so hard for me, because I wronged you once! I can never be happy again; and when you are gone, the remembrance of my unkindness will kill me!"
               "Mamma, do not let that trouble you. It is what I wished to speak about. I have not felt it as a wrong in a long, long time; though I did, sometimes, even after I was happy and contented. I wrongly harbored a feeling of resentment toward you long after the pain your words cost me had gone by. Ever since my little child was given to me I have known it was wrong to bear one bitter feeling against a mother, whatever she might do."
               "But I did not act the part of a mother toward you then," Mrs. Hamilton said as Violet paused a moment, seeming exhausted with speaking. "And you, my dear, were always gentle and affectionate in disposition. No one, to see you, would think it possible to treat you unkindly, you are so mild-tempered and quiet."
               "Yet I have been very rebellious at heart, mother. I have indulged in angry and wicked feelings towards you, sometimes. But that was long ago."
               "It was perfectly natural, my child; though you was more patient than any other person I know, would have been under the circumstances. But I can never forgive myself for blighting your young life to gratify my own selfish purposes. I cannot see why I should have done it, when I loved you so. I can only account for it on the ground that all human nature is so weak. We are often so unjust to those we love."
               "It is not always so," Violet said. "Human love is weak, perhaps, but it is not always erring. It will all be right some day; for we know that 
                     
                        'God's greatness flows around our incompleteness—
                        Round our restlessness, His rest.'
                     
                  
               
               
               "Don't blame yourself, mamma dear! It would have been just the same if I had not married Donald, for I was never strong. No one knows of the command you gave me, but you and Jasper and I. I wrote him—it was his right. But you need never fear that he will betray your action in the matter."
               "Violet," Mrs. Hamilton said, "if there is anything still unexplained to him; if you feel that he thinks you to blame in what you did, I will see him and tell him anything that you desire."
               "No, mamma. I bade him good-by for the last time nearly two years ago. There is nothing more to be said in the matter, nothing more to be done. I am content, satisfied; and he will be some day, if he is not now. It will be better for him when I am dead. We can never right the wrong that has been done him; but God will, in His good time; of that I am assured."
               She seemed very weak, very much exhausted; and though her words gave some comfort to Mrs. Hamilton, she feared to have her say more.
               "Wait until you are rested," her mother said, "you are too tired to speak longer, now."
               "I have but little more to say. But I want to tell you now, for I may not have another opportunity. How long does the doctor think I will live?"
               "He does not know, dear; a month or two, perhaps."
               "It is longer than I thought."
               She waited a few moments before she spoke again, and Mrs. Hamilton brought her a strengthening drink while she waited, bathed her forehead, and brushed back from it the clustering rings of hair which still gave a childish appearance to her white, shadowy face.
               "I want you to feel, mamma," she said at last, "that you have done me no wrong. I know you thought it for the best; I know you thought I should be happier as Donald's wife. I have been very happy, for he has been so good to me! Better than you, or any one but God can know. He has never spoken an unkind word to me, and I have never had one hard thought against him. And I pray that God will yet reward him with peace, and hope, and love that will repay his tenderness as mine could never do."
               Mrs. Hamilton expected that Violet would give her some charge concerning her child, but she did not.
               Soon after, Mr. Langdon came in, with a grave, white face, and sat down beside the bed.
               "I have seen the doctor," he said, "and he is to have Dr. Hall from the city to consult about your case as soon as possible. Don't be discouraged, dear. Perhaps something may be done to prolong your life."
               He did not seem as confident as when he went out, though he had not given up all hope. Violet, thinking it over, decided that it was better so. The truth would gradually dawn upon him, and the shock would not be so great as if the news came suddenly.
               She did not desire that her friends in Clinton should know of her danger now; for she felt too weak to bear company; it disturbed her in mind and body. But she asked Mr. Langdon to write to Laura at once, telling her the truth, and begging her to come and stay with them until all was over.
               Laura had spent a dreary winter, and the news came unexpectedly. Her mother had not written often, as she was at Clinton for a week at Christmas, when Violet seemed almost well, she had not expected anything so serious, though she knew her sister was ill. She had wanted to come up for a visit, but it was so hard for her to get away from home; for, though he would not acknowledge it, the infirmities of age were creeping upon Mr. Mason, making him much more peevish than ever before.
               The thought of death shocked him, and he seemed quite willing that Laura should go up alone. She telegraphed when she would come, giving herself one day for ostensible preparations; though in reality it was to try and school her mind to enable her to endure her sorrow with greater calmness and help to comfort them all when she reached Bloom-Centre.
               Her preparations were soon completed, and then she locked herself up in her room alone. She had so little to cheer and comfort her for the past few years. Life had seemed almost a dreary waste, and the little oases of green scattered through it, were her visits to Violet, and her sister's affectionate companionship.
               Her life was dreary, oh, so dreary! it would be unendurable when Violet was gone. She felt that if she could lay it down for her sister's sake, she would do it gladly. It was lonely and bitter and hard, while Violet's seemed so peaceful and serene by contrast. So she mourned all day, not knowing that Violet's life was also a burden, and she was glad to lay it down.
               But when Laura appeared at Bloom-Centre, next day, she was self-possessed to a remarkable degree. Mrs. Hamilton, whose tears were ever ready to fall, wondered at her apparent composure. She at once took charge of the sick chamber, kept the air pure and fresh, brightening it with a fresh flower or two, for many were not allowed. She read to Violet when she was able to bear it, and sang her to sleep when restless, as she would have soothed a sick child.
               Mrs. Hamilton's occupation was gone. Violet called upon Laura for everything whenever she was in the room, and that was from early in the morning until late at night. Even the vigil of the night nurse was sometimes shared by her when Violet could not sleep.
               Mr. Langdon was always at hand, and almost always controlled his feelings, for Laura's coming was a great relief to all. The consultation of the doctors gave him no room for hope, and though he never acknowledged it to Violet, she felt that this was so.
               The news of her danger soon spread over the town, and visitors and callers from far and near came with proffers of sympathy and help. But as Laura observed that these visits wearied Violet, they were soon forbidden.
               "Laura," Mrs. Hamilton said, one day, when they chanced to be alone in the nursery, "I wonder you can be so self-possessed in this trouble. I think I have great control over my feelings, yet I am often obliged to leave the room to hide my tears."
               "Mother," Laura answered, "I have been severely schooled in adversity, and have learned to some extent the habit of self-control. I have found that there is nothing gained by constant repining over sorrows that must be endured."
               "But I know you are tender-hearted, and that Violet is very dear to you."
               "There are few, very few persons in this world, mother, whom I dearly love. I have grown cold and hard in my loveless life, until I distrust the professions of most people, and so make none in return. But my little sister is as dear to me as my own heart's blood. I would not grieve her, or shorten her dear frail life one precious moment by my selfish repinings."
               "But do you not sometimes fear she may think you cold or unfeeling?" Mrs. Hamilton asked, hesitatingly.
               "No, mother, she understands and appreciates my motives, for those near death see more clearly than the living. She sent for me in the hope that I would make the remainder of her life more peaceful by cheering and comforting you all, and I will not disappoint her in almost her last wish. Mother," and she threw herself wearily into a chair, "I love you dearly, yet there is no other person on earth whose death could stir my soul as Violet's. We were playmates together; and sat at the same desk at school, and slept upon the same pillow at night. For years we were almost inseparable by night and day, and all these years she never wronged me!"
               The tears were falling fast over Mrs. Hamilton's face, but Laura rose, bathed her forehead, and went into the sick room.
               Mrs. Hamilton, entering a few moments after, heard Violet giving Laura directions with regard to her little child. She felt it was just, and yet it touched her a little that Violet could not trust her with its care, but preferred her sister's judgment in the matter.
               "Laura," Violet said, "You will come to see her sometimes, will be with her, and guide and instruct her whenever you can; not just now, perhaps, so much as by and by, when she is older and needs a mother's guiding hand."
               "Whenever I can," Laura repeated, earnestly.
               Violet seemed lost in thought for a few moments. Then, as if speaking to herself, she said:
               "It is a sacred thing, the training of a little child. I myself am but a child, and might not have strength to guide my own in the way she should go. She can never miss what she has known so short a time—a mother's love."
               Soon after this she seemed to grow weaker. Eliza was summoned;—Mr. Hamilton also, remained at Bloom-Centre. Lena Gilbert, who had always seemed to take a great interest in Violet, came up to see her for a short time.
               But Laura was with her almost constantly, and must wait upon her, though so many others were near at hand. Her duties, however, were light, for Violet suffered but little, and was very patient and considerate.
               There were no final farewells, no sad leave-takings. Death, so long expected, came with noiseless wing at last. Violet seemed to rally for a few hours, and appeared brighter than usual, but when evening came her strength rapidly declined. Laura and Mr. Langdon, who watched more closely than the others, felt that her last hour had come. Once she moved slightly, and in a faint voice asked for her child.
               Laura brought little Violet into the room, and held her in her arms while her mother kissed the little one for the last time. Both felt it was the last, though no word was spoken by either. Then, giving the child into the arms of its nurse, Laura sat down by her sister's side, taking the slender, delicate hand in her own.
               Violet slept for a short time so serenely and quietly, they hoped she might gather strength for a few last waking moments, but before they were aware, Death stood in the presence of all. Laura was the first to observe it.
               
               "She is dying," she whispered, with lips almost as white as her sister's; and rising, she tenderly closed, for the last time, Violet's soft blue eyes.
               And so, without a word—without a movement or a struggle—with scarcely a quiver of the pale, patient face, she passed from the presence of her friends into the light of eternity.
               She was buried; and the world that had known her turned aside for a day and marveled that one so fair and well-beloved should die so young; and then swung back into its old accustomed groove. The husband sought a darkened room to be alone with his sorrow; and her little child laughed and played in the nursery, without knowing or feeling its loss. Mrs. Hamilton turned away, stricken at heart, and her husband mourned the loss of his favorite child. Laura left the house of mourning and went back to her dreary home; thinking desolately of the white face under the coffin-lid which she might see on earth no more. 
                     
                        "And the robins sang in the orchard, where buds to blossoms grew;
                        Of the folded hands and the still face, never the robins knew!"
                     
                  
               
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               
                  
                     
                        "First love will in the heart remain
                        When its hopes are all gone by;
                        As frail rose-blossoms still retain
                        Their fragrance when they die.
                        And joy's first dreams will haunt the mind
                        With the shades 'mid which they sprung,
                        As summer leaves the stems behind
                        On which spring's blossoms hung.
                        A fate like this hath oft befell
                        Even loftier hopes than ours;
                        Spring bids full many buds to swell,
                        That ne'er can grow to flowers."
                     
                  
               
               Time passed on until it reached the close of Jasper's last collegiate year. He graduated at twenty-one, the time he had hoped to marry. He had studied diligently for three years, and longed for a change. So he determined to spend the summer in Meadville. There would be no danger of meeting Violet now.
               The new life he had been leading for three years, was haunted with memories of the old. He doubted now, if they would ever leave him altogether. They tempered his most joyous moments with something of sadness. They made him sedate and thoughtful beyond his years; they had taken the zest and freshness of his youth away.
               He studied well, but it was because he did whatever he undertook conscientiously and earnestly. He won high encomiums from his teachers, but he received them more soberly and quietly than a man of middle age would have done. He never seemed un duly elated; never expressed more than a quiet smile of satisfaction at his success. His friends said he was like his uncle in this particular, but his mother knew his nature seemed greatly changed.
               
               When the news of Violet's death reached him, he appeared to bear it quietly. Mrs. Douglas was the first to hear of it, through Dora, and she communicated it to Jasper one evening, when his studies for the week were completed.
               "I have sad news for you, Jasper," she said, as they sat quietly together in the library.
               He looked up in slight surprise, as if nothing could affect him seriously now.
               "What is it, mother?" he asked.
               "Violet is dead."
               "Violet dead!" he echoed. "I never thought of that."
               His mother gave him the particulars of her death, which he received silently.
               "Is she buried!" he asked, when she had finished.
               "Yes."
               When it was time to retire he went up stairs, and after locking his door, sat down to think what effect her death could have upon him.
               "It should be nothing to me whatever," he said, bitterly. "She is dead and buried, and I hear of it only by chance. If I had known it in time, I would have looked upon her dead face, at any cost. Perhaps it is better that I did not. I could hardly have controlled my feelings; for, though I try to disguise the fact, from mother and myself, too, I love her still!"
               But this mood passed away, and a calmer one came. She had been dead to him for years, and her real death could not separate her from him more hopelessly than the first had done.
               When he left college, and decided to go up to Meadville, he wondered whether he would be relieved by a change of scene, or if his old haunts would seem desolate, now that Violet was gone.
               Dora and Stanley were to be married during the summer. Just a quiet, pleasant wedding they were to have, for Dora had only recently laid aside her mourning. Still, Mrs. Tracy, Stanley's mother, insisted that they should be married in the evening and give some sort of a party, at least."
               She remembered the show and glitter of Violet's wedding three years before, and she did not wish her old neighbor and enemy, Mrs. Hamilton, to cast her daughter-in-law that-was-to-be so completely in the shade.
               Dora, who, since her mother's death, had been her father's housekeeper, made some slight demur.
               "I have no mother to help me," she said; "no one but sister Maggie, who has much less experience than I. We cannot attend to all the preparations for a party, especially as my mind will be so preoccupied. I'm afraid everything would go wrong."
               "But I'll help you, my dear," said Mrs. Tracy; and she was as good as her word.
               Still, a great deal of care fell upon Dora; and at last, in her perplexity, she wrote to her old friend, Mrs. Douglas, asking her to come up with Jasper, and remain until the wedding was over.
               Mrs. Douglas cheerfully accepted the invitation; for Dora and her parents had been so kind to her in former days, she was glad of an opportunity to return a favor. So she at once set out for Meadville, accompanied by Jasper.
               He was to return to the city in autumn, to attend a course of medical lectures, and also to continue his reading under his uncle's direction. Afterward, Dr Irving hinted a journey to Europe and further study before establishing a practice. Jasper liked employment, and was interested deeply in the profession he had chosen. Relying upon his uncle's judgment, he followed implicitly the course marked out for him.
               Quiet Meadville had scarcely changed in appearance in the three years of Jasper's absence. The children he had known were young gentlemen and ladies—there were a few strange children in the street—a few more graves in the churchyard—that was all.
               Altogether, the visit did him good. He was quite lionized now, by those who had never cared for him before. He had grown somewhat cynical, and this afforded him some slight amusement.
               Dora's wedding was over. Mrs. Hamilton had not attended it; she seldom went out now. Still it was a success; and Mrs. Tracy thanked Mrs. Douglas warmly for her timely assistance in perfecting the arrangements. Soon after, Mrs. Douglas returned to the city to join her brother, but Jasper lingered in the village until the first slight frosts warned him that the time to resume his studies was near at hand.
               It was a bright, glowing day, and the air was as soft and balmy as summer, when he set out for home. As he neared Clinton, the cars swept around a curve, bringing the cemetery in full view. A sudden impulse seized him to stop until the next train, and visit Violet's grave. It was formed abruptly, and as suddenly put into execution.
               He left the train, and set out for the cemetery alone, trusting to be able to find her grave, for he shrank from asking any one where she was buried, fearing it would lead to other questions, perhaps comment. He wandered about for some time, meeting but few persons sons, as it was early in the day, and searching among the most beautifully decorated graves. At last his attention was attracted to an elegant though not large monument, upon a gently-sloping hill-side. As he drew nearer he saw that the lot was bordered with a hedge of neatly trimmed box, and in each corner late white roses were blooming.
               A child in her baby-carriage sat near it; and at a little distance her nurse was gossiping with another servant, who seemed to have an infant in charge.
               The monument consisted of a square, polished shaft of pure white marble, and standing upon it was an exquisitely sculptured angel, with folded wings, and a slender hand pointing upward. Jasper drew nearer, and saw the grave was covered with violets. There was an inscription at the side of the shaft, which he did not stop then, to read; but in front, engraved within a wreath of carved violets and their leaves, he saw her name—VIOLET.
               He bowed his head reverently, and a mist came before his eyes. The air about her grave, even, seemed inspirited with the very beauty and grace which always surrounded her when living. It was hard for him to remember anything now, but that he had loved her, and she was dead. At last he turned to the child, who sat like a Fairy Queen in her soft, azure lined carriage, with the daintiest of lace trimmed white dresses, and blue, woodland violets in her pretty white hat.
               She did not seem in the least timid, for she looked up at once and smiled. Then, pointing one dimpled hand toward the angel, she said, still smiling:
               "Mamma!"
               
               Poor child! she could never know, or remember her mother on earth.
               "What is your name, little one?" Jasper asked, bending over the carriage.
               "Violet Langdon!" she replied, quite distinctly, and without hesitation.
               "How old are you, darling?" was Jasper's next question.
               "Two 'ers old," lisped the clear, bird-like voice.
               She was so like Violet! The same dark blue eyes, and waving, gold-colored hair; the same sweet mouth and fresh, clear complexion. But there was a look in her face which her mother's even in childhood, never wore. It was not because it was more plump, and her cheeks more rosy. It was an expression over the whole. A different carriage of the proud little head, a more positive glance of the clear eyes bespoke the fact that she had a sweet little imperious will of her own, which would not fail to assert itself when unreasonably opposed.
               Jasper watched her in silent admiration for a few moments, a smile lighting his eyes, and then slowly breaking over his face.
               "You are a queen," he said, "every inch a queen; but evidently disposed to be a very gracious one."
               By this time, the nurse, having finished her gossip, or wishing to satisfy herself who the handsome young stranger was, who had taken such a fancy to little Violet, came up to the other side of the carriage.
               "It's the baby's mother is buried here, sir," she said, seeming to be very communicative—"eighteen months ago. She was very handsome, sir, and young, too; only nineteen years of age, as the side of the stone, there, tills. She was mild, and quiet, and soft-spoken, like the angel she was, sir."
               "Does the child resemble her?" Jasper asked, gravely.
               "Resemble her, is it? indade she does sir. I don't think meself she's quite as fine lookin' as the mistress, but her father thinks her the very wonder of the world."
               "She seems to be a very happy child.
               "Of course she is, sir. And why shouldn't she be? sure she's verything she wants—the darlin'."
               By this time, little Violet, who seemed to think that Mary had said quite enough, called Jasper's attention to the pretty white afghan, embroidered with violets, which lay in the bottom of the carriage.
               "Dis is my affy," she said. "Aunt Laura maked it for me. An' I've got on my new blue shoes, too."
               "I see," Jasper said, laughing, and searching his pockets for something which would serve as a plaything for her. Finding nothing available, he drew out his watch and placed it in her hand, while he held the chain. She had evidently been accustomed to such playthings, for she expressed her desire to hear it "tick-tick" at once.
               He amused her for some time, and then, looking at the hour, saw it was almost time for him to go.
               "She is a beautiful child," he said, to the nurse. Won't you remove her hat a moment, so I can see her hair?"
               Anxious to please the fine young gentleman, the nurse untied the little hat, and arranged a refractory curl or two.
               "Thank you," Jasper said, slipping some money into her hand. "Be kind and gentle to the motherless little darling, always."
               She promised, with a profusion of thanks.
               "I must go now," Jasper said, rising at last. "Won't you kiss me good-by, little girl?"
               The child regarded him soberly for an instant, with her honest, eager eyes, then without any appearance either of forwardness or embarrassment, she reached her white, dimpled arms around his neck and kissed him.
               Something like a sob rose to Jasper's lips—it was so long since a little child had kissed them.
               "If I could only take her home with me," he thought, with a sudden longing; though he did not express himself in words, for the nurse was already wondering at his great fancy for the child.
               "Good-by," he said, turning reluctantly away.
               She rose to her little feet and reached out her hands toward him.
               "I love you!" she said, in her pretty, childish way. "Stay!"
               "Oh, the bowld miss!" laughed the nurse, highly delighted with the precocity of her young charge. "Its not often she takes to any one like that, sir!"
               Jasper, scarcely noticing what she said, turned quickly, and took the child in his arms.
               "You love me, little one?" he said. "There are not many in this world who love me truly, or who would care to kiss me as you have done to-day, darling. And I thank you for it, oh, so much more than you can know. I cannot stay now, but I'll come to see you again, some day, if both our lives are spared. Some day, dear, but now, good-by."
               She seemed satisfied with the promise; and, after kissing her again and again, he placed her in her carriage and left the spot. Reaching the depot in time for the cars, he took his seat to resume his journey. As the train moved away, he found himself humming a song. He stopped suddenly, smiling at so unusual an occurrence.
               "How is it," he asked himself, "that I feel lighter hearted than I have been before in years? I believe it is all because Violet's little child kissed me."
               For many days he could scarcely think of anything but her. He said to himself again and again she should never need a protector while he lived. True, she was surrounded by friends now, and all that wealth could procure. But fortune was a fickle goddess; and sometime, perhaps he might serve her. It almost seemed as if he had something to work for now, as though a trust had been confided to his care. His old grief, all his old depression of mind was gone. Somehow, he could hardly tell how, this little child had come between him and his sorrow, leaving only peace and tenderness in his heart.
               Mrs. Douglas soon observed the change, and thought his visit to Meadville had done him a world of good. He sang and laughed as of old; and, even when musing silently by himself, would smile a quiet, satisfied smile. Thinking the subject over, she wondered that he had not seemed more happy while in Meadville. Could anything have happened after she left? If so, she was surprised that he should have kept the secret from her.
               Dr. Irving appeared to regard the change in Jasper with wonder, and yet he was pleased.
               "What has happened to Jasper?" he asked Mrs. Douglas, one day.
               
               "What, indeed?" thought she, but she could not fathom the mystery.
               At last she determined to ask him, but he only laughed the more, saying, with a mysterious air:
               "I'll tell you sometime, mother."
               So she determined that he must be in love. One day he came home, bringing with him a Parian statue, the statue of a little child.
               "Isn't it pretty, mother?" he asked.
               "Yes," she said, "but I did not know you were so fond of children."
               "I don't care much about them generally," he answered, "for I never have been accustomed to them. But this one was so pretty, and its hands and arms just like—"
               He paused a moment, and Mrs. Douglas turned, a little sharply:
               "Jasper," she said, "are you in love? Why don't you tell me what makes you seem so much happier than you used to be? Don't make a secret of it any longer."
               He laughed.
               "Yes, mother," he said, "I am, but not in the way you think. It is only with a little child."
               "But how could that affect you so?
               "I don't know, unless it is because it is Violet's child."
               "I see," she answered, more gently. "Tell me all about it, Jasper."
               "I stopped in Clinton for a short time on my return," he said, "to see Violet's grave. I found it, a lovely, peaceful spot, and beside it was Violet's little child. The dearest little child I ever saw, mother, with beautiful eyes."
               "Is she like Violet?"
               "In many particulars, but like herself only, in others. She was not afraid, but spoke and acted in the prettiest little way imaginable; and when I asked her, she put her arms around my neck and kissed me. I don't know when anything has touched me so, before."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               Two years passed by. Jasper had finished his course of lectures, and the reading presented by his uncle, and was now going to spend the summer in Meadville. On the following autumn, he was to sail with his uncle, for Europe. Mrs. Douglas did not intend to accompany them, as she preferred to remain with her friends. Time had dealt leniently with her of late, and she looked scarcely older, if as old, as when she lived with Jasper in their little cottage.
               "I have been very happy in the city," she said, "but there is no place upon earth which seems so much like home as Meadville. And I hope, when you commence your practice, Jasper, you will settle down here. It will be pleasant for you among your old friends; and you need not work as hard as you would be obliged to do if we were poor.
               "Perhaps I may, mother," he said, "if you wish it. But I dislike to leave you here in Meadville, while we are away, for we may be absent for a year or two."
               
               "I shall not be alone, Jasper," she said, "I have so many warm friends here. There is dear little Dora, who, I believe, would like me to remain with her all the time. But I intend to board at Mrs. Dwight's, as usual, and then I can visit as I please. Dora's sister Maggie is to be married next winter, too, and she insists that I shall go and assist her as I did Dora."
               "And after that," said Jasper, laughing, "I suppose Mr. Lambert will be so lonely, that you will feel it your duty to keep house for him during the rest of your natural life."
               "Jasper!" she exclaimed, "if you were not six feet tall, I'd certainly box your ears!"
               "I don't believe you know how!" he laughed. "And it is altogether too late to begin now. But, really it wouldn't be a bad idea—about turning housekeeper, I mean—especially as I fancy Mr. Lambert himself is very anxious about it, and Dora and Maggie both willing."
               Mrs. Douglas looked very grave, but made no reply.
               "Mr. Lambert is so good and kind," continued Jasper, "I shall always feel very grateful to him, for being so kind to me when I was poor. I can never repay him for it. I never had a real father's care, though he seems almost like a father to me, I think. For my own part, I would be quite willing for him to become one to me in reality; that is, of course, if it would be agreeable to you. Your life, for the greater part, has been very sad and lonely, and he would love and care for you devotedly, I do not doubt."
               Still she remained silent, though evidently she was not displeased—only serious. Jasper kissed her and went out.
               "Dear mother!" he said to himself as he walked slowly down the street. "She has been very devoted to me, and I could not be so selfish as to stand in the way of her happiness. And I believe this would really make her happier. She is very domestic in her tastes, and if I am to turn rover for a few years, she would be so much more pleasantly situated, if she had a home among the friends who love her, and where the most of her life has been spent."
               So not many weeks after, there was a quiet wedding, and Jasper's mother, Mrs. Lambert now, took possession of the pleasant home which was to be hers for the future, to the content of the Meadville gossips, who unanimously voted the affair as quite natural and proper.
               Toward the close of the summer, Jasper visited Clinton. Not that he had acquaintances there. But he wished, before leaving his native shores, to visit Violet's grave once more.
               It was a bright August day, and he slowly walked through the cemetery and drew silently toward the spot of her last resting-place, hoping to meet little Violet there, as before. But the place was vacant. He sat down beside the grave, hoping the little child might chance to visit the spot.
               At last, despairing of meeting her that day, he rose to leave the place. He turned, and met a lady approaching the grave. It was Mrs. Hamilton. He was about to pass on without speaking, for, though he knew her at once, she did not at first recognize him. But he hesitated a moment when he saw how pale she had grown since he met her last, and how gray her soft hair had become.
               
               Mrs. Hamilton recognized him as she met his eyes, and put out her hand.
               "Jasper! or, I suppose I should say Dr. Douglas, I did not know you until I observed your eyes. There is something in them which, somehow, one never can forget. They are honest eyes; no one, not even a little child, would ever shrink from them."
               It was true, and yet she said it partly because she wished to conciliate him. He was human, and the flattering shot struck home. His face softened, and he thought of the little child who had looked in them so fearlessly, in this very spot, two years before.
               "You have changed but little," Mrs. Hamilton said; "you have grown taller, graver, and more manly. But I, alas! I am greatly changed." And she sighed.
               "You are quite well, I hope?" he asked, politely.
               "Yes," she answered, "quite as well as I ever shall be, now."
               He bowed, a little absently.
               "You are going away, I hear," she said.
               "For a year or two," he answered.
               "And then?"
               "I hardly know."
               "I'm glad I happened to meet you before you went away," she said.
               "Thank you."
               He was thinking how changed this woman was, and wondering if she appeared so to others.
               "Jasper," she said, after a pause, "I did you a great wrong once. You, and the dear child who sleeps here. She was beloved and happy in her married life—yes, she loved her husband too. But it was God's mercy. I had no right to expect it. Mr. Langdon is really one of the noblest of men, and she could not help loving him."
               "I am very glad—for her sake."
               "I am thankful. Still, I am none the less to blame on that account. I made her unhappy for a time, and you, too, I do not doubt. I am afraid her engagement was the cause of your illness."
               "It undoubtedly affected me. Still, I should have been sick at any rate, I suppose. But that grief is all past. God's hand was in it, of that I am quite sure."
               "Yet my conscience reproaches me. I have never yet been able to forgive myself for the action I took in the matter. I never can, I fear."
               "Do not think of it," he said, in sincere pity for her she seemed so very sorrowful.
               "Can you forgive me, Jasper? Violet did before she died, though she spoke very bitterly to me once, about her engagement. It was before her marriage, when she heard that you were ill."
               "She did?"
               He seemed to forget, in thinking of Violet, to answer Mrs. Hamilton's question, and stood for some moments in silent thought. Then he held out his hand.
               "I have nothing to forgive," he said.
               "But you felt hard toward me, once."
               "Once," he echoed, "but indeed, not now. Believe me, there is not a shadow of bitter feeling in my heart toward you."
               "Thank you, Jasper, I do believe you. I have often wished to see you, and ask your forgiveness. But I did not dare to seek you, for fear of attracting notice. Now my mind is relieved."
               "And mine, too, is better satisfied."
               
               "Have you ever been here before?"
               "Once, only."
               "How long since?"
               "Nearly two years."
               "I thought so."
               "I met Violet's little child here."
               "Yes. The nurse happened to bring Violet to see me directly afterward, and she mentioned the hand-some young stranger who seemed to take such a fancy to the baby. I thought of you at once, and asked her, in a careless way, to describe you. I was convinced that it was you, from her description, although I did not speak of it to any one."
               "How is the little child now?"
               "Well—quite well. She was never delicate, like her mother, although she resembles her closely. Do you not think so?"
               "She is very like her."
               "But more spirited. It would be a hard matter for any one to control her affections," Mrs. Hamilton said.
               Jasper smiled.
               "She kissed me," he said, "and I don't know when anything ever did me so much good. It was like balm to my heart, which always, until then, had secretly sorrowed for her mother. It has been different ever since. I would like to see her once more—now, while she is a little child. I came here to-day, more, I believe, in the hope of seeing her, than anything else."
               "She is absent from home, or I would send for her. Her father has taken her away for a short visit."
               "Then I shall be obliged to content myself with the memory of her face, as I saw it last. I shall never forget it; or the peace and comfort which it brought me."
               "You will not visit Clinton again, then?"
               "No, for I sail next week, and shall leave Meadville on the day after to-morrow. As my uncle accompanies me, we will pass through Clinton without stopping."
               "I hope you may have a safe voyage and a pleasant tour throughout. And, when you return, if you ever visit Clinton, I shall be glad to see you as often as you may find it pleasant or convenient to call. You might like to come sometimes, on account of the child."
               "Thank you."
               He pressed her hand cordially, lifted his hat and was about to depart, but she detained him.
               "Stay," she said. "I just happened to think that I have a picture of little Violet with me."
               "Oh, have you?" He turned quickly. "I should so like to see it!"
               Mrs. Hamilton could not help smiling at his eagerness. She unfastened a small locket from her watch-chain, and laid it in his hand.
               It was an oval gold locket, with a violet in blue enamel on either side. His hand trembled as he opened it. The picture was a good daguerreotype, the truest of all old pictures, and large enough to show distinctly every lineament of the sweet child-face.
               It had changed but little since he looked at it last. The features were a trifle older, that was all. The clear eyes which had such a fearless though not bold look about them, were just the same.
               He looked at it for some time in silence. Mrs. Hamilton watched the soft glow which lighted his eyes. Then he pressed his lips tenderly to the baby-face, closed the locket and gave it back to Mrs. Hamilton.
               
               "Jasper," she said, "you may keep it if you care for it."
               "Care for it!" he cried, impetuously, "you know I would dearly love to keep it."
               "She placed it in his hand."
               "You are sure it would not be missed?" he asked, quickly; "that it would not occasion any remark?"
               "No one questions me," she answered, with something of her old loftiness of manner. "Give yourself no uneasiness. I shall keep my own counsel."
               "But do you think Mr.—her father—would care if you gave it to me, if he knew it?"
               "He knows very well that I would not give her picture to any one who would harm it, or her. If I choose to give it to a friend who happens to admire it, he would never think of offering an objection."
               He fastened it upon his watch-chain.
               "Good-by," he said, taking her hand. "How can I thank you? I am your debtor—your sworn ally—your firm friend henceforth!"
               She only smiled in answer, and lifting his hat, he left the place.
               "It was with a lighter heart than when he set out, that he entered his mother's room on his return.
               "Mother," he said, "I have been to Clinton since I left you, this morning."
               "To Clinton? I did not suppose you had been out of town."
               "I did not speak of it, for I intended to return immediately. I have been absent rather longer than I intended. I took a run out on the cars, to take a farewell look at Violet's grave."
               "My son, will you never forget her?"
               "Her memory will always be sweet and pure to my heart, mother. But the bitter pain which her loss first caused me, was soothed long ago. I visited her grave to-day, because I longed to look upon the face of her little child once more."
               "And did you see her?"
               "No, but I met Mrs. Hamilton."
               A slight shade passed over Mrs. Lambert's usually placid face.
               "I am glad of it, mother," Jasper said, seeing the shadow. "She has made everything right. She even asked my 
                     forgivness
                     forgiveness
                   for what she once did."
               "Is it possible!" exclaimed Mrs. Lambert, in astonishment.
               "Indeed, it is true, though I could scarcely believe my own senses. She is looking very old for her, and sorrowful. You must forgive her, mother dear. You can afford to do so, for you are so happy yourself now And she, I think, is really wretched."
               "No doubt of it. Did she speak of Violet?"
               "Freely. She told me that Violet was happy in her married life, though she herself could not have expected it. Little Violet was away from home, or Mrs. Hamilton would have brought her to see me."
               "Did she say so?"
               "Yes."
               "Don't believe her."
               "But I must, mother. For she did the next best thing, or, rather, that which pleased me better. See here."
               He drew out the locket, opened at, and gave it to her. Mrs. Lambert held it to the light.
               "The darling!" she exclaimed, the moment she caught the expression of the face.
               Jasper smiled—a little, satisfied smile.
               
               "I knew you couldn't help loving her, mother dear."
               "Who could? And Mrs. Hamilton gave this to you?" she asked, musingly. "I don't see her object, yet. But, Jasper, you must avoid that woman, if you hope to be happy in your after life."
               "Why so, mother?"
               "She never hesitates to sacrifice the happiness of any one who comes between her and her ambitious plans."
               "I cannot see the harm in accepting this locket," he answered, thoughtfully.
               "Nor I. But she had a purpose in giving it to you, of that you may be sure."
               "Not a bad one, I hope. Ah, I see how it is, mother," he said, laughing, "I have heard that one woman could never forgive another. I wonder if it isn't true?"
               "There may be something in it," she laughed in response. "But I fancy it would be just as hard for a man to forgive a rival."
               "I'm sure I never felt the slightest degree of enmity toward Mr. Langdon."
               "But he never wronged you. I do not doubt that he is the very soul of honor. But if it had been otherwise, if he had planned deliberately against you, to rob you of Violet, and succeeded, you would never have believed in him afterward."
               "I believe you are right, mother dear. Still, deep sorrow may change a person's feelings, and I am sure, whatever Mrs. Hamilton may have been to me in the past—she is my friend now."
               Mrs. Lambert sat for some moments in silence. Jasper watched her face, and was glad to see a smile break over it at last.
               "I see how it is," she said; "Mrs. Hamilton is never satisfied unless she can be planning a marriage for some one or at least, a match in the future. She knows that you are, or will be, rather, one of the wealthiest young men in the country round. In her opinion, you will be about the right age to marry when Violet has grown to young womanhood. Let me see. Yes, when she is sixteen you'll be thirty-five. And you will be educated, traveled—everything that she desires in a gentleman. I wonder it did not strike me at once."
               Jasper laughed heartily.
               "Well, mother," said he, "if she designs me for her future grandson-in-law, she will certainly do me no harm in the meantime."
               "No. And on the whole I am glad of it. I shall feel safer about you. If she can keep you from marrying any one else, by giving you Violet's picture to carry about with you, she will be sure to manage the rest when the child is grown."
               "Mother," said Jasper, "I only hope you may prove a true prophetess, although such a thought never occurred to me until I was riding home in the cars to-day with this dear little face over my heart."
               "Oh, wise, wise Mrs. Hamilton!" exclaimed Mrs. Lambert, gravely shaking her head. "That woman's ingenuity is perfectly astounding!"
               "I hope you don't object to this, mother?"
               "No, indeed. Nothing would please me better. I'm delighted to find that for once her ambition and our inclinations lie in the same direction. But she certainly is a remarkable woman! She will trample upon your heart, and then, when it suits her fancy, will, by one trifling act, make you her firm friend forever. Even I admire her wonderful energy and force of character, when she caused me years of unhappiness."
               "She is a good friend when she chooses to be, or a terrible enemy, you mean. I do not fear her. We are rich, mother, and therefore, she will always be our friend."
               A ring was now heard at the door bell, and Stanley and Dora Tracy were shown into the parlor.
               Dora soon spied the locket which was suspended from his chain.
               "What is that?" she asked. "Come, show me. Whose picture does it contain, and where did you get it? As I live, it has a violet upon the outside."
               "Which question shall I answer?" laughed Jasper.
               "All of them, of course, stupid!"
               "Well, then, it is a locket. Here is the outside, which I am quite willing to show you. It was presented to me by a lady, and it contains the portrait of my sweetheart."
               "Anything else?" she asked.
               "Yes, a curl of her hair, opposite the picture."
               "What color is the hair?"
               "Golden."
               "Whose is it?"
               "I ought not to tell."
               "And why not, pray?"
               "Because, although I love her very dearly, we're not engaged."
               "Do you mean to go away and leave this on my mind; you cannot be so cruel."
               "I don't know. I'm not much given to having secrets, and I really don't care if you see it, Dora, but I would not like to have it generally known."
               "Well, I won't tell it generally, then, only occasionally."
               He removed the locket from his chain and placed it in her hand.
               "Oh, the little beauty!" Dora exclaimed. "I know very well who she is, though perhaps Stanley does not."
               "Let me see it," he said. "Yes, I think I could guess who she is, without the slightest difficulty. Your sweetheart is a very dainty little lady, Jasper."
               "And willful, I'll warrant," laughed Dora.
               Jasper looked at the picture for a moment.
               "I'll trust her eyes," he said. "Even if willful, she would be right in nine cases out of ten. And one has a right to be willful, when one is sure of being right."
               "But, Jasper," said Dora, "my curiosity is only half satisfied. I want to know how you came to see her, and who presented you with the locket?"
               "I never saw her but once," he said.
               "And she gave you this?"
               "No, but she kissed me."
               "You are dreadfully provoking. When did you get the locket?"
               "To-day."
               "And who gave it to you?"
               "Mrs. Hamilton."
               "Is it possible?"
               "Yes, she gave it to me before I asked for it."
               Mr. Lambert and Dr. Irving now entered the room, and after spending a merry hour, Stanley and Dora took their leave.
               Two days afterward Jasper bade adieu to his mother, and Meadville friends.
               "Good-by, mother dear," he said, "I am so glad to leave you beloved and happy; better cared for than if you were with me. I will be sure and write you often, and keep you posted as to my health and whereabouts, and how I am enjoying myself."
               "Take care of yourself, my son," she said, the tears gathering in her eyes. "Be very guarded, and careful to shun all appearance of evil."
               "Yes, dear mother, I have my uncle's example, and your teachings to direct me, when I myself am in doubt as to which way to go, And besides, (here he laid his hand significantly upon the locket which was in its place over his heart) I have here a charm, a talisman, to keep me out of harm's way."
               Mrs. Lambert smiled through her tears. He kissed her and was gone.
               Mr. Lambert accompanied Jasper and his uncle to the depot.
               "My boy," he said, taking Jasper's hand at parting, "when you are tired of travel, you always know where to find a home. You are my son now, in truth, as I used to wish when you were younger. You are to come to me as a father, always. Don't forget to write your mother often, for she will be anxious about you."
               The two men stood, looking sadly into each other's eyes. There had always a firm friendship existed between them, though one was scarcely more than a boy even now, and the other had passed life's prime.
               "Thank you," Jasper said at last, both for your goodness to mother and to me. I believe I have always loved you as a son. I will write home often, rest assured. Good-by, father."
               Mr. Lambert's eyes were humid as he shook Dr. Irving's hand, and extended to him also, the invitation to make his house his home, whenever he felt so disposed. Then Jasper and his uncle both bowed to the crowd of friends upon the platform, and were whirled swiftly away.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               Laura Mason sat in her husband's room with a thankless task before her. Mr. Mason was ill and scarcely able to leave his bed, weak in everything but temper; and she sometimes feared that it would swallow up every other quality of his nature, both mental and physical, and leave her with a querulous ghost to amuse during the remainder of her life. Outwardly she was little changed since we saw her last. As beautiful, as weary as ever, she seemed, as she sat trying to quiet her nervous, excitable invalid, on a dull autumn day.
               She had so little pleasure to remember, in the dreary, slowly passing years since Violet died. Still, there had been some sweet among the bitter. Lena had always been her true friend, and had rendered her many kindnesses for which she was very grateful. Then, too, she had sometimes stolen up to Clinton for a short time to caress Violet's child, which was the dearest object on earth to her now. Little Violet was now five years old; a dear little plaything, though too young for study. Sometimes Laura would bring her home for a visit, and Mr. Mason would seem diverted by her for awhile, but he soon tired of everything; and as he employed the whole of Laura's time, she had little leisure to devote to the child. Besides, her father missed her when away, and always came for her after a short visit.
               As Mr. Mason's health began to grow more feeble, he seemed more anxious to hide the fact from his friends. It was a pitiful sight to Laura, to see him dress with so much care each day, when he could scarcely walk from weakness and tremulousness. Then he would order the carriage, and sitting straight as a statue, take his daily ride, bowing politely to his acquaintances when he chanced to meet them, though he was scarcely able to even touch his hat; and Laura was obliged to mention the fact whenever a friend approached, for his failing sight prevented him from recognizing any one.
               But there came a time when he was unable to leave his room, and he was confined to his bed for days together. Then came a season of weary watching for Laura. Mr. Mason was unable to sleep, except to catch a few moments of repose at short intervals, and he was unwilling to allow Laura any opportunity for rest. He seemed, however, to have a sort of fondness for her, which helped to lighten her task, somewhat; but he could not bear to have her leave him for a moment.
               It was impossible to obtain nurses to take care of him. He was violent whenever a strange person came into his room; but sometimes, when Laura's strength was nearly exhausted, Lena would come and remain with her father, and send Laura away to sleep back her strength and spirits. Mr. Mason never liked this change, for Laura would indulge his whims as far as possible to do so, while Lena did everything in her own way.
               "Laura," he said, one day, "read to me."
               "Certainly. What shall it be, the morning paper?"
               "Yes, anything. I don't care what you read, so long as it interests me and occupies my mind."
               So Laura took the paper and began to read.
               "You've read for an hour," he cried, in a few moments, "and not one word of news in the whole. How can any one publish such nonsense? And how in this world can you read it? Do try and find something interesting!"
               So she sought for something more exciting, but soon he interrupted her again.
               "Laura! that is the fifth murder you have read me this morning; you annoy me dreadfully. You know such things make me nervous, and why will you insist upon reading them to me? Do put up that stupid paper and talk. I don't care for reading at all. I believe you knew it before you commenced, and only wished to excite me."
               So she laid aside the paper, and tried to amuse him in some other way; but he was so very restless, it was impossible to please him.
               "Don't talk upon such subjects!" he said. "They don't interest me in the least. Gossip, of all things, I most dislike. No, don't talk about books, music, or paintings. What do I care about them?"
               "Shall I read you some poetry?" she asked.
               "Yes, if you can find anything worth reading."
               "Would you like Shakspeare?"
               "Shakspeare? No indeed! you might as well read me a novel at once. You are well aware that my taste doesn't lie in that direction."
               "Well, would you like something from Longfellow, or Tennyson?"
               
               "No, no! You know I don't like them. You surely must be able to think of some old poems that are interesting."
               So Laura ransacked her brains and the bookshelves; but all to no purpose. Nothing interested him, nothing pleased him. She sat down and looked despairingly out of the window.
               "Now, there is Goldsmith's Hermit. You might have thought of that long ago, Laura. I used to read it when I was a boy. It is really splendid," said Mr. Mason.
               "Yes, it is very pretty," she replied, glad to find that he did like something. She read it, between his interruptions and comments, and when she finished he said:
               "Laura, you know you did not read the whole. There was one part of it which was very affecting, and you have omitted it entirely. It is just like you to leave out the best passages. You are precisely like George Gilbert, when he tells a joke. He always leaves out the funny part of it."
               "I read the whole of it," she said.
               "You know you did not!" he exclaimed, becoming excited at once. "Now read it over again, since you choose to be so cross about it."
               She repeated it, with the same result.
               "I wish you would read me John Gilpin," he said. "That I know to be very amusing."
               She brought Cowper, and commenced reading, but he interrupted her before she had finished a dozen lines.
               "That isn't John Gilpin, surely?" he said. "I'll warrant it is some old see-saw thing you've found, and introduced his name in it occasionally."
               "No," she replied, "it is the original poem."
               "Laura!" he exclaimed, in a rage, "I read that poem before you were born, and I think I ought to know it by this time! Don't read another word of that doggerel. See if you can order me something fit to eat!"
               "What would you like?" she asked.
               "I don't know. You ought to be able to think of something yourself that would tempt my appetite. But no, not a thing can be prepared, without I order it myself."
               "Will you have some oysters?"
               "Oysters! I've had nothing else for the past six months. Don't ever speak of oysters again to me."
               "Could you relish a poached egg or some milk toast?"
               "No! no! I tell you I am tired of eggs, and as for milk toast, I don't see how you could mention it, when the milk is nothing but chalk and water, and not fit for the stomach of an ostrich!"
               "Dry toast, then."
               "I don't want toast, I say! You know I have no appetite, and yet you insist on the same thing day after day."
               "Perhaps you would relish chicken soup. You haven't had any of that in a long time."
               "I don't relish soups. You know that very well. You are only trying to torment me. I've no doubt you would try and starve me to death, if you only dared."
               "I'll give you anything you like," she said.
               "Well, since I come to think about it, I believe I'll take a dish of lobster, plain, with plenty of pepper-sauce. I want it at once, too."
               
               "I'll order it, but lobster is very indigestible, and I'm afraid it will not agree with you."
               "I knew how it would be!" he exclaimed, in a peevish tone, almost like the whine of an imbecile. "I'm one of the wealthiest men in the city, and I can't even have lobster! one of the cheapest things in the market! I believe I will just send you away, and let Bridget take care of me altogether. Any servant would be more obliging than you are."
               Laura wished he would carry his threat into execution, for a day or two, at least. She did not speak of it, however, but pulled the bell and ordered the lobster at once.
               Weary and worn as she was, she threw herself into an easy chair, and as Mr. Mason, having carried his point, was quiet for a moment, she fell into a light dose.
               She had scarcely closed her eyes, before she was awakened by Mr. Mason, who threw a pillow at her head.
               "I believe you will kill me!" he shrieked. "Go to sleep right before my eyes when I'm waiting for luncheon! You are growing to be most insufferably stupid!"
               "I wish I could be entirely stupid!" she cried, starting up. "Unconsciousness in any form would be a blessing!"
               She was weak and nervous from lack of sleep, and her burden seemed greater than she could bear.
               "If I had ever loved him!" she moaned to herself. "If I had ever respected him, even, I could endure this better. But his nature is harsh, coarse and cruel, his disposition selfish and vindictive. If he loved me, even, it would not be so hard. As it is, the cup has been bitter and foamless, from first to last."
               He seemed worse than ever after he had eaten the lobster, for he began to suffer from indigestion.
               "I'm very weary," she ventured, at last, "I don't know when I have had two hours of consecutive sleep. Let me call Bridget to sit with you, and then go and take a short nap."
               "Oh, you heartless wretch!" he groaned. "Here I am, just at the point of death, and you want to go away and sleep until it is all over. Oh, the plague! the misery of having a young and heartless wife!"
               He seemed to grow weaker, as the season advanced, and was obliged to remain quiet a greater part of the time, as conversation tired him.
               "Laura," he said, one day as she sat near his bed-side, "I have been very unkind to you, and I am sorry for it. I have always said I did not care for you, but only married you for the sake of having a handsome, showy wife. You have been so good and gentle with me, that I do love you dearly. I have loved you for a long time. Remember this when I am gone, and try and forget all my wickedness. I believe I was always selfish and passionate, and I suppose I shall be until I die. But you will remember that I said once, I loved you."
               "Yes," she answered, sadly, "I will remember."
               "And I know you did not marry me for the sake of my money. It was your mother's fault. I always knew it, and it cut me a little, to think that woman's command could procure what my money could not purchase. Your trouble will soon be over, my child, and I hope your after life will be happy."
               His words did comfort her. And, although he was just as peevish afterward, it seemed easier to bear, because he had said he loved her.
               Still, she experienced a feeling of relief, mingled with the awe which the presence of death always brings, when he lay quiet and cold in his last sleep. And yet it seemed hard, to know that it was her husband, and she was so cold-hearted as to feel relief and not true sorrow when he was dead.
               "You have nothing to grieve for, dear," said Lena. 
               "You have done your duty toward him, faithfully, have borne with his errors as no other woman could have done. His life, at the last, was a sad burden to himself, and a source of trouble and torment to us. Let us be thankful that all is over."
               "Yes," replied Laura, sadly and solemnly. "He was a burden to us all—to himself as well. The blackness of the long night of sorrow which he brought me, will cast a shadow over all my days. Yet he was my husband and your father, Lena. We must remember him, only as such, hereafter; and let the mantle of charity, and the darkness and stillness of the grave cover his errors and infirmities from our memory as from our sight."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               Mr. Mason, in his will, left his handsome house to George Gilbert. The remainder of his property, which was large, he divided equally between Lena and Laura.
               Lena was anxious for Laura to remain with them.
               "Retain your own rooms, just as they are," she urged, kindly. "George said only this morning, that you were welcome to a home with us, always."
               "Thank you, dear, for your kindness," Laura said.
               "But I should never care to go into society again, and I will find some quiet place, where I can enjoy my books, and music, and painting. Perhaps, too, I shall do something in the way of relieving the needy."
               "But you can do all that here, my dear."
               "Not so well. For after the time of mourning is expired, you will, doubtless, become very gay. You have wealth, a pleasant home, and what is better than all, a husband who loves you devotedly. Everything that fashionable life requires, is yours. I will remain with you for awhile, for you will doubtless be lonely. But when summer comes, I'll go up to Clinton."
               "Your mother has written for you to come, has she not?"
               "Yes. And as her health is delicate, I suppose I ought to go. Besides, I want to look after little Violet. So far I have been unable to give her the attention which her dying mother asked of me. But I shall watch her more closely in the future."
               Toward the last of April, Laura left the 
                     handsom
                     handsome
                  
                   city home which had been hers for more than eight weary years.
               "You are to come back always," Lena said, "just as though it was your home."
               "Thank you, dear. I think I will make you a short visit each winter, perhaps. And if you are ever weary and want a good, quiet country-rest, come to me always, for wherever I am you will be welcome."
               So they parted.
               The country was beautiful, for it was early spring. When Laura reached Clinton, she saw the orchards of Bloom-Centre were beginning to bud, for the weather was extremely mild.
               Mrs. Hamilton met her daughter at the depot, with her carriage. She kept a carriage of her own now. Mr. Hamilton's practice was large, and some fortunate speculations in real estate had made him almost rich.
               Violet's death had changed her. Not completely—but only for the time—for the same old love of power smouldered in her breast. To strangers she was still reserved and haughty. Her dress, when she rode out, or sat statue-like, in church, was of the costliest mourning which she could procure. But the white threads had crept thickly into her still abundant hair, until it was more like silver than gold. The charge of the house was given into the hands of servants. Her white hands had grown more slender; they were often idle now. Her step, though dignified and stately, was slower than before.
               She was still a handsome woman, everywhere admired. Her face appeared quite young, and her wavy, silvery hair imparted a gentle dignity to the expression of her countenance. But her life had become listless, weary. Nothing interested her, as in the olden time.
               She always treated Eliza and her little ones tenderly. But she did not seem to care for the presence of children. Even little Violet, who was very sweet and fair, scarcely seemed to divert her grandmother's mind from its morbid train of thought.
               "Her daughter's death has been a severe blow to Mrs. Hamilton," every one said. "And no wonder. Mrs. Langdon's beauty was the talk of the town."
               But she was too proud to seek sympathy, so she seemed to creep within herself; and avoided, rather than courted society.
               Laura's presence was a great relief to her. She at once assumed the control of the household affairs, and her constant, quietly cheerful companionship proved beneficial to her mother's morbidity of mind.
               "Laura," said Mrs. Hamilton, one day, "I want you to stay with me always, or until you marry again. You must never go back to Lena's. When you were away, I was very lonely—almost gloomy; but since you came home, you interest my mind in so many pleasant subjects, that I cannot spare you to go away again."
               "I will stay with you cheerfully, upon one condition, mother. You must never seek to urge or influence me to a second marriage. Marriage to most women is nothing more or less than genteel, but abject slavery. To my mind slavery is a very poor word to express what it is. I do not mean to say that true marriage is so, for I have seen some exceptions to the rule. I think I have, I mean, for my life has led me to distrust every one. I have tried the slavery to my present content. I have no wish to take a share in the matrimonial monial lottery. There are too many blanks. Single life may be lonely, but it is peaceful, at least."
               Laura saw a look of dismay upon her mother's face, and she turned to find Mr. Langdon standing in the doorway. His face was flushed, and she knew he had overheard all she said.
               She said to herself that she was sorry he had heard her, and the red blood flamed across her face as she rose and gave him her hand, asking for little Violet.
               "She is well," he answered. "I brought her with me, but Jane met me at the door and took the child out into the garden. I did not intend to play eavesdropper, believe me; I hope you will pardon me for hearing your words, accidentally. Jane said you were both at home, so I came in here without further ceremony."
               "You were right," Laura said, herself once more. "There is no more need of ceremony here, than in your own house, Donald. We ought to feel like brother and sister—you and I—though I never had a brother, and you are sisterless. Our lives are very quiet, and for little Violet's sake, if not for our own, we should do this."
               "I wish you would treat me like a brother," he said; "I am very lonely. If you should ever, in any way need a brother's help or care, I hope you will not hesitate to call upon me."
               She only bowed in return.
               "It was on Violet's account that I called to see you this morning," he said, as he left Laura's side, and resumed his seat. "She is now, as you know, six years old. She has never been to school, and cannot even read. I think it time for her to begin to think about study,"
               "I have thought so," Laura replied, "and formed a plan for her education which pleased me well, and to which I hope you will give your consent."
               He smiled, a singular little smile, which set Mrs. Hamilton to wondering, at once.
               "I would like to hear your plan," he said. "There is but little doubt as to my consent; for I know in such matters at least, your judgment is superior to mine."
               "Thank you," she replied. "But if you please, we will waive compliments. They are scarcely necessary between brother and sister. There is nothing nearer my heart than little Violet's welfare. And I thought—if you would allow it—I would like her to come and spend three hours with me each morning, and I will teach her. If, after she learns to read and write, we think it advisable to spend more time in study, we will gradually increase the number of hours, and you could direct her studies in the evening."
               This proposal was entirely unlooked for by Mr. Langdon. He had been dreading lest she should think it best to send her away to school after a time at least, and now he sat in speechless astonishment.
               Mrs. Hamilton, supposing his silence arose from another cause, here broke in.
               "I hope you don't doubt her ability, Donald. Laura's education was considered very thorough and complete, and after her marriage, she continued her music, painting, and the study of the languages, for her own amusement."
               Another surprise, to find that he had been misunderstood. Mr. Langdon seemed to have lost the use of his tongue for the moment.
               "Pardon me," he said at last. "I hope Laura did not for a moment suppose that I doubted her ability in the matter. I was astounded to find her willing to make such a sacrifice for the good of the child; and was only debating in my mind as to whether it was right for me to allow it—to render myself and Violet so deeply indebted to her."
               Laura answered him quietly, though she flushed a little at the novelty of the situation.
               "I did not consider it a sacrifice," she said. "On the contrary, I think it was selfishness on my part, which first led me to think of making the offer. I love her very dearly and it will be a delight for me to guide her."
               "It shall be as you say, Laura," Mr. Langdon slowly replied. "God only knows how I thank you for your interest in my darling child."
               Here Violet herself came tripping in, throwing a kiss to her grandmother, but climbing at once to Laura's knee. Her hands were filled with fragrant autumn flowers, with which she proceeded to deck her aunt's hair; kissing her occasionally as she paused to observe the effect of her ornamentation.
               "My dear," Laura said, with a smile, "the flowers would be more becoming to you than to me. Bring me some thread from grandmamma's work-basket and I will make them into a wreath for you."
               Highly delighted with the idea, she brought the spool of thread, and Laura commenced weaving the flowers together, Violet standing by her side, and watching the process with evident satisfaction.
               Mr. Langdon sat near, silently watching Laura's white, jeweled fingers as they deftly laid the flowers in place. She seemed to touch them tenderly, he thought, and when the wreath was completed, she held it up before her, moving each blossom with a caressing movement, until their bright faces looked in the right direction.
               Mrs. Hamilton, sitting a little apart, watched the three.
               "What a splendid match Donald and Laura would make!" she thought. "Better even than he and Violet. He admires Laura, that's plain to be seen, but whether or not he loves her I don't know. As to Laura, she would pack up her things and leave the place forever, if I mentioned the subject to her. She has such ridiculous ideas of love and marriage."
               She fell to puzzling over the look upon Mr. Langdon's face. It was an expression of sorrowful yearning, and he watched Laura without moving his eyes; but whether the look meant regret for the past or hope of the future, she could not tell.
               As to Laura herself, she did not seem to have a thought beyond the flowers; and the wreath, when finished, was certainly beautiful enough to be a thorough subject of study.
               "Now, my little Flower Queen," Laura said, "kneel and receive the crown."
               The child knelt down before her aunt, who laid the wreath lightly upon the little golden head, and then pressed a kiss upon the fresh young lips.
               Violet thanked her joyously, and ran to her father.
               "How does it look, papa?" she asked.
               Laura did not wait to observe the scene, or hear Mr. Langdon's answer. Gathering up the stems, she went out on the porch to throw them aside. Then she waited a moment, looking out upon the late flowers in the garden, and the misty autumn day before she entered the house.
               
               "The season of flowers will soon be over," she said, as she again took her seat. "Some of the more tender ones are already touched by the frost, I fancy."
               "Yes," replied Mr. Langdon, rousing from a reverie, "I observed it this morning, for the first. There was a slight frost last night."
               Violet slipped from her father's knee, and ran down stairs to be petted and admired by Jane and the cook.
               Laura sat in silence, seeming somewhat abstracted, and Mrs. Hamilton took up the thread of conversation.
               "The forests will soon be gay with the gorgeous tints of autumn," she said, effusively. "And although some think it a scene of sadness, it always looks pleasant and cheerful to me. Winter is, to me, a favorite season of the year. The cold, bracing weather, seem to give one new energy and life."
               "True."
               Mr. Langdon was becoming as abstracted as Laura. Mrs. Hamilton, thinking that it was a favorable omen that they should both fall into a reverie, slowly conversed upon unimportant subjects, thinking it would not disturb them as readily as profound silence.
               Mr. Langdon was evidently watching Laura closely this morning, for what purpose, Mrs. Hamilton could scarcely determine.
               Laura sat in a low, easy chair, her trailing black robes sweeping the carpet at her side. She would have no ruffled, beflounced mourning for her. Her dress was almost severe in simplicity, but it fitted her perfect form admirably. No ornament, no trimming of any kind relieved its plainness, except the folds of crape at the throat and wrists. She had not put on the widow's cap, for she shrank from, rather than courted observation. Her jewelry was all laid aside, only the two rings of whose value Mr. Mason once boasted in her ear."
               "He said once that he loved me," she had mused, when she put on mourning. "I will wear these in memory of that day. Then, too, it will show that I have no thoughts of a future marriage, for there is not room enough for two wedding rings upon one hand."
               "Her hair was also worn in rigid plainness. But it was naturally wavy, and the simplicity of style brought out the soft brown tints wonderfully, and displayed its abundance also. She looked, as she sat in the soft autumn light,—as she was—a woman who was lonely and sorrowful, too proud to seek or care even for the sympathy of her nearest friend.
               Understanding this, Mr. Langdon watched her, with a silent, tender pity in his eyes. He remembered too well, his own loneliness and sorrow after Violet's death. It was now nearly a year since Mr. Mason died, and Laura had not loved him. Yet to-day, she seemed as sad as when she returned to Clinton nearly a year ago.
               So, with these thoughts in his mind, he pitied the pale, graceful woman before him, so lonely, and cynical and weary. With only bitter memories of the past, and a cold and cheerless future before her. It might be of her own choosing, perhaps, this future, yet still he pitied her, for the cruel past had made her what she was, misanthropic, self-reliant, cold.
               He rose to go at last.
               "It is late," he said. "Come my daughter."
               Laura started, as though disturbed from a dream.
               "If you are willing," she said, "I will commence with Violet's lessons to-morrow."
               He bowed assent and was gone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               Laura went immediately to her room when they were gone.
               It had been Violet's, but, after her marriage, Mrs. Hamilton disliked the associations connected with it, so she had it refitted. When Laura took possession of it she furnished it to suit her own taste. It was very pleasant, overlooking the flower garden, and a stretch of hills and forests beyond the town.
               Laura closed the door rather impatiently, locked it, as if to keep her thoughts from wandering outside its precincts, and then seated herself by the window.
               "What a miserable coward I am!" she exclaimed to herself. "A miserable coward! and I never suspected it until this morning when Donald and I sat together speaking of little Violet, and mother looked over her eye-glasses so significantly upon us."
               She would allow no one else to scold her; so to give vent to her feelings, and to keep well reminded of her duty, she occasionally scolded herself. After berating herself soundly for a few moments she rose, and carefully inspected her own face and figure in the mirror.
               "I don't look as though I was seeking a husband," she soliloquized, beginning to regard her cowardice in a more complacent light. "My dress is as plain as a nun's. I hope he will not think I have any designs upon him, from anything mother may say, or that I may do for little Violet."
               
                  He, meant Mr. Langdon, undoubtedly. She was very restless and uneasy this morning. She tried to calm her troubled thoughts and interest herself in a book, but her mind would wander from the subject she was trying to follow, and she laid the book aside in disgust.
               "It shall not influence me in the least," she said. "If I cannot conquer the feeling, I will disregard it altogether. I will not be such a coward as to fail to do my duty by the little child which a sister's dying love confided to my care, even though her father, and others, may misunderstand my motives in the matter. I can only be silent, and wait. Time will vindicate my purpose; for I would not marry again, even though I knew my future husband was the very best man upon the earth."
               She seemed better satisfied, after this, and when lunch was over, she put on her hat and shawl, and went down stairs.
               "Mother," she said, "Donald interrupted our conversation, this morning, and you had no opportunity for answering my question. As I said, I do not intend to marry again, and I wish you to promise me that you will never urge me to do so. Then, I shall be content to make Clinton my home, for I like the place and its surroundings, and, of course, prefer to be with you. But in this, I must have my own way."
               "I will never urge you to another marriage, Laura," Mrs. Hamilton replied. "If you follow your own inclinations in the matter, you will please me. You are independently wealthy, and are old enough and experienced enough, to take care of yourself upon all occasions. If you prefer to do so, I will not object."
               On the following day the lessons were commenced. Laura took her little niece immediately to her room upon her arrival, leaving Mrs. Hamilton to entertain Mr. Langdon, if he chose to remain. He did not prolong his call, but left in a few moments.
               Violet was delighted with the idea of knowing how to read, and astonished Laura by learning a number of letters on the first morning.
               "Do you know, Aunt Laura," she said, when the book was laid aside for the day, "I love you next to papa, though you mustn't tell grandma so, or she will be sure to be jealous of you."
               Laura smiled.
               "You do love me a little, then?" she said.
               "Yes indeed. I'm going to try my best and see if I cannot learn to do everything as nicely as you can. Wheeler says you do everything so well. You won't ever become tired of teaching me, I suppose?"
               "Never, my darling."
               "Won't you teach me music too? I can sing already. But I would like to play for papa sometimes, when he is lonesome."
               "You are rather young yet, dear."
               "I'm six, you know, Aunt Laura," and she drew herself up with great dignity.
               "Yes, you are a real little woman. As soon as you can read well, I will begin to give you music lessons. Will that do?"
               "Beautifully. I'll learn as fast as I can, so I can begin to take music sooner."
               Jane now appeared at the door, to say that Mr. Langdon had called for Miss Violet, and was waiting in the parlor.
               "He spoke something about you, too, Miss Laura," said Jane.
               Violet ran down at once, but Laura waited a moment to glance in the mirror. It was partly habit, and partly to assure herself that her attire was plain enough to warrant her in going down.
               Violet was giving her father a graphic description of what she had learned during the day, when Laura entered the room.
               "You have a very enthusiastic admirer in your pupil, Laura," he said.
               Laura bowed gravely.
               "It takes so little to please a pleasant tempered child," she answered.
               "Only think, papa!" Violet interrupted, here, "as soon as I am able to read well, she is going to give me music lessons. And then I will play for you, evenings, you know, when we are alone."
               He laughed at her pretty assumption of dignity. Laura smiled also, but Mr. Langdon fancied she looked unusually pale, and said: "If teaching Violet wearies you, I hope you will tell me so."
               "It is not in the least irksome," she answered. "I like it even better than I thought. Pray give yourself no further uneasiness upon the subject."
               "Aunt Laura," said Violet, fearful of losing her teacher, "I think it would be easier for you to teach me if you came to our house to live."
               This was an attack from an unexpected quarter, and Laura's cheeks flushed painfully.
               "My dear," said Laura, without glancing toward Mr. Langdon, who was very quiet, "it would be quite impossible for me to do so. And besides, I prefer to remain here with grandma. Good-by; be sure and come to-morrow."
               Bowing gravely to Mr. Langdon, she watched them enter the carriage, and then went up to her room.
               
               After this she was very self-possessed and quiet in Mr. Langdon's presence, almost distant, in fact.
               One day, when the lessons had continued for more than a year, (with the usual summer vacation) Adela Manning called at Mrs. Hamilton's.
               "My dear," she said to Laura, "it is perfectly wonderful, the manner in which you devote your time to that child. Every one is speaking of your sacrifices for her sake."
               "I have made no sacrifice for her sake," Laura replied.
               "But people will insist on regarding it in that light, my dear. And they persist in saying, too, that her father is quite carried away by your graciousness; and, that at some period in the future, not very remote, you are to become her mother, in truth."
               "Adela," Laura answered calmly, "that can never be. People will always talk, whatever happens. It is a very harmless way they have of amusing themselves. Still, they shall not deter me from caring for, and instructing little Violet; especially as her mother, with almost her last dying words, committed her to my charge."
               "I don't doubt that you consider it a matter of conscience," Adela replied. "And that you will faithfully perform your duty in the matter, no one doubts. But even if what the people say were true, it would not be a crime."
               "No," Laura answered, "it is simply an impossibility. I should not consider it a crime, though it is forbidden by law in some countries, and many persons, as well entitled to their opinion as I am to mine, think it morally wrong. If I thought of marrying Mr. Langdon, my conscience would not hinder me, because he was the husband of my dead sister. But I never, for one single moment, entertained the idea. He is a gentleman, and alone in the world. He has always, since his marriage with Violet, acted the part of a brother toward me. And the people's idle gossip shall not deter me from showing him a sisterly kindness, whenever it is in my power to do so."
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, "the law that forbids a man to marry his deceased wife's sister, is a very unjust and stupid law, indeed. Of course some laws are necessary for the protection of posterity, but in such a case as this, they are uncalled for; as there is no consanguinity involved. A law to prevent cousins from marrying would be much more just, and more to the purpose, in my estimation."
               "I quite agree with you," Adela said. "But, fortunately, no law preventing a man from marrying his sister-in-law, exists in this country. Still, if Laura has no intention of marrying Mr. Langdon, it would not affect her in the least, in any case."
               "I repeat," said Laura, becoming annoyed, "that I have no such intention. And I will say, too, that Mr. Langdon, so far as I know, has no thought of such a thing, either. I should not accept him if he offered himself, and I'm very sure I never shall until he does."
               "There are very few men," said Mrs. Hamilton, "who will make a proposal of marriage to a woman, without some encouragement upon her part."
               "But, according to Adela's report, mother, the people think I have encouraged Donald, by caring for his child. He is perfectly able to employ teachers for her, and so I confer no favor upon him, in my own estimation."
               "You may be right," Adela responded, "but whether you will have it so or not, it is a great 
                     kindnes
                     kindness
                   to Mr. Langdon to instruct his child as you are doing, for though he might employ teachers, he could not find one who would love and instruct her as faithfully as you do. And, if he wished a wife, I'm sure he could not find another person in the world who would care for him, his child and his house, as faithfully as you would do."
               "I suppose then I am in honor bound to accept him, if he asks me to do so," Laura said, rather sharply. "But I don't believe any man has a right to marry for the sake of a housekeeper, or for a nurse for his child. And a woman who accepts him under such circumstances, will have a Herculean task to perform. She might better, so far as her own peace or comfort is concerned, mount an auctioneer's block in some public place, and sell herself to the highest bidder."
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, who had a great regard for appearances, and who feared that Adela would not understand Laura fully—"my dear, you are almost too enthusiastic."
               "Not more so than the case demands," Laura replied, more quietly. "Understand that I do not mean a woman should neglect her husband's children. If she has one spark of womanliness about her, she will, upon becoming a step-mother, win the children's regard, if it is possible to do so. A bad step-mother will be an unkind mother too. I don't believe in the generally accepted theory that if a woman loves a man, she will hate his child because it is his."
               "There would be no trouble in your case, if you were to marry Mr. Langdon," said Adela, "for little Violet loves you already. But, of course no one would expect you to marry him on account of his child."
               "I hope not, indeed," returned Laura, "for if they did they would be terribly disappointed. My care for Violet is not a matter between Donald and me. The request for me to do so came from my darling sister. Now she is dead, it is a matter between myself and my God. If I consider it a sacred duty, no one has the right to object."
               "Oh, Laura!" laughed Adela, who had become alarmed at the serious turn the conversation was taking, "you are incorrigible."
               And Mrs. Hamilton, who thought the subject exhausted, introduced another topic.
               "If I go my way quietly," said Laura to herself that night, "the people will soon grow tired of discussing my affairs, and take up something else."
               One day, toward the middle of December, as Laura and her mother were riding out, they called at Bloom-Centre for a few moments. Violet seized her Aunt Laura, and drew her into the conservatory, to show her some camellias that were in bloom; and after a few moments, Mr. Langdon joined them.
               "You are going to allow your pupil the usual vacation at Christmas time, I suppose?" he said, pleasantly.
               "Yes," she answered. "And I thought, if you are willing, I should like to take her with me to Lena Gilbert's for a few days. Violet has never seen very much of the city, and I know she would be delighted with the visit."
               "You are quite sure Mrs. Gilbert would like her to come?" he asked.
               "Indeed, yes; or I never would have thought of taking her with me. Lena and her husband are both fond of children."
               
               "It will make a lonely Christmas for me," he said, thoughtfully, as he took out his pen-knife and began to cut some flowers. "You think she would not interfere in the least with the pleasure of your visit?"
               "It would add to it, rather."
               "Then I have decided. She shall go."
               Little Violet thanked him with a kiss, and by this time he had finished cutting the flowers—camellias, tea-roses, heliotropes and the like. He gave them to Laura, saying that she could arrange them more tastefully than he could.
               Laura thanked him, took a seat, and commenced forming a bouquet. He watched her for a moment in silence.
               "You did not invite me to accompany you on your trip to the city," he said.
               Laura flushed slightly, but made no reply.
               "Do you think it sisterly," he asked, "to pass me by without an invitation?"
               The rose tint deepened in her face.
               "I know Lena would be very glad to see you," she said.
               "Am I to understand this as an invitation to accompany you?"
               "Yes," she answered concisely.
               "Then it is quite time for me to show some brotherly regard for you. I know, by your manner, that you do not wish me to go. So, although I should enjoy it very much, I will indulge you by remaining at home."
               "Donald," she said quickly, "do not misunderstand me. For my sake—" and here she paused, not knowing how to proceed.
               He came to her rescue.
               "I do understand you, Laura," he said. "You mean that my company is not positively disagreeable to you, personally, but the dear people's propensity for gossip must not be indulged. Or, perhaps, you cherish my child for its mother's sake, only, and I must not presume upon it, to annoy you."
               "You wrong me, Donald," Laura began. But her voice was a trifle unsteady, and she did not proceed.
               "Do I?" he asked. "Forgive me!" and he extended his hand. "I will confess that you are an enigma to me—that I do not understand you at all. But of one thing you may rest assured. I never shall take offense at anything you may do, until I know you intend to wound my feelings."
               "Then you will never be offended with me," she answered with a smile, as she withdrew her hand from his. "I wish to be a true sister to you, Donald, nothing more—nothing less."
               He seemed disappointed by her last words, and was silent. But soon he began to talk about the flowers, and directly after, Mrs. Hamilton made her appearance.
               "I think I understand Laura now," Mr. Langdon murmured to himself after they were gone. "Her last words were very plain. Well, she is honest, to say the least. No one could rightly accuse her of having a spark of coquetry in her nature. She did not allow me to commit myself, but checked me in time. It may be for the best. I ought to wait longer, perhaps; and, possibly, time may change her feelings toward me. But, whether it does or not, I have only to wait quietly now, for her feelings are deep, and not easily moved. She certainly is not heartless, for a mother could never be more tender of a child than she is toward Violet. In that particular, our tastes agree—we both love the child dearly."
               Violet now ran in to read to him awhile; and he stopped to listen to her, and afterward she sat upon his knee for some time, telling him how, next to himself, she loved Aunt Laura so much better than any one else on earth.
               "And sometimes, papa," she said, with a smile, "I think I love Aunt Laura best of all!"
               He kissed her, a singular smile overspreading his face.
               "You are very like me in some things, darling," he said.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               Like the beads of a rosary, Time counted off the years slowly, one by one.
               Violet had reached the age of sixteen. She was not, strictly speaking, as beautiful as her mother had been. She was a trifle taller, and more robust; for the first Violet had been very delicate and slender. There was more character in her face, too; but the hair, color of the eyes, and the fair complexion were very like her mother's.
               She was, perhaps, a thought wayward in disposition, at times, but Laura had checked the spirit, somewhat, and guided and directed her carefully and conscientiously. Violet was very loving and tender-hearted—all her friends could wish.
               Laura had long since outlived the reports circulated concerning Mr. Langdon and herself. A few times he had approached her with tender words, but she had as often calmly checked him, and at last he seemed to understand that she could only be a sister to him. Still he remained true to her, always watching an opportunity to do her a service, and glad if he could bring a word of thanks or shadow of a smile to her lips and make pleasant, in any way, her otherwise monotonous life.
               She was very grateful for this: more than she would tell him in words, or dare to confess to herself even in her own thoughts. His attentions were devoted, but unobtrusive; and as Laura had never known a brother's loving care, she fancied Donald's was very like it.
               She had taught Violet daily, for many years, until now, her education was finished. Her love had amply repaid Laura for the completeness with which she had fulfilled her sister's dying trust. She would never accept presents from Donald, of anything but flowers, and her room was never without his daily offering. But they are sweet interpreters, and they whispered all manner of pretty things to Laura on their giver's account; while Laura obtusely gave, or thought she gave their beauty and fragrance the credit of the whole.
               She could not refuse Violet's gifts, however, although there was always a trace about them showing Donald's watchful hand.
               Each Christmas brought her the most beautiful books of the season. Elegantly-colored flower-plates in rare bindings, and beautifully illustrated poems which holiday-time is always sure to bring, came regularly to find their places upon her heavily-laden book-shelves. They were books which Violet could not have selected without some hint from a more experienced person; but Laura received them as her gift, and silently thanked the thoughtfulness of the real donor.
               With each return of her birth-day, too, Laura received some pretty trifle to show that she was remembered. It came in June, when the wild roses were in blossom, and Mrs. Hamilton and Mr. Langdon usually would put their heads together, and plan a pleasant family pic-nic in the woods or meadows upon that day.
               Laura was very fond of these rambles; for they reminded her so forcibly of the brighter days of her girlhood when she had taken them frequently, and had been more care-free than now. Something of the glamour of the old days seemed to hang about these informal excursions, and something of the reserve with which she wrapped her actions of late, seemed to vanish, for the time.
               Violet, too, always hailed these rambles with delight, and they seemed to give general satisfaction to all who participated in them. After gathering an abundance of roses, the party would adjourn to the edge of a neighboring wood, to enjoy their flowers and their luncheon, in the cool shade, and chat the hours away until it was time to return.
               On one of these excursions, Laura, at Violet's suggestion, wore a white muslin, which was set aside for warm days and state occasions in summer. The day was very warm, and Mr. Hamilton, feeling slightly indisposed, excused himself from going. So they set out without him—Mrs. Hamilton, Mr. Langdon, Laura and Violet. The roses were gathered, and the shade of the wood sought at an early hour.
               "I'm so glad you've put off that hateful mourning for once, Aunt Laura," said Violet, as she adorned her aunt's hair with rose-buds, unreproved. "A little color makes you look so pretty and young. A stranger would say you were only eighteen to see you now."
               "Instead of forty," suggested Laura, lazily. "I am really a fright, usually, I suppose."
               "A fearful looking object, indeed," laughed Violet. "But we manage to endure your looks because you are so good."
               "Aside from jesting, Laura," chimed in Mrs. Hamilton, "you would look younger and prettier, too, as Violet says, if you were to wear colors."
               "But I don't see any object in trying to look young when I am old, or pretty when I have passed my prime. It is altogether too much trouble, to say nothing of the deceit involved."
               "It isn't deceitful, I suppose, to call yourself forty when you are several years younger," said Mrs. Hamilton witheringly. "And if you are as careless of your appearance as you would have us think, why don't you lay aside mourning when we desire it?"
               Violet laughed.
               "Aunt Laura," she said, "grandmamma has the best of the argument this time. I think you will be obliged to yield, and lay aside that hateful black forever, for the sake of your friends, if for no other cause."
               "Do you really desire it so much, my dear?" Laura asked, as if struck with a new idea.
               "Of course I do, and grandma does too. So there are two against you. Now we will have papa's opinion, and that shall settle the matter. Don't you think she would look better if she were to lay aside mourning altogether, papa?"
               Laura glanced over to where Mr. Langdon sat. He had taken no part in the conversation, though he appeared interested, and as if he thought Violet and her grandmother were in the right. Somehow Laura liked this silent way he had of looking, not speaking his approval or disapproval; and it always had its influence over her, in some degree.
               So, when Violet asked the question, he laughed, and smoked on for a moment longer in silence.
               "My dear," he said at last, "I wouldn't dare to decide so momentous a question, without positive permission from your aunt to do so. A brother's rights are very limited, and his opinions should be very guardedly expressed, if expressed at all."
               "Papa," said Violet, with a frown of vexation, for she had expected in him a formidable ally, "you always act as though you were afraid of Aunt Laura."
               "And so I am," he answered, soberly.
               The discussion was assuming a more serious aspect than Laura had intended, and her cheeks became nearly as red as the roses in her hair.
               "Pshaw!" exclaimed Violet, seeing no one else seemed disposed to answer him, and quite determined to carry her point, if possible. "She isn't dangerous at all. But if you are too young and bashful, I'll ask her permission myself. Aunt Laura, will you allow papa the privilege of expressing his opinion upon the all important subject under discussion?"
               "Certainly," she answered, "if that is all that is wanted to induce our Solon to express himself."
               She spoke carelessly, but she was really vexed, and wondered if they were all in league against her. So she did not look up from the bouquet she was making, until Donald's silence caused her to do so, from sheer curiosity, and because the stillness seemed unbearable.
               He smiled in answer, and looked so consequential and ridiculous generally, that Violet burst into a merry laugh.
               "I must consider the matter," he said, as though engaged in deep deliberation. Such momentous questions should not be decided without due consideration. Upon the whole, I cannot say I think she would look younger or prettier in colors, but she would appear more cheerful; and I for one, would be very glad, indeed, if she were to lay black aside."
               "Good!" exclaimed Violet. "Now, Aunt Laura, you cannot refuse us all."
               "I will lay aside my mourning since you all desire it," said Laura, "on condition that I shall choose my own colors."
               "Of course we all agree to that," Violet replied. "We are willing to submit to the Quakeress style, for a change."
               Laura made no further remark, but still devoted herself, assiduously to the arrangement of the bouquet; snapping the stems in a way that was a trifle vindictive, to say the least. At last she suddenly tossed the flowers aside.
               "Mother!" she exclaimed suddenly, "there is a most unmerciful thorn in my finger. Won't you please remove it?"
               "Certainly, my love," responded Mrs. Hamilton, sweetly, and coming hastily forward. "Violet, my dear," she continued, as she adjusted her eye-glasses, "I was just observing the little clump of roses upon that knoll yonder. They seem to be unusually fine. Won't you gather some of them for me, please?"
               Away went Violet at her grandmother's bidding, and Mrs. Hamilton, who, as Mrs. Lambert had said truthfully, could only cease plotting with her breath, after peeping helplessly through her eye-glasses for a moment, exclaimed plaintively:
               "Laura, my poor old eyes are altogether too dim to see properly. I don't really suppose I could see the thorn, if it was ever so large. Donald, won't you try and find it?"
               Donald would, of course. He came forward quite willingly.
               "If Laura will allow me to do so," he answered.
               Laura would not show that she attached any importance to such a trifle, by refusing, and so she turned, with a quiet, "If you please."
               She was annoyed by Mrs. Hamilton's ruse, which she was quite sure Donald understood as well as she did herself, and it made the position a trying one for her. Either the thorn was deep or her fingers were unsteady—it might have been both or neither—but at all events it was long before the thorn was extracted.
               Mrs. Hamilton, in the meantime, selected this opportune moment to become suddenly "dying of thirst," and as soon as Violet returned with the roses, she spirited her away to the spring, which was a few yards distant, for the purpose of quenching the aforesaid thirst.
               "Here is the thorn at last," said Donald. "I feel quite like a surgeon."
               "Or a dentist," suggested Laura, curtly, "who has just extracted a troublesome tooth. I'm very much obliged to you."
               "You don't seem to be in a romantic mood to-day," he answered, teasingly. "The thorn is extracted, but it has left an ugly wound. I fear some of the poison may remain. If I were a botanist I might administer an antidote in the way of some healing herb. As it is—"
               He did not finish the sentence, but pressed a quick kiss upon the wound before he dropped her hand. Laura turned with a sudden reproof upon her lips.
               "That was taking an unfair advantage," she said. "It was not brotherly, or—"
               Gentlemanly, she was about to say, but she paused.
               "Finish your sentence," he said. "Abuse me if you feel like it, for it would be more sisterly than any act of yours I have ever seen before."
               She was silent.
               "Perhaps it was not brotherly, but you will not allow me to treat you like a brother at all, so it is your own fault. You are like snow and ice the moment I speak to you."
               "I don't wish to appear distant," Laura replied, relentingly. "But if I give you an inch, you take not only an ell, but a mile, directly. Come, I don't wish to quarrel; let us join mother and Violet at the spring."
               "You are very perverse," he said. "But we will go if you promise to read aloud some poetry upon our return."
               She promised, and they set out for the spring. Mrs. Hamilton, glancing in their faces, decided that if nothing was gained by their interview, at least nothing was lost.
               Afterward they returned to the place where they had been sitting, where the carriage cushions were spread in the shade. Donald arranged a comfortable seat for Laura, and threw himself upon the grass opposite, where he could readily watch her.
               The book he had selected was a volume of Mrs. Browning's poems. She read quietly for awhile, and then he asked to select something. She gave him the book, and he swept back the pages hurriedly until he came to "A Denial."
               "Read this, please," he said.
               She was not familiar with the poem, or at least she did not remember it then, so she began in a clear voice to read the first verse. Then she came to the words: 
                     
                        "I love thee not, I dare not love thee! go
                        In silence; drop my hand.
                        If thou seek roses, seek them where they blow
                        In garden-alleys, not in desert-sand.
                        Can life and death agree
                        That thou should'st stoop thy song to my complaint?
                        I cannot love thee. If the word is faint
                        Look in my face and see."
                     
                  
               
               So he had given it to her for a test; and that, too, before her mother and Violet. Well, since he had commenced it, she would brave it out. She paused and glanced toward him, with a severe look, which was meant to annihilate him. He smiled quietly back in answer, and she resumed her reading with a little 
                     forboding
                     foreboding
                   as to what was to come. 
                     
                        "Meantime I bless thee. By these thoughts of mine
                        I bless thee from all such!
                        I bless thy lamp to oil, thy cup to wine,
                        Thy hearth to joy, thy hand to an equal touch
                        Of loyal troth. For me
                        I love thee not, I love thee not—away!
                        Here's no more courage in my soul to say
                        'Look in my face and see.'"
                     
                  
               
               She tossed the book aside without glancing at Donald, or indeed at any one. There was a profound silence.
               "It's all very pretty," said Violet, at last, "but nonsensical. Because she ought to have yielded completely in the last verse, instead of half-way."
               "So she ought," said Mrs. Hamilton, decidedly.
               "I think so, too," remarked Mr. Langdon, with a smile. "Don't you, Laura?"
               "I think she ought to do as she liked about it," Laura answered, concisely. "Come, it is almost sunset, let us go home."
               She was a little abstracted on the homeward ride, but Donald seemed in the best of spirits. She acknowledged, wrathfully, that he could afford to be, for he evidently thought that she had been acting a part all these years. She went directly to her room upon her return, and sitting down by a western window, looked resolutely out upon the landscape.
               "Something must be done!" she said.
               Donald had seemed afraid of her before, as Violet said. But in those few short hours they had changed places. All because the day was so lovely, so like the olden time, that she had been charmed out of her usual reserve.
               And what was the result? She was angry with herself when she thought of it. Donald, aided and abetted by Violet and Mrs. Hamilton, had presumed upon her genial mood, to vex and try her as he had never dared to do before. The result was pleasing to him, perhaps, but far from satisfactory to her.
               "Mother has kept her promise to me in the letter only," she said, a little wrathfully.
               Then she began to recall the many of Mrs. Hamilton's schemes to bring Donald and herself together, and, upon reflection, she remembered that Violet was always her grandmother's sworn ally upon such occasions.
               "How can I meet him after this?" she asked herself. "His face will be a constant note of interrogation, which I cannot look upon unmoved. He will, I know, offer himself at the first opportunity, and I dare not—I mean I have not strength enough to refuse him without great pain to us both, just now."
               So, after deliberating for some time, she decided to go down to the city for a visit at once, before Lena left for the country.
               This decided upon, she rose and went to pack her trunks, and unearthed her jewel case, which had been put aside so long. Then a store of rare old laces was brought out, and, this accomplished, she retired with the fancy that she was quite at peace with herself, or at least, she was doing her duty.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXX.
               Lena Gilbert was in her room, engaged in the pleasing occupation of examining a number of very hand some dresses, just sent home from the dressmaker's. She was not greatly changed since we saw her last, though the mother of two children, Walter and Minnie, aged eight and ten, respectively. She had just finished examining the last dress, when the bell rang, and directly after a servant came up to say that Mrs. Mason was waiting in the parlor.
               "Dear me!" Lena exclaimed, excitedly. "You quite take my breath away, Ann. Do tell her to come up here at once!" And before the order was half delivered, she was half way down the staircase herself,
               "Why Laura!" she cried, "I'm so glad to see you! Come up to my room and remove your hat, for you must be sweltering, this warm weather."
               "You look as though you were preparing for a wedding," said Laura, as she entered the room.
               "About the same thing—I'm getting ready to spend the summer at Long Branch."
               "When do you go?"
               "Next week. Come, Laura, lay aside your black, and accompany us. You have made a hermit of yourself so long, it would do you good to get a glimpse of the outer world once more. I'm going with the children, and George will drop down Saturday nights, and perhaps about the middle of the week. I was wishing I had some one to go with me—you know I haven't a sister, or scarcely a cousin even, in the world."
               "My dear, I'm just half a mind to accept your invitation. You must persuade me—don't you understand?—for I don't wish to take the whole responsibility of the strange performance upon myself alone. I came down, as mamma innocently supposes, for the purpose of laying aside my mourning; but, in truth, I ran away."
               "Ran away!" echoed Lena, laughing. "From what, pray?"
               "I'll tell you as soon as I have an opportunity; it will do me good to unburden myself, for I keep my own counsel at home. But just now I'm going to take a bath and prepare for dinner, as I'm almost smothered in dust."
               
               An hour afterward the two women sat, confidentially near each other in Lena's room, preparatory to an exchange of confidences between the two.
               "Now Laura," began Lena, "my ears have been itching with curiosity all the while you have been engaged with your toilet. I have been wondering how your sedate ladyship ever came to do such an undignified act as to run away, Do tell me!"
               "Don't excite yourself unduly," replied Laura, "or you will be disappointed, as there is so little to be told. When I went back to live with mother, after your father's death, I bound her with a promise, to refrain from her match-making propensities, as far as I was concerned, at least. She did so for a time, but now she is quite determined that I shall marry Donald Langdon, whether I will or no. Of course she doesn't say so in words, but her actions speak very plainly, and it is terribly provoking to me."
               "And the gentleman himself is anxious, I suppose?"
               "Well, rather—I judge."
               "Why don't you marry him then, my dear? You might do worse."
               "Lena," said Laura, her brow clouding, "don't turn match-maker with the rest—I ran away to escape them all!"
               "But why don't you face the danger at once, my dear, or won't the gentleman be contented with a point-blank refusal?"
               "Well, the truth is, Lena, he has always been very kind to me. Not officiously so, but in a very quiet way. If he ever seemed disposed to offer himself—and I think he has intended it once or twice—I would appear so matter-of-fact and unconscious, and change the subject so adroitly, that I dissuaded him from it. But of late—I can hardly explain to you how it came to be so—"
               "Of course."
               "It seems more difficult for me to make him understand that it is impossible to love him; and it was because I dreaded a direct refusal that I came away."
               "But why should you avoid it? I don't see how it could harm you, dear," persisted Lena, willfully obtuse. "You have only to say no, and have done with the thing forever. I'm sure it is easily done."
               "It looks so, I confess," replied Laura, thoughtfully. "But he has been so good, I would not wound his feelings seriously for the world. A refusal would be very unpleasant to him, and to me also, for I'm afraid I should lose by it one of my best friends, and there are so few that I care for, I can hardly afford it."
               Lena leaned back in her chair and laughed heartily. Laura regarded her in surprise.
               "My dear," said Lena, when her fit of merriment had subsided, "you love that man—don't you know it? And I predict that you will marry him some day."
               "We'll see!" responded Laura, very decidedly, and rather sharply.
               "Don't be angry," said Lena, coaxingly, "and you shall have it your own way. We will go out shopping to-morrow, and you shall again be the most beautifully dressed woman in our set."
               "Oh, as to that, I shall only wear plain colors. I have some handsome black dresses that only need a little bright trimming to relieve them; and these, with a few drabs, browns and the like, are all I all want. I have lace shawls, mantles, over-dresses, and jewelry in abundance."
               "You shall do as you please, my dear. But here comes George, and dinner will be announced directly."
               The shopping was accomplished to Laura's satisfaction. When she was nearly ready, and about to set out with Lena, she wrote a letter to her mother, saying that Lena had persuaded her to spend the summer at the Branch. Lena added a postscript, for she said "'by the mouths of two witnesses, the thing should be established.'"
               For once, Mrs. Hamilton was taken completely by surprise, and was a little wrathful to see her pretty plans for the summer all "gang a-gley."
               Laura was scarcely as happy as she had anticipated, though she was courted upon every side.
               "Lena," she said one day, "I believe the gentlemen are deteriorating. The young and marriageable gentlemen, I mean, not the elderly ones."
               "I think not," Lena replied. "Mr. Langdon is your standard, now, and few attain it. I don't mean that he is so very handsome, but he is so—well, thorough-bred, and gentlemanly."
               Laura began to think he was. She was glad when they returned to the city, though Lena declared she had never spent a more delightful summer. Soon after they reached home, Minnie was taken ill, and Laura remained with Lena, to watch the child; so it was almost Christmas-time when she returned to Clinton.
               Violet met her enthusiastically. Laura certainly looked more beautiful than ever, in her new style of dress.
               She sat in an easy chair, her rich, light brown robe sweeping the carpet beside her. It was almost the color of her eyes and hair, and was trimmed with a lighter shade of brown. She wore no brooch, but, resting upon the wilderness of frills and folds of lace at her throat, was a slender necklace, with a large, blood-red carbuncle pendant from it. Heavy carbuncles in a slender setting of Roman gold drooped from her ears. Her hair was handsomely arranged, and Violet had placed some scarlet flowers among the heavy braids.
               Mr. Langdon seemed much the same as ever; his quiet, gentlemanly manner hiding any deep feeling he might have upon the subject of her hasty flitting and prolonged absence. He did not seem in a particularly romantic mood, and they conversed as quietly and carelessly as they had ever done in the olden time. Had she enjoyed the summer?—he was very glad, for she needed a change. Did she form any new acquaintances? None worth the name, she told him, whereat he only bowed.
               The winter passed slowly away. It seemed very dull to Laura. There had been a party at Bloom-Centre, at which she presided, and helped Violet to welcome the guests.
               About this time, Wheeler was taken sick, and Laura went to Bloom-Centre, nominally for the purpose of nursing her. It was only a slight attack of bilious fever, but she was weak after her recovery, and finally decided to pay a visit to her sister, who resided in a neighboring town, until she should be able to again take charge of the household.
               Laura remained with Violet until she found she was not needed, and then she determined to take a trip to Meadville. Donald had not sought her society while she was at Bloom-Centre, and she began to question herself seriously as to whether his love for her had not begun to wane.
               
               One day, before she left, Dr. Elliott called in a moment, in a friendly way.
               "I am thinking of taking a partner into the business with me," he said.
               "I should think it would be difficult for you to find a competent partner," said Mr. Langdon.
               "Very. But I have discovered one at last, who suits me entirely. He is, in fact, more eminent now, than I have become in a practice nearly as long as his own life. His present residence is in Meadville. You have, of course, heard of Dr. Douglas?"
               "Often. He attended Eliza's children through the scarlet fever, you know, Laura."
               "Yes," she replied, "and he is an old acquaintance besides."
               "I have heard Violet speak of him as an acquaintance and particular friend," Mr. Langdon said.
               "He commenced his studies at the age of eighteen," said the doctor. "He went through a very thorough course, under the direction of his uncle, who was a retired physician. Afterward his uncle took him to Europe, where they remained for three years. On his return, his uncle died, and Dr. Douglas settled in Meadville at the earnest request of his mother, who married a wealthy merchant of the place about the time he set out for Europe. Of course, his wonderful success as a physician soon attracted attention, even in that small town. So his practice gradually extended until he already has some patients in Clinton."
               "And you concluded to take him in as your partner in self-defense," laughed Mr. Langdon.
               "Partly," answered the doctor. "I have been slightly acquainted with him for some time, and, of late, have often met him in consultation. I proposed this partnership two years ago, but he did not seem to think favorably of it. However, he has at last concluded to accept my offer, and I expect him here tonight. He commences to practice at once. He is a young man of remarkable talent, and he has studied very hard."
               "Who are you lauding so highly, doctor?" asked Violet, who entered the room at that moment. She had always been a favorite with the old doctor.
               "My new partner, Dr. Douglas," he replied.
               "So you have a partner?"
               "Yes; a most excellent young man. I hope you won't be troubled with ill health, Miss Violet, now that we have such a skillful young doctor in the place."
               "You know I was never real sick in my life."
               "I know if all my patients were as healthy as you are I should never need a partner," laughed the doctor as he rose to go. "By the way, Langdon, I don't think you are looking as well as usual. I believe you are inclined to be a trifle bilious yourself."
               The next day Laura set out to make Eliza her long promised visit. Violet could not accompany her in Wheeler's absence, or at least Mr. Langdon thought so, and she set out to make the visit alone.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               
                  
                     
                        "I will not picture her tall and stately,
                        She that I love may be fairy light:
                        I will not say that she moves sedately,
                        Whatever she does it will then be right.
                        She may be humble or proud, my lady,
                        Or that sweet calm which is just between,
                        And whenever she comes she will find me ready
                        To do her homage, my queen, my queen!"
                     
                  
               
               Dr. Douglas repeated the lines to himself as he stood in his office alone, a few mornings after, waiting for Dr. Elliott to make his appearance. He had been established in Clinton for a week, and was disposed to be pleased with the place. Through Dr. Elliott, who was very communicative, he had learned of the standing of the various families included in the old doctor's practice, among them, the Langdons. He had described Violet as a lovely girl, full of intelligence and life, though not as beautiful as her mother had been.
               Dr. Douglas stood with the locket in his hand which Mrs. Hamilton had given him years before, and tried to picture the childish face within, grown to womanhood.
               "I hope she is not greatly changed," he thought "but I believe I would love her even if she was, just the same."
               Resolving that he would see her as soon as possible, he put the picture aside, as he heard steps approaching. He had been Jasper to the people of Meadville until after his return from Europe. Then, by common consent, he was called doctor. Upon the whole, his life, since we saw him last, had been a happy one. Not altogether quiet, perhaps, but no less pleasant on that account. He was a rich man now. His mother was still contented and happy. He had lived with her all the time of his residence as physician in Meadville. Dr. Irving, in his will, left an ample life annuity to Mrs. Lambert, and a small sum each to Dora and Maggie. The remainder of his fortune he bequeathed to Jasper.
               Dr. Douglas was much sought after, and many wondered why he did not marry. His mother and himself, however, both appeared entirely satisfied, so no one could complain. He visited Clinton sometimes, in the hope of meeting Violet once more, but so far he had been disappointed. Not that he wished to form her acquaintance until she was grown, but just to know whether she had changed. When he removed to Clinton, the hope of forming her acquaintance was his sole inducement. He was already happily situated, surrounded by warm friends, and with all the practice and celebrity he desired, for being wealthy, he was not as ambitious as he otherwise would have been.
               He had looked upon Mrs. Hamilton as the one who would introduce him to Violet, ever since the evening after she gave him the locket, and his mother had said it would be so. He felt assured that Violet was still fancy-free, for Mrs. Hamilton would surely send him word in time. Mrs. Lambert had been more than half right in her suspicions. Mrs. Hamilton was in reality sorry for the part she had taken in separating Jasper and Violet. Violet's death gave her a great shock, from which she did not soon recover. But, if Jasper had remained a poor clerk, I doubt if her conscience would ever have troubled her. When she found that Jasper would be very wealthy, she regretted gretted that she had been so hasty in the matter. And afterward, when she met him beside Violet's grave, and saw that he was both handsome and elegant in manner, she decided at once that he would make a splendid husband for little Violet, if he could by any means be induced to wait until the child grew to be a woman.
               She had given him the locket partly for that purpose, and partly because she wished to atone in some measure for what she had done in the past.
               Now, when Dr. Douglas had removed to Clinton, she was quite old, though handsome still. Time, the pleasures and comforts of prosperity, and Laura's care and companionship, had restored her mind to its old, cheerful tone.
               Her hair was silvery white now, but abundant still, and she arranged it becomingly always. She had taken to wearing soft, delicate white lace caps, so small they adorned, but did not hide her heavy white hair. Her face was still smooth and round, and, 
                     altogather
                     altogether
                  , reminded one, in some degree, of the pictures of Martha Washington.
               She was very mild tempered, for she had little to vex her now, except what she styled Laura's absurd dislike to Mr. Langdon.
               Mr. Hamilton, who appeared older than she, although he still enjoyed moderate health, had retired from business, as he was quite independently wealthy; and Mr. Manning, the husband of Adela, had taken his place.
               On the morning when Dr. Douglas sat in his office musing over Violet's portrait, Mrs. Hamilton sat alone in her room, in her arm-chair before the grate.
               "And so Dr. Douglas has come to Clinton to live," she said to herself, nodding her handsome old head complacently. "I was thinking only a few days ago, that it was quite time to cultivate him a little. How everything does work to help those who are energetic enough to help themselves. I mean to write him, this very morning, to come and spend the evening here, socially. Then we can talk over matters a little, and I will prepare him to meet Violet. I've already told her about the handsome young stranger who fancied her so when he saw her at her mother's grave, when she was a child. I believe she would consider it her duty to fall in love with him, if she knew who it was, just for the romance of the thing. If I find it necessary, I'll tell her it was Dr. Douglas. If that should not succeed, why I'll give the history of the locket also. I know it isn't in woman's nature to withstand such a delicate compliment as that; for of course he has kept the locket carefully ever since. What fools we all are!
               She paused here and smiled—an odd and wise little smile.
               "A few years ago," she continued, "I wouldn't have had the slightest doubt of being able, without a particle of trouble, to make a match between the doctor and Violet. But my experience with Laura surprises me. I confess I cannot account for it. Donald just worships her; and Violet, and Mr. Hamilton, and Eliza, and I, all wish her to marry him. And, sometimes, I believe the girl loves him. How she can be so perverse, is a mystery to me."
               Here Mrs. Hamilton rose, arranged the tassels of her morning-dress, and settled her dainty cap, and carefully adjusted her eye-glasses.
               Then she sat down to her writing-desk, and wrote a note to Dr. Douglas; pulled the bell and gave the letter to a servant to mail. Her business for the day completed, she took a book and seated herself before the fire to read until time for lunch.
               In the meantime, Dr. Douglas had gone out to make professional calls. When he returned he received and read Mrs. Hamilton's note.
               "Ah!" he said, with a smile, "I was sure she would not fail me. And, of course, I will accept her invitation with pleasure."
               So when evening came, his business for the day was accomplished, and he set out for Mrs. Hamilton's. She received him with the greatest cordiality, and her manner throughout the evening was delightfully confidential. It could hardly be called condescending, she seemed altogether too frank for that; and the doctor, who really wished to please her, although he did not fear her now as in days past, was rather amused by it, than otherwise.
               At last she exclaimed abruptly, as though the thought had just occurred to her:
               "Would you like to become acquainted with Violet, doctor?"
               "I would, indeed."
               "You shall have the opportunity as soon as you desire it. Whenever you can spend an evening here, and will send me word a few hours beforehand, I will invite Violet to come also."
               "Thank you. You are very kind, Mrs. Hamilton."
               "Oh, not at all!" she replied, quite formally. "Any evening you choose to come, you shall see her. Tomorrow if you like."
               "I will, then, unless I am prevented by sickness. In that case, I will send you word.
               "Have you ever spoken to her about the locket," he asked.
               "No," she replied. "Violet knows nothing of it as yet. She is aware that a young gentleman met and kissed her at her mother's grave, and I think she still holds some tender thoughts towards him, but she has no idea who he can be."
               "I am glad," he said. "Please leave to me the task to read the riddle to her, Mrs. Hamilton. That is, if it should be necessary. I have always wished to become acquainted with her, although we may never be anything more than friends. I would like to be her friend, for her mother's sake—and my own pleasure," he added.
               "Of course," Mrs. Hamilton replied, seeing he was not inclined to become more confidential.
               "But I would wish to respect her wishes, entirely, even in this," he continued. "I would not continue the acquaintance, if she seemed averse it. I want her to act her own pleasure in the matter."
               "To be sure." And Mrs. Hamilton nodded her head approvingly. "Quite right. Violet would be very sure to act her own pleasure, I promise you. She is, in fact, quite fond of having her own way, although she is really of an affectionate disposition."
               Jasper smiled. I'm not sure but he liked her better for being a trifle wayward. He was well satisfied with the result of his conference, and, soon after, he took his departure.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXII.
               While Dr. Douglas and Mrs. Hamilton were engaged in conversation, Violet Langdon, the subject of their remarks, was in as perplexed and sorrowful a mood as she had ever known before. Her father had seemed gloomy and dull for two or three days past, and she had observed that his appetite as well as his spirits, was failing. She began to fear that he was really ill, and questioned him affectionately regarding the state of his health; but he replied that he was not unwell, only stupid and cross, with a constant headache. On this morning he seemed more reticent than usual. He ate little or no breakfast, and when the meal was over, shut himself in his room alone.
               Violet tapped at his door at lunch-time asking him to go down, but he replied that he was tired, and would try the effect of fasting, as he felt inclined to sleep.
               Finding he did not wish to be disturbed, she went down to her cheerless, solitary meal, feeling very lonely and desolate. She was quite sure her father was ill, her Aunt Laura was absent from home, and even Wheeler was not there to condole with her.
               The afternoon passed slowly by. Violet dressed for dinner in a pretty blue silk which her father liked, hoping to charm him from his melancholy. When dinner was announced she again paused at his door.
               "Come down, papa, dear!" she called, "only come and sit at the table with me; it is so lonely!"
               "Presently," he answered.
               His voice was so strange that Violet opened the door. The gas was not burning in his room, but she saw by the hall light that he was lying down.
               "Papa," she said, beginning to feel alarmed; "don't you think I had better send for Dr. Elliott?"
               "No, my child, go down and eat your dinner; I shall be better in the morning."
               She was always accustomed to obey him implicitly, and she went down. But she could scarcely eat, and with difficulty repressed her tears.
               "Susan," she said, when she had finished, "I am very much afraid papa is going to be sick like Wheeler. He doesn't wish me to send for a physician, but if he's not better before bed-time I think I'll venture to do so. Perhaps he is too ill to know what is right about it, and in that case I ought to do as I think best."
               "He don't seem very well, that's a fact, Miss," said Susan, "but maybe it's nothin' more than a poor spell that'll go off directly. I'll speak to Patrick though, for Dan's gone out, and he ought to stay so that if anything does happen, he'll be on hand to send for the doctor."
               Violet went up to her room feeling quite forlorn. At last she went out and knocked lightly at her father's door.
               She received no answer, and, supposing him asleep, she opened the door gently and went in. Mr. Langdon was breathing heavily and strangely, as she thought. She approached the bed softly, and touched his cheek with her hand. She started back suddenly, for it seemed almost scorching. Frightened at once, she ran out into the hall crying:
               "Oh, Susan!"
               
               Susan, thoroughly alarmed, hastened into Mr. Langdon's room and lighted the gas.
               "Don't take on about it, Miss Violet," she said, approaching the bed. "Yes, he's got the fever and no mistake; but more'n likely he'll be entirely well in a few days. Wheeler wasn't much sick, you know."
               "No, she was not as sick as papa is now, at any time. Run down stairs, Susan, and tell Patrick to go for Dr. Elliott at once."
               "S'posin' he ain t home, Miss, what then? I think myself he'd ought to have help right away."
               "I don't know. Oh, yes! I remember, Susan; Dr. Elliott has a partner now. If he is not at home, tell Patrick to ask for Dr. Douglas."
               Violet was quite unused to sickness, and she was at a loss to know what to do. But she smoothed her father's pillow, and bathed his forehead with cologne. This seemed to rouse him partially for a moment, and he looked up and spoke her name. But immediately after he began to talk in such a wild, hurried way, that she knew he was quite delirious.
               "Papa!" she cried, "don't you know me?"
               "Certainly, my daughter," he replied. "Has Mr. Hamilton come yet?" And then he muttered something she could not understand.
               Dr. Douglas had just reached his office on his return from Mr. Hamilton's, when Patrick made his appearance.
               "Is docthur Elliott in?" he inquired.
               "No," was the answer, "he has gone out of town to visit a patient who was suddenly taken ill."
               "Is docthur Douglas in, thin?" asked Patrick.
               "Yes," was the reply, "I am Dr. Douglas."
               "Ye're wanted, thin, bad enough, sur; me masther, (God bless him!) Misther Langdon, is tuck powerful bad wid the fayvur, and me young misthress, Miss Violet, said I was to bring docthur Elliott if he was in, and docthur Douglas wither or no!"
               "I'll go with you at once!" the doctor exclaimed, starting up. "How long has Mr. Langdon been ill?"
               "It's complainin' like he's been for some days, sur. But to-day, sur, he was tuck worse, only he'd have no docthur until Miss Violet wint in his room and found him prosthrated intirely, an' discoorsin' unbeknownst to himself! an' wud that, sur, she rooshed out in the hall in stannin' leps a screamin' for Soosin, poor craythur! And thin Soosin come down an' said I was to go for you as I said before, sur."
               The manner in which Patrick delivered his message failed to bring a smile to the doctor's face. He only realized that Violet was in trouble, and waiting for him to bring relief. He set out for Bloom-Centre without a moment's delay, and was shown at once up to the sick room.
               Violet was standing by the bedside, but she turned quickly as he entered, reaching out both hands.
               "Oh, doctor!" she exclaimed, in a low voice, and then she paused, for she had expected to meet Dr. Elliott.
               Dr. Douglas came forward, taking her hand.
               "I am Dr. Douglas," he said, before she could speak further. "I was your mother's friend years ago. Dr. Elliott is absent and I came to see your father in his stead. Don't be alarmed, Miss—Miss Langdon,"—he stumbled over her name, for he was longing to call her Violet, she seemed so frightened and sorrowful, and she looked into his face with the eyes of the child he had kissed so long ago. "I trust your father is not seriously ill."
               He appeared so gentle and kind, his manner inspired Violet with courage at once. She bowed her thanks and turned to the bedside. Mr. Langdon seemed unconscious of what was passing around him. At the first glance the doctor saw that he was very ill indeed. His pulse was quick, his fever high, his eyes wild. A look of deep anxiety crossed the doctor's face, too real to be disguised. Then he turned and met Violet's eyes fixed intently upon him, watching his every expression in anxious silence. Would she hate him if her father failed to recover under his care?
               It was only for a moment that he paused to think of this. He examined his patient carefully, and then wrote out some prescriptions. These he gave to Susan with directions to send Patrick to the nearest drug store, and to bring up the medicines directly upon his return. Then he turned to Violet.
               "Have you a competent nurse?" he asked, in a low tone.
               "I have no one," she answered. "The housekeeper is absent. Aunt Laura is in Meadville, and grandma is too old to be broken of her rest. I have never had any experience in sickness, and Susan is scarcely more competent than am I. The other servants are quite as ignorant concerning the charge of the sick. I do not know of any nurse, for we have never had any serious illness in the house before."
               The doctor looked perplexed.
               "Do you think papa is dangerously ill?" she asked, anxiously.
               "I do not think he is in any immediate danger," he replied, scarcely knowing what answer to make, for Violet's face began to wear a look of earnest entreaty, as though it was in his power to grant a decree of life or death. "We will hope for the best."
               "You have evaded my question," she replied. "You said you were my mother's friend. Be mine, too, please, and tell me the truth."
               What could he do? She might hate him for his answer, but he could not prevaricate with those clear eyes looking through to his very soul.
               "I—fear he is dangerously ill."
               He was in doubt as to the manner in which she would receive this intelligence. His experience in similar cases led him to fear that she might faint, or at least disturb the sick man by her screams. But she did neither. She grew a shade paler, if that were possible, and stood silent a moment, never taking her eyes from his face.
               "I'm all alone," she said, at last, almost in a whisper. "And I don't know how to take care of him." Here she lost possession of her voice for the space of a breath, but there were no tears in her eyes; they were dry and blazing like stars. He waited in suspense, to know what she would do or say next. Through her mind were passing rapidly the thoughts that she loved her father so—he was, except Aunt Laura, all she had. He might die through her ignorance to care for him, and she could never spend a happy moment after. It would be so dreadful to pass the night with these thoughts and fears for her companions, her father in so wild and unnatural a state, Susan terrified, and as if in sympathy with her feelings the gas began to flicker and glimmer, and grow dim. The doctor watched her, thinking of another face almost as desolate late and sorrowful, which he had watched for the last time so many years before. She moved her lips more than once as if to speak, and then paused again. A shiver passed through her frame, and putting out her hands suddenly toward him, she said:
               "Stay!"
               The gesture was so sudden, the tone so impetuous, the doctor was for a moment thrown off his guard. He was almost upon the point of replying that he would stay with her forever, if she would allow it; but remembering himself in time to see that it was an inappropriate time and season for such a declaration, and would only terrify her the more, as he was almost a perfect stranger to her, he paused.
               "I will not leave you, Vio—Miss Langdon!" he said. "I will do all I can to save your father's life, but it may not be in my power to do so. Pray God to help me!"
               She forgot to thank him, but, seized with a sudden weakness, now that she knew that her father would have proper care, she sank, faint and trembling, upon the sofa.
               Susan now entered with the medicines. The doctor took them, and prepared to administer some to his patient, while Violet explained to Susan the state of affairs, briefly. Then, seeing Dr. Douglas smooth her father's pillow as gently as a woman could do, she rose and went to the bedside.
               "Let me sit by papa," she said, "and give him his medicines. Perhaps he may know me and will feel better to have me beside him. I was never sick, but I think he must feel lonely and desolate."
               The doctor explained that he had typhoid fever, and seemed to be nearly unconscious, though possibly he might recognize his daughter, if roused to take his medicines.
               She seemed self-possessed and quiet now, and sat down with a staid womanliness about her which was remarkable in one of her years. Dr. Douglas sat near her, watching alternately, father and child. It was a sincere pleasure to him to know that Violet trusted him fully. She had not asked for Dr. Elliott when she found her father's life was in danger; she believed in his skill, and seemed quite content to let the case rest in his hands alone.
               Susan dozed lightly upon the sofa, but the doctor and Violet both watched at the sick bed as the night wore slowly away. They spoke but little, but the doctor felt as if he had known her always; she did not regard him in the light of a stranger, for with her, mother was a holy name, and he had said he was her mother's friend.
               Toward morning she roused Susan, who went down and made a cup of hot tea, and brought it up with some light refreshments, of which the doctor partook in Violet's boudoir, which was often used as a family room now. Violet would not eat, or leave her father, so the doctor brought her a cup of tea to drink at the bedside.
               She took it with a little touch of surprise in her grateful thanks, and feeling a strange relief in knowing that some friend was near who cared for her in such a quiet, tender way.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXXIII.
               The late gray morning twilight came on at last. Mr. Langdon seemed much more quiet, and Dr. Douglas rose to go. Violet followed him out into the hall.
               "Is there any change for the better yet?" she asked.
               "I can hardly say, though he appears more quiet, of course. You will, doubtless, have a long and weary watch at best, though I think the chances for his death and recovery are nearly equal. But you must have help at once. Your aunt will come, you think?"
               "Oh, yes."
               "You must have an experienced nurse besides, for your father will need constant attention and care. I will speak to Dr. Elliott about one; he is well acquainted with the nurses here, while I am a comparative stranger. How will you send for your aunt?"
               "If she were telegraphed immediately she would come up on the morning express."
               "I will attend to it."
               "Thank you; I shall feel easier about it if you attend to it yourself."
               "Would—you like Dr. Elliott to call instead of me, hereafter?" It cost him an effort to say this.
               "Oh, no! You—you understand his case all the better, perhaps, for watching him all night. If you think it best to have the old doctor call with you sometimes, I would be glad to have him do so; but I am quite willing to trust to your judgment and skill. Come to see him often, won't you?"
               "Yes, indeed; I will call again in a few hours."
               He moved away a few steps and then turned quickly.
               "Miss Langdon! If—if I should not succeed—in restoring your father to health, you—would not blame me?"
               "Blame you? oh, never! I know you will do all in your power for him. But I feel encouraged this morning. I must hope he will recover; I fear I should die else."
               She watched him until the door closed, and looked after him as he passed down the street, thinking that Dr. Douglas was well calculated to inspire his patients with hope and courage. He was old enough and tall enough to seem experienced and wise; and young enough to look very handsome still.
               In the meantime Dr. Douglas went to the depot and sent a telegram to Mrs. Mason. Then he went to his office to report to Dr. Elliott. The old doctor was sitting alone.
               "Why, Douglas, you are pale this morning."
               "I have been out all night with a patient."
               "I don't wonder you are pale. Who was it?"
               "Mr. Langdon. He is very ill indeed, with typhoid fever."
               "You don't tell me so!" the old doctor exclaimed, starting up. "I was sure he was not well when I saw him last. How are his symptoms?"
               "Bad—very bad." And Dr. Douglas shook his head disconsolately. "But that reminds me, I was to speak to you about a nurse. Do you know of any good one who could be found at once?"
               "Yes, a most excellent one."
               "I must send for her immediately, then, for Miss Langdon is quite alone."
               
               "Alone? is it possible! Where is her aunt?"
               "In Meadville."
               "But there is the housekeeper—Wheeler. She must be quite strong by this time, and she is old and experienced in sickness."
               "She is away from home on a visit."
               "Worse and worse! And that poor child is all alone? I don't wonder you stayed."
               At this moment the doctor's son Lester entered the office. He was a lad of eighteen or thereabouts, and had already commenced the study of medicine.
               "Lester," said his father, "I want you to go at once to Mrs. Purdy's. Tell her that Mr. Langdon is very sick, and I want her to go there immediately, to help nurse him. Hurry now, and bring us word whether she can go right away or not."
               Lester set out, and his father turned to Dr. Douglas.
               "You think Langdon's recovery doubtful, then."
               "I'm afraid so."
               "Well, I sincerely wish you all the success possible in the case. Langdon is a warm personal friend of mine, and an excellent man, too. The town could not afford to lose him, and it would be a terrible blow to his daughter."
               "It would be very sad."
               "Douglas, if you succeed in bringing him up, it will go a great way toward establishing your reputation here."
               "But if I should not succeed?"
               "No one would blame you, of course."
               "I would be willing to throw all my reputation as a 
                     physican
                     physician
                   to the winds, if I could only restore Mr. Langdon to health once more."
               "Why, Douglas, you are taking this too much to heart. I thought you had practiced long enough to get accustomed to disappointments and death-bed scenes."
               "True, but I never had a case like this before."
               "It is serious, I grant. But mourning over it will not help matters in the least. Cheer up! Go take your coffee and a short nap, if possible, then we will go to Langdon's together, and see what can be done. In the meantime, I will attend to some other patients about town."
               "What time will you be ready to go?"
               "At eleven o'clock, I think. Will that be soon enough for you?"
               "Yes, it will answer very well. I will try and sleep a little, for I must be, as nearly as possible, in my normal condition, to give my whole attention to the case."
               "Very well, Douglas. I will attend to all the calls out of town for the present, and as many in town as possible, so you can devote your whole attention to the case. It is of more importance than anything else we have on hand just at present."
               By this time Lester returned.
               "Did you see Mrs. Purdy?" the doctor asked.
               "Yes. She seemed very much pleased and said she had nothing at all on hand at present. When I turned the corner to come down Cedar Street, I saw her sailing out."
               "I'm very glad!" said Dr. Douglas, with a sigh of relief. "I telegraphed Mrs. Mason to come on the morning train, and it is almost time for its arrival."
               "You are very prompt, Douglas," said Dr. Elliott, pausing to give the young doctor an admiring glance. "And that is a great thing in a physician."
               
               Dr. Douglas buttoned his overcoat about him and set out for his hotel.
               Meantime, Mrs. Purdy made her way to Bloom-Centre, and walked slowly round to the kitchen.
               "I'm the new nurse as the doctor sent," she said to Bridget, who met her at the door.
               "An' it's powerful glad I am to hear it, mem," Bridget replied. "Sure an' me masther,—poor soul! is a rollin' an' tossin' wid the fayvur, wid the pain a gittin' at his head intirely! An' Miss Violet, poor lamb! is as white as a ghost wid watchin'. An' it's meself that's unable to do a single ha' puth to relave her! It's Mrs. Poordy yer name is, I belave, mem."
               "Yes," answered Mrs. Purdy, nodding her head and rolling her eyes around the room, to observe the kitchen arrangements. "Jemimy Purdy. I'm warm now, and I guess I'll go up to the sick room."
               She was shown into Violet's room, where she took off her hood and shawl, and settled her black cap with its purple ribbons, before the mirror. This done, she wiped her specs upon her cotton pocket handkerchief, and sat down to await further developments.
               She was a fat, black-eyed little woman, with no shape to her waist to speak of, except a deep wrinkle where she tied her apron-strings.
               Violet soon entered the room.
               "Good morning!" she said. "I suppose the doctor informed you that papa was very ill of typhoid fever?"
               "Law yes, dear child! I know all about it. All fevers, and 'specially the typ'o', is very much alike. I know all about 'em all, my dear."
               "You have had a great deal of experience in nursing, I suppose," said Violet.
               "Dear me! yes. When my husban', Sam Purdy, died and left me a widder fourteen year' ago the comin' first o' June, I sez to doctor Elliott, sez I, 'Well, doctor, you know, I s'pose, my husban's dead and gone, poor criter! and I'll hev to earn my vittles by the sweat o' my brow. Now,' sez I, 'I can't wash, fer I hain't got nobody to fetch water and empty out the suds.' (Poor Sam, I missed him dretful, wash days!) 'And I haint no hand at so win' nuther. Now,' sez I, 'the easiest way is al'a's the best way, and I don't see but what I'd better turn my hand to nussin' fer a livin'. 'Well,' sez the doctor, sez he, 'Jemimy Purdy, you're old enuff to nuss folks, you've hed 'sperience enough, too.' 'Quite so,' sez I. 'Well,' sez he, 'if you want to nuss my patients, all you've got to do is to take the best o' keer on 'em, and give my medicines as I direct, explicitly. As long as you do that, I'll recommend ye, and no longer.' Well, think's to me, 'Jemimy, when you hear good advice, the best thing you kin do, is to foller on it.' And I did foller on it, and the doctor al'a's recommen's me to this day."
               "Of course, that is quite right," Violet replied, for Mrs. Purdy seemed to pause for an answer.
               "Law yes, child. Now don't you worry about yer par one mite. I'll nuss him up in a few days—it all depen's on nussin', you see. I al'a's make it a pint to foller of the doctor's directions, for then he takes all the credit onto himself."
               Here Mrs. Purdy produced a roll from her pocket, and took out a small bit of liquorice root.
               "I s'pose you don't keer fer lickerish," said she, as she proceeded to put a piece in her mouth.
               "No, thank you," replied Violet.
               "I ginerally take a little when I'm nussin' ov sick pussons. It's kind o' stimulation' like, and I never take any licker or sich. But here I am a loiterin,' and mebby yer par wants sumthin' done fer him this minit."
               Taking a huge calico apron from her carpet bag, she tied it around her plump figure, and followed Violet into the sick room.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIV.
               Upon the whole, Laura had not enjoyed her visit at Meadville as much as she had anticipated. She had been very restless, and nothing seemed to interest her. The village appeared wretchedly dull, and Eliza was completely absorbed in her housekeeping affairs.
               One afternoon the sisters were sitting together, and Eliza determined to unburden her mind in regard to a subject which she had never ventured upon before. Mrs. Hamilton, who fancied she detected a slight wavering in Laura's mind concerning her treatment of Donald, had written to Eliza to speak to her sister about it, and use her persuasive powers as far as she was able, in endeavoring to sway Laura in the right direction; for Mrs. Hamilton could see but one right way, usually, and that way was her own.
               "Laura," said Eliza, hesitatingly, for the subject was an awkward one to introduce, "I have been thinking that Violet and I married so happily it is a great pity you should not try wedlock once more. Perhaps you might be more successful in choosing a second husband than you were the first, and then, too, father and mother would feel more contented about you. Every woman of your age should have a home of her own."
               "Sister," returned Laura, rather sharply, "I am abundantly able, whenever I desire it, to provide a home for myself. As to choosing another husband, as you say, I never chose my first. If mother was dissatisfied with him she could not blame me, for I was not in fault. And, if I please to remain a widow during the remainder of my life, I don't consider that a crime."
               "Of course not," returned Eliza, briskly, "of course not. But as to providing a home for yourself, I think you would find it rather lonely, to say the very least. If you had children it would be another affair; but to live entirely alone, would be dreadfully dull. I know I could never endure it."
               "But you and I are very different. If I had married a man whom I loved and who loved me, I, too, perhaps, would have become absorbed in housekeeping matters as you now are. I directed my house mechanically, because my heart was not in the work. So I grew to seek and love other pursuits, because they quieted my mind. And yet," she said, pausing a moment regretfully, "I think I could have appreciated a happy home, and the love of a husband and children as well at least as either of my sisters."
               "I am sure you have a happy home within your reach," ventured Eliza, "if you would be wise enough to accept it. Donald is one of the best of men, and Violet loves you as well as if she was your own child."
               
               "Eliza!" broke in Laura, abruptly, "I wonder whether it isn't as bad for mother to appoint you to speak to me upon this subject, as it would be to mention it herself. I am fully aware of what my friends think in regard to my marrying Donald. I know, too, what he thinks about it himself. I shall consider it, and then act my own pleasure."
               Laura spoke rather snappishly, and Eliza did not venture another remark.
               Early hours were practiced in the family, and, next morning, just as breakfast was over, Laura received the telegram from Dr. Douglas, announcing Donald's serious illness, and asking her to come on the first train.
               She turned very pale as she handed the dispatch to Eliza, and went swiftly up to her room. Eliza followed.
               "The morning express leaves in twenty minutes," she said, concisely.
               "Hand me that gray traveling dress, please, Eliza," was Laura's only reply, as she quickly unfastened her pretty wrapper.
               "Are you going to try and take the express?" asked her sister.
               "Yes; poor Violet!"
               "Don't worry about her, Laura."
               "Roll up that wrapper, please, Eliza, and put it in my satchel. And I wish you would pack my trunk to-day, and express it."
               "Laura, you have plenty of time; don't hurry, it makes you tremble so!" Eliza exclaimed. "Perhaps he is not so very bad, after all."
               "Dr. Douglas would only telegraph the truth. Is the satchel ready? I wish you would hand me my wrappings. Wait, I forgot my slippers—here they are. Please put them in the satchel, also, for I shall need them."
               "Do try and quiet yourself, Laura, there is no need of becoming so excited."
               "I know it! There! I'm ready at last. By-by; run up to Clinton awhile to-morrow, if possible."
               "Poor Violet," she had exclaimed to Eliza. "Poor Donald!" she began to repeat to herself. "Suppose he should die before I reach him? It is not impossible."
               She was glad to find the cars were already waiting before the depot, when she reached it. She took a seat, and then began to think for the first time that she must calm herself in order to be able to take her place as nurse by Donald's bedside. As she stepped upon the platform at Clinton, she met Dr. Douglas.
               "My sleigh is waiting for you," he said. "The driver will set you down at Bloom-Centre immediately, and afterward call for Mrs. Hamilton, who is yet in ignorance of Mr. Langdon's illness."
               "How long has he been sick?" she asked.
               "I was called last evening, for the first. He was very ill, and I remained at Bloom-Centre all night, as Miss Violet and her maid seemed quite alone."
               "God bless you, Jasper!" she exclaimed, earnestly.
               Violet was listening for the train, and when she heard it, went to the window of her father's room to watch for her aunt's arrival.
               At that moment a pair of pretty horses stopped before the gate, and her Aunt Laura came swiftly up the walk. Violet ran down and met her at the door.
               "My poor darling!" Laura exclaimed, and then her composure suddenly gave way. Violet drew her into the parlor, and she sank into a chair, sobbing outright.
               "Don't, dear Aunt Laura!" exclaimed Violet, kissing her affectionately. "Papa seems better, I think, and now you are here, he will be more quiet, without doubt."
               "He will hardly recognize me, I'm afraid. He's delirious, I suppose."
               "Yes, but he knows me, and will you, I think."
               "Who is with him now?"
               "A nurse whom Dr. Douglas sent. She seems rather odd, but I think she must be a good one, as Dr. Elliott highly recommends her. Dr. Douglas has been very kind, Aunt Laura. He watched with me all night, telegraphed you this morning, and sent for the nurse."
               "And his sleigh was at the depot waiting for me when I arrived," said Laura. "His friendship is invaluable, and he is a skillful physician, too. The people of Meadville almost worship him."
               "Do they?" asked Violet. "I hardly wonder at it. I was so frightened last night, and felt so desolate and lonely when I found papa was so sick; for I knew I was helpless. Oh, it was horrible! But when Dr. Douglas came, he seemed to inspire me with courage and strength, from the first. I can hardly tell how it was. When he found I was all alone, he said at once he would watch with me, and do all for papa in his power. Then he helped me give papa his medicines, seemed so self-possessed, and to understand the case so thoroughly, that I grew calm before I was aware of it."
               Laura now went up to Violet's room, and donned her wrapper, and then took her place beside the nurse. Mr. Langdon seemed to be aware of her presence, for he partially roused and asked her for a drink.
               Now that she was duly installed by the bedside, her old self-possession returned. She urged Violet to lie down, and she was about to do so, when Mrs. Hamilton arrived. The old lady came up stairs directly, all surprise and sympathy.
               She had seen Mrs. Purdy before, and she now met that lady with a great deal of loftiness and condescension; giving her a word or two by way of impressing her with a due sense of the importance of her position as head nurse of so wealthy a man as Mr. Langdon.
               "Law me!" responded Mrs. Purdy, not in the slightest degree abashed, "I've seen sicker folks 'an him, afore now, and they was well agin 'most right away."
               Mrs. Hamilton made no reply, but she raised her eye-brows, and shook her head sagely, as though she could explain the case even to Mrs. Purdy's comprehension if she felt so inclined.
               "When does the doctor call again?" she asked, turning to Laura.
               "At eleven, Dr. Douglas told me at the depot. It is half-past ten now."
               By this time Mrs. Hamilton had removed her wrappings and settled herself upon the sofa.
               "Violet," she said, adjusting her eye-glasses, "you are extremely pale this morning. You must lie down, my child, and take a long sleep."
               "Presently, grandmamma," Violet replied. "I was going to do so just as you came. But the doctors will soon be here now, and I would like to wait and hear whether there is a change for the better in papa's symptoms."
               
               Soon after, the physicians arrived, and the ladies adjourned to Violet's boudoir, which by common consent was used as a sitting room. After half an hour spent in consultation, Dr. Elliott called Mrs. Purdy into the sick room. Dr. Douglas waited a moment to give her some directions about the medicines, and then he followed Dr. Elliott into Violet's room.
               Mrs. Hamilton was launching forth into a learned discussion with the old doctor concerning fevers, their causes and results. So Dr. Douglas quietly took a seat near Violet.
               "How do you think papa is now?" she asked. "Is he better?"
               "He does not seem to be worse, and that, in the beginning of a fever, is a favorable indication."
               By this time the medical discussion had closed, and Dr. Elliott rose to go.
               "Laura," said Mrs. Hamilton, "it is quite useless for three of us to watch at a time, and you had better lie down through the day."
               "No, mother," Laura replied. "I slept well during the night, and am not in the least fatigued. I will watch with Mrs. Purdy through the day and night, and then, if you come to-morrow, you can sit by him through the day with Violet and Susan, while we rest."
               Mrs. Hamilton, after thinking the matter over, came to the same conclusion, so she went down to ask the coachman to take her home, after stopping to gossip with the servants for a few moments to impress more fully upon their minds the wonderful skill and knowledge which Dr. Douglas possessed.
               Laura, glad there was no immediate danger, took her place again by the bedside, and Violet, serene and hopeful, slept a restful sleep. She rose refreshed, and after taking a bath went out in search of Susan to dress her hair. She sat up until after the doctor's evening visit, and then retired for the night.
               Laura, meanwhile, sat in silence by Mr. Langdon's bedside. Mrs. Purdy, after chewing a huge piece of liquorice root as an anodyne, arranged the pillows upon the sofa, tied an ugly night-cap over her head, and settled herself for a nap.
               "Now, my dear," she said to Laura, "it's jist as you say about this, ye know. If you git sleepy, or want any help, you jist holler out kind o' softly, and I'll git up to wunst. I know all about these things, my dear, and I've seen sicker folks 'an him cured. So don't you worry one mite."
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXV.
               Two weeks passed slowly by. Mr. Langdon seemed very near death at times, but his constitution was remarkably strong, appearing to set the ravages of fever at defiance. For two or three days past, the doctor had pronounced him "decidedly better," at each visit, and Laura and Violet hoped the next verdict would be, "out of danger."
               Violet threw a shawl around her and went out upon the porch to await his coming. It was a pleasant day in March. The sun was shining, the snow was gone, and the snow-drops were beginning to peep up through the beds on the lawn. Violet did not watch long. She did not follow the doctor into the house, but sat down upon a rustic chair to await his departure. His call was rather lengthy, and at last, Violet ran down the steps and gathered a few snow-drops, thinking how glad she was that the winter was over.
               She had sometimes, out of the very perversity of human nature, been disposed to find fault because her life had thus far been so quiet. But now a new chapter had been opened, it seemed as though the incidents of a year had been crowded into two short weeks. She had never known so great a trial as her father's illness had been to her. But through it all she had met Dr. Douglas daily, and he always had a word of kindness or look of sympathy for her, so plainly expressed that it could not be misunderstood. What a comfort this had been to her! And while she sat wondering if love always made what was bitter seem sweet, the door opened, and the doctor came out on the porch.
               "How is papa to-day?" she asked, her heart beginning to beat faster at his approach.
               "Much better," he answered, with a smile, "and entirely removed from all danger, I think."
               She had been almost sure of his answer, and yet out of the gladness of her heart the tears filled her eyes.
               "Don't think me silly," she said, impetuously.
               "I think you are a heroine!" he answered quickly. "Your composure during your father's illness has been remarkable, for I am sure I never saw tears in your eyes before."
               "Perhaps you have thought me heartless," she replied, "but I never cry. And besides, though I knew papa was very ill, I must acknowledge that since the first night of his sickness, my faith in your skill as a physician has been very great."
               She spoke seriously, with a frankness which was removed as far as possible from boldness.
               "I thank you for that faith," he said, "and also for your courage in telling me of it."
               Then came a long silence. Violet toyed with the flowers in her hands, and the doctor watched her, loth to take his leave. Then followed a discussion on the relative merits and beauty of different flowers, and when the doctor left at last, he took the snow-drops with him.
               He rode thoughtfully away, contrasting the two Violets in his mind, as he was always doing of late, and thinking the younger Violet like her mother enough to call up tender memories of the old love, and unlike her enough to call forth a new tenderness all her own. She did not resemble her mother as much as he fancied she would, but he decided that he loved her far better as she was.
               One pleasant day Dr. Douglas called to see his patient after he was able to sit up the greater part of the time, and walk about the room.
               "It will soon be time for spring violets to bloom," Laura said. "You will hardly be able to go out until they are gone this year, Donald."
               "No," he answered, with a smile, "but I shall not miss the June roses."
               Violet laughed, and Laura seemed annoyed. Dr. Douglas looked up, not understanding the jest.
               "It is almost too early for violets yet," he said, "but the grass is green in the sunny places, and the roads are becoming quite smooth again. It is pleasant weather for riding out."
               
               "You ride considerably upon professional visits, I suppose," said Mr. Langdon.
               "Yes, and in fine weather it is the pleasantest part of a doctor's practice. I was called three or four days since to visit a poor woman who lives three miles out of town. She had been ill with a cold and cough for some time, but was so poor she did not call upon a physician before. Her house is very humble, but seems to have been tidily kept when she was well. She has four children, the eldest a girl, who takes care of the house and her little brother and sisters while her mother goes out to work. She is a widow, and, I think, a very worthy object of charity. I do not doubt that she is in need of many little comforts, which a woman could best think of and bestow."
               "No doubt of it," interrupted Laura, her feelings enlisted at once. "I think, Violet dear, we must make up a basket for her. That is, if Dr. Douglas would consent to carry it to her, on his next visit."
               "I expect to go about three o'clock this afternoon," the doctor said, "and would be willing to take anything you would be kind enough to prepare. But it would give me still more pleasure if Miss Violet would ride out with me, and bestow it upon the poor woman herself. The cottage is moderately tidy, my patient recovering, and, as her complaint was inflamation of the lungs, there is nothing infectious or contagious about it. It is a lovely day for a ride," he added, "and Mrs. Boyle's cottage is on the river road."
               Violet looked quickly toward her Aunt Laura, to see if she approved of the invitation.
               "That is a delightful drive," Laura said. "It would do you good, and give the poor woman great pleasure, without doubt."
               "And her physician also," the doctor added, with a smile.
               "It would be wrong, then," laughed Violet, "to deprive you both of so great a pleasure, especially as I should like it exceedingly myself. So, I will be ready with my basket, at three o'clock precisely."
               Soon after, the doctor departed, and Violet called upon her aunt to assist her in collecting the gifts for the poor woman. A long basket, which would just fit under the carriage seat, was procured, and bed linen, towels, and other useful articles placed in it. Then followed sandwiches and gingerbread for the children, and tea, coffee, sugar, fruits, and jellies for the sick mother.
               At the appointed hour the doctor's carriage stopped before the gate. Dan took out the basket and placed it under the seat, and the doctor handed in Violet. She was very pretty to-day, with her spring suit of blue poplin, her dainty boots and gloves, and her jaunty blue hat with a long white plume.
               The doctor relished the idea of having her all to himself for the next few hours. He drew up the reins, and away over the smooth road they sped. A few of the more venturesome of the spring birds had made their appearance, and the air was very soft, for early spring.
               They conversed gaily until they reached the poor woman's cottage. The doctor handed Violet out, and taking the basket, accompanied her to the house.
               "Good afternoon, Mrs. Boyle," he said. "I have brought with me one of the best of fairies, who has filled this basket with good things for you and the children."
               The poor woman was delighted. The doctor soon went out for a short stroll, and Violet, meanwhile, made the bed comfortable, with the aid of the eldest girl, as Mrs. Boyle was able to sit up. Then she laid out the edibles for the children, and made a cup of tea for the mother.
               The woman gave her a brief history of herself and family, and how she had succeeded in taking care of her children until she was prostrated with lung fever. She was so much better she hoped soon to be able to work once more. The doctor had kindly helped them, and she thought she would get along nicely now, as she had flour and potatoes in the house. Violet listened to her story, and played with the children until the doctor's return, when they set out for home.
               Clinton was situated upon a hill, and the horses seemed to move more slowly on the upward grade, for the doctor held a slackened rein, as if determined to enjoy the ride as long as possible.
               "I have been thinking," he said, "how much you looked to-day as you did when I saw you first. You have changed but little since you were a child."
               "I did not know that you ever saw me when I was a child," she said, in surprise.
               "I never did but once. And that time I can never forget."
               Violet looked up with a half-puzzled expression upon her face. From the days of her childhood she had treasured a dim recollection of those eyes, she was sure. She blushed and dropped her own, why, she could hardly tell.
               "When I was a boy," said the doctor, "older in heart than in years, I loved a sweet girl, devotedly. We were nearly of an age, and as we lived near each other, we were together almost constantly. When she was seventeen and I was eighteen, she left our native village of Meadville, and removed with her parents to Clinton. A few months after, she was married. It was a sad blow to me; for until then, I had hoped she might be my wife one day, although we were never engaged. Since the night before she left Meadville, I have not looked upon her face.
               "The years passed. First I heard she was a mother. Then word reached me of her illness and death. After she had been buried eighteen months, as I was passing through Clinton, I felt an irresistible desire to visit her grave. Surely that would not be wrong, for she was a friend of my childhood. So I entered the cemetery, and at last discovered her grave. Beside it, in her carriage, sat a little child of two years. It was her child, I knew at a glance, before I asked her name—a child with fresh sweet lips, golden hair, and clear, violet eyes. She was too innocent and pure-hearted to be timid; and when I knelt down beside her, she answered my questions without hesitation, in her soft child-voice, and looked into my face, without drooping her matchless eyes."
               "And when I asked her—she placed her arms around my neck and kissed me—the darling! When I rose to go she reached out her arms again and said, 'I love you!—stay!' I caught her to my heart and kissed her again and again, wishing I could take her with me. Then I gently replaced her in the carriage and left the spot."
               His voice was a trifle unsteady at the last. The tears were dropping over Violet's cheeks, but she did not turn her face away. They rode on in silence. It had touched his heart almost as much as hers—this recital, and he could not trust his voice to proceed.
               They were now in sight of Clinton, and, reluctant as he was, he was obliged to defer speaking further upon the subject until a more opportune moment presented itself. He could not, however, resist turning his horses' heads towards the cemetery. Violet had grown calmer now, and the doctor could not help thinking she made a most lovely picture, with her delicately flushed cheeks, and the setting sun turning her bright hair into shining threads of gold. He paused a moment beside her mother's grave.
               "It was here I met you first, my darling," he said.
               He could scarcely have waited to finish his story as he at first intended, but would have precipitated the conclusion by asking another kiss then and there, but some approaching carriage warned him of the inexpediency of the act, and they rode slowly homeward. He, impatient and restless, and she with drooping eyelids and averted face.
               When they reached Bloom-Centre, he handed her out of the carriage, went slowly up the walk, both watching the glowing sunset sky in silence.
               "Won't you come in?" she asked, as he paused a moment at the door.
               He hesitated, seeming in doubt.
               "I cannot, now," he said at last. "But if you please, I would like to come this evening and finish my story, which is scarcely half told. May I come?"
               "Yes," she whispered, giving him her hand.
               He thanked her, smiled, and went swiftly down the walk.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVI.
               Violet did not visit her father's room on her return, but went directly to her own. Laura sat waiting her appearance, for some moments, and then went in search of her. She found her in her boudoir, sitting in an easy chair before the grate, her face buried in her hands. She started up, with a flushed face, when her aunt entered the room. Laura refrained from questioning her as to her blushes.
               "So you are at home, my dear," she said, quietly. "Did you have a pleasant ride?"
               "Oh, very," Violet answered, concisely.
               Laura drew up a chair by Violet's side, and sat silently gazing into the fire. Had the time indeed come, which she had often anticipated, when her darling would give up her heart to the keeping of another? She had been very intent upon her own affairs, or she would have observed it before. If it was true, she was so thankful Violet had selected the very one, who, of all others, she herself would have chosen for the child, because of his integrity and upright heart.
               "Aunt Laura!" Violet said, and then she was silent, and sat and gazed into the fire.
               "Well, my dear?"
               "Did grandmamma ever tell you of a young gentleman who saw—me at mamma's grave when I was a child?"
               "And whom you kissed?"
               "Yes," drooping her head a little.
               "And who was it, my dear?"
               
               "It was—Dr.—Douglas."
               "Did he tell you so this afternoon?"
               "Yes."
               "Was that all he told you, dear?"
               "He told me the story, Aunt Laura, and then—"
               "Well, and then?"
               "We came through the cemetery on our way home, and stopped a few moments at mamma's grave."
               "Did you?"
               "Yes. And then—"
               "I'm listening, dear."
               "Well, there were people there, Aunt Laura.
               "What did he say, dear?"
               "'It—was here I saw you first, my darling!'" Her head was upon her aunt's breast now.
               "And he is coming here to-night, Aunt Laura. 'To finish the story,' he said."
               "And you wish to hear it?"
               "I—I think so."
               "My darling, I am very glad."
               Her story was finished, and she burst into tears.
               "My dear," Laura said, carressing her tenderly, "Dr. Douglas loves you, or he never would have spoken to you in this manner. He is one of the noblest of men. Are you very sure you love him in return?"
               "Very sure," she answered, still sobbing.
               "Then dry your tears, little one. You must meet him with bright eyes."
               She soon grew calm, and rising, bathed her face, arranged her collar, and with her aunt went into her father's room. Laura read aloud the evening paper, and kept up the conversation so that Violet's flushed cheeks remained unnoticed, or at least, uncommented upon. Dinner over, she went up to her room to have her hair arranged and to prepare for her visitor. She bathed her face repeatedly, and, though her eyes renewed their brightness, her cheeks were still very rosy when she went down to meet him.
               The doctor had drawn a low, easy chair up to the centre table, under the full blaze of the chandelier.
               "Sit here, won't you, please?" he said. "I want to see your face while I am speaking—I want to see your eyes."
               She took the seat at once, looking very rosy and perplexed in her pretty embarrassment. He leaned against the mantel for some moments without a word, and when at last she ventured to raise her eyes, she saw what she felt before, that he was watching her face intently. Then he drew up a chair and took a seat by her side.
               "When I left the little child at her mother's grave, my darling," he began, "it seemed as though I had left all the sorrow of my first disappointment buried there. I could not grieve afterward, for the remembrance of the dear kisses of the little child came between me and all sorrow. So I went to work, comforted—content. But I never closed my eyes at night, or opened them in the morning, without committing my darling to the care of God. Henceforth she was my guardian angel. Two years of study passed. I was about to visit Europe with my uncle. But I felt as though before I left my native shores, I must look upon that dear child-face once more. For this purpose I came to Clinton, and visited her mother's grave."
               "And—I was not there?"
               "You were not there, my darling. I waited for some time, and then turned, disappointed, to leave the place. Then I met Mrs. Hamilton. She knew I loved her daughter, and she guessed it was I who had seen the little one at her mother's grave. So she told me of her sweet, happy childhood, and before I left, she gave me, when she saw I desired it so earnestly, a locket, containing a picture of the little child."
               "My picture?"
               Her eyes were dilated with astonishment.
               "Your picture, little one," he said, smiling at her earnest face.
               "I—I did not know that."
               "No, you knew nothing about it. I have kept it without your knowledge all these years."
               "Then you have it still?"
               "I have it still."
               "Please let me see it?"
               "Presently," he smiled, taking her outstretched hand. "I want to tell you what it has been to me all these years."
               He pressed the pink-tipped fingers to his lips, and then proceeded.
               "It was a locket," he said, "and contained besides the picture, a tiny curl of the child's golden hair. I have kept it sacredly, never leaving it for a moment—over my heart by day—under my pillow at night.
               "Sometimes I have thought if I had lived, with my first great sorrow weighing upon my mind, I might have become reckless—wild. I might, after bearing the pain and weariness of grief for a time, have plunged into dissipation to rid me from it. But after this I was no longer lonely and sorrowful. If tempted, the thought of that sweet child-face swiftly glided between me and evil. If I was angry, or provoked to use a profane or impious word, I thought of the same dear face which rested so lightly over my heart—which I had kissed so often it seemed to make my own lips pure.
               "Always, after I received the picture, I hoped that some day, when that little child grew to womanhood, she would love me and consent to be my wife. So I came back and settled down in Meadville, where I could hear from her often. Every one of her birthdays I counted as they passed, feeling it was one day nearer to the time when I should seek and win my prize. Somehow I did not care to have her know me until that time. It seemed to me, that if I came to her a stranger, she would love me sooner than if she saw me before, while she was yet too young to learn to love me as a wife should love her husband, always. I waited patiently until she grew to early womanhood, and then I came to Clinton to make myself known to her, and, if possible, win her for my own."
               Violet seemed struck dumb with amazement during this recital, but now her astonishment knew no bounds.
               "You did!" she exclaimed, doubtingly.
               "Indeed I did!" he said. "I went one evening to your grandmother's, hoping to see or hear from you; and, knowing what she did, she promised to invite you to meet me at her house on the next evening. I had scarcely returned to my office, when a messenger arrived, saying that your father was very ill. The rest you know. But my fears, lest I should be unable to effect a cure in your father's case, and that you might blame, or even hate me, thinking his death the result of my ignorance or neglect, you can never know. I was glad—if I could be glad at such a time—when you asked me to remain with you, that night. I doubt if I could have left you even if you had chanced to have company, while you were so agitated and alarmed. So I was thankful that I might stay with you for your own sake and mine, and because I wished to watch your father's symptoms. Now you know all."
               "But the locket?"
               He drew it forth and placed it in her hand.
               She held it a moment, then opened it and looked upon her own face as it had been pictured in childhood. Then she paused and gazed wonderingly upon the man before her. Could it be possible that he, a stranger to her but a few months before, had kept her picture so sacredly during all these years—that he had loved her so long while she had remained unconscious of the fact?
               She was spell-bound with the sudden wakening, it was so like some fairy tale 
                     ord ream
                     or dream
                  ; and he, unwilling to break the spell, sat also in silence, regarding her with a sober tenderness in his look.
               "I have kept this for thirteen years," he said, glancing at the locket in her hand. "You shall do what you like with it now."
               She gave it back to him.
               "It is yours," she answered, "and I have no wish to take it from you."
               He thanked her, and put it back in its old place. Then he reached forward and took both her hands in his own.
               "Violet," he said, "that alone will not satisfy me. I love you. You must know, by what I have told you, that I am sincere—you cannot fear to trust me after I have loved you faithfully so long. Only your love is wanted to complete my happiness."
               "But I am not so fair as my mother was," she said, hesitatingly. "And I am not as womanly and thoughtful as she. Are you sure you are not disappointed in me?"
               She asked the question staidly, and he replied in a manner equally grave and impressive.
               "So sure that I would live the old trouble over again, if I could win you in no other way. And yet, if you tell me that I am so old that you cannot love me as a wife should love her husband; or if there is another whom you prefer above me, I will go my way, and leave you, though it would be taking the hope of my life from me. But if you care for me, dear, and will accept my devotion, place your arms around my neck, and kiss me as you did in childhood, tell me again that you love me, that I may stay!"
               "I do love you," she said, and then she hid her face in her hands and sobbed from over excitement and excess of joy.
               An hour passed. Violet's tears had changed to smiles, and many important questions had been discussed, when the doctor started as the mantel clock struck eleven.
               "It is growing late," he said.
               Violet slipped quietly down from her place upon his knee.
               "I must leave you now," he said, "but you have not kissed me. I cannot go until you do."
               "I dare not," she answered, hesitating.
               "Why do you fear me?" he asked. "I, who have loved you ever since you were a little child."
               
               "Why should I, indeed?" she thought. And as he bent over her she raised her face and kissed him as she had done in childhood.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVII.
               Laura shared Violet's room, and upon the evening of the doctor's visit she was sitting quietly before the fire, alone. She heard the doctor leave the house, and when the door closed after him, Violet came softly up the stair-case. She did not speak when she entered, but drew an ottoman up to her aunt's feet, sat down upon it, and laid her head upon her lap.
               "Well, my dear," said Laura, after waiting some time for Violet to speak first, "and did the sequel of the story you were to hear to-night prove as interesting as the beginning?"
               "Yes," Violet answered, but that was all.
               Laura stroked her bright hair in silence.
               "It is as you said, Aunt Laura," Violet resumed, after a long pause. "He has loved me ever since I was a little child, first for mamma's sake, and now for mine. I cannot tell you the whole story now, though he will some day, perhaps, or I may after—after awhile. He is coming to see papa to-morrow. And—you don't think papa will care, do you, Aunt Laura?"
               "No, dear. He knew that Dr. Douglas called to see you to-night, and I gave him a hint of what was passing, for I wished him to be prepared. He said you were very young, and yet I think he was pleased, upon the whole, for he likes the doctor exceedingly, and respects him highly. Besides, he feels very grateful to him for attending him so faithfully during his illness. But it is growing late, my dear, and we must retire, or your cheeks will not be so rosy to-morrow."
               Notwithstanding her late hours, Violet made her appearance at the breakfast table on the next morning, and when the meal was over, she ran up to the conservatory to gather some violets for her hair.
               "Violet!" called Laura, a moment later, "where are you?"
               She ran out to meet her aunt, who held up a beautiful bouquet of camellias, violets and orange blossoms, handsomely arranged.
               "It is hardly worth your while to gather flowers, now," she said. "I wonder if there isn't some mistake about it, and they are really meant for me."
               Violet caught the bouquet from her aunt's hand, and kissed the waxen flower petals.
               "I wish Dr. Douglas could see you now," laughed Laura.
               "I would be ashamed to have him see me do such a thing," Violet answered.
               "You are half right," Laura replied, "and yet, I don't think you need fear to show the doctor that you love him. He, of all men in the world, I believe, will be true to his pledge."
               "Yes," returned Violet, reflectively, "I think if he has loved me all these years, he must be true. But," she added, after a pause, in a tender tone, "I know some one who has loved you almost as long, and I fancy he would be quite as true to you. And I have thought recently, you had been trying to hide your love for him all along; though, as he seems so contented of late, I guess he has discovered the same thing."
               "Violet!" Laura exclaimed, reproachfully; and then she turned her face away, and looked out of the window.
               "I didn't mean to wound your feelings, auntie," said Violet, apologetically.
               Laura smiled in answer, said she was sure of it, and Violet ran up stairs to place the bouquet in water, singing softly to herself:— 
                     
                        "Sweet as your smile on me shown ever,
                        Douglas, Douglas, tender and true."
                     
                  
               
               "Aunt Laura," she said, a moment after, as Laura entered the room, "papa must come in here and sit to-day. It is so much pleasanter, you know, and besides—"
               "Yes, I know," Laura smiled. "I'll ask him to come in directly."
               Violet brought a pretty Parian vase to hold the flowers, and as she placed them in it she discovered a tiny note hidden among them. She opened it hastily, and read:—
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "VIOLET:—
                           
                           "I have a few provoking professional visits to make this morning, but will call at eleven o'clock. I am, as you are aware, ever yours.
                           
                              "JASPER DOUGLAS, M.D., (Most Devoted.")
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               She laughed as she read it, and gave the note to her aunt.
               "The man is crazy!" exclaimed Laura, with apparent soberness. "What a ridiculous note for the grave Dr. Douglas to write!"
               Violet opened her eyes in astonishment, and a cloud passed over her face.
               "Have I hurt you?" said Laura. "We are quits then."
               Violet pouted a little after Laura left the room, but she was too happy to feel ill-natured long, and when, soon after, her father entered, clad in dressing-gown and slippers, the smile had come back to her face.
               "You look very cheerful in here," Mr. Langdon remarked. "Those flowers are beautiful. I did not know we had so many camellias in bloom just now."
               "They did not come from our conservatory, papa," she replied. "They were sent to me this morning."
               "Ah, by whom?"
               "Dr. Douglas," she answered, without looking up.
               "What is this I hear about the doctor, child? Your aunt thinks he has taste as well as skill."
               "He certainly has taste in flowers, papa;" nearly upsetting the vase in her confusion.
               "Yes, I see," Mr. Langdon smiled quietly. "Especially in Violets."
               She did not reply, but drew some violets from the bouquet for her hair, thinking she would wear a spray of the orange-blossoms in the evening if the doctor came.
               Soon afterward the doctor was announced. He came directly up stairs, as was his custom, and was shown into Violet's boudoir instead of her father's room. Mr. Langdon and Laura received him cordially, but Violet was nowhere to be found.
               Both gentlemen, however, seemed quite satisfied with the rather lengthy interview which followed. Then Mr. Langdon retired to his room and Laura went in search of Violet. She found her at last, and persuaded her to go up and meet the doctor, though it was fully five minutes after she entered the room before fore he received even a glance, so abashed she seemed, and agitated.
               He drew her down upon the sofa beside him, and pitying her embarrassment, conversed for a few moments upon indifferent subjects, until her eyes regained their hardihood, and she could talk quietly upon the important subjects which occupied their minds. He had a ring to bestow, and then Laura was called upon to help settle upon the marriage day.
               The doctor urged that there should be no delay. He said that it was quite natural that Violet should feel differently from himself in the matter. She was surrounded by kind friends, and had a happy home. He was alone, and besides, he had waited for her so many years, he was growing old. He was established in business, his means were ample, he had nothing for which to wait but the consent of his future wife.
               Laura seemed to view the matter in the same light, and after a long discussion, in which Mr. Langdon and Mrs. Hamilton joined, the wedding day was fixed for the first of June.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXVIII.
               Toward the last of April, Mrs. Lambert was sitting in her cheerful parlor one bright morning.
               "It is a beautiful day," she said, looking out. "I think if this pleasant weather continues, the violets will soon be in bloom. How fond of them Jasper always seemed to be!"
               She had been very happy as Mr. Lambert's wife; almost without a sorrow or a care, except the pleasant household cares which were to her a delight. Mr. Lambert was uniformly affectionate and kind, never losing an opportunity to promote her comfort and pleasure. And in return, she made his home peaceful and happy, and was always ready to counsel and assist his daughter in time of need.
               "I thought Jasper would have been home before this," she said to herself. "Of course I know he has been very busy since Mr. Langdon's illness, but his letters have been very short and unsatisfactory. If I don't get a good long one soon, I'll write and give him a regular scolding, for neglecting me so."
               Just then the outer door opened, and Dr. Douglas entered the room, his face bright and smiling. Dr. Douglas to others, but always Jasper to her.
               "My dear son!" she exclaimed. "You quite startled me. I was this very moment promising myself the pleasure of writing you, and giving you a serious reprimand, for neglecting me."
               "You may give it to me now, mother dear," he said. "But you know I do not forget. I have been very busily occupied since I went to Clinton."
               "Is it very sickly there now?"
               "Oh, not at all! But Mr. Langdon has been very ill indeed. I wrote you about it."
               "Yes, I know. I'm very glad he recovered, for his sake as well as your own. How do you like him since you have formed his acquaintance?"
               "Very much indeed."
               "You have seen his daughter, too, I suppose?"
               "Certainly, I have seen her," he replied.
               "And do you like her as well as you expected?"
               "I do, indeed."
               "Jasper, what pleases you so? You have been smiling ever since you came into the house."
               "Have I? Well, I am pleased, mother dear. Pleased to see you looking so well, and to be home again, too. Isn't that quite enough to make me smile?"
               "I suppose so," she answered, laughing. "But that is not the only reason, I'm sure. How does Violet look?"
               "Ah," you have 'beaten about the bush' long enough, haven't you, mother? and now you are coming down to the square facts. I am very much pleased with Violet's appearance."
               He drew a diary from his pocket, opened it, and took out a card photograph.
               "That is very like her."
               "She has changed but little since she was a child," she said, examining it closely.
               "Mother dear, how would you like her for a daughter?"
               "Jasper, you don't tell me—you cannot mean—"
               Here Mrs. Lambert sat down in astonishment. The doctor laughed merrily.
               "I do mean, mother," he said, "to tell you that Violet Langdon has promised to be my wife. Are you not glad for my sake?"
               "My dear boy!" she exclaimed, excitedly. "You know I was never so happy in my life before—never!"
               "Nor I either," he replied, "as happy as I have been for the past few days."
               "How long have you been engaged?"
               "Only about two weeks."
               "I suppose the wedding day is not yet decided upon?"
               "Oh, yes, I couldn't wait forever, like some people do. I believe in short engagements, like Mrs. Hamilton, (I beg the old lady's pardon, I should have said grandmother), so we are to be married upon the first of June."
               "Will you leave Clinton then?"
               "Only for a month or two. We are going to make a tour of the lakes."
               "I'm glad you are not going to Europe again."
               "And so am I. We shall go some day, probably, but not now. I could hardly be spared long enough just at this time. Mr. Langdon said if we would defer it for a year or so, he would accompany us. There is a very handsome place for sale in sight of Bloom-Centre, which I think I will purchase. Violet likes it exceedingly, and so, of course, do I. It is a beautiful place, and massive, with fine old trees; and it is, strangely enough, overrun with violets. It is situated in a lovely little dell, and set back between two rather low hills, though the grounds extend partially up the side of each. There is a very pretty view between the hills, of the meadows off toward Meadville, and in front it looks toward Bloom-Centre. With a few improvements, for it has been a little neglected of late, it will make a beautiful nest for my dove."
               "You ought to call it Dovecot, then."
               "Oh, I forgot!" he said, laughing. "She isn't a bird—she's a flower. The dearest of flowers, too. And if I purchase it, as I shall, of course, we will call it Violet-Dell."
               Dr. Douglas returned to Clinton that evening, and purchased the pretty place he had spoken of, and, a week later, it was vacated, and the keys delivered into his hands. So, on the next morning he called quite early at Bloom-Centre. Violet ran down to meet him when she saw his horses stop at the gate.
               "Put on your hat, sweetheart," he said, their greetings over. "Violet-Dell is vacated at last, and I want you to go down with me and suggest whatever improvements you would like."
               "Aunt Laura and papa must go too."
               "Certainly, if you wish it."
               They were soon ready to set out.
               "It is a beautiful place," said Mr. Langdon, admiringly, "beautiful. But it's altogether too shady for flowers, Violet. These elms take all the strength out of the ground."
               "But we are not going to cultivate flowers, papa. There are plenty of violets here—they seem to grow wild. And I wouldn't exchange these beautiful elms for the loveliest flowers in the world."
               "We will have a conservatory, of course," the doctor said. "And there is plenty of room for perpetual roses, and other hardy shrubs. These, with the violets and green-house plants, will do very nicely, I think."
               "Especially," said Laura, "as you are so near Bloom-Centre, where you could take all the flowers you wish for the house, and they would never be missed among so many. This is, indeed, a lovely place, and just as different from Bloom-Centre as possible."
               They now entered the house, and passed through the large, old-fashioned rooms. The staircase was heavy and dark, and the upper chambers airy and high.
               "Which rooms will you take for your own, Sunshine?" asked the doctor.
               "This pretty suite over the parlors, I think. And, papa, if you will allow me to do so, I will bring the furniture from my rooms in Bloom-Centre, for them. It is well preserved, all but the carpets, and those I would have new. And you won't need 'Violet furniture' when I am away."
               "Certainly, you are welcome to it," he said.
               "We will have violets upon all the wall-paper and carpets in the house, won't we, doctor?"
               "We will have just what you like, my dear."
               "I shall not have crimson curtains in the parlor either," she said. "I'll just have blue."
               "It will be a perfect paradise, no doubt," said the doctor, laughing. "But I want you to see what improvements you desire, before we have the painters and paper-hangers at work upon the house."
               So they went throughout the house, examining every part, suggesting alterations and improvements; and as each thing was decided upon, the doctor made a note of it at once. It was all settled at last, and they walked slowly homeward, Dr. Douglas and Violet lingering a little, and busy with plans for future happiness ness. They stopped in the garden to look at the early spring flowers.
               "I have been so happy here in my beautiful home," said Violet. "So happy, always. And yet I have not one fear for the future, not one doubt of its joy, and comfort, and peace. Do all women, I wonder, feel as secure in their husband's love as I shall be in yours, doctor?"
               "I cannot tell, darling," he said. "But some, I suppose, must doubt. Our future always lies, more or less, in doubt; and trouble in one form or another, comes, sooner or later—to all. But I promise you this, dear, by all my hopes of future happiness—and they are not few—that not a shadow shall cross your pathway, that my hand has power to cast aside!"
               Meanwhile Laura had gone up to Violet's room, where she sat down, apparently lost in thought.
               "Oh!" she murmured, "I would give half the remainder of my worthless life, to taste one sweet draft from the fountain of pure, early love—to feel the perfect trust toward some one, that Violet feels for Dr. Douglas."
               Her life, so strange and unnatural, had taught her to distrust every one. She had always said a man could love but once. Donald had loved Violet dearly—could it be that he loved her as well? She knew he did love her in a certain way, but she longed for a deep, all-absorbing passion, such as Donald had felt for Violet—such as Dr. Douglas felt toward Violet's child.
               The sound of Violet's voice in the parlor, caused her to start. She was singing and playing some lively ballads for the doctor, and they brought Laura back to her senses, as she said.
               "Laura Mason!" she exclaimed, to herself, "you are very silly to have such fancies. Do you not know that morning-dreams never come at noon-day, and it is time to go to work and perform your duties faithfully, without murmuring at the weariness of your lot? I am heartily ashamed of you!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXIX.
               Mrs. Hamilton was in her element once more.
               "My dear," she said to Violet, "I used to be famous for the elegant weddings at my house. Your Aunt Eliza's was considered a splendid affair; and when your Aunt Laura was married, it took every one by surprise, everything was so handsome."
               "I should think her husband would have taken every one by surprise, grandmamma, if he looked at all like his picture. He must have been as old as grandpa is, now."
               Mrs. Hamilton raised her eyebrows slightly and settled the lace barbe to her cap.
               "My dear," she said, mildly, "tastes differ. He gave your Aunt Laura all her elegant jewels, and they are quite as fine as yours—that were your mother's—are."
               "I suppose so. But then, grandmamma, I wouldn't care for so much style for myself."
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, "what a pity it is that you can't wear emeralds and rubies——"
               
               "Why, grandmamma?"
               "You already have everything that is becoming to you in the way of jewelry, that was your mother's. I dare say the doctor would have made you some handsome gifts if you had not been already supplied."
               "Grandmamma dear, I'm very glad to have mamma's jewels, but I don't know what I should do with any more. I have all I wish, or care for now. And we are not going to be so wonderfully fashionable, we are going to suit ourselves."
               "You don't seem to have any definite idea of what fashion is, my child. In my opinion you pay altogether too much attention to the doctor's sayings. You are going to furnish your house elegantly, because you like beautiful surroundings—not because it is fashionable to do so. That is a distinction without a difference, child."
               "Perhaps so. But we expect to be happy, grandmamma, whether we are fashionable or not."
               "I hope so, my dear. Of course, it is of no use for me to argue with you, for you havn't a logical mind. You are quite like your poor, dear mother, in that particular. Now your Aunt Laura here, can discuss a subject with as much ability as a learned man. The only trouble is, she is always upon the wrong side of the argument. But you always confound cause and effect. Now, my theory is—"
               "Grandma!" cried Violet, deprecatingly, "don't! I'll confess that my mind is illogical in the extreme. But somebody told me once a great while ago, that one fact was worth forty theories! And I believe it is true. Don't you think so, Aunt Laura?"
               "I believe it is," she said.
               "There is the doctor, now!" Violet exclaimed, as she looked out of the window. "That is one very pleasant fact, I'm sure!" and she danced down stairs to meet him.
               "Laura," said Mrs. Hamilton, "you have completely spoiled that child. You, and the doctor. She really has a fine mind, if it were properly cultivated."
               "Perhaps I have spoiled her!" Laura replied bitterly. "But I have reared her without destroying her happiness or breaking her spirit, and in this, have been more successful than many others, whom I might name. I don't know a happier person than she is. That is one fact, and worth, as she says, forty theories."
               Mrs. Hamilton assumed an air of injured innocence, but she made no answer. Perhaps she thought Laura had the right side of the argument this time. At all events it wasn't worth while to dispute the matter, for this morning, both Laura and Violet seemed to have a way of opposing theories with facts that were unpleasant to contemplate.
               The arrangements for the house were all completed at last, and the rooms furnished, all but Violet's suite. That was to be deferred until after her marriage. Laura promised to attend to it, and to engage competent servants, so that everything should be ready for housekeeping when they returned from their wedding tour.
               It was not a very large wedding, but "very select," people said. Mrs. Lambert, so thankful and happy, Dora, Stanley and a few Meadville friends. Mrs. Hamilton herself, looked like a Queen Dowager, or at least, a duchess, in her elegant train and diamonds.
               Laura, handsomely attired in a pale fawn colored silk, also trained, was very beautiful, though so pale. Mr. Langdon appeared as serene and cheerful as ever; and many significant glances were interchanged when he took Laura upon his arm to congratulate the newly married pair.
               It was all over at last; the breakfast, the adieus, and the departure of the carriages containing the bridal party. The last guest had taken her exodus, and Laura wandered about the empty, luxurious rooms, sweet with the perfume of the fragrant flowers which met her gaze at every turn. She was only tired, she said, but her face wore a very desolate and thoroughly bored expression.
               "I believe I will never attend another wedding as long as I live," she soliloquized. "It takes me too long to recover from the disheartening effects."
               She was tired, and nervous, and was looking upon the dark side of everything. She lingered in the elegant rooms, and looked out upon the cheerful sunshine, only to feel the more discontented and unhappy.
               "It is a beautiful place," she said, "dear Bloom-Centre! But I shall not see much of it hereafter."
               Wheeler came in and set back the chairs.
               "I won't touch anything else to-day," she said, "but leave it just as it was when our dear little girl went away. To-morrow the flowers will be withered, and then I'll have it put in order again. But I shall be terribly lonesome, here, Miss Laura. A house isn't half a house without a mistress. I said it before Miss Violet's mother came here, and I say it now."
               Laura did not seem to know what Wheeler was trying to hint.
               "I am going home to-day," she said, "for I don't feel exactly well. But on the day after to-morrow, if that will suit you, Wheeler, I will come back, and we will remove the furniture from Violet's rooms."
               "Oh, yes," Wheeler replied. "You will be rested then, and you are all beat out, now. But how lonesome the rooms will look. I suppose you know Mr. Langdon had that picture you painted about the sea, took down to his study. Violet gave it to him the other night; I heard him ask for it."
               "Very well."
               "I suppose," continued Wheeler, reflectively, "Mr. Langdon will have Miss Violet's room furnished different, now. But it don't seem as if it was much use, until there's a prospect of another mistress coming. For my part, I think pink hangings would be pretty, for a change."
               Laura's cheeks were as pink as the hangings which Wheeler's vivid imagination painted. Pink was most becoming to her, and she had rose colored curtains in her own room at home. Wheeler had often heard Violet say her Aunt Laura never looked so pretty anywhere else, for her complexion was so soft, the shade of the curtains gave her cheeks a real shell-like tint.
               So Laura hummed a waltz and tapped on the window pane, quite undecided in her mind whether to laugh, or go home and have a real good cry all to herself. At this moment Donald returned from the depot, and as the carriage stopped at the gate, Laura ran up to Violet's boudoir, where Mrs. Hamilton was lying down.
               "Mother," she said, "I'm going home with you, for my head aches most unmercifully, and I must have some rest. I am coming back day after to-morrow to have these things removed for Violet."
               "Very well, my dear," replied Mrs Hamilton. "You are to act your own pleasure, of course. But I think Donald will be very lonely with Violet and you leaving on the same day."
               "I'm sorry," Laura replied, rather snappishly, "but it isn't my place to take care of him, you know!"
               Mrs. Hamilton raised her eyebrows slightly.
               "Laura is growing to be precisely like an old maid," she thought.
               "I shall not change my dress until after I reach home," was Laura's next remark, "for it will be easier to wear it than to pack it up."
               She closed her trunk with a vindictive snap. Then she threw a lace shawl around her shoulders, tied on a pretty fawn colored hat with drooping blush roses, and taking her gloves in her hand, she went down into the parlor.
               Donald was sitting by a window overlooking Silver Lake, whose surface scarcely wore a ripple, this soft June morning. He seemed to be musing, and there was a tender light in his eyes. He started abruptly to his feet when Laura entered, as though she had interrupted a reverie.
               "I'm going home, Donald," she said, and there was a suspicion of unsteadiness about her lips.
               "So soon?" he queried, regretfully.
               "Yes. I'm very weary," was the reply, "and blue," for the tremulousness was more decided, now, and she knew he must see it.
               "I don't wonder you are weary," he said, soothingly, "for you have exerted yourself so much of late. Beyond your strength, I fear."
               "Oh, no. A day or two of quiet rest will quite restore me."
               "I hope it may—sincerely. You know how much I thank you for your kindness, to Violet—and to me."
               "I have only acted my own pleasure."
               "I hope so. I wish you to do that, always."
               She bowed, glancing out of the window.
               "The carriage is waiting," she said, and she commenced to draw on her gloves, wearily.
               "Let me button them, please."
               She reached out her left hand carelessly, then the right. He held the last in his own a moment.
               "Take a good rest before you arrange Violet's rooms," he said. "And we must not miss gathering the wild roses on your birth-day."
               The door opened suddenly, and Mrs. Hamilton made her appearance.
               "Oh, pardon me," she exclaimed, starting back. Really I had no thought of interrupting a—"
               "Mother!" cried Laura, sinking into a chair, "either you or I must be insane!"
               "It must be yourself, my dear," replied Mrs. Hamilton, composedly. "Or rather, you are cross from anxiety and lack of rest. I think I'll take you home, give you a dose of hop or gentian, and put you to bed to sleep the weariness of body and mind away. Come, the carriage is waiting. Good-by, Donald, you must call around often, now."
               He promised gravely, and handed them into the carriage, managing Laura's train as gracefully and adroitly as a page could have done; and he lifted his hat, just as graceful and noble looking as ever, though he was nearly fifty years of age.
               "Some people never grow old," she thought, and then she sighed.
               She retired to her room on her return, put on a wrapper, darkened the windows and lay down. She felt weary and miserable all day. But when she woke in the morning, after a restful sleep, the birds were singing so merrily she rose and let in the light. She spent the day in "settling things," as she said, and began to feel herself again.
               On the next morning she rode over to Bloom-Centre quite early, to assist in removing the furniture from Violet's rooms. Donald was duly informed that he would be in the way, so he took a ride by himself. Violet-Dell was looking its loveliest, and had been much improved. Toward evening Laura wandered out upon the grounds and threw herself into a hammock to rest.
               "This is such a restful place," she exclaimed, "so shady and quiet. The elms are very lofty, and the bright hammocks and pretty rustic chairs look very inviting."
               "Everything's done at last, mem," said Mrs. Myers, Violet's housekeeper. "And it's very beautiful the hull house looks, too."
               "Yes, it is a lovely place," replied Laura.
               "It is, indeed, mem; and, next to Bloom-Centre, the nicest place in town, since Dr. Douglas improved it so much. I'm very proud of it, I'm sure. I had word this afternoon, mem, that the cook I've been wantin' can come, and she'll be here the week before the doctor and his leddy is expected back. There's nothin' now but the chambermaid, the coachman bein' already engaged, mem."
               "Very well, Myers. I'm glad everything is arranged so nicely."
               The housekeeper went back to the house, and Laura leaned lazily upon her elbow, swinging slowly to and fro.
               "It is a relief," she said, "to get everything off my hands at last. But what am I going to do with myself now? Pshaw! there comes Donald."
               She rose from the hammock and went into the house, passed through Violet's rooms, which were looking beautifully, and then went slowly down stairs.
               "We are all through, Donald," she said, "and I am about to take my departure."
               "You are very tired, I suppose."
               "No, indeed. I had Wheeler, and Myers, and Katy to assist me, and, of course, they did the whole, I was only in the way. So I have lounged about the house all day."
               "You are quite recovered from your fit of the blues, I see," he smiled.
               "Quite."
               "I have been troubled with them ever since you left. I could never have believed Bloom-Centre would seem so lonely in summer, at least. It is simply unendurable."
               "I'm sorry," she answered. "But call around to see mamma and me occasionally."
               "I will, thank you," he replied, quite formally.
               Laura went home and put on a tasteful dress. Then she went out and gathered some flowers, and flitted about rather restlessly.
               Mrs. Hamilton watched her, a curious smile lighting her face. "I'll warrant she's expecting Donald," she said.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XL.
               That evening Mrs. Hamilton stood in the parlor, dressed for a call. She surveyed herself in the mirror, and gave her lace shawl a little pull to the right.
               There was a ring at the door, and she turned with a great deal of stateliness to meet the new comer.
               "Why, Donald, is it you?"
               "Yes; are you going out?"
               "I was, but it's of no consequence."
               "Don't!" he exclaimed, as she made a movement to take off her things. "I'll go away if you allow me to detain you. Is Laura at home?"
               "Yes. I'll call her, and then, if you really don't mind, I will go out, as I intended." And she swept out into the hall.
               "Laura!" she called. "There is a gentleman here who is asking for you. Will you come down?"
               "In a moment."
               The clear voice rang down the staircase, and Donald thought it a very agreeable voice, indeed.
               Mrs. Hamilton departed, and a moment after he heard light steps descending the stairs, and the soft rustle of a train following. She made a very pretty picture as she entered—a fit owner for the soft voice. She wore a silver gray silk, and there was a pinky white rose in her hair, and a larger spray in her belt.
               "I came to ask you to play and sing for me," he said.
               She seated herself at the piano at once.
               "I haven't learned anything new in six months," she said, "and I'm wofully out of practice, too, I suppose."
               "Please don't apologize, you know I like your music and songs too well."
               She struck a cord, and her nimble fingers began to follow the pretty, bewildering footsteps of the "Wandering Sprite." Then "Coral Caves" and "Convent Bells" followed, and at last she commenced a sweet, low song.
               It was Donald's favorite, and he had repeated the words to her once, when they were standing together on the porch one moonlit evening. And she had checked him with sisterly words, until he rushed away almost angrily. But she felt more like making peace with him now, and he liked the sad, sweet air, and thought her voice brought out the full meaning of the tender words, as a true light brings out the beauties of a rare picture. 
                     
                        "Thy spell is upon me, in sleep:
                        In the region of dreams, thou art mine!
                        I awaken, but ah! 'tis to weep
                        And the hope of my slumber resign.
                        Oh, hadst thou been less than thou art!
                        Or I more deserving of thee,
                        I might have been lord of thy heart—
                        Thou mightst have been all things to me!"
                     
                  
               
               She dared not pause at this, however, so she sang another song of lighter sentiment. Then she left the piano and sat down by the window where the moonlight was falling.
               A servant came in and lighted the gas, closed the front shutters and withdrew. Then Donald walked leisurely to the window and leaned back, in the full moonlight.
               "How fond you are of roses," he said.
               "Yes. They are my favorite flowers."
               
               "I love them, too. They were my pet flowers once—I believe they are still."
               "And the moral of all this is that you wish me to give you one," she laughed. "Well, I cannot refuse you."
               She broke a rose from the spray in her belt and placed it in his hand. He thanked her, and toyed with it, rather absently.
               "Next Tuesday is your birthday," he said.
               "Yes. I'm growing old."
               "Are you? I like old people, then. But will you go out with me to gather the wild roses? Mother interrupted us when I asked you before, and you did not answer."
               They seemed to be fated with interruptions when this question was asked, for at this moment Mr. Hamilton, who had been out for a walk, entered the room. He seemed unusually glad to see Donald, and at once introduced his all-absorbing topic—the wonderful rise in the price of real estate in Clinton.
               Donald listened respectfully, though he looked somewhat disappointed. An hour passed, and Mr. Hamilton still seemed absorbed in the conversation. Politics were also discussed, and the prices of provisions; the superiority of Japan over Chinese teas, and the quality and value of the different kinds of pig-iron. Quite discouraged, at last, Donald rose to go.
               "Come round oftener, Donald," said Mr. Hamilton, "I don't know when I've spent a pleasanter evening."
               Donald promised.
               "Will you be at home to-morrow?" he asked Laura, as he bade her good-night.
               "Yes," she replied.
               "I will call, then, and perhaps we may take a ride. Bloom-Centre is so lonely. I thank you for the music."
               He was rather restless and disappointed when he reached home. So Mrs. Hamilton fancied Laura was, when she returned. She was angry, at first, for she supposed Laura had refused Donald; but when she began to question Mr. Hamilton, she at once came to the conclusion that he had interrupted their private chat.
               "He doesn't know it, though, poor, innocent soul," she said to herself. "And after all, I think there is no harm done."
               Quite early next morning, Donald stood waiting at Mr. Hamilton's front door.
               "Mr. Hamilton is out," said the servant who answered his ring, "but the ladies are in the garden."
               "Don't disturb them," Mr. Langdon replied. "I will join them there."
               He passed out through the open windows of the back porch. Here he paused a moment, for a pleasant picture met his eye.
               Mrs. Hamilton was near the steps of the porch, training a climbing rose to its trellis. Laura, further away, stood near the low fence which separated the neighboring garden from their own, tossing up in her arms a little child from the next house, while the nurse stood, smiling, upon the other side of the fence.
               Laura held up the laughing baby, twittering and cooing like a bird over its nestlings, and it crowed and chirped merrily in return. Tired at last, she gave it back to the nurse, and came up to where Mrs. Hamilton was tying up the drooping rose sprays.
               "How very fond of children you are, Laura," said her mother, pausing a moment in her work.
               
               Laura stood at the foot of the steps, one slender hand resting upon the post of the railing, the soft glow still in her eyes, and the sun bringing out the golden tints in her heavy brown hair.
               "Yes," she answered, a thought sadly. "I love little children dearly;—I, whose life has been lonely and sad—whom no little child-voice has called mother."
               Mrs. Hamilton turned sharply.
               "Laura," she said, "your life need no longer be lonely or sad. Donald loves you as well as he ever loved Violet. You are willfully blind, or you would have seen it long ago. He has wished to ask you to be his wife for years, but you put him aside in such a sisterly, matter-of-fact way, that it is impossible for him to approach you."
               The roses deepened and faded in Laura's cheeks.
               "Mother," she answered, "you forget that the summer of my life is past—that I am growing old."
               She uttered the last words regretfully, as though she longed to cling to the summer roses still.
               "Growing old!" echoed Mrs. Hamilton, in amazement. "You are thirty-seven, and Donald is just forty-eight. You both look younger than you are. I am nearly seventy, and hale and hearty still. I have had my share of trouble, too. Being so much in the society of young persons, keeps one from growing old. You are as young in heart almost, as Violet, and as for Donald, he loves you all the better for having loved before—better than a younger man could love."
               "If Mr. Langdon had thought it wrong to listen to their conversation at first, he forgot all about it, now. He leaned eagerly forward, and glanced through the vine to watch Laura's changing cheeks, and the flickering lights and shadows in her restless eyes.
               "You say you are old, my child," continued Mrs. Hamilton. "What youthful grace have you lost? A little of the rosy flush from your face, perhaps, but we cannot always wear roses, and the lilies of later summer are just as pure and sweet. You say your life has been lonely and sad. A few years of it were bitter enough, I grant, but you bore that trouble bravely, and are here to-day, with scarcely a furrow upon your brow, and without a silver thread in your hair. That bitterness is past. You must not, because the morning of your life was cloudy, close your eyes against the lovelier noon-day glow. It is wicked to thus wantonly thrust aside the happiness which God bestows upon you."
               "My life is peaceful, now, mother."
               "Quiet, you mean—not peaceful. What is it, that sometimes makes the restless fires glow in your eyes? It is not, certainly, tender memories of the past. Proud you are, I grant, and self-reliant, but you are lonely still."
               Laura was looking far away, out into the depths of the summer sky.
               "I am lonely," she echoed, drearily.
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, breaking a spray of the roses, and beating it gently against the palm of her still white hand, "let me tell you a few plain wholesome truths, that will do you good to hear. I wish to show you one or two of the thousand things I have seen, which testify to Donald's tender love of you. You bound me long ago to keep silence upon the subject, and I have waited eleven long years. A promise is void in law in half that time, and I must speak now, for I will not see you throw away your life's happiness without warning you.
               
               "One day last week Donald called here upon some errand; I forget it now, but I know you sent him. The parlor door was opened, and I entered quietly. I found him standing before your portrait, gazing upon it as he never dares to look upon your face, so enraptured that he did not observe my entrance for some moments. When, after waiting awhile, I spoke, he started up, and flushed guiltily."
               Laura's cheeks were flaming with crimson, now.
               "Oh, mother!" she exclaimed, deprecatingly.
               "My dear," said Mrs. Hamilton, coolly, "it is quite true. Two or three days afterward you and he came down with Violet in search of something of yours which you wished her to have. You removed your hat and gloves and threw them upon the piano, to play a song before you went up stairs. I was sitting on the back porch. After you and Violet had gone, I saw him take up one of your gloves, and then he drew it through his hand carressingly, a moment. Before he laid it down again, he pressed it to his lips and kissed it softly. A moment after, you came down stairs and thrust your hand in that same glove in the most matter-of-fact way possible, without even looking to where he sat, glancing out at you from the corners of his eyes. I don't believe he dares to look you in the face unless he is speaking to you, for fear you will inform him that it is not brotherly to do so. I could box your ears for your impenetrable coldness and stupidity."
               Laura waited to hear no more, but turned and came swiftly up the steps. She paused a moment when she reached 
                     the the
                     the
                   top, and stood, flushed and panting with the excitement her mother's words had produced; and placed her left hand over her heart, with a pretty, impulsive little 
                     movemant
                     movement
                  , as if to stay it's throbbing. Then she turned to pass under the vine, and met Mr. Langdon face to face.
               "O, Donald!" she gasped.
               "Laura," he said, reaching out his hands toward her with an impulsive gesture, which appealed to her heart more than words could have done.
               She hesitated a moment, and then laid her hands in his. He stooped and kissed her tenderly.
               "What your mother has said is true," he exclaimed, impetuously. "I have loved you dearly, for I do not know how long! Oh, Laura, I once heard you say that marriage to a woman was only a genteel slavery, and it cut me to the heart. Be my wife, dear, and let me prove to you that marriage is a holy, blissful bond, that will draw our hearts together more closely, year by year. Very dear to me was Violet, my sweet youthful bride. I am older now. What she was to me then, you are to me now. Once when your own life looked cold and loveless in contrast with hers, you thanked me for being so tender to her. You are just as well-beloved. Look in my face and see the truth. Cannot you believe me? I am lonely, so lonely, and I want your footsteps to make music in my home, and your voice to cheer my heart. I want you to love and cherish until your life is filled with happiness, until your face has upon it always that soft, tender look which I sometimes see it wear. I want you, I need you,—my darling, will you come?"
               She was conquered wholly, and she laid her head upon his breast without a word, glad of the shelter of his protecting arms.
               The roses blossomed and faded, and Violet Douglas, as rosy and happy as ever, came home; and with her husband, took quiet possession of Violet-Dell.
               
               And not many days thereafter, when the white August lilies were blooming, Donald and Laura stood side by side, with the gray-haired pastor and a few of the friends who loved them best, around them.
               He, still young-looking and manly, his noble face touched with a deep tenderness, and a quiet smile in his eyes.
               She, attired in a silk of soft, sober gray, with no jewels but the wedding-ring and a cluster of pearls at her throat, and only some white buds in her luxuriant hair. A woman who had met and nobly conquered and set aside the snares and temptations which beset the path of unwary, unprotected youth and beauty. A woman whose rosy morning-dreams were past, but who accepted with thankfulness the peace and gladness of that after calm—that sense of security which no morning-dream can know. She had felt what it meant to be unloved, and worse than unprotected; and her faith in the man who stood by her side was second only to her faith in Him who gave them to each other.
               So, glad of the security she felt in his strength and protection—thankful for his deep, tender love, she laid her hand in his, "to have and to hold."
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
