
    ----CITATION----
        Butt, Martha Haines, (b. 1834). The Leisure Moments of Miss Martha Haines Butt, A. M. .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5808 wright2-0289
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            
               LEISURE MOMENTS.
            
         
         
         
            
               THE LEISURE MOMENTS OF MISS MARTHA HAINES BUTT, A. M.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               PUBLISHED BY E. D. LONG & CO.,
                  
                     26 ANN STREET.
                  
               
            
            1860.

            Entered, according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1859, by MISS MARTHA
               HAINES BUTT, A. M. In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the Southern
               District of New York.
         
         
         
            TO THE BEAUTIFUL AND HIGHLY ACCOMPLISHED MISS NARCISSA P. SAUNDERS,
               OF NASHVILLE, TENN., THIS WORK IS DEDICATED AS A TOKEN OF HIGH REGARD
               AND AFFECTION, BY HER SINCERE FRIEND,
            
               THE AUTHORESS.
            
         
         
         

            A WORD.
            AT the earnest solicitations of many friends, the writer of these "Fugitive Pieces"
               has finally concluded to place them, in book form, before the public. The greater
               portion of them are her earliest efforts, and as such must be received. With them are
               connected many associations, both pleasing and painful.
            In glancing over some pages, the image of one, whose eyes are closed to all earthly
               things, seems to linger. The smile of approbation, when he looked over the youthful
               efforts of his "only daughter," and showed his delight in a way one who knew him so
               well could not mistake, is no longer seen. Now, my book goes before the world, to be
               criticised by those less lenient and charitable.
            The writer offers no apology. If her book should serve to while away a few hours
               pleasantly — if there is a word or thought which will drive away a tear, and cause a
               smile to take its place —then will the
               most sanguine wishes of the writer be realized.
            The one to whom these pages are dedicated is in every way deserving of a more worthy
               offering; yet, let her remember that it contains not the sayings of a
               well-experienced person, but of a young girl who has divided her time between gaiety
               and study — who, though at times seemingly engrossed in amusement and frivolity, was
               "taking notes" — was learning true character from something better than books.
            In making her appearance for the second time before the public, she does not forget
               that her simple wreath of thoughts may be dealt with severely. Yet there is a
               satisfaction in knowing that there are at least some who will receive it with a
               cordial welcome, and find, here and there, something to strike a responsive chord
               within the heart.
            
               Martha Haines Butt.
               Norfolk, Va., 1859.
            
         
         
            TO MISS NARCISSA P. SAUNDERS.
            
               Fair one, thine eyes of brightest hue,
               Doth fill my soul with rapture great;
               They speak a silent language, too,
               The music doth my soul elate.
            
            
               Methinks they have a power to charm,
               Whene'er I meet their lovely gaze;
               Methinks they'd keep me safe from harm,
               While shelter'd 'neath their soft'ning rays.
            
            
               Lady, thy placid smiles to meet,
               When pearls thy parting lips disclose,
               Affords to me a sight more sweet
               And fairer than the blushing rose.
            
            
               Think not I speak of smiles divine
               Alone, or of thy sparkling eyes;
               In thee the mental graces shine,
               Like stars that deck the evening skies.
            
            
               Who would not court the heavenly bliss,
               The bliss thy gentle charms impart?
               Oh! were I only sure of this,
               Would cease the throbbings of my heart.
            
         
         
         

            CONTENTS.
            
                Paragi; Or, The Secret Revenge, 9
               
                Not Alone, When Alone, 102
               
                Julia's Choice, 105
               
                Twilight Thoughts, 113
               
                A Leaf from a Bachelor's Journal, 115
               
                Robert Hayden, 118
               
                The Secret Serpent, 124
               
                Life's Similes, 127
               
                The Coquette, 129
               
                Blanche, 132
               
                In Memory of my Pet Canary, 170
               
                Keeping up Appearances, 122
               
                Woman's Work and Influence, 178
               
                Leaves from my Journal, 185,
                  183,
                  349
               
                A Leaf, 188,
                  359
               
                A Fragment, 190,
                  206,
                  373
               
                A Peep out of the Window, 192
               
                The Lottery Ticket and the Prize it Drew, 194
               
                Suggested on seeing a little Child at Prayer, 202
               
               
                Reflections written on my return home, after the great Epidemic of 1855, 203
               
                Tableaux, 208
               
                Yet Wanting, 210
               
                Christmas, 215
               
                A Portfolio Leaf, 213,
                  375
               
                The Valentine, 219
               
                Thoughts on Spring, 223
               
                The Influence of Music, 225
               
                Nettie Harvey, 229
               
                I've Wandered in Dreams, 240
               
                On the Close of the Year, 242
               
                A Mother's Love, 245
               
                The Angel Trio, 246
               
                St. Valentine Story, 250
               
                A Page from Every Day Life, 253
               
                Life's True Pictures, 234,
                     255
               
                Nora Grey, 259
               
                A Thought, 308
               
                The Consumptive, 309
               
                Aunt Lucy's Story, 311
               
                Rachel, 315
               
                A Stray Thought, 318
               
                Beatrice, 320
               
                Clara Manvers (or Aunt Deborah's advice), 323
               
                That Ugly Man, 329
               
                Lola Wildham (or the lost Treasure), 333
               
                Why was he Taken? 344
               
                Impromptu on "Galt's Bacchante," 347
               
                A Stray Leaf, 352
               
                The Mysterious Casket, 355
               
                Voices of the Night, 357
               
                Only Waiting for an Offer, 362
               
                Departed Worth, 368
               
                Meta, 371
               
                Consistency, 377
               
                The Echo of a Mother's Heart, 381
               
                Not in Fault, 384
               
                Patches, 394
               
                Which will you Choose, 396
               
                Whisperings, 398
               
                Blossoms versus Fruit, 400
               
                Where does Beauty Dwell? 404
               
                Mrs. Snip's Shopping Notice, 406
               
                The Young Mother, 409
               
                My Withered Bouquet, 416
               
                Ellen May, 418
               
                Daisy, 420
               
                The Phantom, 423
               
                Aunt Tabitha's Rag-Bag, 429
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The leisure moments of Miss Martha Haines Butt, A.M.
            
               
               Paragi; or, The Secret Revenge.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "BRAVO, bravo, Signor Paragi. I've won the victory—I have made a conquest. Yes,
                     I have brought at my feet, Figaro, the proud Italian nobleman; they call him
                     austere, incapable of loving; but I deem him quite the reverse. Ha! ha! ha! how
                     happy was I when he knelt at my feet, and sang so sweetly!"
                  "When was that, pray, Signora?"
                  "As late as last evening. We were gliding softly and sweetly o'er the waves in
                     the gondola. Figaro was all devotion; he looked into my eyes as though he
                     really saw heaven reflected there. Kneeling gracefully at my feet, and gazing
                     into my face, he sang, 'Oh, yola, oh, timbo, e presta reca!' I was really
                     enchanted; indeed, the oarsman had to be reminded several times that the
                     gondola was perfectly motionless, and that they must ply the oars. By the by,
                     another gondola passed us, in which was the gallant Signor L., and Lind. I
                     suppose you have heard of their expected marriage? Well, if you have not, it matters but little; suffice to
                     say, it will not be very long before she will become his bride."
                  "Speaking of expected marriages, Signora, I have heard that Figaro was the
                     favorite one with yourself. Ah, he is, no doubt a fine fellow. I have something
                     I desire much to tell you, Signora, respecting Figaro."
                  "Pray, tell me, Signor, what it may be."
                  "If you will swear to profound secrecy; it would not be well for Figaro to hear
                     of it. Dost swear to keep the secret?"
                  "By this ring which Figaro placed upon my finger, do I swear to reveal it
                     never."
                  "Did you not tell me, Signora, that Figaro sailed up to the castle with you
                     last night in the gondola, knelt at your feet, and sang 'Oh, yola, oh timbo e
                     presta reca?'"
                  "Even so, Signor."
                  "He surely then swore his love to you?"
                  "That I dare not reveal."
                  "But I am your friend, Signora; confide in me, for perhaps it were well. Figaro
                     is the friend of my bosom. Although such he may be, yet I would not have him
                     pain the heart of any one, although I know it might give him pleasure."
                  "What mean you by thus speaking, Signor Paragi? Has Figaro made you his
                     confidant? Tell me, and then I will be better prepared to speak."
                  "But, fair Signora, I promised to reveal not the secret entrusted to my care;
                     enough for you to think that he loves you, but would to Heaven it were not so.
                     I speak thus, although I know he is my friend. I would not be his friend, nor
                     yours, were I to speak otherwise."
                  "Then Figaro loves me?"
                  "Did he not swear to you that his heart was yours? But I am inclined to believe
                     it to be nothing more than pretence on his part; indeed, I almost know it. Have
                     a care—let him not know that I have spoken thus; keep the secret, and I will be
                     your friend. Give me your hand, and accept this ring as a pledge of
                     secrecy."
                  "I give you my oath."
                  "I will confess to you, that Figaro has made me his confidant. Now tell me the
                     secret breathings of your heart. Tell me, do you love Figaro? could you love
                     him? Can you believe him true?"
                  "Who could but love him? Surely he never looked more beautiful than on last
                     evening. The raven plumes which were in his velvet cap waved as the breeze blew
                     gently over the sea; the snowy ermine on his mantle assumed a more livid hue as
                     the rays of the moon fell lightly upon it; his mantle was thrown gracefully
                     around his form of symmetry; he held his guitar with his beauteous hand, on the
                     finger of which sparkled a costly diamond ring. A tear started in his full
                     black eye fringed by silken lashes; he would first gaze upon my face, and then
                     up to heaven, and his very eye seemed to speak a language to some bright star.
                     Oh, Paragi! his words fell upon my ear. I listened enraptured. Dost ask me if I
                     love him? Ay, with all my heart!"
                  "Do you think Figaro happy, Signora?"
                  "No, no! Signor Figaro is most miserable. I believe him true; I believe him
                     constant; though many have sought to win his heart, yet none have succeeded
                     save myself."
                  
                  "Hold, Signora; be not too hasty, for I will a secret reveal. Trust not
                     Figaro—he is false-hearted."
                  "False-hearted?"
                  "Ay."
                  "Why looks he then so sad at times? Surely he wears not a mask, for it would
                     fall unawares from his face. Why tarries he thus by my side—why desecrate
                     Heaven so much as to swear that he loves none but myself?"
                  "Signora, the heart of man is vile; believe him not. Figaro has powerful
                     charms; yet know you not that the serpent entices the innocent dove? But
                     believe me, when I tell you that Figaro pretends to love you only."
                  "Oh! Paragi, I believed Figaro true; and all would deem him so were they to
                     hear the words which he pours into my ears."
                  "Signora, I pray you keep this matter a secret, for I would not have Figaro
                     know that I have betrayed his confidence. But tell me, do you still love him
                     after all that I have told you?"
                  "Love him! Heaven knows that I fondly, fondly love him; and though I knew he
                     was plotting my death—though he should plunge a dagger into my heart, yet would
                     I still love him while my feeble breath lasted. Figaro surely sins against
                     Heaven by acting thus, Signor; I cannot believe that he would deceive me."
                  "Let him not suspect, for a moment, that it is through me that you deem him
                     false."
                  "But if I let him not know I think him false, how shall I prove him to be
                     true?"
                  "Oh! you know that he is false, for I have told you so; treat him coldly."
                  "Oh! coldly I cannot, for he has such a tender heart; I would not be the one to
                     sear it willingly; yet I feel that I ought to possess it, just for the sake of
                     testing his love, and seeing what effect it may have upon him."
                  "Remember not to mention my name, for I am a friend to Figaro."
                  "Why, then, speak thus of him!"
                  "Because, if I were not to undeceive you, then I would not be your true friend.
                     I would not see you plunged in the depth of misery, nor would I willingly allow
                     him to be the cause of your unhappiness."
                  "Are you sure that Figaro is deceiving me?"
                  "I am, Signora."
                  "It cannot be. Why looks he so downcast, when I tell him that I cannot be his
                     bride for months to come? Why does he urge me so ardently to listen to his
                     prayer?"
                  "Oh! he has some secret motive in so doing, I dare say. But we will talk of
                     this matter no more at present. I have told you Figaro's true character; and
                     if, after all I have said, you plunge headlong into misery, I will not have
                     myself to reproach, for I feel I have done my duty. It is a beauteous night;
                     the gondola is in readiness, and with your permission we will sail up to the
                     castle. I prefer a sail to rowing this evening. Come, Signora, I have all
                     things in readiness; the sails have been perfumed, and we will have music; I
                     engaged it expressly for the occasion. I shall almost fancy myself seated by
                     Cleopatra herself, the proud Egyptian Queen, who brought all at her feet on
                     account of her powerful charms."
                  "But, Signor, if Figaro were to see us—"
                  
                  "What matter would that be?"
                  "Oh! it would grieve his heart sadly."
                  "Bah! his heart!—he has none. Let us hasten. Come, Signora, now for a
                     delightful sail up to the castle. 'Let us lightly o'er the waves together."
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  
                     
                        "My life is one long loving thought of thee."
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           "Oh, woman's love! at times it may
                           Seem cold or clouded; but it burns
                           "With true, undeviating ray,
                           And never from its idol turns."
                        
                        
                           "How vain the task to make my lyre
                           In rapture's thrill, with passion's fire,
                           While sorrow o'er my heart strings plays,
                           With trembling touch, her saddest lays."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Signora, why this coldness? why thus so distant? In Heaven's name what have I
                     done to offend thee? Oh! look not upon me so chillingly, lest thy bright eyes
                     may act upon me as the deadly basilisk. Oh! Signora, Heaven knows I would
                     rather thou shouldst plunge this sword into my heart; thou dost from those eyes
                     arouse keener, aye! even more keen, more deadly than the point of the sword.
                     But say the word, and I will at once put an end to this life. No cordial
                     welcome did I receive; no friendly hand was extended to me; no soft smiles shed
                     their rosy tints upon my heart. Thou lookest upon me the blackness of midnight;
                     and amid those darkening clouds rises no bright star to dispel the gloom of my
                     soul. Have I not sworn my love to thee? Did I not call Heaven to witness that
                     thou wert the idol of my heart? Signora, Signora, tell me, oh! tell me why thou
                     art so changed!"
                  "Figaro, love is ever mistrustful; my countenance is not always the index to my
                     real feelings. Dost know that something might have occurred to dampen my
                     feelings?"
                  "Ah, Signora! that coldness is not without some cause; 'tis the first time I
                     have ever met you without receiving a welcome—without being greeted with a
                     sweet smile. But here is my guitar; I will put to music words which suggest
                     themselves to me at this moment; they will tell the anguish of my soul, and
                     perchance cause some faint hope to spring up within my heart."
                  "I am in no mood for music this evening, Signor."
                  "Will you only permit me to sing but once what I so much desire; and then, at
                     your command, I will put an end to my existence, for I wish no longer to live;
                     life hath lost all its charms for me; aye, when the brightness fades from thine
                     eyes, the smile from thy brow, then there is no longer sunshine in my
                     soul."
                  Now in tones softer and more plaintive than were those which fell from the lips
                     of Eve when she addressed her sole companion in the bowers of Paradise, did
                     Figaro pour into the ears of Signora Pozzoloni the deep, deep feelings of his
                     soul. For a moment he forgot his manly pride, and seized the hand of the one to
                     whom he addressed the faltering words; and from his lips escaped thoughts which
                     burned within his heart—thoughts which he had long wished to reveal, but dared
                     not, lest they should be responded by words of coldness.
                  Signora saw it all—felt it deeply. Now within her heart rose a suspicion that perhaps Paragi was
                     self-interested, or else wished to accomplish some end; and, in order to do
                     this, had spoken falsely of Figaro. Yet she dared not reveal what had been told
                     her; for, as her eye would fall upon the brilliancy of the diamond upon her
                     finger, she remembered her oath. Oh! gladly would she have released herself
                     from it now—gladly have told Figaro the cause of her coldness. Ay! even
                     worse—contempt. Oh! there is anguish, the deepest anguish felt when the loving,
                     faithful, confiding heart meets with no return save frigid looks. Oh! how like
                     a dagger does it lacerate the heart; it causes a cloud to spread itself over
                     hope's brightest star, and the spirit of love to weep the tears of
                     bitterness.
                  Figaro still knelt at the feet of Signora, and played the most plaintive airs;
                     he no longer sang, for his tongue was paralyzed with grief. Now laying aside
                     his guitar, he pressed his hand on his throbbing brow, and then wiped away the
                     tears which had already started. His pride would fain have made him hide that
                     token of grief—but, oh! he had no power to conceal it then.
                  Thus mused Signora as she watched the tear stealing softly down the manly cheek
                     of Figaro; he saw that her powerful charms had overcome his pride, and she
                     could no longer restrain the words which welled up from her heart.
                  "Figaro, forgive me. I have deeply wounded you by my coldness. Yet, one knows
                     that within my heart glows the same feeling; it has been again re-kindled, and
                     it shall never be quenched. I have tested your love, and found you true;
                     fidelity has ever governed you in all circumstances; you have been the same
                     when I looked upon you with scorn as when I smiled. You drooped as doth the
                     flower, when the sunlight of my smiles ceased to beam upon you; but when words
                     of gentleness would fall from my lips, then you were all brightness again; I
                     cannot deem you false; I cannot think that you wear a mask; surely, I see you
                     in your true character."
                  "My true character? Yes! angels are witness that I dissemble not. You know my
                     heart, for I have laid it bare to you. I live but for you; I would, at your
                     command, blot myself from existence, for I have none but in yourself. Life
                     without you would be to me as one long, gloomy night, when not one star is
                     seen. I would have nought but ill-omened visions to haunt me. Oh! I would not
                     live but for you."
                  "Speak not thus, Figaro; be not so rash: deem me not essential to your
                     happiness; you esteem me too highly—I am not worthy of it."
                  "List to me, Signora; there is but one gem on earth that I value, and it is
                     yourself. I have sought long to win you; if success attend me, I am happy; if
                     my hopes are thwarted, perhaps reason itself will leave me, and I will be as
                     the poor maniac who drags out his wearied life, perchance unpitied and uncared
                     for."
                  "Figaro, you grieve me by thus giving vent to your feelings, which I know full
                     well comes from the secret depths of your heart. Be not thus despondent—have a
                     bright hope for the future."
                  "Signora, if I had but one hope, then would seem to dawn upon my soul a
                     radiance which would gild my pathway in life—cause brightest flowers to bloom
                     around me; skies would then be cloudless; every thing would be perfect gladness
                        on which my eye would fall. Oh!
                     Signora, will you not let me have that hope? I will then chase away the gloom
                     of my heart, and wear upon my brow a wreath of love's softest smiles. Say,
                     Signora, may I, can I hope that you will one day be the bride of Figaro?"
                  "Be not too hasty, Signor; first study my character; reflect, whether or not
                     our union would be a happy one."
                  "A happy one? If that be all, then my heart is at rest. To be near you is
                     happiness of itself; to hear your voice is music to my ear; to do you the
                     smallest service is my greatest pleasure. But, Signora, oh! Signora, to obtain
                     your heart is all I hope for, all I live for. Say, will you not take this hand
                     and with it my heart? Will you not give in return that treasure, that gem, your
                     own?"
                  Signora Pozzoloni was resolving in her own mind what Figaro had said. She felt
                     that words like those emanated from no other source than the heart. She watched
                     the expression of the eyes, which told that he felt keenly all to which he had
                     given utterance. Now, in imagination, Paragi stood before her and frowned; she
                     fancied she heard him say, "Beware;" yet, amid all this, there was a soft,
                     sweet voice, as if from the spirit-land; it "whispered, "Figaro is true,"
                     "Paragi is false." Now uplifting her beauteous eyes, she met the gaze of
                     Figaro, who had watched her. He trembled for the reply which she might make;
                     but when he saw that smile, that blush, a sudden light flashed upon his soul,
                     and he felt himself happy.
                  "Signora, why thus silent? Speak, oh! speak to me. I await my doom with
                     patience; if you will be my bride, that is all I ask on earth. Signora,
                     answer."
                  "I love," she faintly faltered; and now the deepest blushes spread themselves
                     over her cheek, while Figaro gently kissed her hand.
                  There are moments in life when all hope seems to have fled, when sunshine shuts
                     itself from view, when even the flowers seem to weep, and the zephyrs heavily
                     sigh. Oh! yes, there is a time when darkest clouds hang over us in life, and we
                     tremble lest a dread storm should break upon us when we least expect it.
                     Suddenly, that cloud passes over; the flowers in the garden of memory are
                     revived; the past comes up before us like some long-remembered dream; and we
                     forget that sadness was intermingled with its joys. The spirit of despair now
                     spreads its wings and glides from view, while hope stands before us in all its
                     pristine loveliness.
                  Thus it was with Figaro, whose life had well nigh began to grow dark. The one
                     whom he thought the friend of his bosom was his most bitter enemy—a viper
                     indeed, which was waiting some auspicious moment to infuse its deadly poison.
                     Each word which Figaro had breathed in confidence to Paragi was remembered—and
                     he, a false-hearted, heartless being, had revealed them. It was through him
                     that Figaro had grown gloomy; for he, to gratify self, had falsely sworn that
                     Figaro was unloved by the one who, in reality, made him a very idol. She, too,
                     listening to the honeyed words of Paragi, allowed her love in a measure to grow
                     cold, and by this means seared the heart of him who loved life but for her
                     alone.
                  Oh! deceitful, deceitful man, how black is your heart—how wrongful and how
                     relentless! For self-gratification, you would inflict an unhealing wound upon
                     another, and then exult. Remorse shall
                     some day be yours, and you will then see that Heaven abhors your deeds, and
                     gives you a just reward for them. Perchance your life may be brightness for a
                     while, and prosperity will smile upon you—but tremble, for the time will come
                     when the clouds of adversity will spread themselves about you. No kind friend
                     will then come; they, too, who joined you perchance in deeds of wickedness—you,
                     who would give a willing pang to the heart of one, and then pretend to be his
                     friend—oh! beware, for the sunshine seems to frown upon you, even when most
                     bright.
                  Thus whispers "a still small voice" to Paragi, while listening to Figaro, who
                     was relating what had passed between him and Signora. He little dreamed of what
                     Paragi was thinking—little knew that he was almost within the fangs of a deadly
                     serpent. But Paragi's revengeful spirit gained the ascendency over him; he
                     gloried in retaliation; and now, absorbed in the thoughts of it, he forgets
                     whisperings of his conscience, and determines to gratify his own insatiable
                     desire, however offensive it might be in the sight of Heaven.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  REVENGE! revenge! yes, revenge shall be mine. Figaro, in his boyhood days,
                     committed a bold insult, and I will not forget, Heaven knows I will not
                     forgive. Figaro little dreams that I am his most bitter enemy; but some day he
                     will feel the weight of my displeasure. Yes! although I know that Heaven will
                     not smile upon so great a crime.
                  An Italian! I would not be worth calling one were I not to resent the wrong.
                     But it hath passed, yet it comes up before me as t'were but yesterday. Revenge
                     it? Yes, I would willingly tear the dearest object from his heart, and then
                     laugh to see my end accomplished; such is, and such should be, the character of
                     every true and noble Italian Now I feel armed for the battle; but it is not an
                     auspicious moment; I will wait a more expedient time, and then I will have my
                     revenge. Oh! this night, while yon moon shines in all its radiance, and
                     innocent stars softly twinkle (would that my own heart were as innocent)—while
                     flowers gently whisper—this night, yes! this very night, could I willingly
                     wrench from the bosom of Figaro his betrothed bride—could willingly lay her a
                     lifeless corpse at his feet, and then laugh with delight to think that I had
                     done such a deed—and for what? Revenge! revenge! But hark! surely I hear
                     Figaro's step.
                  "Good morning to you, friend Paragi."
                  "Give me your hand, Figaro; things work not well this morning; I imagine I see
                     a thousand fiends flitting before my sight; my heart is ill at ease."
                  "What causes this tumult within your breast, Paragi? Methought, when I first
                     entered, that your countenance indicated a troubled mind; who has wronged
                     you?"
                  "Oh! it is not wrong that I grieve for. The reason for this inquietude I cannot
                     divine. But have there not been times when you felt as though you had not a
                     friend on earth?"
                  "I have. But come, do not feel thus, for full well you know that I am your
                     friend, Paragi. 'Tis true that at one time in our younger days we had a slight
                     quarrel—that, though, has passed."
                  
                  "But—"
                  "But what, Paragi? Why do you thus color?"
                  "Oh! it was only the shame of it that caused me to flush; I was about to say,
                     it has long been forgotten."
                  "Come, we will not talk of that now; it has passed, and is remembered no
                     longer. Tell me when last you saw Signora, and what is the state of
                     affairs?"
                  "All things glide on smoothly, Paragi; I am now the happiest of mortals!"
                  "The happiest of mortals?"
                  "Aye."
                  "Would I could feel that I were; but tell me why you are so happy."
                  "Signora meets me no longer with coldness and contempt; she smiles on me still.
                     I am now but waiting for her to appoint a time—the day when our marriage will
                     take place."
                  "The day of your marriage? And so you are bound to be united to one whom I know
                     loves you not!"
                  "Oh! say not so, Paragi. Signora swore that she loves me; and had I not
                     believed it before, I surely would have done so when I saw the tear trickle
                     down her velvet cheek. Say not again that she has no love for me. But I must
                     bid you "good morning," for business of importance calls me up to the castle;
                     the gardener is waiting for me to give directions with regard to some
                     shrubbery."
                  "Then you are putting all things in readiness for Signora Pozzoloni; I know she
                     has quite a passion for flowers. By the by, I begin to suspect that is where
                     the mysterious boquet came from. Ah! I am in the secret now. I suspected, when
                     I saw her passing the flowers to her lips, that they had been plucked from your
                     garden. Well, flowers breathe a language, they say; surely that did. Signora by
                     accident dropped a slip of paper upon the floor; to teaze her, I snatched it up
                     and read it; let me see—I believe it was—
                  
                     
                        'In eastern climes, as sages tell,
                        There grows a magic flower,
                        Which, gently gathered, can dispel
                        The gloom of midnight hour.
                        And all be joy above me,
                        Could I but win thy youthful heart,
                        And teach thee how to love me!—
                     
                  
                  "And teach thee how to love me!—how very deeply were these emphasized. I should
                     judge so from the black lines drawn under them. Then you are still doubtful of
                     her love?"
                  "No, Paragi; but I was then. But Signora has dispelled all that doubt. I must
                     haste away—the gondola is waiting for me. Friend of my bosom, a short
                     adieu."
                  "Ha! ha! ha! What a dupe I have made of Figaro. Well, I believe after all he is
                     a right good sort of fellow; but when I think of my revenge I forget it. Ha!
                     ha! he called me the friend of his bosom—it should have been my 'bosom
                     serpent;' it would have been a better appellation. I could scarce refrain from
                     tearing out his eyes when he was speaking of Signora; although I gave him my
                     hand, I would much rather have pierced an arrow through his heart. But I must
                     still pretend to be his friend, or else my design will be baffled. I might
                     forgive him the insult, if he would but banish all thoughts of Signora
                     Pozzoloni from his mind. I see he has so fascinated her that no one else could hope to win her heart. Heaven
                     knows that I love her; she is the only being on earth that I could love—she
                     will never be mine. Oh! how I have most shamefully abused Figaro to her; how
                     oft have I told her that he loved her not; and yet she will still love. If I
                     could but persuade her that Figaro is false, then perchance she would consent
                     to be my bride. Oh! how I curse the day when first I brought into her presence
                     the one who is now sole possessor of her heart; but I little thought that he
                     would love her; he seemed to abhor anything like marrying, and I verily believe
                     he did it all for the sake of getting the introduction. He shall not marry
                     Signora—no, she shall never be his bride. Oh! bitter will be my curse upon him,
                     and he shall rue the day on which he led her to the altar. What means shall I
                     take? I know not, for things have already gone too far—he is now planning his
                     gardens, and I have heard that he sent to Florence for some paintings of the
                     most choice kind. Oh! would that some deadly viper were concealed among the
                     flowers, and infuse its deadly poison into his very heart. Oh! Signora is the
                     idol of my heart—but alas! how shall I ever gain her affections? The fates are
                     cruel, for they are against me. Oh! you little dream, Signora, how eager I am
                     to have revenge upon your betrothed both for a trivial circumstance which
                     occurred in my boyish days, and above all for having won your heart. Oh! if
                     prayers and tears will be of any avail, surely you will hear me. Though my
                     heart has ebon blackness, yet it has love for you. Your charms have led me
                     captive, and unless I gain your heart—Oh! great will be my revenge upon
                     Figaro."
                  Thus in silence mused Paragi, the resentful Spaniard; his black, flashing eyes
                     showed plainly that the most heinous crimes lurked within his heart; yet, amid
                     all this, he had charms too powerful to resist. Yes, he could draw a veil over
                     that wicked heart, and place upon his brow the most winning and softest smiles.
                     His voice was like music, causing a thrill to steal o'er the soul; his manners
                     were enticing, and failed not to charm all who came within his reach. He dearly
                     loved Signora Pozzoloni, but had never told her so, lest she might discover his
                     reason for thus speaking of Figaro. He sought first to banish all thoughts of
                     him from her mind, and then win her heart; and, although he might gain it by
                     stealth, yet that mattered not with him, so he could call her his bride—that
                     would serve as one means of revenging Figaro. If this design was baffled, he
                     had in view another and still more horrible design, which was offensive even in
                     the sight of angels. Surely he loved Signora; but his reasons for marrying her
                     were not so much from pure and devoted affection, as for the sake of revenge.
                     What horror would creep o'er his soul at midnight when he reflected upon his
                     wicked intention—a thousand spectres would arraign themselves before him, and
                     he shrank within himself; he hears the silent tread of midnight, or the solemn
                     moaning of the wind, and it seems to be voices from the grave, which speak
                     loudly to him, saying, "Beware! beware!"
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  "Pancino, meet me to night in the bower by yon hill; I have a great secret to
                     make known to you. Of your skill in setting diamonds and other precious gems I
                     have heard, and there is something within me which tells me that with your aid
                     my end can be accomplished. Hear me. Oh! Pancino, as we stand upon this
                     spot—the lonely grave-yard, with my foot resting upon the green grass, which
                     silently waves above the head of some being over whom many tears have been
                     shed—give an ear, Pancino, as here we stand. Promise that you will never prove
                     my betrayer; if the secret is found out, it would sentence me to death. Hark!
                     who come? hear footsteps—what if I have been heard? Look around, Pancino, and
                     see if you discover any one."
                  "Signor, it is but the footsteps of the hunter. I see him in the distance; he
                     approaches very near. I hear, too, the baying of his dogs; there seems to be
                     several persons in company."
                  "Thank Heaven, I have not been heard, then. When one hath a black crime lurking
                     within his heart, there seems to be a constant dread of every one. At times,
                     methinks I see spectres about me, with grim visages frowning upon me, and I
                     start; if I look above me, the sun seems not brightly to shine; a horror creeps
                     within my soul when I hear the loud peals of thunder—aye! the very elements are
                     angry with me. But say, Pancino, will you meet me to-night?"
                  "At what hour, Signor?"
                  "At midnight, for that were a meet time; ever the little birds will slumber
                     then, and the streams cease to sigh. We must have a care lest some one discover
                     us. Meet me, then. If you aid me, I will give you what your heart most desires.
                     What the world calls wealth I possess; gladly will I share it with you if you
                     promise to execute my wishes. But we will settle that to-night. It were not
                     well for us to remain here longer, lest some one should suspect. Remember
                     to-night, at twelve, in the bower. Be faithful to your promise, Pancino."
                  "I will, Signor."
                  Oh! unhappy, revengeful Paragi, why not at once banish all thoughts of that
                     most dreadful deed which thou art about to commit? Why not rather share the
                     smiles of heaven, than the most dire curses? Why attempt thus to plunge one as
                     deep into sin as art thyself? Why seek to bring to an untimely grave one so
                     young, beautiful, confiding, full of hope and joy? Why be the means of one
                     dragging out a miserable life? Why so soon cause the darkest cloud to spread
                     itself upon a sunny sky?
                  Oh! Paragi, thou dreamest of success, but heaven will resent the harm done.
                     Calm thy turbulent bosom; think no longer of revenge; be a friend in heart as
                     well as in name. Oh! poison not the cup of pleasure with thy vile deeds, for
                     they are darker far than the ebon clouds of midnight; think no longer of
                     revenge—think upon thy folly. If thou hast not won the heart of Signora, why
                     seek to crush that of another who is her idol? Let her still live and be happy,
                     for life hath many charms; the flowers bloom to delight her; the birds sing to
                     make her happy; the stars look admiringly upon her beauty. Why, then, seek to blot from
                     existence one so fair? If thou wouldst but relent, life would have more joys
                     for thee, the cloud would pass from thy brow, and thy heart would again be
                     buoyant.
                  "What means this mysterious whispering?" exclaimed Paragi, as he awakened from
                     a slumber. "Who hath given me such counsel? Perchance it was the whisperings of
                     conscience, or else it were a dream. But I will not listen to the admonitions;
                     conscience is a troublesome thing; I will not heed her voice. Yon sun is about
                     to set; how beautiful is the scene, yet how sad. 
                        
                           'The last high, upward slant on the trees,
                           Like a dead soldier's sword upon his pall,
                           Seems to console earth for the glory gone,
                           Oh! I could weep to see the day thus die—
                           The death-bed of day, how beautiful!'
                        
                      And the death-bed of innocence, how sad! Oh! fatal, thrice fatal, that day
                     to me, when first I closed my eyes upon innocency, and received into my heart
                     the blackest guilt. But I will not feel thus, lest I should falter, and cease
                     to care to have my design accomplished. A few more hours and midnight will
                     spread her wings o'er me. I will talk to Pancino of my plan, and he will aid
                     me. Look now, the evening star hath commenced to shine, but its light is not
                     for me; no, it looks upon me with contempt, upon such sin as mine, and it even
                     weeps Why speak I thus? It is not manly to be thus cast down. I will dash the
                     tear-drop from my eye, I will laugh at my own faint-heartedness. Oh! heavily
                     will time hang on till midnight comes; but time is ever tedious to the wicked.
                     "Oh! that I could dash my soul to atoms like a glass!"
                  "Signori Paragi, muy dispuesto a servirle."
                  "Good night, friend Pancino; how punctual you are to your post. Come, sit here,
                     and listen to what I have to tell you. I had a dream to-day, and it troubles me
                     much. I in vain have tried to forget it, but it still haunts my soul."
                  "Paragi, dreams are but dreams; they are not harbingers; the mind at times
                     becomes disturbed, and it is natural that one, mingling as doth yourself in the
                     varied scenes of life, should dream strange things at times. Let not dreams
                     trouble you, for 'tis unmanly thus to fear."
                  "Pancino, give me your hand, for I feel that you are my friend, and I will no
                     longer fear to confide my secret to your keeping; full well I know that you
                     will aid me in my scheme.
                  "Pray tell me, Signor, what that may be."
                  "Dost swear to profound secrecy?"
                  "I do."
                  "Knowest thou not, Pancino, that ere this moon shall wax old, that Figaro will
                     be united by the bands of wedlock to Signora Pozzoloni?"
                  "You astonish me, Signor."
                  "'Tis even so. Figaro confided the secret to me. Oh! it is no secret now, for
                     every one knows it. I was at Madrid a short time since, and it was rumored
                     there that the proud Signora was about to become the bride of Figaro; he has a
                     gardener, whom he obtained from Barcelona, and has purchased some rare flowers. I am told that it will
                     surpass any thing in Italy in the way of a garden. The castle is elegance
                     itself."
                  "But now to your secret, Signor Paragi. I have come at the appointed hour to
                     hear what it may be."
                  "This were a meet hour, Pancino, to communicate the secret, for the crime is
                     blacker than midnight. I tremble to relate it; I fear lest you should deride
                     me. But you would not be a true Spaniard did you not possess the spirit of
                     revenge in your bosom. Now to my secret. This same Signora Pozzoloni, to whom
                     Figaro is to be bound by the most solemn ties, is the object, the idol of my
                     heart; she is the only being that could bring me into subjection. I love her
                     with deep devotion. Yet, oh! heavens—I dread to say it, for it chills my very
                     heart's blood—she loves Figaro. I want revenge, Pancino, and I will have it.
                     Apart from this, Figaro committed an insult upon myself when we both were quite
                     young; I determined in my own mind to resent it when I arrived at the age of
                     maturity, and I am determined to carry my plan out. You, Pancino, are the only
                     person to whom I could confide my secret, and you must promise to aid me."
                  "I most faithfully promise to do any thing to please you. I give my oath."
                  "Pancino, you have long dealt in diamonds and other precious gems; you can
                     discover the true and most costly diamonds, having had long practice in the
                     art. I wish you to obtain for me the most costly and glittering, those which
                     emit an alluring light, dazzling the eye; place them (ten in number) in a
                     richly wrought ring, of the finest gold, which must be filled with minute
                     pores, so small that they cannot be seen except by the aid of a microscope. I
                     care not at what price you obtain the diamonds. You have ample time to seek for
                     them, and make the ring. By some process infuse throughout the ring the most
                     deadly poison. I would not have it act rapidly, lest suspicion should be
                     aroused; let the poison be slow, but very sure. I wish by this means to affect
                     the death of some one. Pancino, I charge you not to breathe this to any
                     mortal."
                  "Paragi, fear not. I will never betray you. Pray, tell me who this fatal ring
                     is for."
                  "For! why, for no other person than Signora Pozzoloni. I am determined to
                     revenge Figaro in that way—that is, by effecting the death of his bride in
                     three months, or perhaps in less time; it depends entirely upon how the poison
                     acts; it is not to be given until after they are married, and Figaro has become
                     most devotedly attached to his wife, and feels her to be essential to his
                     happiness. He shall not know what it is to have her heart long—no, for I will
                     still the blood which so freely flows there—aye! it shall be icy cold."
                  "Pray tell me, Paragi, how shall the said ring be given her so as to avoid
                     suspicion?"
                  "Oh, I will bribe Francisco, one of the oarsmen, to give it to her; he shall
                     pretend to have found it on the beach side, glittering in the rays of the moon.
                     So soon as she sees it, she will discover it to be a diamond of the rarest
                     kind. Francisco must offer it to her as a gift, and tell her that he presents
                     it to her as a token of his fidelity in faithfully discharging his duties, and
                     his efforts to do all in his power to win her favor."
                  "Capital, capital plan, Paragi; yet methinks this were a dark deed, for us to conspire against an innocent and
                     beautiful woman. She goes to the castle, and will be as the pearl in a crown,
                     diffusing its beauty over all—the rarest flowers have been planted there to
                     please her. Oh! think, Paragi, what would be your feelings on such an
                     occasion!"
                  "Feelings! bah! talk not of them. An Italian must have none. Do you promise to
                     do what I request?"
                  "I do. At what price shall I obtain the diamond?"
                  "Price! I care not for the price—though it cost half my fortune. All I ask of
                     you is, to keep the secret, and obtain the rare diamonds, and let it contain
                     poison el veneno ó la ponzoña de las viboras
                     (the poison of vipers). Remember, Pancino, I do not wish to effect the death of
                     Signora under three months. Her cheek will by degrees wax pale; the lustre will
                     leave her eye; suddenly she will droop as a flower. I must pretend to
                     sympathize much with Figaro, lest he might suspect. But I do not for one moment
                     think that he would suspect me. I can very easily get out of the difficulty by
                     laying it upon some one else; you know I am extremely lucky; I can accomplish
                     anything I undertake. We have talked the plan over, and it is settled."
                  "I will keep the secret, Paragi. Do not fear. Es muy
                        tarde. 'Good night.' I will see you again."
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  
                     
                        
                           "There are whole veins of diamonds in thine eyes,
                           Might furnish crowns for all the queens of earth;
                           Oh! I could sooner set a price on the sun,
                           My love, than on thy lightest look;
                           I would rather look on thee one minute
                           Than Paradise for a whole day—such days
                           As are in Heaven. I love thee more and more."
                        
                        
                           "They know not my heart who believe there can be
                           One stain of this earth in its feelings for thee;
                           Who think that I see thee in beauty's young bower,
                           As pure as the morning's fresh dew on the flower,
                           I could harm what I love, as the sun's wanton ray
                           But smiles on the dew-drop to waste it away."
                        
                     
                  
                  Oh! is there not beauty in the warm, pure love, which gushes from the youthful
                     heart? Is there not something transcendently lovely in that dream of bliss? The
                     soul is buoyant—the heart is cheerful; all around is gladness and sunshine; it
                     seems as if our very souls would leap from within us, and soar away to its
                     loved idol. Happiness! they know not happiness who do not love; the cold,
                     selfish heart knows no contentment, for it loves none but itself. The gentle,
                     docile being, who is easily moved to tears by the sorrows of others, must ever
                     find a resting place within the hearts of all. Who would willingly inflict a
                     wound upon such an one? None, save the unfeeling and revengeful.
                  Signora Pozzoloni, now confiding in the love of Figaro, and conscious of
                     sharing his heart's purest affections, feels that no joy is like hers. Soon her
                     dream of happiness will be realized, for to the bridal altar will she be led by
                     Figaro. Mistrust! she would not mistrust him for the moment. She had turned
                        a deaf ear to all Paragi said. Yes!
                     for love will conquer all things—blind all defects—convert the greatest
                     inconsistencies into proprieties. It sees no beauty save in the object
                     beloved—knows no contentment save within its presence.
                  Thus it was with Figaro, who was looking forward with impatience to the day
                     when he would clasp within his own hand that of Signora's. He looked upon the
                     flowers which ornamented the gardens with pleasure, and thought what delight
                     they would create within the heart of his affianced bride; little dreaming that
                     a deadly viper was slumbering amid the leaves, and would soon awake to poison
                     his happiness.
                  
                  One by one the hours glided by; one by one the flowers bloomed and faded;
                     clouds smiled and wept. The appointed time came, and Signora Pozzoloni was the
                     bride of Figaro. What joy filled the heart of him who stood beside her. As he
                     gazed upon the Italian beauty, a feeling of admiration would spring up within
                     his bosom; her soft, dreamy eyes contrasted strongly with the black of his own;
                     her ebon hair was elaborately braided, and confined by sparkling diamonds.
                     Figaro had never shown to a better advantage than upon that night. Many of the
                     nobility of Italy convened, and each one looked admiringly upon the happy pair.
                     Paragi (the bosom serpent) stands beside the lovely bride, and pours into her
                     ears the most flattering words; he, at the same time, was plotting her death.
                     In the innocency and purity of her heart—she blushed as he spoke, and thanked
                     him for his kind wishes.
                  Oh! wicked and deceitful is the heart of man; how he will dissemble; how he
                     will seek to injure those around him, and put on at the same time the mask of
                     friendship.
                  Paragi, indeed, envied the heart which Figaro had won, and was eager to put to
                     death the innocent creature who stood beside him; he would give him ample time
                     to become so attached to Signora as to find it utterly impossible to live
                     without her. He dared not lift his eyes to Figaro, lest his guilty soul should
                     be reflected in that mirror: he felt as though he saw all his wickedness, and
                     frowned upon him. Oh! what deceitful smiles did he wear when he invited Signora
                     to be his partner for the dance! how meaningly did he extend his hand, and
                     expatiate on the beauty of her own! how attentively did he pretend to listen
                     when she sung, and how much enchanted he appeared to be! With Figaro, too, he
                     conversed, and repeatedly expressed his feigned delight in having claimed
                     Signora as his bride. As he gazed upon the diamonds which decorated her
                     beautiful self, he thought of what he had told Pancino; each ray of light which
                     was emitted from them, seemed to pierce his very soul. The evening
                     entertainment was at its height; never seemed an assemblage to enjoy themselves
                     more; they danced, they chatted; all, yes, all were gay and happy; each heart
                     throbbed with delight save that of Paragi. For one to have seen him, he would
                     have thought him to be the gayest in the room; he participated in the dance,
                     the drinking toasts, and everything which might be suggested; but if one could
                     have drawn aside the veil which was over his heart, he would shudder at the
                     sight—the deep guilt.
                  Happily for us, we know not what sorrows await us in life; ever prone to look
                     upon the bright side of all things, we nat- urally hope that no clouds may darken our
                     pathway through life. At times, when most happy, a small cloud rises and soon
                     enlarges, spreading itself upon the horizon of pleasure; the raven plumed bird
                     of despair, will fold her wings and nestle closely to us; the star of Hope will
                     burn dim, while the spirit of joy will shed tears of blood. Oh! well it is for
                     us, that we know not what evils await us through life. While enjoying luxury,
                     we think ever to be thus at ease, never dreaming that future will take a
                     reverse step. Those who feel the piercing winds of poverty blowing upon them
                     may hope for better days to come for them. Thus we are ever disposed to cast
                     away all thoughts of trouble and anxiety, and think only of our present
                     happiness; there is not room left in the heart to reflect upon what grief may
                     come.
                  Figaro was too intoxicated with the delight of having succeeded in gaining the
                     heart of Signora Pozzoloni to think of aught but happiness. He looked around
                     the assemblage of beauties, and thought that Signora was the most beautiful
                     flower of all; the gems she wore seemed more brilliant, and to possess more
                     value; he gazed upon her beauty, and inwardly whispered— 
                        
                           "This shadow of a cloud upon a lake,
                           O'er which the mind hath all day held his breath,
                           Is not more calm and fair than her dear face."
                        
                     
                  
                  He looked out from the massive windows upon the beauty of the night; the
                     evening air stole sweetly and softly upon her cheek; he then looked around the
                     saloons filled with the gay and beautiful, and among them his bride; he thought
                     the night without beautiful,
                        
                           But the in-door scene still lovelier,
                           Yes, for "all is beautiful where beauty is!"
                        
                     
                  
                  Figaro, thou art happy now—and would that it could ever be thus with thee; your
                     lot in life bids fair to be one unsullied joy, and may it so prove.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  "STELLA" (such was the given name of the bride of Figaro), "see this beautiful
                     bed of flowers. I planned it myself, and had your favorites planted. Here is
                     the rose of Sharon; the damask, tea, and tuberose; see, I have planted cedar in
                     among them, and have bordered them with white violets and the lily of the vale.
                     The whole presents the appearance of a magnificent bouquet, which Flora placed
                     in the garden to feast her eyes upon, and admire its grandeur. I knew, Stella,
                     that you loved flowers; they are sweet, innocent little creatures; well might
                     they be called 'the alphabet of angels—the smiles of God.' Here is the
                     beautiful laurustinus, it is an evergreen; in the winter its tiny white flowers
                     delight the sight, when the roses and all the sweet flowers of summer have
                     passed away, this still retains its brightness; it, however, must not be
                     neglected; the emblem of it is, 'if neglected, I die.' I think the emblem
                     applies to me. Then, 
                        
                           'Will you cherish me, dearest, through good and through ill,
                           Life's summer I'll bless, and its winter defy;
                           'Mid sunshine and tempest I'll smile on thee still—
                           But oh! if you ever neglect me, I die!'
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  Are not the words very beautiful? They convey so much; they speak what a whole
                     volume of other words could not convey to the mind."
                  "You, Figaro, are the idol, the pride of my heart; never would I neglect or
                     grow cold toward one whom I so dearly love, and for whom I left the parental
                     roof. The garden is indeed beautiful, mine own one; here are many other sweet,
                     sweet flowers. Oh! I could gaze upon them forever! how can one pass these fairy
                     beings without giving one smile, or imprinting a single kiss? Indeed, they seem
                     to be messengers borne to earth upon angel's wings, to tell us how beautiful is
                     Heaven See this sweet violet, how witchingly it gazes upon me; I love to watch
                     its soft tints, and the beauty of its form, seeing it reminds me of some lines
                     I've read upon it: 
                        
                           'The violet droops its soft and bashful brow,
                           But from its heart—sweet incense fills the air,
                           So rich within, so pure without art thou,
                           With modest mien, and soul of virtue rare.'
                        
                     
                  
                  How appropriate, indeed; but we can scarcely gaze upon a flower without being
                     inspired; words will seem to glide from the tongue like soft light from stars.
                     Tell me, Figaro, what is the favorite flower with yourself?"
                  "I love them all, Stella, for they are all so beautiful, so innocent! But come,
                     and I will show you the one I most admire."
                  "'Tis the moss rose, then?"
                  "Yes, the sweet moss-rose; I like it for the emblem; you know it possesses no
                     thorns—symbolizing a life of joy, without a single thorn springing up.
                        
                           'Yes, I love my moss rose, for it ne'er had a thorn,
                           'Tis the type of life's pleasures unmixed with its woes;
                           Yes, all things must yield to my pretty rose.'
                        
                      Stella, may our life be a continued sunshine; may it be as the thornless
                     rose which you now behold. Since first I knew you, life has been more bright;
                     and the world has seemed more bright and more enchanting. Oh! you little know
                     with what delight I planned this garden, and planted these flowers; it was but
                     to give your heart joy; each day I watched them, and watered them with my own
                     hand; it was all for you; it was because I thought that some day you would call
                     them your own."
                  "Much I thank you, Figaro, for anticipating my wishes; and I could not have
                     been better pleased had I chosen the flowers myself. But what a world of beauty
                     you have around you; that fountain is certainly superb; the marble is almost
                     transparent; how gaily the gold and silver-fish are sporting; what an admirable
                     design; how gracefully those swans swim upon the surface, their plumage is so
                     snowy. I think that green tree, too, adds much to the beauty, it affords such a
                     cooling shade. I shall visit this spot at sunset, for I am sure that the scene
                     will be enchanting then. How noble the castle looks in the distance; I like its
                     appearance, for there is something antique about it. See our little gondola,
                     how the sails are sporting in the breeze; oh! what sweet notes I hear; a little
                     bird is very gay this morning. Where is it, Figaro? I hear it, but see it
                     not."
                  "You will find it directly. Come, we will go to the other end of the garden,
                     Stella. I have named it Paradise; see the design; here are enormous cages, which hem in
                     trees; you see they are constructed of such fine wire that one can scarcely
                     tell but what they are nothing but trees filled with various birds. I obtained
                     them all while very young, and put them together, so they feel perfectly at
                     home, and are very friendly toward each other. Here is the bird of Paradise;
                     how gorgeous and beautiful is its plumage; how it contrasts in size with the
                     little humming-bird. I obtained all the most rare and beautiful that could be
                     found. A captain, who went to sea some time ago, brought me this collection,
                     together with the gold-fish. You have not seen all yet; there is a little
                     gazelle a most playful, yet a timid creature; I have had it a long time and it
                     will come at my bidding. I named it Stella. Shall I change it, or will you
                     permit it to change its name?"
                  "Oh, retain it by all means! I must endeavor to learn it to love me, but I hope
                     it will not be as one has sung: 
                        
                           'I never nursed a gay gazelle,
                           To cheer me with its bright black eye,
                           But when it came to know me well,
                           And love me, it was sure to die.'"
                        
                     
                  
                  "Oh, no! I heartily wish that may never be the case, Stella. But we must go on
                     further still. You have not seen the bower."
                  "Oh, there it is! what a delightful place, to be sure. This must be where
                     fairies hold their court. Just see those little flowers all peeping up from
                     among the grass, looking like emeralds set with rubies and sapphires; this
                     stream makes it still more lovely. What a delightful resort this will be at
                     evening's hour."
                  "I had it made for that sole purpose; little birds have those bowers, and it
                     delights me so much to sit and watch them as they wing their way to their
                     little homes. The bower is covered with the poet's favorite—the
                     'Eglantine.'"
                  "Yes, I have been observing its fragrance ever since I seated myself here. Oh,
                     Figaro! when I look around and view this beautiful spot which you planned just
                     for myself, I feel that you have such a noble soul, such a generous heart! Oh!
                     you have been so kind to me. I thought that my own home could be surpassed by
                     none; but I find you have brought me to one still more inviting. As I walk
                     about these grounds I see every thing heart can desire, and more than one can
                     reasonably ask for. So soon as I step up on the door-sill of the castle, my eye
                     meets every thing that is magnificence itself; my foot is instantly as if in
                     velvet, and my eyes are dazzled by the light emitted from mirrors and jewels.
                     Tell me, Figaro, how shall I ever repay the kindness?"
                  "Repay? You have more than repaid, you have given me your heart. What would all
                     this be in comparison to the heart which you have given me? Or what enjoyment
                     would life have if you were not here? Ask me not again, dear Stella, what you
                     shall give me in exchange. The sun is getting warm now, I will take you into
                     the verandah, and order the servant to bring some refreshments. I have the most
                     excellent Spanish wines, I believe. Name your favorite, and I will have it
                     brought immediately."
                  "I think I would relish sherry, this morning."
                  "A few minutes, and it will be brought."
                  Now, Figaro and Stella, happy creatures, we will leave you awhile to enjoy yourselves with a delightful
                     repast, and at the same time inhale the perfume of the flowers around you, a
                     meet emblem of what life is now, for they are so bright and beautiful. We will
                     see what the future unveils.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  "PARAGI, I have at last succeeded in obtaining the diamond of rare value. I
                     have sought a long, long time for it, and have often given up in despair, for I
                     feared that I would never obtain it. There are, as you know, various species of
                     diamonds; but to find such an one as you desire is difficult. Those I have
                     obtained are magnificent indeed; to see them once will convince you that they
                     cannot be surpassed in Spain, or anywhere else; the lustre of them is great,
                     and in sunlight it is dazzling to behold them; the finest gold I have obtained,
                     and it is richly wrought; the diamonds are cut, but have not as yet been set. I
                     will bring them to you for inspection on the morrow."
                  "How long since you arrived, Pancino?"
                  "But an hour. I have been a long time in search of the diamonds; but your
                     strict injunctions were, that I should obtain none but the best. I have
                     succeeded, and kept my word faithfully."
                  "Signora has married since you left, Pancino."
                  "So I heard; they tell me that the castle is almost as beautiful and inviting
                     as Paradise."
                  "Well, all this splendor will soon be turned into bitterness, I wager. Figaro
                     will soon find that he is a most miserable man, and will wish himself
                     dead."
                  "Oh, Signor Paragi! it makes me shudder to think of it. Oh, I cannot bear the
                     thought of a young and gay creature like Signora, being the victim of your
                     revenge!"
                  "You are a faint-hearted fellow, Pancino; when you have mingled in crime as
                     much as myself, then you will laugh to see how weak you were."
                  "I must away, Signor Paragi."
                  "Promise to call, then, at an early hour to-morrow."
                  "At nine I will come."
                  "Keep faithfully the promise, Pancino."
                  "Fear not, I will be here."
                  A long, dreary night did Pancino pass after he left Paragi—such a night as is
                     known to those alone who feel deep guilt and remorse of conscience. At times,
                     he would fall into a broken slumber, but would suddenly start as if terror had
                     seized his soul. He dared not look around, for the very moonbeams which danced
                     about his chamber seemed transformed into fiery fiends. O, he had a barbed
                     arrow within his heart, and it would enter his grave with him. But wearied
                     nature must eventually sink into repose. Once more Pancino closed his eyes for
                     sleep, nor awakened till the sun spread his golden wings afar, shedding a
                     dazzling lustre upon the streams. Remembering his promise to meet Paragi at
                     nine, he hastened to fulfil it.
                  "Signor, it is a little beyond the appointed time that I promised to meet you;
                     but Somnus did not open his gates for me at so early an hour this morning; I rested not well last night, for
                     unpleasant thoughts haunted me."
                  "Pray, what were they?"
                  "I was reflecting upon the sin which we are about to commit. Signora is an
                     innocent creature, and is so happy! just but think of the magnificence which
                     surrounds her! Why, her death would be as much lamented by Figaro as was the
                     banishment of Eve from Eden. Her beauteous flowers that she tends with her own
                     hands—and shall they too have to say— 
                        'Who shall water thee now, O flowers?'
                      The little birds, too, will miss her voice, for she seems to inspire
                     them."
                  "Pray, who told you of all this elegance?—you arrived here but last night."
                  "After I left you I took a sail up to the castle; I saw Otto standing on the
                     beach, and he invited me to take a view of the garden. It was such a soft
                     moonlight evening, everything could be seen as plainly as though it was day;
                     all was in a perfect state of repose; nought disturbed the stillness save the
                     rippling of the fountain. Paragi, if you were to take but one view of that
                     delightful spot, I know that you would banish this plot from your heart."
                  "O, I have seen it all! and it only makes me feel the more as if I desire
                     revenge."
                  "Paragi, listen to me a moment. If Signora were your bride, the flower of your
                     hope, the brightest gem that adorned your household, the only being capable of
                     giving you any joy in life—what, O, what, I ask you, would be your feelings to
                     see her fade away each day, and at last be numbered with the dead? Would life
                     then be life to you? Oh, no! you would rather wish to die. How can you tear, as
                     it were, the heart of Figaro from his body?"
                  "Oh, I could do any thing for revenge! I never listen to such weak things
                     myself; a man should be a man, a Spaniard should be a Spaniard. Come, away with
                     all this, Pancino, I will amply repay you for all your troubles."
                  
                  Oh, is it not astonishing! passing strange, what an effect glittering gold will
                     sometimes have upon the heart of man? It will cause him to take the life of
                     another without any hesitancy. Alas! what is the paltry coin to virtue and
                     feelings of humanity?
                  No sooner did Pancino behold the purse of gold which Paragi drew from his
                     well-filled coffer, than he forgot all sympathy. He gazed wistfully upon it,
                     and thought that soon it would be his own.
                  
                  "Pancino, show me now the diamonds."
                  "Here they are, Signor."
                  "They seem to be indeed of great value; they delight me much, Pancino; I do not
                     think that they could be surpassed; they are of the purest water, and their
                     brilliancy is alluring."
                  "Observe how exquisitely the gold in which they are set is wrought; I never
                     have seen any thing to equal it. I have left a cavity for the purpose of
                     inserting the poison; the gold, too, is extremely porous, so that the venom can
                     exude freely, and come in contact with the surface of the skin."
                  "Then you have obtained the poison. I was fearful that you might not succeed in getting the right kind. I
                     would not have that which acts rapidly, for it might cause some suspicion."
                  "Have you not heard, Paragi, of a flower which is very noxious indeed? It bears
                     a blossom of a delicate blue, and, it is said, contains the most virulent
                     poison in nature."
                  "I have often read of it, but have never seen it, or tested its properties;
                     that is said to act very slowly, but surely; if you have found it, then that
                     will answer the purpose."
                  "I was rambling, Signor Paragi, in the woods some days since. I saw this
                     flower, which attracted my attention by its beautiful color. I saw a peasant
                     woman coming along, with several peasant children; they were evidently as much
                     pleased with the flower as myself, and seemed anxious to pluck it. The mother
                     seemed much alarmed, and, calling loudly to them, bade them touch it not. I
                     suspected, at once, that it might be the very flower of which I had read and
                     heard. On questioning her, I found that it was very poisonous; and, as I
                     plucked the stem (which was perfectly hollow on the inside), a stream of liquid
                     oozed out. I waited until she was out of sight. I took from my pocket a small
                     vial, and pulled many flowers (taking great care that it should not come in
                     contact with my skin), then filled it with the liquid. I brought it with me for
                     the purpose of putting it in this ring."
                  "Capital! capital! when you are ready to fill the cavity of the ring with the
                     poison, let it be done in my sight."
                  "Ah! I see, Paragi, that you are afraid to trust me, but I would not deceive
                     you."
                  "Oh, I know how faint-hearted you are, and if I see you infuse the poison
                     myself, I will be better satisfied. I wish the exterior of the ring, Pancino,
                     to have pores large enough to emit the liquid in a slight degree—large enough,
                     any way, so that it can come in contact with the skin."
                  "By what time shall it be completed?"
                  "A month hence will be time enough. I think the ring will produce the desired
                     effect in about two months; she will, doubtless, wear it for a constancy, being
                     so large and so valuable."
                  "That will be a capital idea, to bribe Francisco to pretend to have found it on
                     the sea-shore."
                  "But I have thought of a better plan, and a less suspicious one."
                  "What is it?"
                  "Why, place the ring on the beach, exactly by the side of the gondola; none are
                     about the castle save the servants. Some of them will find it, doubtless.
                     Francisco will be the first one to see it. It would be of little or no use to
                     the servants if they were to find it; they would sell it for a small amount.
                     Besides, Figaro would give them a good price for such a ring."
                  "That plan seems to be the most advisable, for we cannot trust servants with a
                     secret, for they are so apt to betray one."
                  "What say you, Paragi; bribe Francisco, or act upon the plan I suggest?"
                  "I think your scheme the safest and best. You can have the ring in
                     readiness."
                  "How shall we plan to go up to the castle without being seen?"
                  "Oh, there are ways enough; we need not fear being detected. All you have to do
                     is to execute my orders about the
                     ring, and the rest will be left to me. Remember, Pancino, that profound secrecy
                     must be observed."
                  "Paragi, the secret is within my breast; no power of earth could make me unfold
                     it."
                  "Here, take this gold, Pancino, and when you bring me the ring, you shall have
                     more."
                  "Signor Paragi, my conscience smites me as I take this gold, for it has bought,
                     indeed, the life of an innocent and unoffending woman."
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Love thee! so well, so tenderly
                           Thou'rt loved, adored by me:
                           Fame, fortune, wealth and liberty,
                           "Were worthless without thee."
                        
                     
                  
                  "COME, come, Stella, we will now to the bower; the sun is just setting, and our
                     paradise will look inviting indeed. Oh! a more glorious sunset I never beheld;
                     watch those purple and golden clouds; how superbly they blend! every thing
                     seems bathed in a rosy light; we will go to enjoy the scene. Never before did
                     my possessions render me so happy. What would they avail me, if you were not
                     here? Oh! Stella, much I love to live now; the cloud has gone, the sunshine has
                     come, my sweet, fair bride. 
                        
                           'The moments I am with thee
                           Are like stars peering through my life.'"
                        
                     
                  
                  "And to be near you, Figaro, is happiness! What bliss for me! Every thing that
                     could be thought of has been obtained, and I am the happiest of mortals!"
                  "Glad am I to hear you speak thus, Stella, for it is happiness enough for me to
                     feel and know that you are happy. But how like you Rosina, your dressing
                     maid?"
                  "Oh, she is a kind, devoted creature; she seems to think but of me, and
                     anticipates my slightest wish; she has noble, noble principles; indeed, I
                     cannot look upon her in the light of an inferior."
                  "I am well pleased to know that she suits you; but you, Stella, would inspire
                     love in the heart of any one. I know that you fully appreciate true merit."
                  "It makes me feel sad to look upon her; there is something so truly beautiful
                     in her dreamy, dark eye. I have noticed, too, that she wept, at times. Her
                     history is, indeed, a sad one; she was once the child of affluence, but fortune
                     took a reverse step. I pity, deeply pity her misfortunes. She is an humble,
                     confiding, devoted creature. I would not part with her upon any consideration.
                     I have watched her, sometimes, while Otto played; it seemed to me that her very
                     soul would drink in the melody. Sad songs seem to please her the most. Sad, sad
                     Rosina, I pity her misfortunes. I will ever be kind and affectionate toward
                     her, for she deserves it truly."
                  "Stella, I have often thought that Heaven never placed within the breast of
                     mortals a more compassionate heart than in your own; it seems almost to melt
                     when witnessing the misfortunes of others."
                  "That is our mission on earth, Figaro. Heaven designed that we should pity and
                     relieve the distresses of others, and if we neglect to do so, then we must abide by the consequences. Our wealth was
                     given us that we might share it with those who had none; our bosoms should
                     never be the resting-place of pride and scorn; we should not consider ourselves
                     superior to those around us, for we are all constituted alike, and have the
                     same Parent, the same great Protector."
                  "But, Stella, true as is all you have said, yet there are very few who will be
                     governed by those principles; many there are who will deride the poor, when
                     they should let fall the tear of sympathy."
                  "Oh, Figaro, how could I, who have shared all life's luxuries and joys, turn a
                     deaf ear to the misfortunes of others? I would not, could not do it."
                  "No; yours is too kind a heart, dear Stella. Would that all were like you. * *
                     * Look, how those clouds are fading from view; the day-king has closed the
                     curtains around his couch, and slumbers quietly. Oh, how beautiful is sunset!
                     every thing is so still and calm, I feel as if I could watch those burnished
                     clouds forever, could weep as I see them fade away; but the beautiful must die,
                     however much it may delight our heart."
                  "Figaro, methinks this sunset is as beautiful as though this spot were Eden
                     itself. Look, how the birds are quietly resting upon the trees; the majestic
                     swan has pillowed her head upon soft down; see what a rosy tint diffuses itself
                     upon the fountain; the blush is as delicate as that which slept upon the cheek
                     of Eve. Oh, this is a spot, beautiful, indeed! ay, thrice beautiful. Who would
                     not willingly live always amid the beauties of nature, and ever enjoy a
                     continual feast? The voice of nature seems to speak to us; every stream, every
                     flower whispers, 'Our Father made them all!' Figaro, seeing these trees reminds
                     me of a strange, strange, strange dream I had last night. Methought I was
                     wandering in a beauteous vale; on either side were trees of the most superb
                     foliage; yet among all these there seemed to be one particularly beautiful; an
                     angel rested upon the boughs of that tree, with its snowy wings wide spread I
                     looked upon its face, and Oh, a tear was in its eye, which had the appearance
                     of a sparkling diamond, which had stolen from the lids; by accident, the tear
                     fell upon my own cheek; I wiped it (as I thought) away, and on opening my hand,
                     I held in reality a diamond—a more beautiful and brilliant one I have never
                     seen. I went on a little farther, and, much to my terror, I saw emerging from
                     the grass, a serpent; it seemed to be an adder; in my dismay, I dropped the
                     diamond; the serpent caught it up and crept away. I advanced on still, and
                     found the gem, which it had let fall. I again took it up; it was as bright and
                     beautiful as before; but the serpent had instilled within it a deadly poison.
                     The angel called to me, and said, 'Touch it not.' I immediately threw it upon
                     the ground; at that moment the serpent came forth again from amid the tall
                     grass; the angle whispered, 'Beware!' I saw that there was something about the
                     serpent which was peculiarly fascinating; what it was I knew not. I became so
                     completely enraptured, that I stood in awe. I looked above me, and saw that
                     same angel, with its wings spread as if to protect me. But, Oh, one moment,
                     while I gazed so steadfastly, the serpent held me within its grasp! What my
                     feelings were then no mortal could depict; in my terror I awakened. I was icy
                     cold; it seemed as if every nerve
                     within my system was relaxed. I shuddered. I trembled. Oh! I can almost fancy
                     now that I see that frightful creature creeping before me. I had forgotten my
                     dream until now: it is strange that I should not have remembered it. But it
                     portends nothing, or else it would have weighed upon my mind."
                  "Stella, I like not this dream; would that you had never told me. I hope that
                     no one is conspiring against you."
                  "Figaro, who would conspire against me? I have not injured any one, and surely
                     no one bears any malice against me; do not let such thoughts trouble your mind.
                     Think no more of it, or else I will have to keep my dreams to myself
                     here-after. I was so intent upon relating my dream that I was not conscious
                     night was creeping over us. Look, there is Venus now; the moon, too, is fast
                     rising. Oh, does not all appear too charming! I shall, hereafter, call this
                     'Sylvan bower.' Do you not think that a very appropriate name?"
                  "Truly so. I think the jessamine, eglantine, cluster-rose, and Egyptian
                     honeysuckle are flowers sweet enough to decorate any bower; and, since they are
                     combined here, I think that 'Sylvan' will be an admirable name."
                  "Since you call the aviary 'Eden,' I shall call the spot near the spring
                     'Shades of Daphne.' Our home is as poetical as romantic; they are, I believe,
                     more or less combined. But there comes Francisco; no doubt but he is waiting
                     us; so, Daphne and Sylvan, we bid you both 'good night.'"
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  SEVERAL months of unalloyed felicity were spent by Stella at the castle; she
                     was full of life and vigor, and suspected not that so soon she was to be torn
                     as a flower from the bosom of Figaro. But thus it is in life; those whom we
                     most love are the first to be called away; yes, the favorite flower is the
                     first to wither.
                  The wicked and revengeful, who are plotting and conspiring against others, are
                     ever ready to accomplish their designs. Paragi had all the instruments in his
                     own hand; he determined to use them, and that very soon. He knew what a
                     blissful life Figaro led, and he determined to turn it into bitterness.
                  We will leave Stella for a while, and see what is going on between Pancino and
                     Paragi.
                  "Pancino, I have thought differently of the plan which we made with regard to
                     the ring. You remember I agreed to have it dropped on the beach; but I think
                     that not the surest way; for, perhaps, Signora might never get it. I will bribe
                     Francisco; the secret of the ring he need not wot of. I will exact a promise of
                     him; viz., that if he will take this ring to Signora, and pretend to have found
                     it upon the shore, sparkling in the moonlight, I will give him whatever sum he
                     may ask. If he desires to know the secret, I will tell him to inquire not into
                     the matter any farther, as it does not matter to him. You know that Francisco
                     is a right good sort of fellow; he is not given to babbling; beside, he is not to remain
                     there long, for he is going to his friends, and I believe they are in India. He
                     is much attached to Figaro, but he feels it his duty to assist a widowed
                     mother, with several small children dependent upon her. This will be a capital
                     time for putting my plan into execution, for he is in great need of funds. I
                     know the offer I make him, that is, to give him a purse of gold if he will
                     agree to take the ring to Signora, will incite him to do it; it will not seem
                     at all strange to her that he should wish to give her the ring, for she would
                     feel assured that he expected some pecuniary return, as he wishes so much to go
                     to his home."
                  "That will be the best plan, after all, Paragi; but when can you see him?"
                  "Most any time, for he often brings messages to me from Figaro. I have some
                     documents belonging to Figaro now, and he will, doubtless, send for them in a
                     day or two; we will have to keep matters very quiet, so that all ground for
                     suspicion will be avoided. Give me that spy-glass, Pancino. I think I see the
                     gondola coming up from the castle now. Yes, it is Francisco. I can tell by a
                     peculiar sort of hat he wears."
                  "I prefer not being here when you name the subject to him; seeing two engaged
                     in it, he might become suspicious; whereas if you merely made the simple
                     request of him, he may not give it a thought."
                  "Well, perhaps it is best; you can retire to the next room, for the gondola is
                     about to land. We must not be seen together. But I have not seen the ring
                     myself; however, that matters not. I can wait until he goes. It shall be so
                     planned that he must call at some other time for it. I will give him some
                     papers to take to Figaro, which must be returned in a few days, and that will
                     be an excuse for him to come. Hark! I hear steps. Retire to the next room,
                     Pancino."
                  "How is your lordship to-day?" asked Francisco, with a low bow to Paragi.
                  "In fine health and spirits this morning, Francisco. What news from Signor
                     Figaro?"
                  "He bade me bring this bundle of papers to you; they contain something of
                     importance; he desires that you will read them as early as possible, for they
                     must be returned in two days."
                  "Say to Figaro that I will do as he wishes, and you can call for them on the
                     evening of the morrow; being much at leisure, I can peruse them without any
                     interruption. Francisco, seat yourself for a while. I have something of great
                     importance to communicate. I heard that you intended leaving Signor Figaro, for
                     the purpose of going to your mother in India. Have you determined, as yet, to
                     go?"
                  "If I can raise the funds, Signor Paragi. You know that a poor oarsman like
                     myself has command of but little money. I fear that I will have to wait a long
                     time before I can go, though I so much desire to aid my widowed mother."
                  "A noble, a generous heart you have, Francisco. I will aid you if you will
                     promise to do me a favor, and keep it a secret."
                  "A favor! pray, what may that be? Surely, any favor that I can, I will most
                     gladly do; and as to a secret, I feel assured that you might trust me with a
                     thousand, for I am not much given to
                     tattling, Signor; and, beside, I would not betray you for the world."
                  "Listen to me, Francisco. I have a diamond ring of rare value. I wish much for
                     Signora to have it, but do not wish to present it myself; reasons for which I
                     cannot make known to you. It is merely a little scheme which I have in hand—not
                     one of much importance, however. If you will pretend to have found the ring
                     upon the seashore, and take it to Signora, begging her to take it, as it will
                     not be of any use to you, only so far as obtaining means to take you to your
                     mother, I will place in your hand gold enough to bear you to India; and, beside
                     this, will give you a bountiful sum to present her; this, together with what
                     Signora gives you for the ring, will be quite a little fortune for you. She
                     will not suspect any plot, for you have always acted honorably and openly on
                     all occasions. Tell me, will you agree to do it? Here is the gold when you say
                     the word."
                  "Signor Paragi, I see no harm in so doing, only in telling a falsehood; but I
                     suppose if I do not that, then it could not be accomplished; well, I must say
                     that I found it on the beach, and beg her to take it; she will of course give
                     me some remuneration for it, and that, little as it may be, will serve to
                     gladden my mother's heart, for it will bear to her her long absent son, who can
                     be a prop to her so long as his life shall last."
                  "You agree to it, then?"
                  "Ay."
                  "And keep the secret?"
                  "Most assuredly."
                  "When you come for these papers I will give you the ring; wait a minute until I
                     write a note to Figaro. Here, take it; tell him that I will see him
                     shortly."
                  "Good day, Signor Paragi."
                  "Remember, Francisco, that on the evening of the morrow I will deliver you the
                     ring, and with it a purse of gold. Be careful that you mention it to no one. It
                     is only for secrecy's sake that I do not wish it known to any one. You know
                     that sometimes we like to indulge in a plan of our own."
                  "Have no fear, Signor, for I will be faithful to my promise; the secret shall
                     never escape my lips; no, I would rather have my heart torn from my body."
                  "What a noble, noble feeling, Francisco. I feel that I can safely trust you. It
                     has been some time since you left the castle; you had better hasten back, lest
                     Figaro should get impatient for the answer to his message."
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  HOW often is it, indeed, that the innocent and unoffending are made the dupes
                     of the wickedness and folly of others. It is to be lamented indeed that those
                     who have deeply plunged into the gulf of sin, care not how many they bring
                     within its yawning mouth. The innocent child may be led astray by the
                     unconscientious so deplorably, that when it has arrived at the age of maturity,
                     he considers nothing a crime.
                  Paragi, the revengeful Spaniard, had made a poor, unoffending oarsman his
                     instrument, and he cared not how dark was the deed which he was committing. Francisco could
                     think of nothing else but the money he would obtain; he dreamed not that he
                     would convey to Signora something which would be a deathblow. No sin did he
                     impute to the act of giving her the ring; in fact, the only crime he thought it
                     to be was the uttering of a falsehood. But he forgot this in the thought that
                     he would so soon be with his mother. Ardently did he wish for the morrow to
                     come, for then he would be in possession of that which would convey him to a
                     devoted but needy parent. Yes! that which would serve to gladden the home of
                     four small children. Ah! that mother's heart would have recoiled within her,
                     had she known that the son of her bosom had brought it to her at the expense of
                     the life of another; but she knew it not, and it was well that she was
                     unconscious of the fact.
                  The morrow came. Oh! that fatal day! Paragi placed in the hands of Francisco
                     the ring. Yes! he placed in that hand the instrument which so soon would still
                     the heart's blood of Stella—but Francisco knew it not.
                  "Words of gratitude poured from his lips as he received the promised sum of
                     Paragi; his heart indeed leaped with joy. But alas! the innocent are often made
                     subservient to the recklessness of the wicked.
                  We will leave Paragi for a little while, and see with what success Francisco
                     met regarding the ring.
                  On the morning following the interview between Francisco and Signor Paragi, a
                     rapping was heard at the door of Signora's boudoir. On opening it, she found
                     Rosina, her dressing maid.
                  "Signora, Francisco wishes to know if he can see you this morning?"
                  "Tell him that I will see him in a few minutes."
                  In a little while Signora permitted Francisco to see her.
                  "Good morning, Signora," said Francisco, at the same time making a low bow. "I
                     have something which I much desire to show you, for I think it suits no one so
                     well as yourself!"
                  "Pray, tell me what it is of so much importance."
                  "Yesterday, Signora, after having completed all my duties, when night came I
                     thought to recruit myself a little. I prepared the gondola and took a sail;
                     while I was sporting with my oars in the water, my attention was much attracted
                     by something which glittered very brightly; at first I thought it was nothing
                     more than a small piece of glass or metal, which lay on the shore; as I came
                     nearer it sparkled still more; in fact, it almost dazzled my eyes. I fastened
                     the gondola on coming up to the beach, and went to see what it was; on picking
                     it up, I found it to be a massive ring, and to contain diamonds; I would have
                     brought it to you last night, but thought it better to wait until the morning;
                     here it is, Signora see for yourself—examine it carefully."
                  "Oh! it is very, very beautiful; what rare diamonds! I never saw one larger
                     than that in the middle of the cluster; the carving on the gold is exquisite;
                     some one must have dropped it; surely it must have belonged to some rich
                     person."
                  "I wish you to take it, Signora; you know that I am going to London soon, and
                     am endeavoring to obtain means to get there. I will part with this ring for a
                     small recompense."
                  "You are too generous, Francisco. I will take the ring if no one comes to claim
                     it. I will use means to find out who lost it, and, if no one calls for it, then I will give
                     you money in return for it."
                  "You can keep it till then, Signora."
                  "Oh! I will keep it safe. I would not pretend to place an estimate upon a ring
                     like this. However, I will consult Figaro about it. Speaking of going away,
                     Francisco; the reason you have for going is indeed a noble one; you go to
                     relieve the wants of a widowed mother and fatherless children. You leave not
                     this castle without the kindest and best wishes of Figaro and myself. We both
                     have ever noticed your noble and generous spirit, and the faithful discharge of
                     every duty. Although I feel a reluctance in giving you up, yet I would not for
                     once ask you to remain, for that would be unfeeling and ungenerous; I forego
                     all this, when I know what joy you will give to the heart of your mother."
                  Francisco listened with attentive ears to all Signora said; he felt the force
                     of her words, and appreciated the source from whence they came. He was almost
                     determined in his own mind not to take any return for the ring; but he thought
                     that to urge this would be useless, for he very well knew that Signora was too
                     generous to take it without an ample remuneration. Never was the heart of
                     Francisco so light before; he reflected with delight upon the commendations
                     Signora had bestowed upon him, and felt that when he bade "adieu" to Signora,
                     he would leave a friend indeed; and had not the thought of being folded in the
                     arms of his mother preponderated over his other feelings, tears would, in spite
                     of himself, have trickled down his cheek. But oh! the love for a mother is so
                     pure, so powerful, that nothing can overbalance it. No, no, it will overcome
                     every thing; for there is no heart on earth which beats so warmly for us as
                     that of a mother. Her voice is the sweetest of all sounds. Yes, 
                        
                           "Music lives within her lips,
                           Like the nightingale 'mid roses."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  DAY after day passed. Figaro had used every possible means to obtain the owner
                     of the ring, which he thought had been lost by some one on the beach; but none
                     came. He at length concluded to buy it from Francisco, for it certainly
                     contained diamonds of the purest water; and the gold in which they were encased
                     was of the finest quality and most exquisitely carved.
                  "I think, Stella," said Figaro one day, "that we had as well give up all hopes
                     of ever finding an owner for the ring; it is indeed a magnificent one, and
                     Francisco shall be amply repaid for it. I would not permit you to have it by
                     any means without giving him a fair exchange; the ring will be of no service to
                     him, for he would sell it to any one who would buy it, if you refused to have
                     it; and they might not give him a fair price for it.
                  "Francisco begged that I would take it, and offered it for a small amount; but
                     I told him that I must consult you upon the subject, as I could not place a
                     proper estimate upon it, having the appearance of being so valuable. He has
                     been making some preparations for going home; and so soon as we come to some
                     conclusion respecting the ring, he will take his departure. I know his extreme anxiety to see his mother, and
                     of course the sooner he gets there the better it will be."
                  "Well, Stella, we will send for him and name a sum. I will ring the bell now; I
                     believe he is in the garden; I saw him a few moments ago doing something to the
                     rose-bush. He is always among the flowers; he seems to watch them with so much
                     care, I shall miss him very much when he goes away. Every thing around seems to
                     come at his calling; even the little gazelle, which is so timid, comes running
                     toward him when he hears his step."
                  "Francisco has been faithful, Figaro, in discharging his duties to us both. It
                     is seldom that we find one so true when thrown among so many others, some of
                     whom have no principles at all about them. There he comes now."
                  "Signor Figaro, I am at your service."
                  "Francisco, be seated. I wish you now to come to some conclusion about the
                     ring. I find, on examining it, that it is extremely valuable, and very
                     beautiful. Signora was telling me that you offered to sell it to her. I will
                     give you any price that you may ask—not so much for the ring itself, but
                     because I think you are deserving of a reward for your fidelity. You will go to
                     India, soon, and it will cost much to take you there. Say, what sum do you
                     wish?"
                  "Signor, a small recompense is all I ask."
                  "No, Francisco, that must not be; but, since you will not name a sum, take this
                     purse of gold; consider not that I give it to you for the ring alone, but for
                     the good will I have for you. To-morrow you can get in readiness to return to
                     your home."
                  "Heaven bless you, Signor, for your kindness. I am but a peasant, yet I possess
                     a noble heart—a heart capable of appreciating the charity of others. Will
                     Signora not wear the ring? It would please me much to know that she would
                     condescend to place it upon her finger, after having been in my hand."
                  "Yes, I will wear it, Francisco. I would not consider it contaminated by being
                     in your hand. No, no, it is very beautiful, and I will keep it on my finger. I
                     would never tire of gazing on its beauty."
                  "Then you will wear it, Signora? That is all I ask; the ring will receive
                     three-fold value after having adorned your hand."
                  The conversation was here interrupted by visitors, who were awaiting Signora in
                     the parlor.
                  On entering the parlor, Stella found several of her young and gay companions,
                     who came for the purpose of apprising her that a grand fancy ball was in
                     anticipation, and it would come off in three weeks. Stella's name, of course,
                     was on the list with those who were to be invited.
                  "Stella, you must not fail to be there," said Lindor; "your company would be
                     indispensable."
                  "Oh! I dare say you would not miss me much, for Signor M — will be at your side
                     all the time. Ah! I see from your tell-tale eyes that something is in view; I
                     remember one evening, while I was taking an excursion in the gondola, of seeing
                     you with the person in question. I have heard some rumor of late—be sure to
                     invite me to the—"
                  "The what?"
                  "Why, the wedding, to be sure. Oh! Lindor, you can't make me believe that there
                     is no wedding on the tapis. I shall notice you well at the ball."
                  
                  "Do go, Stella; I tell you whom I most desire to have you personate."
                  "Who is it?"
                  "An Eastern bride. I declare, that will be the very thing; you are of that
                     style of beauty, and have so many splendid jewels—promise me that you will
                     personate her."
                  "I will first consult Figaro, and then tell you."
                  "Oh! that is just the way; when a lady is married, 'my husband' is all she can
                     say: well I have no doubt but that he will consent."
                  "And who do you personate?"
                  "The flower girl of Florence, and my friend Adalina, a Grecian lady. I am
                     thinking we will have a very merry time; indeed it will be the first ball of
                     the season, and the first one of the kind for some time. Oh! I shall go by all
                     means."
                  "You certainly would not miss, under any circumstances."
                  "No, not without something beyond my control occurs."
                  "We must now bid you a 'good morning,' Stella, and we will be much disappointed
                     if you do not come to the ball; all the nobility of Spain will be there."
                  After the usual compliments passed, the friends separated. Figaro was in the
                     library, glancing over some documents; he could but smile to hear the
                     conversation which passed between the visitors; he wondered to himself if there
                     was any end to woman's tongue; if there was, he had never found it. He could
                     scarcely refrain from smiling while they were discussing the ball. They were
                     not at all conscious that Figaro heard the conversation which passed between
                     them, or they might, perchance, have blushed.
                  Figaro prepared himself to be attacked the first thing by Stella as to whether
                     she should go, and if she might appear as an "Eastern bride." He could never
                     deny her any thing, for she would come around him in such a way, so coaxingly
                     and so affectionately—every thing was "cara mia"—she was almost like an angel
                     hovering around him. Figaro lived but for her, and he felt that the society of
                     no one was half so charming, or so much delighted him, as that of his own
                     "idol."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Her matchless wreath of beauty beggars all her queenly form.
                           Her majesty of mien would grace a throne."
                        
                     
                  
                  WE will pass rapidly over three weeks, during which time the ball took place.
                     Figaro gave his consent for Stella to go and appear, agreeable to the wishes of
                     her friend Lindor, as an Eastern bride. Her dress was beyond all description;
                     it was magnificence itself, in fact it was pronounced to be the most superb and
                     tasty in the whole room. Though there were such a number of females all
                     sumptuously decked, yet there was not one so elegantly attired as the bride of
                     Figaro. He stood and gazed upon her, and thought that never was woman so
                     beautiful before. Adalina and Lindor could but pronounce her the very essence
                     of beauty itself.
                  Signor Paragi was there, and as he viewed that fatal ring upon her finger, he
                     thought how soon would she change those garments of a bride to a robe for the
                     grave. Each time, as the brilliancy
                     caught his eye, it seemed to be the stroke of a basilisk. It was easily
                     perceived by him, too, that Stella had lost a part of her very brilliant color,
                     and ere long it would all fade away. Oh! what a deceitful mask did Paragi put
                     on that evening; he was always the first one to claim her hand in the
                     dance.
                  Stella complained several times of being very faint; but, so soon as she would
                     get to an open window, she felt revived. Paragi bethought that it was time he
                     was endeavoring by some means to get the ring from Stella. After having danced
                     with her, he led her to a little recess in one part of the saloon, to enjoy the
                     delightful breeze which came in. He complimented her on her fine appearance,
                     and pretended to be delighted that she was so much admired. After enjoying a
                        tête-a-tête of some few minutes, Paragi
                     looked with pretended surprise upon the ring, and asked her where she obtained
                     it.
                  Stella related its history, at which Paragi professed to be much surprised. He
                     thought this the most advisable time to get it within his possession.
                  "Signora, permit me to look at that ring; it is certainly the most beautiful
                     one I have ever seen—the setting is so peculiar, and I like it so much. I am
                     going to Madrid in a few a days; if I call for it, will you permit me to take
                     it with me for the purpose of getting one made like it? I admire the carving on
                     the gold so much, and would like to get one as near like it as possible."
                  "With pleasure, Signor Paragi. You may take it to Madrid since you admire it so
                     much, and wish to obtain one similar."
                  "I will not return probably for several weeks, but the ring will be safe with
                     me."
                  "Yes, I know it will be as well cared for as if I had it in my possession.
                     There comes Figaro, no doubt to remind me that it is getting quite late; we
                     have no idea of the flight of time when we are enjoying ourselves so much. But
                     I am really glad the ball is almost ending, for I feel fatigued."
                  "How have you passed your time, Stella?" asked Figaro of his beautiful wife;
                     "have you realized as much pleasure as you anticipated?"
                  "Oh! yes, fully as much; but I feel unusually fatigued."
                  Paragi heard this remark and began to fear a little; he thought it best to take
                     the ring then, for he did not know how soon the poison would come to the
                     crisis.
                  Before leaving, Signora took the ring (for she thought she had as well give it
                     to him then) from her finger, and gave it to Paragi. Oh! how relieved did he
                     indeed feel, for he had wished for some time to get the ring from her; he felt
                     assured that she had worn it long enough; that the poison was fast circulating
                     through her whole system, and ere long she must die under its effects : even he
                     felt a chilliness creep over him when he glanced at the ring. He determined to
                     remain in Madrid as long as possible—anyhow until Signora should be prostrated.
                     He thought that Figaro would forget all about the ring, or else think it was
                     among her other jewels, which he of course highly treasured.
                  Paragi, like all others who carry on deeds of wickedness, was not at a loss how
                     to carry out his plans. He always boasted himself to be a lucky man,—but,
                     reader, the wicked will some day be checked in their career, and wish from
                     their hearts that they had never known what it was to sin.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  READER, have you never, on a beautiful morning in the leafy month of June, ere
                     the sun has commenced to pour his torrid rays upon the earth, while yet the
                     dew-drops rest upon the flowers, like tears on the silken lashes of angels—have
                     you not wandered in some beauteous flower-garden, where there were flowrets of
                     every tint, and of the most regaling fragrance? Did you not behold them until
                     you were so much enraptured that you almost bowed in adoration to their
                     shrines? Ah! full well I know your heart thrilled with delight, and you
                     scarcely knew which was the most beautiful of them all. But look you to yon
                     quiet nook, where smiles a flower so modest that it almost shrinks and blushes
                     to meet your gaze. Mark its grandeur and elegance—inhale its perfume. Oh! did
                     you not love to behold its beauty? Did you not watch it from day to day, and
                     ever pluck it to press it to your bosom? But what were your feelings, kind
                     reader, when you saw, day after day, that the loved flower was fast fading, and
                     the glow leaving its cheek—and oh! worse than all, life itself becoming
                     extinct? Oh! did you not experience a grief too deep to give utterance to
                     words? Did you not in your agony exclaim, —"My sweet flower has gone!"
                  But sunshine cannot dwell with us always. No, for clouds will come. Dark,
                     gloomy days were coming or Figaro. Yes! Orlando Castle was now to be deprived
                     of its most lovely of all flowers. Oh! that it had never shed its bloom there,
                     for then there would have been nothing to lament.
                  It was the evening after the ball. Never seemed Stella more gay. She was
                     delighted with the events of the evening before, and could scarcely talk of any
                     thing else. Sweet creature, you little dream that soon you will be but a
                     lifeless corpse.
                  We will listen for a few minutes to the conversation at the breakfast-table the
                     morning after the ball.
                  "Figaro, did not Signora Valencia look bewitchingly beautiful last night?
                     Indeed, I was led a perfect captive to her charms; how gracefully she danced,
                     and how winning was her conversation!"
                  "Yes, Stella, she is truly a beautiful woman; but I think there was one present
                     still more beautiful, more graceful, and more attractive—she was to me, at
                     least. Her dress was pronounced to be the most elegant and tasty in the whole
                     room. I think that, so far as dancing was concerned, no one could possibly have
                     displayed more grace."
                  "Who was that very important person?"
                  "Ah! I see that you have woman's natural curiosity; they are, I verily believe,
                     the most inquisitive sort of beings in the whole world."
                  "Come, Figaro, you shall not slander our sex so; we do not possess any more
                     curiosity than the gentlemen. Do tell me who it was you thought so very
                     beautiful."
                  "Do you really wish to know?"
                  "I do, most certainly."
                  "It was none other but the lady whom I now address."
                  "You astonish me, Figaro. I did not once dream that it was myself. Oh, you are
                     much, very much mistaken, for
                  
                  Senora Spezzio was the star of the evening. I was scarcely a satellite compared
                     to her."
                  "I differ with you there. I think we must give a complimentary 
                        soireé
                        soirée
                      soon, for the benefit of her friends."
                  "I am willing to accede to that, nor care I how soon it is given."
                  "We will say, then, in the course of two weeks."
                  "Very well; I assure you that nothing could give me more pleasure. I hope,
                     though, that I will feel in better health than I do this morning; of late, I
                     have not felt so sprightly, although I manifest the disposition; there is
                     something so prostrating, that really at times I am almost tempted to give
                     up."
                  "Oh! a little medicine will soon bring all right again. I will send for a
                     physician, and he will see what can be done to regain your spirits and
                     strength."
                  "That might be very advisable, for I feel my strength failing every day."
                  "Oh! do not say so, Stella, for I would not have that be. I have of late
                     noticed your color fading, but did not think it was from any particular or
                     serious cause."
                  "I have a violent throbbing in my temples now, and all my nerves seem to be
                     completely relaxed."
                  "I will hasten for the physician. Rosina, be very watchful while I am gone—see
                     that nothing is omitted on your part."
                  "I will attend strictly to your orders, Signor; trust me, for I assure you that
                     you have left her in faithful hands."
                  Figaro with all possible speed went in quest of a physician. Never did he
                     before feel so perfectly miserable; it seemed as if he shrank from every sound,
                     and dared not look upon a shadow. Why he had such sad forebodings he could not
                     tell; but yet he feared that it portended something fearful. In vain did he
                     endeavor to chase it away from his mind; but it was of no avail, for it
                     lingered around his thoughts. His mind was ill at ease until he had an
                     interview with the physician, whom he entreated to hasten to Stella, whom he
                     feared had become much worse since he left; but knowing that he had left her in
                     the charge of a faithful nurse relieved his mind a little; but he very well
                     knew that if the Conqueror of Conquerors came, he would meet her sweet smile no
                     more on earth. Busy with these thoughts he hastened away.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  
                     
                        
                           "The church-yard bears an added stone—
                           The fire-side shows a vacant chair!
                           Here sadness dwells and weeps around,
                           And death displays its banner there;
                           The life has gone, the breath has fled,
                           And what has been no more shall be;
                           The well known form, the welcome tread,
                           Oh! where are they? where is she?"
                        
                        
                           "Oh! earth, that to thy matron breast
                           Hast taken all those angel charms,
                           Gently, I pray thee, let her rest—
                           Gently, as in a mother's arms."
                        
                     
                  
                  TURN on now, dear reader, to the dark side of the picture. Though brightly it
                     gleamed for a while, soon a deep, dark shade passed over—such a cloud as steals
                     o'er us unawares, when we are least prepared for it.
                  
                  Figaro, instead of finding Stella better on his return, had the sad misfortune
                     to see that she was fading rapidly. Many physicians convened to see what could
                     be done, but found that her disease was far beyond their skill. Oh! what were
                     the feelings, think you, reader, of Figaro, when he saw that his flower was
                     fast losing its glow of life? Oh! what were his pangs when a dread delirium
                     stole over his beloved Stella?
                  Day after day passed, and each day found Stella fast fading away! The fatal
                     ring was indeed doing its work of death upon an innocent being, who was almost
                     as free from sin as the angels who watched her couch.
                  Figaro left her not for a moment. Sleep visited his eyes night nor day. The
                     faithful Rosina, too, still staid beside her; and as she saw life fast ebbing,
                     she turned away to weep. Otto, to whom Stella had been a mother indeed, kept
                     vigils, and each moment felt her pulse to see if life was of long duration.
                  Many indeed were the friends which gathered around her—but oh! their tears were
                     of no avail, though they had been tears of blood.
                  Oh! that day, that fatal day! it came. Stella's last hour came—the poison had
                     reached its crisis—but a few more minutes, Stella—the light-hearted, the joyous
                     creature, the flower of Orlando Castle, will pass from earth.
                  Figaro stood watching by her, and he saw that she would soon leave him. Stella
                     looked into his face with her lovely eyes, and faintly said —
                  "Give me one kiss—the kiss of life and death—the only taste of earth I will
                     take to heaven."
                  Twilight was fading rapidly, and with it the life of Stella.
                  Softly now the moon hath risen from her eastern bed; the rays pour through the
                     chamber in which Stella lies, but her spirit hath soared away to Heaven.
                  
                     
                        "Weep not for her, she is an angel now,
                        And treads the sapphir'd flowers of Paradise;
                        All darkness wiped from her effulgent brow,
                        Victorious over death to her appears
                        The vista'd joys of Heaven's eternal years—
                        Weep not for me."
                     
                  
                  Figaro, now in wildness throws himself upon the lifeless body of Stella and
                     weeps. He feels that his best friend has gone.
                  Oh! how it pained him to think that she had faded so soon—but one brief week
                     since, and she attired herself for the ball. Oh! the sad, sad change. In his
                     frenzy he exclaimed,
                  "Oh! memory runs to madness, like a river to the sea. Happy as heaven have I
                     been with thee, love! thine innocent heart hath passed through a pure life,
                     like a white dove, wing-sunned through the sky. A better heart God never saved
                     in heaven. She died as all the good die—blessing—hoping! Stella, I loved thee
                     when we sat side by side—when you whispered sweetest words into my ear, and I
                     lived in your smiles. I loved you then—I love you now. Death can never rob me
                     of the jewel which is still within my heart. Oh! fain would I possess this
                     lifeless body—but it must return to the dust. What! this form, which I now
                     behold, must it be forever hidden from my sight? Must I hear the gratings of
                     the keys upon the vault? Just Heaven! it must be so. This indeed is a
                     mysterious death and the enigma must be solved. Otto, come here with your
                     guitar and ere Stella is taken from our view, sing that sweet, sweet song (in heaven she sings it now) which
                     she used so much to delight me with. No one shall watch beside the dead
                     to-night save ourselves. But I feel that I would rather be alone, Otto, with
                     her; so soon as you have sung that song, leave me and take your rest, for you
                     need it."
                  "No, I will not leave you, Signor Figaro, for I desire to be one more night
                     with Signora. Oh! the friend of my heart has gone. Alas! who will love Otto
                     now? Who will brush away the ringlets from his brow, or imprint a kiss of
                     love."
                  "I will love you—I will love you, Otto—I will be to you as Stella was. Look to
                     me, Otto, as your friend, for such will I prove."
                  
                  Gradually the stars faded. At last, the first glimmering of day was seen.
                     Figaro was slumbering upon the bosom of his loved one, though dead. Oh! she
                     spake not, moved not, for no life was there.
                  When Figaro awakened, then returned all his sad, sad realities; he again gave
                     vent to his feelings, and at times reason seemed to desert him entirely; the
                     only thing which could restore him was the little song which Otto used to sing
                     so sweetly.
                  
                  The physicians looked upon the death of Stella as something very mysterious;
                     they thought from her symptoms, that she had been poisoned; and, with the
                     consent of Figaro, they would have a post-mortem examination.
                  Oh, terror! Oh, dismay! both to Figaro and the physicians, when they indeed
                     found that she had been poisoned; in every vein, every muscle, the venom was
                     infused; it at last reached its crisis, and she could no longer withstand
                     it.
                  They knew not whom to suspect, nor what to think of it; but all they could do
                     was to pronounce it strange, very strange, and they determined to find out the
                     offender.
                  For a while we will leave this part of the subject, and note something of the
                     funeral rites of Stella.
                  The coffin in which Stella was placed, consisted of Parian marble, shaved thin
                     enough to be quite light; it was most superbly inlaid with silver; the rings by
                     means of which the coffin was held, were of solid silver; the pillow on which
                     her fair head rested was eider-down covered with the finest satin elegantly
                     embroidered with gold, and set with diamonds and pearls. The burial dress
                     consisted of India muslin, almost as light as the air we breathe, that fell in
                     graceful folds about her form, and seemed proud that it was the apparel of one
                     so beautiful; her tiny hands were clasped upon her bosom, and the exquisitely
                     rounded arms, which were bare, looked purer than the new-born lily. Around her
                     neck hung clusters of curls, such as she always wore during her lifetime, and
                     on her brow was a wreath of white moss-rose buds. Oh! never was one so
                     beautiful in death! her skin was as transparent as a sunbeam, and her eyelids
                     looked too beautiful to be closed forever to all earthly scenes.
                  Reader, wonder not that Stella, who was now a corpse, should be decked thus. It
                     was the wish of Figaro, and none would oppose him. No, he was troubled enough
                     already; he wished to see her look as she did in life; he revolted at the idea
                     of her being enveloped in a shroud. Oh! when he looked upon her now, his heart
                     bled; for, but a brief time since, Stella was arrayed as an Eastern bride—but
                     now she slumbered, no more to awaken.
                  
                  Figaro now stands by her tomb—O! how these words welled up from his heart: 
                        
                           "O! snatched away in beauty's bloom,
                           On thee shall press no ponderous tomb;
                           But on thy turf shall roses rear
                           Their leaves, the earliest of the year;
                           And the wild cypress wave in tender gloom."
                        
                     
                  
                  The resting-place of Stella was indeed a spot of beauty—the snowy marble vault
                     reared its high head amid the branches of the willow and cypress. The railing
                     around the vault was silver, beautifully cut in various designs; the gates were
                     massive and elegantly wrought; all around were silver lamps, which burned
                     during the hours of the night. Seven guardsmen watched it at all times
                     carefully, and a skilful gardener was employed to attend the flowers which
                     bloomed there. Vases of gold cemented in marble were placed around for the
                     reception of flowers, and fresh bouquets were placed in them each day.
                  Figaro had determined, during the lifetime of Stella, to have her bust in
                     marble, so he employed an artist from Florence to execute it; after her death
                     he had it copied, and one of them was placed at her tomb and the other he kept
                     himself to gaze upon.
                  The tomb, though so beautiful, was not half so fair as the one who slumbered
                     within its walls. Every passer-by was struck with the beauty of the bust, and
                     would exclaim, "If that be so beautiful, what must the original with sparkling
                     eyes and a sweet voice have been?"
                  Figaro, under the weight of his grief, would at times lose his reason; indeed,
                     it would be some days at a time before he would recover his right mind. But we
                     must leave him in all his sadness for a while, and see what was determined on
                     in the case of the poison which was given to Stella.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  
                     
                        
                           "The dungeon walls were dark and high,
                           The narrow pavement bare—
                           No sunlight of the blessed sky
                           Might ever enter there.
                           In all the melancholy week
                           The prisoner chained had lain,
                           No breath of heaven kissed her cheek,
                           Or cooled her fevered brain."
                        
                     
                  
                  PAREGI, who had so boldly taken the life of Signora, the young and lovely bride
                     of Figaro, was now about to make another his victim. So long had he been
                     committing crimes of the darkest hue, that now he shrank from nothing. No, he
                     would not hesitate to take even the life of an own brother.
                  There was much excitement caused by the sudden death of Stella; and its being
                     the result of poison made it still more so. Paragi was on the alert all the
                     while; he who had so long devised plans for his escape, when having acted
                     sinfully, knew very well how to act. He could persuade those whom he called his
                     friends to do any thing for a little money. Since the death of Stella he had
                     endeavored to think of some plan by which he could escape without being
                     detected. But the wicked are not long at a loss for means to get out of a
                     difficulty.
                  Stella had for some time previous to her death, been in the habit of taking a very delicate wine; it was
                     prescribed by her physician, who thought it would be of great service. It was
                     administered by her faithful and devoted Rosina, who never neglected a duty
                     toward her mistress, particularly one concerning so important a thing as her
                     health.
                  Paragi knew that the castle would be searched to find the poison, so he
                     determined to put some of the same kind which was placed in the ring into the
                     decanter of wine, and then get some one else to swear that Rosina did it. Poor,
                     innocent Rosina, much we pity you; you, who were so devoted and kind to
                     Stella—who held her hand until the last moment, and wept bitterly when she
                     died. Oh! much do we pity you; to think that you too will be in the power of
                     that wicked, depraved Paragi. Yes, he, the guilty, will make you, the innocent,
                     suffer for his sin. But he has well nigh run his race, for Heaven will not much
                     longer permit him to go on thus. No—for each day he is frowned upon.
                  We will see how Paragi succeeded in his fiendish attempt, and what was the
                     result.
                  "Pancino, I am much troubled. You know that Signora is dead now, and they have
                     had a post-mortem examination; the physicians
                     of course all agree that poison, by some means, was introduced into her system.
                     You know I hold that fatal ring in possession; and when Figaro asks me for it I
                     am sadly afraid that my countenance will tell I am guilty. I have been thinking
                     of some plan to devise; and I feel assured that I would then come off without a
                     shade of suspicion, for the excitement would be so great that Figaro would
                     forget all about the ring, for some time at least."
                  "Well, what scheme do you think of?"
                  "There is a decanter upon the dressing-table in the boudoir of Stella; it
                     contained wine, which had to be given her every day, and the person who
                     performed the office was Rosina. You know that she is a poor, dependent orphan,
                     and no one cares but little about her, if any thing. I thought I would pour the
                     contents of this phial into it, and get you to swear that you saw her putting
                     something in the decanter one day, when you called to inquire after the health
                     of Signora."
                  "They know, though, that I was no visitor at the castle; my rank in life is
                     very different from that of Signora Figaro."
                  "Oh, well, you can say you heard she was very ill, and that out of respect to
                     Figaro you came to inquire about her health."
                  "Very well, I will do so, then."
                  "We must be the very ones to aid them while they are searching the house. I
                     will, during the bustle, slyly put the poison in the wine. After having
                     searched a long time, let us propose going to the boudoir; you take the wine up
                     and pretend to taste of it; say that it has a peculiar flavor. You then propose
                     to examine it; the physicians will test it. Then you must say that a thought
                     has just occurred to you; that on the day you came over to the castle for the
                     purpose of inquiring after the health of Signora, you happened to pass the door
                     of the boudoir, and saw Rosina putting the contents of a small phial into the
                     decanter; that you did not then speak of it, for you thought perhaps the
                     physician had prescribed something.
                  
                  I will then swear that I heard you say that Rosina was preparing wine for
                     Signora to take—perhaps some drug to make her sleep. Of course Rosina will be
                     brought up for trial. You must take good care in case of cross-examination. I
                     will say that I verily believe her to be guilty. I must be the very one to
                     pronounce her guilty, so as to throw all suspicion from my own shoulders. What
                     do you think of the plan, Pancino?"
                  "It is a very good one. But what if the ring should be found?"
                  "Oh, that will never be, for I have buried it deep in the earth."
                  "What if Figaro should ask for it?"
                  "I can tell him that I lost it, but will have another made; he, of course would
                     not hear to that, for it would be of no value to him, since it is not the one
                     Stella used to wear. All I could offer him would be of no avail; besides, he is
                     so troubled in his mind that he thinks not of any thing. I will fix all, if I
                     can get you to swear that you saw Rosina put something in the wine."
                  "I will do that very readily."
                  The reader will, no doubt, think that Pancino had a very hard heart, and a very
                     peculiar disposition, to accede to any whim of Paragi; but the truth was, that
                     Signor Paragi was very much above him in life, and Pancino was one of those men
                     who "hang on prince's favor," and would do any thing to win it; not for the
                     world would he have aided any one else; but as it was Signor Paragi, he thought
                     it would never answer to refuse any thing that he might ask. He was not aware
                     of the fact that Paragi seldom bestowed a thought on him except when he
                     required his aid in some scheme. But all persons have their weak points, and
                     that was Pancino's greatest failing —a desire to court the favor of the rich
                     and great. If we were to search the world over we would very soon find that
                     Pancino is not the only one, by many thousands, who scorn the poor, but smile
                     upon the opulent.
                  When Figaro was told that it was Rosina who had poisoned his wife, his rage
                     knew no bounds; his extreme grief for the loss of Stella, together with the
                     thought that his lovely bride had been murdered by her who professed so much
                     fidelity, almost drove him to madness. "Oh!" he exclaimed, "who can I trust—who
                     will act openly! Alas! I fear that I look in vain for friends; now that Stella
                     has gone, I am left to drag out my life in the best manner I can.
                  He became much incensed at what he heard of Rosina, and examined the wine
                     himself. He ordered that Rosina should be put in prison immediately, to await a
                     trial. Among those who were on the jury was Pancino. Paragi was now satisfied
                     that she would be condemned.
                  When Rosina was informed that she was suspected of having poisoned Stella, her
                     grief knew no bounds. Innocent creature, the death of Signora had weighed so
                     heavily upon her mind that she was reduced to a mere skeleton. Her looks were
                     enough for Paragi to seize upon, for he made the slightest thing an evidence
                     against her now.
                  "Yes," said he, to those who came to arrest her, "her looks prove her guilt.
                     See her haggard appearance—there is some cause for it."
                  "No, no, I am not guilty. Heaven knows that I have grieved night and day for the death of my only
                     friend. I poison her? No, rather would I swallow it myself."
                  "But the wine is here to prove it," said one of the men who came for her.
                  "I did not put one drop of poison in it—I am innocent."
                  But all her entreaties were vain, for she was conveyed to prison, and the iron
                     key was turned. As she looked around that horrid place where scarce a breath of
                     air lingered, she became almost frenzied. The thoughts of the time when once
                     she was the child of opulence; and now contrasting it with her miserable
                     condition, it almost deprived her of reason.
                  The day of trial came. Paragi and Pancino falsely swore, in the sight of
                     Heaven, that she was guilty. The judge of the court was deeply affected by the
                     tears which Rosina shed; he marked that soft, sweet face, and those languishing
                     eyes, which seemed almost too weak to bear the weight of their lids.
                  The judge asked, "Guilty or not guilty?"
                  "Not guilty. Heaven knows I am not guilty. They who say I am, swear
                     falsely."
                  Now the court was deeply affected, and the judge himself wiped away a tear from
                     his eye. But Pancino and Paragi so positively swore that she was guilty, that
                     the judge scarcely knew what to do. After the final examination had concluded,
                     the judge pronounced Rosina guilty of murder in the first degree, and
                     determined upon her execution.
                  The dread day arrived Rosina was conveyed from the prison, and the robes in
                     which she was to be executed were put on. Paragi was the very one, too, who
                     assisted in adjusting them. Several times did he grow pale, and his heart
                     almost ceased to beat.
                  Rosina came to the place of execution in a calm mood, for full well she knew
                     that Heaven saw her innocency. She asked permission to say a few words, which
                     request was granted her.
                  "Alas!" said she, faintly, "a poor orphan, without friends, without wealth, has
                     none to care for her, and no one to take her part; they will accuse and
                     condemn; the rich and powerful will rejoice to know that they can prevail. Once
                     I had friends, had money; but when the keen winds of poverty fanned my cheek,
                     all left me. I found one friend—she died a short time since, and I am accused
                     of poisoning her. I die for it—but I am innocent. Yet my soul will soon be
                     among the blessed in heaven; and perchance the one who committed the deed for
                     which I am executed, will lift up his eyes as did the rich man in the parable.
                     But may Heaven pardon him. I die knowing that I am innocent, and will soon be
                     folded in my mother's arms in Heaven."
                  Here Rosina ceased speaking, for she had grown very weak under the excitement
                     of the occasion. The whole assemblage was moved to tears, and among them were
                     many who had stout hearts, yet they could not withstand this.
                  The cap was drawn over the face of Rosina, who stood alone; the motion was then
                     given to the executioner, and in a few brief moments her spirit had soared to
                     heaven.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  READER, think you not that Paragi must have suffered deeply the remorse of
                     conscience? What, oh! what joy was there for him in life? None—for he seemed to
                     have no friends, and those with whom he mingled were as selfish as himself.
                  After the execution of Rosina, he became almost frantic at times. Aye! he even
                     trembled in the sight of Heaven; something seemed to tell him, that not very
                     long would he engage in his wicked acts. His mind knew no rest; if he
                     slumbered, he found no real repose; for, when waking hours would come, he
                     reflected on his past conduct, and dreaded what might be the result. He
                     endeavored to drown his feelings by plunging in the deepest dissipation; he was
                     a frequent visitor at the halls of revelry; the gaming-table was his favorite
                     resort; and when the excitement of all that was over, he was a very misery to
                     himself.
                  One evening, thinking to dispel the gloom of his mind, he attended a large féte
                     which was given by some Spanish nobleman. Many were convened, and the wine-cup
                     was used a little too freely. After supper, a game of cards was proposed, to
                     which they all agreed. Among the first who flocked to the table was Paragi and
                     Signor Spezzio. They were shuffling the cards at the greatest rate, and using
                     the faro-bank. Paragi put down the ace of spades, and it was now Spezzio's
                     turn. Paragi having, by accident, looked over Spezzio's cards, now endeavored
                     to arrange his own by slipping them slyly in his fingers.
                  Spezzio was much excited, for he expected to win the game; seeing Paragi (for
                     he was very keen-sighted) slip the cards, enraged him very much, and he spoke
                     to him about it.
                  Paragi could not brook the idea of being reproved in the presence of so many,
                     and he determined to resent it; he drew a dagger from his bosom, and plunged it
                     into the heart of Spezzio, within the presence of that whole assemblage. Ah!
                     his time was come—he gave himself up, for there was no escape for him now. He
                     had openly and wilfully taken the life of Spezzio, and the lookers-on became so
                     much enraged that they, without any ceremony whatever, had him put in prison.
                     Paragi felt that he deserved it all, and he knew very well that there was no
                     alternative now but death. Many indeed witnessed the sight—that of stabbing
                     Spezzio. How freshly did every thing rush into his mind—the death of Stella—the
                     execution of the innocent Rosina—all, all came up into his mind, and he
                     actually hated himself. He was torn from his own palace, and placed in a dark,
                     dark prison cell; it seemed as if the very spirit of Spezzio haunted him all
                     the while; in imagination he could see his heart's blood pouring out, while the
                     dagger still remained there.
                  Long, long seemed the days to him now, how much did he wish for the end of
                     each, although he knew that the close of every one brought him nearer to
                     eternity. It was agreed that he should be executed on the fifteenth day of the
                     following month. He heard his doom with calmness; but, oh! the words went to
                     his very brain like a thousand arrows. He had led a miserable life, and now was
                     to die an ignominious death, without one single tear to be shed for him. Ay!
                     the very spot on which Rosina was executed was he to stand, in the presence perhaps of that same assemblage. He
                     asked not for forgiveness—hoped not for it. Now all the good counsel which his
                     mother gave him when he was a mere child, rushed into his mind. Alas! she would
                     weep over the sight in heaven. His wicked, his revengeful spirit had done it
                     all.
                  He was arrested in the very midst of all his sin, and borne to prison; what a
                     cold horror must have crept over him when he entered the gates, and more when
                     they placed him in the cell from which daylight was almost excluded. Now heavy
                     chains were put upon him, and the key of the cell was turned; he was left
                     alone, with conscience and his God. Now came the time for mature reflection,
                     but it was too late. Oh! he heartily wished that his spirit had left this earth
                     when that of his only and best friend departed (oh! most too sacred the word to
                     use)—his mother.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Thou art a friend, indeed,
                           Most truly true and kind;
                           Thou givest me in my spirit need—
                           Thy wealth of heart and mind."
                        
                        
                           "Shame on those hearts of stone that cannot melt
                           In soft adoption of another's sorrow."
                        
                     
                  
                  OH! shine on still, ye quiet stars! Luna, emit but one faint smile to cheer my
                     careworn soul! A condemned criminal am I; and, ere another week shall have
                     passed away, I must die an ignominious death! Heaven has indeed frowned upon
                     me; methinks I hear reproaching voices all around. I have no friends—I deserve
                     none. I too late saw my folly, and now must bear my fate. My heart hath one
                     earnest desire, and if that be granted, then I am content—content as a criminal
                     can be. Oh! how many infamous deeds have I committed, and how often escaped;
                     but now have I had my reward. I, the guilty, have caused the innocent to suffer
                     for the wrongs committed by myself! Oh! to see one being who would sympathize
                     and offer a word of kindness!
                  The prison-keeper hears Paragi, and enters.
                  "Paragi, I have heard your solemn warnings, and the words of anguish which
                     escaped your lips. I possess the feelings of humanity, and can but feel a
                     sympathy for you. Alas! a criminal has but little to hope for; he feels that
                     all around him are any thing but his friends. Hear me, Paragi, for I am your
                     friend. I would not be otherwise; you, who soon must quit this stage of life to
                     enter into eternity, tell me what the desire of your heart is, and I will grant
                     it if within my power. My own conscience would not permit me to leave
                     unsatisfied the simple wish of one who has been sentenced to death. No, no! for
                     it would be like refusing the desire of a dying mother to see her only child.
                     I, who can enjoy the beauty of sunshine, inhale the soft perfume of flowers,
                     and have my liberty, could not, would not be so rash as to deny a simple
                     request. Tell me, Paragi, what it may be. I wept as I listened at the door, for
                     full well I know how to sympathize with you. Name the desire."
                  "Esmareldi, like the rays of yon moon suddenly emerging through the midnight
                     clouds, shedding a momentary joy over my soul, is thy sympathy to me. If one
                     had announced to me that I had been pardoned, not more welcome would have been the tidings than were thy words.
                     Esmareldi, it is a good thing for men to have sympathy; and had I once
                     possessed it, it would have been better for me. Oh, to breathe but once again
                     the air of heaven! Oh, to be without the limits of this dreary prison, to throw
                     off from these hands the massive iron chains! I feel as though my very soul was
                     fettered. I shudder, I tremble in the sight of heaven, for I feel that I am
                     despised, even in the sight of angels."
                  "Paragi, speak not thus, for it harrows my very soul. I like not thus to see a
                     fellow-being labor under remorse of feeling, and anguish of mind; it is enough
                     for me to know that you are confined by massive iron chains; for, as I hear the
                     clanking, it grates upon my ear; but the night is passing away; again I ask,
                     what is your wish? Haste and tell me, for I must be on my watch. The prison is
                     entrusted to my care, and it not well that I should betray confidence reposed
                     within myself."
                  "Esmareldi, let me but feel the pressure of your hand upon my fevered brow;
                     list to me a moment, and I will tell you what I so much desire. Have you not
                     heard of Otto, the Italian boy, who lives at Orlando Castle? He has great skill
                     in singing. Estella, the bride of Figaro, loved him much, and found great
                     pleasure in hearing him sing; she taught him a song which no one knew but
                     herself. Often this same song would serve to wile away many hours. Figaro would
                     sit and listen to the cadence of her voice until he became almost enchanted. He
                     desired that Otto should learn it, so that when Signora was otherwise engaged,
                     he could sing it for him. There is something mysterious in the history of the
                     Italian boy. You, perchance, remember that he is very beautiful. Signora, too,
                     was much attached to him, and took great pains in instructing him to sing. It
                     is said that the only thing which can bring Figaro to his reason is that song.
                     I fain would see him ere I die, for there is a deep, deep secret within my
                     heart; I cannot die content until I see him. Permit Otto to visit me at
                     daylight in this cell, for I must speak with him. Esmareldi, I would not have
                     you know the secret, for it is too heinous. I beg that when Figaro comes, that
                     you will permit me to be alone with him for a little while."
                  "At dawn, then, Paragi, I will send up to the castle for Otto. You can
                     communicate to him the message, and he shall bear it to Figaro. The request is
                     simple, and I am willing to grant it; would that I could do more; but you feel,
                     Paragi, that you have my sympathy; and it is a pleasant thing to know that
                     there is one who cares for us. Good night, Paragi; may sleep soon rid you of
                     all care, and make you forget your condition for a while. I leave you now, with
                     no companions save the little stars, and may they whisper something to soothe
                     you. Your brow seems feverish; no one sees me—wait, and I will bring you my own
                     pillow, so that you may better slumber. I need not sleep so much as yourself;
                     besides, I have to be on my watch till late. Alas! it has been many nights
                     since your head rested upon a pillow. I will bring you some wine from my flask,
                     for it may serve to revive you a little, at least."
                  "Esmareldi, it has been a long, long time since a prayer escaped my lips; bring
                     me the crucifix. Alas! my mother, who now slumbers in death, taught me once to
                     pray; it was at her feet that first I knelt, and invoked the blessing of the
                        Holy Virgin. Oh, that time comes up
                     in my memory like some long forgotten dream. Ay! I even forgot my own mother.
                     Oft have I seen the tears steal down her cheek; oft have I heard her softly
                     whisper my name in prayer; but the guide of my youth has gone where I dare not
                     hope to go. Oh, when the mother of our childhood's years has gone, then the
                     brightest star in the horizon of pleasure is indeed dimmed. Oh, Esmareldi,
                     scorn me not when I tell you that it was I who broke my mother's heart. I shed
                     tears but once (till now), and that was over her grave!"
                  "Be calm, Paragi, and take, I pray you, this wine. Your brow is now feverish
                     with pain; be composed awhile, and then you may, perchance, sleep. The Holy
                     Virgin bless you, Paragi! Once more, good night."
                  It is only they who have been banished from society, who have been estranged
                     from the affections of all, those who have suffered the remorse of
                     conscience—ay, it is only they who can know the heartfelt gratitude of Paragi,
                     when he reflected upon the kindness and sympathy of Esmareldi, the prison
                     keeper; he for a while forgot the rude manacles which bound his hands, the rude
                     floor which composed his bed. Oh, never rested his head upon so soft a pillow
                     as now; no, not even when he was within his own princely halls. The slightest,
                     the most trivial act would be valued, even though it came from the meanest
                     slave. With what bitterness did he reflect upon the night on which he murdered
                     Spezzio; he thought to escape en—but, Oh, he had already
                     committed crimes enough, and his career was now ended indeed.
                  With a prayer (the first one for many years) upon his lips, he fell asleep; but
                     not sweet was that sleep. Oh, no! a kind of dark delirium stole over his
                     wearied senses; he was dreaming, dreaming of the mother who gave him the first
                     kiss of affection—who stood beside him—pressed her hand upon his fevered brow,
                     and washed it in tears. Paragi saw the heavenly light which shone upon her
                     face, and he softly whispered,"
                  "Mother, mother!"
                  He fancied that she was endeavoring to break the manacles which bound his
                     wrists, unloose the chains which were about his feet. She wept to see them thus
                     lacerated. Once more his hand rested upon her bosom, and she whispered the
                     words which he had not heard since his childhood's years. But that bright
                     vision must vanish as rapidly, ay, more rapidly than the dew from flowers. That
                     fond mother now folded her gossamer robes around her delicate form, spread her
                     wings, and soared away to her spirit home: for, when the goddess of day comes,
                     she chases away the visions of night. Now, half smilingly and half musingly,
                     she gazes upon the prisoner in his lonely cell, and was sad that she must chase
                     his dreams away—the sweet dreams of the criminal.
                  Paragi awakened; it was but to remember his sad doom-Gladly would he have
                     slumbered on still, for then he would be forgetful of the realities. Life was
                     not life to him. At times he wished for the day of execution to come, for life
                     was but a heavy burden.
                  He remembered the conversation with Esmareldi, on the evening before, and
                     wished much to see him; he was desirous of communicating his secret to Figaro, and impatiently awaited the arrival
                     of Otto.
                  Esmareldi's heart sank within him as he turned the iron key of the cell in
                     which Paragi was confined.
                  "Oh," thought he, "if this was my condition, what would be my feelings? But I
                     will be kind to Paragi, so long as he shall remain within these walls. Who
                     knows but that some day I may be glad to share one smile, or hear a word of
                     kindness! I know that Paragi has committed a hateful crime; yet the heart is
                     depraved, and we must treat all kindly; 'do as we would be done by.'" * * *
                     *
                  Paragi had grown impatient waiting for Esmareldi; he felt that he was the only
                     friend he had on earth, and the only one to whom he could look for any
                     sympathy.
                  But the prison keeper did not forget Paragi, for he prepared with his own hands
                     a repast, and brought it to his cell. Oh, never was a meal enjoyed more, even
                     within the precincts of a palace. Esmareldi seated himself by Paragi, and
                     entered into conversation.
                  Many days had Paragi been confined in this gloomy spot, without a single person
                     to exchange a word with him; but, fortunately, he enlisted himself into the
                     good will and friendship of Esmareldi.
                  "My friend, you have not forgotten the request I made of you last night?"
                  "Forgot! no; at early dawn I despatched the messenger up to the castle, and he
                     informs me that Otto will be here during the morning."
                  "How is Signor Paragi?"
                  "Happily, he is much better; time, perhaps, may serve to wear away his grief
                     for the death of Signora, and physicians think that his reason may return,
                     indeed, it does return at times, for a few moments."
                  "Happily for him, Esmareldi, (as people say), if one wishes to communicate a
                     message of importance to him, there is a song which Otto sings, the one Signora
                     loved so well and taught him."
                  "It is early yet, Paragi, be not impatient, for Otto will come."
                  "You will permit me to see him alone?"
                  "If you desire; any request that I can reasonably grant, I will, I feel a
                     sympathy for all who are condemned to death. I lament that they have committed
                     any crime. Paragi, I once had a much loved brother in this self same cell. I
                     was permitted to see him but seldom. Oh, how my heart bled when I reflected
                     upon it; but I knew there was no alternative—he must be executed. Aye, on this
                     day, one year ago, he was 
                        gulliotined
                        guillotined
                     ! he had but one request to make, and that was to see me the morning
                     before he was executed. I came, Paragi; he turned pale, and wept. I was
                     overpowered. Oh, words could not tell what my grief was on that day. Even now I
                     see his form flitting before me now. I hold this cell almost sacred for my
                     brother's sake."
                  Paragi listened to this tale of wo until tears came to those eyes unused to
                     weeping; his heart had once been tender, but crime had so hardened it, that now
                     it was seldom affected. Now he suffered for it all. A revengeful spirit must
                     have its reward, and crime its remorse.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  "YOU are a welcome visitor, Otto; long have I desired to see you. I have
                     counted the minutes, the seconds, since I heard that the despatch had been sent
                     you to come. I distinctly mark sorrow in your pale face, Otto. Oh! you sadly
                     grieved for the loss of Signora Stella; and well you may, for she was indeed a
                     friend to you; she loved you, Otto, so tenderly as doth a mother love her only
                     child. You cherished that love—you know how to value it. I marked your sad
                     visage when you stood by the bed of death; I felt that you had indeed lost a
                     friend. But, I will not speak of it since it makes you sad, for I would fain
                     chase all gloomy thoughts from your mind. Otto, I have met with one who has a
                     noble, a gentle heart; he is compassionate and kind, or else I would not have
                     been permitted to see you at all—much less alone."
                  "Who is that kind friend?"
                  "Esmareldi, the prison-keeper. Oh! Otto, I little hoped to gain a friend within
                     these walls; I felt that I must despair; but some little spirit must have sent
                     him to me! My mother was a pious soul, and it may have been through her that I
                     was permitted to gain a friend."
                  "This same Esmareldi had a brother in prison, and was executed."
                  "So I learned from him this morning. I perceive that he is one who has known
                     many sorrows. Misfortunes have brought him to pity another's more. But
                     Esmareldi has naturally a feeling heart. Last night, in the anguish of my soul,
                     I ex- pressed my feelings, not perceiving that any one heard me. I expressed an
                     earnest desire. In a little while Esmareldi entered this cell, and wished to
                     know the request of my heart. He brought his own pillow for me to rest my head
                     upon; he gave me wine to revive my spirits, and this morning prepared with his
                     own hand my breakfast. Oh! what a goodly friend he is to me. I have seen the
                     time that I would have esteemed that a trifling act; but now I feel a gratitude
                     to heaven for permitting me to have a friend; 'tis true, indeed, that blessings
                     brighten as they take their flight.' Otto, I sent for you for a particular
                     purpose. I have a message to communicate to Signor Figaro. You must be the one
                     by whom it is sent. But tell me, how seems he now?"
                  "His reason returns at times, does not remain very long. Physicians still have
                     a hope of him; I have a greater influence over him than any one else; and when
                     I sing that sweet song which Signora taught me, his reason seems to come to me
                     for a while; but, when he reflects upon the death of Signora, it goes again. He
                     seems more rational now than ever; for the last four days he is less violent in
                     grief, and I think that time will subdue it. Alas! he is the only friend poor
                     Otto has now; he loves me for her sake."
                  "Does he know that I have sent for you?"
                  "He does; he entreated me to comfort you if I could; he deems you his last
                     friend; I have seen him shed tears for your sake. He remembers well the many
                     days of his boyhood, when you both sported together; but that time has passed,
                     and heavy, sad changes have come."
                  "Speak not of them, Otto, for it makes me sad."
                  
                  "Paragi, I would not willingly leave you yet, but it is important I should be
                     at the castle; no doubt Signor Figaro is waiting for me; what shall I tell
                     him?"
                  "Otto, I have much to communicate to him. Tell him that I much desire to see
                     him. I have a secret to reveal, and he must know it ere I die. Tell him to come
                     as soon as convenient; I fain would see him to-morrow. Oh! Otto, but one more
                     week is left me to drag out this gloomy life—but one more week to bear these
                     heavy chains, and hear them grate upon the floor at my every movement! This was
                     the most auspicious time for Figaro to come."
                  "It is, Paragi, for he seems more natural now."
                  "Well, bid him come to me by all means; I care not how soon, for the sooner the
                     better. Tell him I shall be permitted to hold converse with him alone.
                     Esmareldi has given me permission."
                  "I will give him the message, and he shall come ere the sun shall set. Trust
                     Otto, for he will execute your command faithfully, and ere many sands shall run
                     from the glass of time, you will behold Signor Figaro."
                  
                  "Just heaven! can it be that Figaro has sympathy for me? I, who have more than
                     wronged him—who have made him suffer almost the pangs of death? Oh, what a
                     wretch am I! Would he not pour his most bitter curses upon me did he know what
                     I am about to divulge? But I deserve them—aye! the worst maledictions which
                     could escape his lips I deserve. And he has shed tears over my doom; he grieves
                     to know that I am within these prison walls. Never mind—he shall know all. He
                     shall know that I have been the bane of all his happiness—the frustrater of his
                     designs. Oh, how great is the remorse! it is worse than death.
                  "So great are the pangs of conscience that each second seems an hour, a year.
                     Even the very daylight is shut from my view; now and then a wanton ray
                     perchance will peer through, but soon is gone away; for it scorns to shed its
                     brightness upon such a criminal. Oh! how oft have I wished to leap from these
                     iron bars upon this craggy rock, and end my life. Would I had died when but a
                     child within my mother's arms, and then her own gentle hand would have closed
                     my eyes, and she would have imprinted a kiss upon my brow ere they laid me in
                     the grave; her tears would have fallen silently upon the grassy turf, and her
                     own hand planted flowers. But now, crowds of idle gazers will come to witness
                     my death; not one tear will be shed—none will pity me, for all know full well
                     that I deserve it. Some will mark me—some will laugh me to scorn. Oh, 'tis too
                     much for human man to bear! But I should have reflected upon all this when I
                     was contemplating the death of Spezzio. Oh! that the sword had pierced my heart
                     at the time. Alas! 
                        
                           "Sin pours from my soul like dew from earth,
                           And, vaporing up before the face of God,
                           Congregate there in clouds between heaven and me."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  "HARK! what tones are those? what angel voices are whispering around me?
                     Methinks I hear again the sweet tones of Stella softly chanting, 'vivi tre, te ne scongaiaro'—and is Stella here?
                     Where am I?"
                  "Signor Figaro, 'tis Otto who now plays and sings for you that song; glad am I
                     to see reason return again, for I have something of much importance to
                     communicate—a message from Paragi."
                  "And how seems he since his imprisonment? It has all been like a dream to me; I
                     had forgotten even that he was in prison—a dark cloud of some kind has been
                     over me—have I been asleep?"
                  "Signor, grief at times destroys your reason, the cloud is but a delirium; Oh,
                     will you not for the sake of Otto, forget your sorrows, and be yourself
                     again?"
                  "I will, Otto; but you know how sensitive is my heart, and it were harrowing
                     indeed to have the most loved idol torn from us. But what is the message you
                     have for me?"
                  "Signor Paragi bade me say he fain would see you ere the day of his execution
                     arrived."
                  "And is he, then, to be executed?"
                  "Even so, Signor; I believe but one brief week will pass ere he must die. He
                     begs to see you immediately."
                  "I will go, then, by all means, and that very quickly."
                  "The gondola is in readiness now."
                  "What can be his reason for seeing me? Perhaps nothing more than a friendly
                     feeling he has for me; he no doubt pities my misfortune much; I will repay his
                     kind feeling, then, by going to see him, and receive him with the cordiality my
                     heart prompts. He was very unfortunate indeed, to get in any skirmish with
                     Spezzio. So much for wine and the gaming-table. Here we are, Otto; see the
                     walls of the prison; what a horror creeps o'er me when I reflect that a
                     fellow-man, my friend, is confined there!"
                  The first person they met on entering the prison was Esmareldi, who bade them
                     walk in to the cell of Paragi.
                  But why does Figaro start? He can scarcely believe that he beholds the form of
                     Paragi; how haggard he has grown, how pale his cheeks, and his eyes have sunken
                     to a fearful degree.
                  "Oh, Paragi! is this indeed you, my friend, whom I now behold before me?—you,
                     who was once so proud and manly?"
                  "Call me no longer your friend, Figaro, for I have been your most bitter enemy.
                     I deserve none but the most horrible death. Come, seat yourself for a while,
                     and I will tell you all; I desire that you will see me executed! Do not shed a
                     tear for me then; but I know that you will not, when you know how much I have
                     wronged you."
                  "Wronged me! no, it cannot be—you have not wronged me."
                  "Yes, it is true! and most shamefully, too."
                  "And how?"
                  "Listen, and I will tell you. Well do you remember, Figaro, that Signora died a
                     very mysterious death. Start not, when I tell you that I poisoned her! yes! I
                     did it all. Remember you not the diamond ring I took from her finger on the
                     night of the ball?"
                  
                  "Yes, I remember well!"
                  "That was the means by which I effected her death; by some secret process I had
                     poison instilled in it, and that caused her death. Hear me out, Figaro; I
                     falsely swore, and got others to swear, that Rosina, who was so devoted to
                     Signora, administered the said venom in the wine which she gave her mornings.
                     Heaven knows I put it there myself! and made an innocent one suffer for a crime
                     committed by myself."
                  "Oh! greatly you shock me, Paragi; I never knew you had such a wicked heart.
                     But let me not pain you, for you will suffer enough. I feel as though I could
                     revenge it; aye, could exult to see you put to death, but I forgive you."
                  "Thank Heaven! You forgive me, then?"
                  "Alas! Paragi, I feel that it is all I can do, for you are almost at the very
                     gates of an awful eternity, and I could not refuse your request. But tell me
                     why you thus inflicted so much misery upon me? Me, who, but for you, might now
                     have been enjoying the society of my beloved Stella? Oh, tell me, why did you
                     inflict me so severely?"
                  "For revenge."
                  "What injury have I ever done you?"
                  "Figaro, I loved Signora. I endeavored to win her heart by shamefully abusing
                     you; but I found that she loved none but you, and determined that, if I could
                     not obtain her, you should not long possess her."
                  "Oh, Paragi, I tremble for you—you have committed such a wrong."
                  "Oh, Figaro, would to God I had never sinned; but it is too late. One week
                     more, and I am to be executed; stand by, Figaro, and see the man who has
                     injured you blotted out from existence, drop not a tear for me, no, not
                     one."
                  "I pity you, Paragi, yet something tells me you merit none."
                  "No, do not pity me—I am not worthy of it."
                  "Give me your hand, Paragi, for it is the last time I shall see you. I forgive
                     you, and pray that heaven may pardon the offence; I will not see you executed,
                     for I like not to see one suffer the pangs of death."
                  "Figaro, look not so kindly upon me, rather frown, for I feel that it would be
                     more deserved."
                  "Paragi, once more, adieu."
                  Reader, we must bring our story to a close; it is not necessary to enter into
                     the details of the execution of Paragi, but we will add that he was 
                        gullotined
                        guillotined
                      in the presence of thousands. Not a tear was shed save by one, and
                     that was his mother in heaven. Oh! mournful was the tolling of that bell which
                     fell upon the ears of Figaro, the one whom he had so greatly injured.
                  The vengeance of the people was upon Paragi, and they all exclaimed with one
                     voice, that he had met a just reward; and they could stand, could coolly stand
                     and see him die, for no death was too severe for Paragi, the Avenger.
               
            
            
               
               Not Alone, When Alone.
               ALONE! say not I am alone! Do you not see that little sunbeam dancing so
                  gracefully? It peeps ever and anon over my shoulder, and now shrinks back as if
                  blushing to see itself the subject of eulogism. Welcome, sunbeam! for thou hast
                  come form a world far brighter than this; 'tis thou who gildest the angel's crown,
                  and throwest a halo of light where'er thou dwellest. The ocean welcomes thee, and
                  ceases for a while its heaving; for to its bosom a sacred guest is clasped. The
                  sea-nymphs woo thy gaze; the untold wealth of the sea thou beholdest, while man
                  cannot give one glance at the many mysteries and beauties concealed beneath its
                  profound depths. Thou hast come to bring good tidings to the weary, and thou
                  whisperest, "There is rest in Heaven." And thou hast visited the lonely cell, too,
                  where the poor criminal is incarcerated in chains; thou art kind, indeed, to think
                  of him; to wander from so bright a home to cheer the unfortunate.
               Alone—no, no! A bouquet of early spring-flowers greets my sight; how I love to
                  read their language; how I love to inhale their rich perfume; myriads of smiles
                  rest upon the brow of each tender flower, and from all I learn a lesson. What
                  would earth be without flowers? What joys would crown spring, if none of those
                  pledges of "Our Father" came? Ever let me enjoy the presence of flowers, for no
                  companions are purer; none more calculated to point us heavenward.
               Alone, no! Hear you not the song of the pet canary-bird? How he exults in the
                  departure of winter, and the triumph over the "Ice-king." His music is so sweet
                  and clear; how it fills me with lofty emotions, when I listen to the carol of the
                  untaught songster; all are brought to reflect that God gave birds a voice in order
                  to create a friendship with man. Should we not love, then, to listen to their
                  eloquent music? Sing on, sweet bird, for I could not be alone when thou art
                  near.
               Alone! Impossible! with that huge pile of books, also so inviting, so interesting.
                  What rich gems of thought does "Festus" contain. How Byron, Moore and Campbell
                  cause the chords of the heart to vibrate. Then come a number of books of the
                  current literature of the day, from which we may make a choice. What charming
                  companions are agreeable books; one could never be alone while they can be
                  obtained.
               Alone! Behold the beautiful Beatrice de Cenci, copied by a first-class artist from
                  the original at Rome. What a lovely face, and how much more beautiful it must have
                  been ere crime stamped its seal there. How the mind will dwell upon the account
                  given us of her in the pages of history, and how sad we feel when we reflect that
                  even her rare beauty was not a shield from crime.
               There is a beautiful landscape; how charming the scene; it represents Thomson's
                  Summer. What pleasing emotions fine
                  paintings awaken in the mind. A room without paintings always looks unfinished; it
                  never seems properly furnished or tastily arranged; gorgeous furniture, rich
                  curtains and carpets have no effect, if paintings are not included.
               
               One is indeed "never less alone, than when alone." There are times when solitude
                  (if it may be so called) is necessary; the mind must have moments for reflection.
                  The sunbeams, the flowers, the birds, are all suggestive of beautiful and refined
                  ideas, and one who finds it a pleasure to have such companions, to enjoy the
                  refined and exquisite pleasures emanating from such a source, is indeed blest, for
                  he can ever have society, though he may be what the world calls "alone."
            
            
               Julia's Choice.
               THERE was quite a new era in the fashionable world. The beautiful Julia Raymond,
                  who received the first premium, and read the valedictory address at the celebrated
                  seminary of Madam L. (which, by the by, was a great honor conferred), had returned
                  home; her summer vacation was spent at Saratoga and Newport, where she was the
                  cynosure of all eyes, particularly fortune-hunters, who frequent such places for
                  the purpose of making a brilliant match. What a sensation the arrival of Julia
                  created; but who wondered that so beautiful and accomplished an heiress should
                  excite so much talk, especially among the class of famous gossips who are ever on
                  the qui vive for something new and
                  wonderful—which, like a great epidemic, naturally seizes upon the new-comers; if
                  their conversation is not at all edifying, it is so interesting for tea
                  table-chat, for too many happen in at that hour, enticed, no doubt, by the thought
                  of the nice supper they will get in return for their budget of scandal.
               That Julia was lovely none could deny; her beauty might be compared to the soft
                  mellow of a summer sunset. Though she courted no admiration, all worshipped at her
                  shrine; for intel- lect, when combined
                  with a charming physique, ever has its scores of admirers.
               
               The gay season had commenced. The invitations to Julia's grand party of the season
                  were issued. What a tremendous excitement there was; the event would, no doubt, be
                  a grand one, for Julia was to make her debut on
                  the eventful night.
               Such an ado! Some who were honored with invitations had kept up appearances so
                  long that their purse was considerably lightened; that "horrid dress" had been
                  turned and made new so often that it is now fit only for the scrap-bag. What was
                  the alternative? Why, buy another, and let some merchant suffer for it—any
                  sacrifice must be made for that party.
               Such a fluttering of hearts was never known before. No doubt a very brilliant
                  match would be made on that auspicious evening (and if so, we sincerely trust they
                  will not be lucifer); and this idea was not to be scorned at, for some had waited
                  for an offer "till patience ceased to be a virtue;" they grasped, as it were,
                  firmly the last thread of hope; when that was sundered, then they must give up in
                  despair. Last, though not least, the celebrated Grant Leslie was to be there—the
                  gentleman of wealth and elegant leisure was to be present. The heads of nearly all
                  the romantic young ladies were turned, and some did nothing the live-long day, but
                  address impromptu lines, and send them anonymously; but all this was of no
                  avail—he was so accustomed to this sort of thing, that he had grown indifferent,
                  as most people do, to compliments when frequently received. Many, no doubt, had
                  the vanity to suppose that they would stand some little chance of making an
                  impression, even if the beautiful belle, Julia, would be a formidable rival.
               Strange to say, this charming girl had no desire whatever to emulate or excite
                  envy among her own sex. No, for hers was a much higher and nobler aim.
               Neither did she wish to follow in the footsteps of the brainless, giddy girls who
                  had no thought beyond the ball-room or moustache. No, Julia was a sensible woman;
                  had stored her mind with that which would fit her for any sphere in life. The mere
                  idle, mince-meat, highly embellished scandal of the day had for her no interest.
                  Though courted and caressed by thousands, she knew precisely what value to place
                  upon it. But we have digressed.
               The much talked-of party took place: what a crowd there was assembled. Some talked
                  scandal, some flirted, some danced, while a few enjoyed themselves innocently—that
                  is to say, did not dissect their neighbors' characters. Oh, how Miss Envy directed
                  her shafts to every part of the room. One young blooming girl, with a neck Venus
                  even might envy, very much shocked a tall, angular miss of a very uncertain age,
                  who thought no one ought to be seen with a low-neck dress; of course plump
                  shoulders were never meant to be seen—we mean by the envious. Even the lovely
                  hostess, Julia, was not exempt from remarks of no very flattering nature.
               
               The announcement of Grant Leslie, the highly accomplished, double-refined
                  gentleman, caused all to look with astonishment. His arrival had been anxiously
                  expected, consequently many hearts were at rest when he entered. Grant was quite a
                     lion among the ladies; he danced
                  well, dressed in the latest style, and supported a magnificent moustache, over
                  which many went into ecstacies. A person of much discernment could at once see his
                  inordinate vanity; but this was excusable in him. He was Julia's most devoted when
                  she would permit. What killing, unutterable glances were directed toward him from
                  bright eyes; but all was lost on him, for he saw no eyes save Julia's. He remarked
                  to her, while in conversation, that there was "more peril in her eyes than twenty
                  swords." Many heard this remark, and it went like a barbed arrow to their heart.
                  It was no exertion on the part of Julia Raymond that caused Grant Leslie to pay
                  her such attention, for she made it a point to introduce several very beautiful
                  girls, and among the number quite a famous belle, and insisted at the same time
                  that he should divide his attentions among them. But this was of no avail, for he
                  lingered ever by the side of her whom he so much admired.
               
               "Will you sing, Miss Raymond?'
               The person who addressed the question was a gentleman of fine, manly bearing. His
                  noble face spoke for itself, his broad, expansive brow was not to be mistaken. The
                  few silver hairs that mingled with his rich ebon locks, made him the more
                  interesting. There was something about him irresistible—his dignified manner, his
                  full, round voice, and open, generous face. The person to whom we allude is James
                  Montgomery, a chancellor, who stood very high in the opinion of all, as a man of
                  great integrity of character. Seven years since he buried a lovely and amiable
                  woman, to whom he had faithfully devoted himself. The party of Julia Raymond's was
                  the very first he had attended for seven long years. His appearance on this
                  evening surprised many, because they knew he had excluded himself from society for
                  so long a time, rejecting heretofore all invitations tendered him. He had stood
                  aloof from Julia all the evening of which we speak, for so many had paid her
                  homage: he waited until a fair opportunity offered itself for addressing her.
               "Will you sing, Miss Raymond?" asked the chancellor.
               Julia smiled very sweetly, and wished to know if he had any choice. Of course any
                  thing would suit him—all he wanted to hear was her—that of itself was music to
                  him. He accompanied her to the harp, beside which she sat, and sang some exquisite
                  airs from the favorite operas. Though all, a few moments before, was bustle and
                  confusion, now a deep silence reigned; for music is a voice to which all love to
                  listen—it elevates and refines the soul. Grant Leslie, for the first time in his
                  life, felt a pang of jealousy steal over him, when he saw James Montgomery seated
                  beside the peerless Julia; not that he had any visible reason to be thus, but a
                  something he could not describe came over him, and he wiped his brow with a
                  trembling hand.
               
               The hours waned, daylight came unawares; for when a gay and merry crowd are
                  assembled, they take "no note of time." The party dispersed, and soon the spacious
                  drawing and reception-rooms were deserted. Grant Leslie was the only one who
                  lingered for a moment. Julia answered not the gentle pressure of his hand, nor his
                  looks of love. From that moment he was
                  truly a miserable man. Julia, he well knew, was firm and immovable.
               
               One month has passed since the party at Julia Raymond's; during that time party
                  calls were made, and several 
                     soireés
                     soirées
                   had been given through compliment to herself. Chancellor Montgomery had
                  been her escort on one or two occasions; he had visited her at home during the
                  interim. Julia ever met him cordially, yet he could not make up his mind whether
                  or not he was the favorite, for it was a very difficult matter to judge, since
                  Julia was so generously disposed toward every one, and had too much delicacy of
                  feeling to show any preference, however much she might feel. But the chancellor
                  had fully determined to investigate the matter in the most delicate way
                  imaginable. Julia, like the sex generally, had some degree of vanity, and wished
                  to try the chancellor a little, before she was too positive about the matter.
                  Julia truly felt more than an ordinary interest in James Montgomery, but had the
                  good sense to keep it to herself. She did not, fortunately, fall upon the very
                  worst of plans, viz: trust her secret to a woman's keeping. She knew how
                  treacherous the sex is. Certainly, the chancellor was a man who commanded great
                  respect at all times. He was many years her senior, but that was a matter of
                  little moment. Perhaps a person having such a tinge of romance as that of Julia,
                  would have very naturally preferred Grant Leslie, who was all a polished man of
                  the world could be. He had certainly plead his case most eloquently; sometimes she
                  was almost tempted to accept, but her better judgment taught her how to act upon
                  this all-important occasion. She looked upon James Montgomery as a man who would
                  be her counsellor and adviser—who was capable of teaching her how to act in all
                  things. Grant Leslie, on the other hand, was one whom any would envy; who had won
                  the admiration of all the giddy girls. Yet, thought Julia, he might perhaps tire,
                  for such a pet among the ladies will never make a good husband. She gave the
                  matter considerable thought, and finally came to the conclusion to dismiss Grant
                  Leslie. She knew full well that she was pursuing a wise course, for matrimony is a
                  life-time affair. The chancellor lost no time in pressing his suit, for he almost
                  worshipped Julia Raymond. He spoke of the difference of ages; he said that she was
                  a mere child to himself, but he loved her as he had never loved since the death of
                  his wife. How eloquent were his words, his look—what a dignified, manly bearing.
                  Is it any wonder that she loved him? She consented to become the wife of
                  chancellor Montgomery.
               It is needless to say what was the language of the gossipping world. Chancellor
                  Montgomery and the beautiful heiress, Julia Raymond, to be married! "Why, he is
                  old enough to be her grandfather. This is her first winter in society: she might
                  have made such a brilliant match. Grant Leslie will surely become insane, for he
                  was one of her greatest admirers. What a pity! Who would have thought that so
                  romantic a person would have made such a choice?"
               Julia and the chancellor were married. She gave no heed to what the world said.
                  What if she had been led to the altar by an old man? What if she did look like a
                  child-wife? It was her choice.
               
               Did she regret it? You would not have thought she did had you taken a peep now and
                  then into her palatial mansion, and seen her happy, smiling face when she was
                  seated beside the chancellor. What a lucky miss she made not to marry Leslie, for
                  he caught the gold-fever, and left a young and beautiful girl, to whom he had been
                  married but a few months, and returned no more.
               Julia truly loved wisely—she made a happy choice. One never to be regretted.
            
            
               Twilight Thoughts.
               ONE less to meet me? Whose heart have I touched; to whom do these words come home?
                  Who has felt too deeply the import of them!
               One less to meet me? Yes; return to that sacred spot, Home, where is centered all
                  your affection and find a—blank. You feel that one smile less beams upon you;
                  there is one voice less to welcome you. Go into the room in which you have passed
                  many hours with the near and cherished one in health; and when disease fastened
                  itself upon that form reducing it almost to a mere shadow, you lingered beside the
                  couch, and feared to feel the pulse lest it might throb faintly. Look around at
                  the familiar objects, some favorite book, perhaps, with pages turned down. The
                  Bible is in its accustomed place, you open, and find the passage "The Lord is my
                  Shepherd," distinctly marked while the form of the departed one seems to flit
                  before you.
               There is the invalid chair—alas, 'tis vacant; the very walls seem sacred; the
                  smallest object upon which those eyes rested is dear to you. The ticking of the
                  old time piece is heard, the same one which so oft was gazed upon by the invalid,
                  who little dreamed that the sands of life had nearly run out.
               
               Mark the vacancy at the table, ah! we look in vain for the one who once sat there.
                  Let us walk into the garden; note the trees wreathed in delicate blossoms; how he
                  loved to watch them in spring time. E'en now the glorious season is in our midst;
                  but he will behold earthly flowers no longer. The green grass is growing upon the
                  grave; perchance some gentle spirit will plant the little wild flowers. But ah!
                  all this but makes us the more sad.
               One less to meet me, one less to love me; every bird of spring seems to
                  whisper—aye! the very waves told me so, as o'er their bosom I was borne.
               Ye who have never lost a near and dear one, feel not the true import of the words,
                  "One less to meet me—one less to love me."
            
            
               A Leaf from a Bachelor's Journal.
               CAUGHT at last! I thought so: I mean to say I did not think any lady could
                  possibly take me by storm; but it is just what has been prophesied by everybody;
                  for Clara Fleetwood, I am told, fascinates every one. I flattered myself that I
                  could withstand her, but I pretty soon found out that I could not. Just imagine an
                  old bachelor at forty falling in love! Why, I would not take anything for the new
                  sensation: a thought has just occurred to me—I do believe she fancies me. I can
                  tell something about sweet glances, if I am an old bachelor. I do not intend to
                  remain so any longer. No, I'll just go at once and propose, for, "procrastination
                  is the thief of time."
               
               Accepted! I thought so; it is the very first time I made up my mind to propose to
                  a lady. Only think, I succeeded the very first time—"better late than never." The
                  right one has at last come along; I consoled myself with this idea for a long,
                  long time—often I was tempted to give up in despair, but a sweet voice would
                  whisper, "Hope on, hope ever." Accepted! I must be dreaming. What! Miss Clara
                  Fleetwood accept me from her host of
                  admirers? I must be a good-looking man—never thought of that before. Well, "we
                  live to learn." Oh dear me! I am as crazy as a cat in a strange garret.
               
               I leave these halls to-day, where so long I've staid alone, with no one to cheer
                  or console me in my solitude. No more will I have occasion to break the ice in my
                  pitcher when winter comes along. How dingy the window looks—wonder I never thought
                  of that before. How did I ever content myself to stay in this deserted place so
                  long? Just look at that old smoking-cap, that old dressing-gown, those old
                  slippers. Never mind, they will be replaced by new ones before long. Seven
                  o'clock! Quite a long time before that hour arrives, but one must learn patience.
                  I will have to learn it, and now is as good a time as ever. Patience is a heavenly
                  virtue.
               What a glorious day! Ominous. Have heard old people say it is a good sign for the
                  day of the wedding to be bright—clouds foretell sorrow.
               Married and at housekeeping! Quite a new era in my life. A pretty, amiable little
                  wife (I have no fancy for tall people) who is all smiles. Why, it is a treat for
                  me to go home; how glad I am when the hour arrives for me to wend my steps
                  homeward. Dear Clara! as Bulwer has so beautifully said, "Thine eyes would call up
                  smiles in deserts." What could have induced me to remain a bachelor for so long a
                  time? Why, in my opinion, a man is no man at all, nor does he hold a dignified
                  position, until he is married. What a charming home—a perfect Paradise! I am
                  really afraid I will violate the first commandment.
               Thunder clouds and pepper-grass! Summer has come. The season has arrived when
                  every body goes to the springs; those who can afford it and those who cannot.
                  Clara says she must go to Saratoga. Let me see: must;
                  that is a word that I do not fully understand. There is another, too, "I will."
                  What a queer being a woman is, when she determines to have her own way. Clara says
                  she must and will go to Newport or Saratoga. Dear me!
                  what an array of rustling silks and jewels come up in my mind. It is no use for me
                  to say that I cannot afford it, for Clara knows very well that I am rich. Oh,
                  dear! this going to the Springs is perfectly terrible to think of, particularly
                  with a pretty young wife. I know very well that people say, "I do wonder what that
                  young girl married that old fogy for, when she could have made a better choice."
                  But don't I wish she was homely? Oh, pshaw; Clara knows she is pretty, for every
                  body has told her so. I believe I will set to work and break all the
                  looking-glasses in the house. True, then I would have to go to the expense of
                  getting new ones; for woman could dispense with any thing sooner than her mirror.
                  I will go; yes, I'll have to do it, for Clara has laid the case down. Dear me! how
                  the girls do make us bend to them. Why, if here isn't Clara peeping over my
                  shoulder—but very fortunately for me she saw only the last line. Now isn't that
                  something? She has seen the words, "I will go," and throwing her dimple arms
                  around my neck, with her face lighted with smiles, says, "I tell you, I cannot
                  stand that." Yes, Clara, we will go to the Springs. A woman can lead us by her
                  little finger, when she pleases, take my word for it.
            
            
               
               Robert Hayden.
               
                  
                     "A friend in need is a friend indeed."
                  
               
               "WALTER, you had just as well sign this note; I am sure that I would grant you so
                  simple a request if you were to come to me under the circumstances. We have been
                  intimate from our boyhood up, and now you hesitate to do an act which will
                  probably save me from a lasting disgrace. Come, just do it for friendship's sake,
                  if nothing else; why, you are pondering upon it as if it were the most serious
                  matter in the world. You need not be afraid to trust me, for, I will venture to
                  say that I can pay it back to you again very soon. Any thing in the world that I
                  could do for you, I would gladly. Do, Walter, consent to endorse this note; you
                  cannot tell what a burden it will take from my mind. I do not wish my wife to find
                  out about this affair; and I am confident she will, if I am not very expeditious
                  about paying the amount."
               "Robert, I am willing to do any thing in the world to oblige you, and to prove the
                  friendship which I possess and profess for you; but, consider what an
                     amount—twelve thousand dollars. I do not mind endorsing the note,
                  but I absolutely declared that I would never sign another, since I lost that sum
                  when Messrs. Farland, Green & Co. failed. I do assure you twelve thousand
                  dollars are not so easily gained; it can very easily be spent, but when gone, it
                  is gone sure enough. I have a large family, Robert; you know that I am in duty
                  bound to give my children a good education, and if I do not use economy, I of
                  course cannot. Beside, I must say (although I do not wish to hurt your feelings)
                  that the races is rather the wrong place for a man of business, particularly if he
                  cannot go without betting. I might go a thousand times and not make one wager, for
                  I should be sure that I would lose."
               "But I felt certain, Walter, that 'Jenny Lind' would gain the day, who, any one to
                  have seen her, when she was brought to the stand, would have been certain she was
                  going to beat—she looked so spirited and full of life. Before the two got within a
                  quarter of a mile of being around the track, Roman looked as though he was going
                  to give out; Jenny galloped away, and I immediately made a wager. After making it,
                  I of course was in duty bound to pay it, since I was the loser."
               "Why did you bet again after you lost?"
               "I was so excited, Walter, that I scarcely knew what I did. It seems, I was
                  determined to win at all risks. I lost and lost until I found that my wagers
                  amounted to twelve thousand dollars."
               "Candidly, do you not think that was a great weakness on your part? Why, if I
                  could not go to the races without losing so much, I think I would stay at home.
                  Really, your pleasure has cost you a very dear sum."
               "Oh, well, do not talk any more about it; just sign the note, if you intend doing
                  so. I will pay you at the time specified."
               "Not if you go to the races so much; it was only a month ago that you lost five hundred on a watch; you
                  could as well have let that alone."
               "Oh, that was a small amount—a mere trifle."
               "Well, small as it is, you lost it; and, if you don't mind, you will get rid of
                  all you own in a very little while. I tell you, Robert, this betting business will
                  do you a very serious injury—now take my word for it. I scarcely know what to do
                  about signing this note, for I do not believe it will make you any more careful in
                  the end."
               "You certainly do not think, Walter, that I would be so ignoble as not to make any
                  returns of what I borrowed. Do you think I would allow you to be the loser of the
                  amount, particularly when you were such a friend?"
               "No, Robert, I do not believe that you would willingly; but then I know your
                  propensity for betting, and it will lead you to do much to injure yourself and
                  family—why you should be more rational—just think, the idea of bringing a lady to
                  poverty, when you took her from a home of opulence. Why, what can you be thinking
                  of? You know very well that all her property is in your hands, and you should take
                  good care of it, since you are her protector. I will sign this note, but
                  faithfully promise you, that I will never indorse another; so if you get into any
                  more trouble about betting, you will have to get out the best way you can."
               The heart of Robert Hayden was much relieved of its burden when his friend
                  indorsed the note. He had one of the best dispositions in the world, but, then, he
                  was so addicted to betting; ten times out of twelve he was the loser; and when he
                  did chance to win, he would continue betting until he lost enor- mous sums. His
                  friend Walter, the one whom he desired to sign the note, had for some time noticed
                  the course he was pursuing, and often remonstrated with him. Sometimes, he would
                  faithfully promise never to make another wager, but the very first opportunity
                  which offered itself, he was at it again He had married quite an heiress, but was
                  fast spending her property, so that now he was compelled to borrow money of
                  whoever was kind enough to loan him. His wife, a gentle, unsuspecting creature,
                  could not, for some time, inquire what he did with the enormous sums he
                  squandered, and when she did find out, it pained her sensitive heart. Much did she
                  speak to him on the subject, but it was of no avail; not that he turned a deaf ear
                  to what she said, but his companions led him off, and then would take the
                  advantage.
               
               "Robert Hayden has failed, Walter; they say he owes a large amount. I feel truly
                  sorry for his wife; she has always been used to every thing in the world, and the
                  best of it, too. What will she do now? How will she ever bear the reverse of
                  fortune? I pity her so much."
               "I suspected that something of the kind would happen soon; I knew the way that
                  Robert was going on, that he lost twelve thousand dollars by the races; prior to
                  that he lost five hundred dollars on a watch. I never saw his match for betting; I
                  have told him about it so many times, too, but I could not make him see the folly
                  of it at all."
               "What do you think was the cause of his failure?"
               "Wagering was at the bottom of it all; instead of attending to his business, he
                  would go off to all the races and every other place where there was any betting to be done; the
                  funds he should have kept to liquidate his debts were spent in that frivolous
                  way."
               About a month after the failure, Robert met his friend Walter; what his feelings
                  were, we will leave the sympathizing reader to imagine.
               "I told you, Robert, that the manner in which you were going on would bring
                  poverty at your door. You see my words have come true; I am sorry for your
                  misfortunes, and hope it will teach you a good lesson—not to gamble any more."
               This sad misfortune was indeed the best instructor that Robert Hayden ever had; he
                  learned that "blessings brighten as they take their flight." He learned the true
                  value of money, and every time he looked upon the wife whom he had reduced in
                  circumstances, his heart sank within him. He determined to give up wagering
                  forever; and if he ever should be in the possession of means again, he would take
                  good care of them.
               
               "I will make a bargain with you, Robert, but, if you enter into the contract, you
                  must promise to keep it faithfully: I see that your misfortune has brought you a
                  good lesson. But, what I was going to say is, if you will make a solemn promise
                  never to bet any more, I will be your best friend. I will do all I can toward
                  getting you into business again, and, in a very little while, if you are careful,
                  you will have the means to restore to your kind and amiable wife a desirable
                  home."
               "Thank you, thank you, Walter, 'a friend in need is a friend indeed.' Yes, I will
                  promise; I have promised, however, never again to make another wager, though I
                  were in possession of a mint of money."
               "I am glad to hear you have made such a resolution; I have good news to tell you;
                  do you remember that you lost twelve thousand dollars by the races some time
                  ago?
               "Yes, perfectly well, and you indorsed for me and then was the loser."
               "Never mind about that, hear me what I am about to say: After your failure, I went
                  to those who won the money from you, and laid the case before them; after much
                  deliberation, I persuaded them to give it up. Here it is, Robert; now see that you
                  take good care of it, my friend. I will loan you any amount that you need, if you
                  will forever give up betting. If you are very careful, in a very little while you
                  can place your wife in a comfortable and happy home."
               Reader, imagine the feelings of gratitude which sprang up within the bosom of
                  Robert Hayden. Gladly did he carry the joyful tidings to his wife, who had the
                  happiness of again seeing him an altered man. His seat was vacated at the races,
                  and every other place where betting was apt to be going on. Walter had indeed
                  found a friend, the best of friends—"a friend in need." He had restored to Robert
                  his lost home, and was the means of bringing joy to the household over which gloom
                  had presided. Like some kind ministering angel came he, to brighten and to
                  cheer.
               In a beautiful mansion, in a very desirable street, in the city of —, lives Robert
                  Hayden and his lovely wife; he is the happiest of men, and will ever feel under a
                  lasting obligation to Walter, who was a friend in need.
            
            
               
               The Secret Serpent.
               A LOVELY child lay sleeping, the moonbeams kissed its forehead, and in every ray
                  of light an angel sported. No wonder they should leave their Eden home to linger a
                  while on earth to gaze upon aught so lovely. Pure as the snow wreath which mantles
                  the Alpine hills, or the lily with its brow bedecked with pearls was this
                  infant—sin had ne'er touched it. Its little heart was far from guile as was the
                  seraph's which looked down upon its beauty. Nor was the angels alone gazing, no,
                  no, a fond mother watched it, and as the moonbeams played around its cheek, she
                  thought of the innocency which dwelt within the heart of her cherished infant.
               
               I saw a youth seated by a cooling stream; his face was reflected in the limpid
                  waters, but it bore not the light and joyousness of other days. He seemed weary
                  and sad, for now he was fast verging to manhood and met with disappointments. The
                  seraphs which played around him while a sleeping infant had departed save one;
                  that was the "guardian angel." But even that seemed to frown upon him, and as the
                  youth beheld it looking thus sad, he sighed. By accident the youth placed his hand
                  upon a rock and it sent forth a sound; from 'neath it suddenly sprang a little
                  Nereid. She waved her opiate wand, then spread a gossamer net over him. The youth
                  lay slumbering on a grassy couch, but oh! he was in a dangerous place, for from
                  'mid the tall grass a serpent crept, and while he was sleeping so sweetly it
                  coiled around his heart. The hidden serpent, as if by magic, had bound him to that
                  spot, and now, its deadly coils had well nigh entwined themselves within the bosom
                  of the youth. The venom had so poisoned the air around, that it almost suffocated
                  the sleeper; in his struggles he awakened and looked wildly around. The secret
                  serpent was in his heart.
               
               I saw a youth in the halls of revelry; bright lights were gleaming and the wine
                  cup flashed, and shed a most tempting influence on all present. The din of music
                  was heard, and a thousand voices broke the stillness of the night. Ah! the hidden
                  serpent had entwined itself 'round the heart of the youth, and so fascinated him
                  as to lure him away; now he participates in that mirth, and grasps the wine cup.
                  He is no longer innocent, for he sought not to extricate himself from the coils of
                  the serpent, which had crept upon him unawares.
               
               A mother was sitting by the few remaining coals which glimmered upon the hearth,
                  but she felt not the winds, nor heard them as they mournfully howled. She looked
                  toward the spot where once slumbered so sweetly her only child. No longer now does
                  that convoy of winged spirits hover there; no, at the sight of the deadly serpent
                  they glided away, for it was not meet for them to linger in that poisoned
                  atmosphere. They saw the serpent as it
                  crept by the youth and entered his heart, and now plumed their snowy wings and
                  sped away.
               Hark! footsteps are heard; the mother knoweth well that sound and goes to meet her
                  son. Oh! sad scene, see how he reels about the room and madly raves. To Bacchus he
                  has consecrated himself, and now, within the power of the secret serpent, he is
                  bound by its deadly poison alone, and no longer listens to the voice of
                  conscience, or the entreaties of a doating mother. The serpent which was ever fast
                  at work within his heart, led him on and on, tempting him to mingle in the scenes
                  of revelry, and thus he drags out his weary existence, a burden to himself, and an
                  object of distress to a fond mother, who once looked upon him while he sweetly
                  slumbered in the cradle of infancy, and thought surely that he would bring joy to
                  her tender heart. But ah! the secret serpent lurked within, and listening only to
                  its deceiving words, he at last fell a victim to its deadly poison.
            
            
               Life's Similes.
               'TWAS sunset; a beautiful cloud floated in the vault of heaven. It seemed to
                  blush, as I gazed upon it, and shed a roseate light upon all around. Brighter and
                  brighter it grew. Oh! what rapturous delight, to behold aught so lovely. A little
                  warbler was soaring and caroling away toward heaven. I stood, and looked upon the
                  cloud, till methought it was conscious of my joy; but soon its beauty vanished;
                  the spirit of change touched it with her tiny wand, and I said within my heart,
                  "It hath faded!"
               I loved a flower. Day after day, I watched it unfolding its petals, and inhaled
                  its fragrance. I cherished it fondly; and it almost seemed to acknowledge my
                  presence. The angel sunbeams hovered around it; the dews of affection watched it;
                  I thought it too sweet to die. One morning, I sought my flower; and lo! its petals
                  were drooping; I approached it, yet it heeded me not; I imprinted a kiss upon it,
                  but, alas! its brow was lifeless! Sadly my soul exclaimed, "It hath faded!"
               A song bird cheered me in my lonely hours. I decked its cage, each day, with early
                  roses; and, at the dawn of morning, it would chant its gratitude in tender melody.
                  I loved the glad bird; for, though torn
                  from its forest home, it would not make my heart sad with repinings. One morn, the
                  sun rose brightly; the flowers were fair; yet in my heart there was a foreboding
                  of sorrow. I listened, but heard no song; I twined a wreath to deck the cage of my
                  bird, and, ere I had finished, it was withered. My spirit sank within me; I sought
                  the companion of my lonely hours, and it was cold in death. Life and song had fled
                  together, and another joy had faded.
               
               A little star gleamed gloriously upon me; it had watched over me from infancy. At
                  times, it had grown dim, and, since I had lost so much that I loved, I feared I
                  might lose it too. But, suddenly, it would brighten up again; it would keep vigil
                  during my hours of slumber, and send bright visions from its blissful sphere. It
                  was the star of Hope. Often would it speak to me, in articulate music, promising
                  to watch over me, and imploring me to despair not. Stronger and stronger grew its
                  rays, in life's darkest and most gloomy moments; and the inner and oracular voice
                  whispered to me, "It will not fade!"
               A sunbeam reposed upon a flower; it clothed the delicate form in a robe of
                  burnished gold. The flower was the Past; memory, like a silent worshipper, knelt
                  before it; and the sunbeam was Love. Though many frosts had nipped the flower,
                  still, in the light and warmth of that sun-beam, it was happy.
               
               Yes; the pleasant scenes of the past will live in the orisons of memory. The
                  flowers of the Past, illumed by the star-ray of Hope, and the sun-beam of Love,
                  will fade not! The flowers of love, hope and memory, 'tis they which "fade
                  not."
            
            
               The "Coquette."*
               
               
                  *A beautiful piece of statuary, executed by a
                     Virginian genius, W. Randolph Barbee.
               
               OUR admiration of this exquisite piece of statuary becomes enthusiasm. One, to
                  watch the smile sleeping upon the lips, feels almost as if it were chiseled by a
                  supernatural hand. The expression so exquisite, so much in keeping with the
                  subject, leads one at once to acknowledge it the work of a rare genius. The limbs
                  so perfectly, so elegantly proportioned (not exaggerated in point of beauty, a
                  fault many eminent sculptors have fallen into), the undulation caused by the
                  slight movement of the muscles, are true to life. The position is easy, natural,
                  and graceful, that it is no wonder "she seizes hearts without consent."
               While gazing upon the beautiful Coquette, we were forcibly reminded of an extract
                  from Ossian: "Fairer than the ghost of the hills when it moves in a sunbeam at
                  noon over the silence of the morn."
               The more we see the Coquette the more our desire increases to see it; each moment
                  do we discover a new beauty, which
                  flashes before the sight like a bright star suddenly rising before us.
               
               Nothing seems to have been forgotten in preparing the Coquette; the rose lies at
                  her feet, and she seems to be in the very act of trampling upon the thorns, which
                  she has not discovered. The dimple, which, by-the-by, adds to beauty, is perfectly
                  and distinctly marked.
               The Coquette, we are informed by Doctor Barbee, is the first effort of his
                  brother's chisel, and we are proud to say he is a Virginian. What then may not the
                  future promise, since his first attempt is so worthy of one older in the
                  heaven-born art of sculpture? His star is decidedly in the ascendant, and we may
                  safely predict for him laurels upon laurels.
               Only a short time ago we lamented the death of the great Crawford, who showed to
                  the world that he was indeed a genius, and "mocked his own Creator's skill." He
                  has left a monument that will withstand all the mutations of time. We have a
                  consolation in knowing that there is yet another so skilled. Mr. Barbee is the
                  author of the Coquette; we entertain for him the highest opinion as an artist;
                  indeed, we must now yield the palm to him—Hiram Powers has a rival.
               Many ladies have false modesty, which prevents them from going to see any specimen
                  of undraped statuary. This is a very great error, and should be guarded against.
                  There can be no impropriety whatever in going to see the Coquette, her only fault
                  consists in playing havoc with so many hearts, making all her captives. She
                  represents beauty, grace, elegance, and her air is decidedly coquettish. No mock
                  modesty should deter any one from taking a peep at Miss Coquette. One should blush
                  only at the idea of imitating her example in piercing so many hearts with Cupid's
                  relentless arrows. Let all Miss Prudies remember— 
                     
                        "True modesty is a discerning grace,
                        And only blushes in the proper place;
                        But counterfeit is blind, and skulks through fear,
                        When 'tis a shame to be ashamed to appear."
                     
                  
               
               We render our thanks to Miss Coquette for visiting our city, and assure her that
                  her presence has afforded us unspeakable pleasure. May she meet with hosts of
                  friends and admirers who will applaud her for her beauty and elegant simplicity
                  and add laurels to the wreath which is destined to entwine itself around the
                  pillars of the Temple of Fame, upon which will be carved, in bold letters, the
                  name of "Barbee," the gifted son of genius.
            
            
               
               Blanche.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "BEAUTIFUL, beautiful child," said Evyline Grey, as she sat looking through the
                     panes of finely-polished glass, shaded by richest curtains. Oh! what a pretty
                     child! She is playing with that bouquet of flowers, just as if she were as
                     happy as a prince; and I dare say she is, too; for what should one so young
                     know of aught else? She is poor; that I plainly see by her dress; but there is
                     still something which tells me she is above the common run of people."
                  "Why need you trouble yourself, Evyline?" said Mrs. Grey, with a haughty toss
                     of the head. "I cannot see how it is you can take such a wonderful interest in
                     that which does not concern you. I suppose it is some pauper whom the cart-man
                     is taking to the alms-house."
                  "To the alms-house!" exclaimed Evyline. "Oh! it cannot be that so beautiful a
                     child is to be taken there; and she is very young, too—not more than six years
                     old. I presume it is some little orphan, once the pet and pride of a darling
                     mother's heart, who thought nothing too good for it. It is a great pity for the
                     child to be sent there."
                  "That is the most proper place for paupers. I would like to know who will take
                     care of them if they are not sent there? It is certain that the public must
                     provide some place for those who are too poor to take care of themselves. There
                     are quite enough of such people, and they are a complete nuisance to the whole
                     community."
                  "Surely, mamma, such a beautiful child as that could never be a nuisance to the
                     public. I say again it is a great pity for her to go to the alms-house."
                  "Pray, where should she go, then? I do not know, nor do I care any thing about
                     the little pauper; but I am perfectly satisfied, in my own mind, that those
                     that send her there know perfectly well what they are doing."
                  "Ah, mamma!" replied Evyline, "many persons invested with that authority know
                     but little how to use it. They think of nothing but their own comfort, and care
                     but little how much the rest of the world suffer. I cannot be reconciled to the
                     fate of that poor angel of a child. Perhaps those very persons who sent her
                     there are, at this very moment, reveling in luxury, all the result of their
                     ill-gotten gain, enjoying that, perchance, which the widows and orphans should
                     have. I tell you, mamma, there are very few humane societies of which I
                     approve. If they were conducted on the proper plan, and managed by those who
                     dealt honestly and justly with what was entrusted to their charge, Heaven would
                     smile upon and bless their labors; but as it is, I am sorely afraid that, at
                     the final day, when all are judged fairly and impartially by the Great Ruler of
                     the world, many will be condemned for robbing the widows and fatherless. If all
                     were dealt justly by then, there would not be so many inmates in the
                     alms-house."
                  
                  "Why, Evyline! what a train of thoughts are passing through your mind this
                     morning; what is the matter with you? If I were not acquainted with your sudden
                     freaks, I should pronounce you insane."
                  "It were enough, mamma, to cause any one to lose their reason, while reflecting
                     upon those who are suffering for the common wants of life, when others have
                     more than they can well dispose of; it would not seem quite so deplorable if
                     those persons did not seem void of all sympathy."
                  "Ah! Evyline, you are a strange child. I never could comprehend you, for you
                     are an enigma; I expect you will marry some missionary, and go to China, or
                     some other place."
                  "There are a great number, mamma, beside the heathen, who need reformation; if
                     not in the same particular, there are various other ways in which they sadly
                     err; but every one will have to be responsible for his or her faults."
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  "HERE we are, little missy. I guess you don't care no great deal about coming
                     here. I shouldn't myself; but you cannot do better, I s'pose; people that's
                     poor has a site o' hard things to put up with. Here's your posy" (gives her the
                     flowers); "stop, I believe I have a bit o' cake in my pocket; I bought it for
                     my little Nell, but I guess I'll give it to you; a crumb was never yet given to
                     the poor, but that the giver got it back agin, and three times as much, too. I
                     guess how I'll jist give you a lift, as the cart is pretty high, and you can't
                     very well get down yourself. It warn't no will o' mine that I brought you here;
                     but I has to do what I am told; was too poor myself, or I might have taken you.
                     The Lord knows my will is good, but I ain't got a way; a poor man like me, with
                     a family, can't take other people to support, for it is as much as he can do to
                     take care of his own. 'Good bye,' my little purty; take good care of yourself;
                     don't let the folks make you vain by telling you about them purty eyes. I
                     should not have told you myself, but somehow I could not help it. Here, give me
                     a kiss. Lor bless me, how you blushes. It won't do for you to blush here, my
                     sweet child. I only hope your little fat cheeks will never bear the impress of
                     unfeeling fingers upon them. Good by again; the Lord bless you, my little
                     pet."
                  
                  "What is your name?" asked a sturdy looking man, who was known by the name of
                     Hughes, but better by the keeper of the alms-house.
                  "Blanche, sir," was the modest reply.
                  "Blanche, umph; a pretty name. Well, if you are as good as your name is pretty,
                     you will do well enough. I guess I'll take you to the children's apartment, and
                     have a suit of clothes put on you, for you stand much in need of them."
                  Little Blanche was led into the room, where there were a great many little
                     children. How bewildered she looked, as she glanced at the many strange faces
                     before her. No wonder she hung her head and wept, for she felt alone among
                     those who were, to her, such entire strangers.
                  It was a warm summer's afternoon. The little children were all seated in the room allotted to them for
                     reciting lessons; but few of them felt any thing like studying immediately
                     after dinner. Some were nodding, some fast asleep, while others did their best
                     to keep those little weary eyes propped open, so they might not feel the weight
                     of the birch rod, which was sure to come down upon them with a vengeance, if
                     they were caught asleep. The tall gaunt spinster, who filled the office of
                     school teacher, had quite forgotten she was young once herself, and was as fond
                     of going asleep as any one. She never allowed any, except herself to nod in the
                     school-room, and it took up so much of her time to watch the little paupers
                     committed to her charge, that she found but very few moments to indulge in a
                     slumber.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  WE will now go back to the space of about ten or twelve months prior to the
                     time little Blanche became an inmate of the alms house. It was a cold, star
                     light night; a beautiful and young looking invalid sat in rather a richly
                     furnished boudoir; her slight form rested upon a large velvet chair, provided
                     expressly for her use by a kind and affectionate husband. Everything around her
                     had an air of comfort; the gas, too, lent a still more cheering aspect to every
                     thing around. A little 
                        gir
                        girl
                      stood by the invalid, who played with her soft curls. The two who
                     occupied the room were none other than Blanche and her mother. On that day Mrs.
                     Woodville had experienced a world of sorrow; had endured pangs which had almost
                     crushed her heart; she had witnessed the burial of her husband. As she gazed
                     upon her darling Blanche, and listened to her innocent prattle, tears filled
                     her eyes.
                  "Here are papa's slippers," said little Blanche; "poor papa! he will not ask me
                     to bring them to him any more; nor tell Aunt Dinah, my good old nurse, to draw
                     the chair closer to the fire. Oh! mamma, I am so sorry dear papa is dead!"
                  Mrs. Woodville could hear no more, but relieved herself with tears. She was
                     truly a beautiful woman, and though sickness, had in a measure, robbed her form
                     of its wonted symmetry and roundness, yet her face still retained that beauty
                     of expression so lovely and angelic. Her pure and lofty mind was reflected in
                     her dark, melting eyes; and one, to gaze for a moment upon that face, could see
                     that she was all a sweet and interesting woman could be. Now that her husband
                     was no more, her whole soul was wrapped up in Blanche, whom she had watched
                     from day to day, gradually unfolding, like a sweet flower of rare beauty. And
                     now she felt her health declining, serious thoughts entered her mind with
                     regard to her dear and only child. She knew a mother's influence was great, and
                     the early impressions of children were not easily erased; was it not important,
                     then, 
                        tha
                        that
                      they should be of the proper kind? Ah! what would one so tender and
                     pliant in character be, without a mother to guide and direct her? Gladly
                     indeed, would she have given up life but for her child—that link bound her to
                     earth. No tears are like those of a mother; none can feel so deeply for a child
                     as the fond and cherished parent; no little acts can compensate for those of a
                     mother.
                  But little Blanche was too young to permit thoughts like these to come into her mind; and when her mother would
                     look sadly upon her, and sigh, she wondered "why mamma was so sad." Ah! she
                     knew not, dreamed not, that life itself was fast passing away from earth; and
                     soon she was to be left alone, to face the cold, unfeeling world. When a
                     mother's sweet smile is gone, every thing seems dark and gloomy. Could wishes
                     be of any avail, gladly would Mrs. Woodville have had her stay on earth
                     prolonged to the time when Blanche might be old enough to act and think for
                     herself. But, alas! it was not as she willed it for an all seeing Providence
                     ordained it to be otherwise. While the young, innocent child was replete with
                     life and gaiety dark clouds were hovering around; and those, who should have
                     been her protectors, cared not for the cherub child entrusted to them.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  "BE kind—act a mother's part, James, toward my little Blanche. Life is fast
                     waning, and I must soon leave her. Oh! that it was the will of Heaven for me to
                     remain longer, or that she might go too. She is young, innocent and pure. Much
                     do I fear lest she become contaminated by contact with the world—that she may
                     not place such a stress as I would have her upon her high and noble principles.
                     Surely, as you are her uncle, you will feel some interest in her; and when she
                     is taken from this home, provide one equally as comfortable for her. Dear
                     child, she has never known a want, and I trust she never may; I could not die
                     content if I thought she would suffer. During my life-time I gratified her
                     every wish, so far as I could with propriety. I sadly fear she will miss me,
                     dear little one. She is far too young to know a mother's loss. All she has is
                     entrusted to your care, and you must discharge your duty faithfully toward
                     Blanche. See that she is properly educated, and give her all the necessary
                     accomplishments. Will you promise me, James, to do all in your power to repair
                     the loss she will sustain by my death! Will you be kind and gentle toward her?
                     She is so young, and kind words will always gain the victory. I have ever
                     chided her in the mildest manner. Promise what I ask of you."
                  "By all means I promise to do as you wish by your child. Come here Blanche,"
                     said the uncle; "let me kiss you. We must be the best of friends; would you not
                     like to live with me?"
                  "If mamma goes too. I cannot leave mamma, for I love her so much. Poor mamma is
                     so sick now; but she will be better soon, and then she can play with me, like
                     as she did once when she was well, and made dresses for my dolly, too."
                  Little child! you dreamed not that even then your mother was fast leaving you,
                     and soon her smiles would no more beam on you—that you would miss her kind and
                     gentle words. Alas! for the young and innocent; they too often share a hard
                     fate in the unfeeling world.
                  The tie was severed—the mother had fallen asleep; but it was that sleep from
                     which there is no waking. Blanche called, but called in vain, for she heard her
                     not. No, her eyes were closed for ever upon the scenes of earth—her spirit had
                     winged its certain flight to realms above, where no sorrow or care invades.
                  
                  Blanche gazed first at her uncle, then at her mother. Ah! that was a scene
                     calculated to melt the sternest of hearts—but ah! it had no power upon the
                     uncle.
                  "When will mamma awake?" said Blanche.
                  When would she indeed awake? No more would those eyes beam on Blanche, for they
                     were sealed by angels. To whom could the little creature go for comfort? Her
                     uncle had no sympathy to offer, for he was too hard-hearted—too obdurate. He
                     could not appreciate the kind and tender feelings of the child. He had lived
                     too many years on ill-gotten spoils of orphans, to lend an ear to the sorrows
                     of the afflicted.
                  It was sad news, indeed, for little Blanche, when she was told that her mother
                     was dead. She wept bitterly, and all alone, too, for none could participate in
                     her sorrows. She went from room to room, seemingly at a loss what to do or
                     where to go. More times than one was she told by her uncle not to disturb him
                     while he was writing; this was all the sympathy the sweet child received from
                     the cold-hearted man of the world.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE funeral was over; little Blanche had seen the "old sexton" throw the clay
                     upon the coffin, and heard the rattle as it fell. Young as she was, this made
                     her heart sick. She occupied the carriage with her cold, haughty uncle, who
                     instead of trying to soothe her sorrows, was even then devising some means
                     whereby he might rid himself of her. They reached the house, the home of
                     Blanche. Oh! what desolation was there. No mother's voice to soothe her now
                     when her little heart was almost breaking. As she would seat herself near her
                     uncle, she felt as if she would give any thing to nestle her head on some fond
                     breast. Old Dinah, her nurse, offered sympathy, and thought how different the
                     uncle was from the mother. Fatigued and grieved, Dinah finally succeeded in
                     persuading her to retire; and now undressing her as in days gone by, she laid
                     her snugly in the bed and lulled her to sleep. Little Blanche slumbered
                     sweetly. Once more she was with her mother, happy and gay as in passed days.
                     She forgot all her sorrows in sleep. Happily for children, they soon forget
                     their grief; their minds being too unformed to retain any thing permanently.
                     During the time Blanche slept, the uncle was examining the will left by her
                     mother. As he gazed around the room, where so late sat the wife of his brother,
                     he almost trembled at his own thoughts, and fancied he saw her spirit frowning
                     upon him. But he soon chased thoughts like these away, and continued to scan
                     the will. The fortune, though not very large, was ample enough to educate
                     Blanche in the best manner, and afford her a competency through life. The uncle
                     considered over this, and thought what an addition it would make to that he
                     already had, and obtained too in such a manner as he dare not reveal. For the
                     eye of God he cared not; he wanted the world to think him an honorable,
                     high-minded man; so it would not answer for him to give any publicity to the
                     mean acts he committed—the frauds practised upon orphans. No! for that would
                     cause him to lose the good will and opinion of the world—that was what he most
                     coveted. He thought not of the account he would have to give at the final day, of the many
                     dollars he had hoarded up from time to time—the luxury in which he reveled was
                     all the result of cheating orphans. He was partaking of every comfort that life
                     afforded, while those who were in want of the common necessaries might have had
                     all heart could wish had they been dealt justly by. But there is a secret Judge
                     of judges, who will lay bare all secret wrongs.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  BLANCHE was equipped for her journey to go with her uncle. The elegant mansion
                     heretofore occupied by herself and parents now presented quite a different
                     aspect, for the auction that took place a few days before, completely stripped
                     the house of its contents.
                  Sweet Blanche, with face as colorless as a lily, stood gazing around the
                     spacious rooms, as if taking a farewell glance at every door and window, for
                     naught else remained. Oh! had she been old enough to know the loss she had
                     sustained, what emotions would now have sprung up within her breast. The death
                     of her mother, the sale of the furniture, her departure from the "old
                     homestead." And old Dinah, as she bade "adieu" to the little one she had nursed
                     from infancy, wept bitterly, and would gladly have gone too. But Blanche's
                     uncle had a stratagem in his mind, and fully determined that no one who cared
                     much about the orphan niece should accompany them. No, no, the wicked wish to
                     be by themselves when about to carry out any dark crime. Alas! that the heart
                     of man should be so vile—should stoop to acts of meanness. What a thick veil
                     hath hypocrisy.
                  "Come, Blanche," said her uncle, "we must be going. I think Dinah has made
                     quite fuss enough now. I do not believe in so much crying, and all that sort of
                     nonsense. Why not say 'good-by' at once, and be done with it?"
                  "Ah! master, you don't know how I hate to part with this child. I have nursed
                     her from infancy, and I loved my missus, her own sweet mother. I hope Dinah may
                     have the good luck to see her child once more; won't I, master."
                  "I can't tell any thing about that; how can I look into the future? I do not
                     know whether you will or not. Come, let us be off, Blanche; the carriage is at
                     the door."
                  "One more kiss, my little honey," said Dinah, with a good shake of hand. And
                     Blanche left her dear home forever—yes, forever.
                  All that day Blanche traveled. She was delighted with the 
                        cenery
                        scenery
                     . Riding in the cars was something quite novel to her; she had rode
                     almost every day, either with her father or mother, in their own carriage, but
                     never much in the cars. The many strange faces she saw; the broad, extensive
                     forest, the rivers, etc., delighted her much, for the orphan was nature's
                     child. She loved all that was beautiful; the gorgeous clouds of sunset
                     enchanted her; the bright stars of evening sent a thrill through her heart;
                     every little flower seemed to have a language for Blanche. Amid all these
                     scenes she forgot her grief. She was happy and gay, as young children soon
                     forget their troubles, and their grief for the moment is gone. She fell in company with some little
                     girls of her age, after she left the cars and went on board a steamboat. Time
                     passed away very pleasantly, and she was sorry to leave her young companions
                     when the boat arrived at its destined place.
                  After the boat was fairly landed, they went up to a hotel to stay all night.
                     Blanche was fatigued and sleepy, and was glad enough to get quietly asleep. How
                     she missed good Dinah's tenderness! The Irish girl who undressed her was not
                     her own Dinah. Although she was kind (for no one could possibly be otherwise to
                     Blanche), still for all this there was something wanting—she knew not what.
                     Soon Blanche was sleeping, unmindful of what was going on in the same room. But
                     there are some persons in the world who seem to have no conscience at all—who
                     will commit any act for gold, however black. Guilt and innocence were in the
                     chamber of Blanche, the gentle and unoffending orphan.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  TWO men were seated at a table; champagne and other refreshments were placed on
                     a waiter, while a box of cigars completed the programme. One was a sturdy,
                     dark-visaged man, who looked as if he might be a fit subject for the state
                     prison, more than any other place. He held in his hand a roll of bank-bills.
                     His companion was less stern, still there was something about him that looked
                     mysterious at that particular moment. One was the uncle of Blanche; the other,
                     a person with whom he was entering into a contract.
                  "Talk low, talk low, else the child will hear you; perhaps she is not asleep.
                     If we were detected, we would, indeed, be in an awful fix."
                  "I do not fear the child," said Woodville; "she is by far too young to tell a
                     straightforward tale about it."
                  "But I think we had better be cautious. You know there is nothing like
                     prudence."
                  "I tell you the child is fast asleep, so you may rest content on that score.
                     She has not heard a word of our conversation. If she did, she would not know
                     the meaning."
                  "A thousand dollars! That is a pretty large sum."
                  "What of that, since it does not come out of your pocket? You have that
                     orphan's money, and it is a pretty large sum. If you don't say one thousand
                     dollars, then I back out entirely."
                  "Let me consider—five hundred dollars more—one thousand! Well, I say, I will
                     give it."
                  "Count the remainder out (he held five hundred more in his iron grasp), put it
                     down on the spot, and to-morrow morning I carry your plan into execution
                     punctually."
                  "Do you understand me perfectly?"
                  "I think I do; but there will be no harm if you tell me over again. Will
                     it?"
                  "Listen attentively, then. If I pay you the sum of one thousand dollars, you
                     agree to take the child to —, put on her the pauper's suit of clothes, and
                     represent her as a poor child you found somewhere. Tell her I am not her uncle,
                     but only pretend so. You must go to the overseer of the poor, and get a permit
                     to place her in the alms-house. Put it in her head not to mention her mother's name; tell her the
                     people will do something dreadful if she does. I will pretend that a friend of
                     mine insisted on taking her home for some time, and perhaps adopt her. After a
                     little while, we can manage to put the report in circulation that she is dead.
                     Do not let her be known as Blanche Woodville at the alms-house; the first name
                     does not make any difference, so we are very careful to suppress the other. The
                     will, you know, is made out in such way that all the property is hers; but, in
                     the event of her death, it all comes to me. That, you know, is a good thing for
                     me, and I am anxious to hurry her off. If you can get her safely in the
                     alms-house, then all will work like a charm. Do you agree now, positively?"
                  "If you pay me the sum of one thousand dollars, cash down."
                  "Here it is," said Woodville, as he counted out bill after bill.
                  Alas! sweet orphan Blanche, thou wert sold, indeed, for a paltry sum; but
                     heaven will frown upon a deed so foul.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE next morning was one of unusual brightness; how beautiful all seemed to the
                     little Blanche. She was awakened by the sun, which gleamed brightly through her
                     window; late had she slept, for fatigue had given her a keen relish for
                     slumber.
                  A stout daughter of Erin sat watching her while she sweetly slept; she could
                     not summon up courage enough to disturb the little one, for she slept so
                     quietly. Biddy had a kind and feeling heart, as she plainly showed by attention
                     to Blanche, that kindness was one of her predominant traits. She saw a slight
                     movement; in a moment Blanche opened her soft eyes.
                  "Come, sweet child, your breakfast is all ready, and I know you must be
                     hungry."
                  "Yes," said Blanche, "I will get up now. Have I slept very late? Aunt Dinah
                     used to dress me every morning. Poor Aunt Dinah! How much she did cry when she
                     told me 'good-by,' and said that perhaps I would not see her again."
                  "And who is Aunt Dinah?" asked Biddy, eagerly.
                  "My nurse; she loved me very much, and I loved her."
                  "A nurse; none but rich folks' children have them. Well, whoever nursed this
                     angel must have had a pleasant time of it, for she aint the child to give a
                     cross word to any one. I wish I could go and take care of her all the time.
                     Sweet child! it is a great pity she has no mother, for other folks won't treat
                     children like their own parents. But if she is rich they will; there is no
                     telling what money won't do in this world. My prayers shall be for her any
                     how."
                  All this language was unheeded by little Blanche, whose attention was attracted
                     by a playful little kitten, which seemingly pleased her very much; Blanche was
                     kind and respectful toward Biddy, for her good and pious mother had taught her
                     to make no difference whatever between the rich and poor, but to treat all
                     civilly. A lesson impressed so deeply upon the mind of one so young, was not
                     likely to be forgotten soon. She had
                     been taught never to evade or practice deception at any time. Oh! what a legacy
                     was that for a dead mother to leave an only child—one that would make the world
                     love and revere her. There is nothing on earth which can compensate in life for
                     a strict regard for truth, and the feelings of others. One who possesses these
                     will be sure to find good friends. The Irish servant, blunt as she was, saw
                     something in Blanche to love and esteem; she felt her gentle presence; as one
                     would the perfume of some rare flower.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE plotters had hit upon a plan to deceive Blanche: they knew too well that
                     one so young and unsuspecting would never be any the wiser; and while they
                     enjoyed the wealth which was her's by the best right in the world, she would be
                     placed in the alms-house as a pauper.
                  The design was put into execution. She was enticed away, and fed with stories
                     that had no foundation whatever. Her unfeeling uncle cared not what became of
                     her if he got possession of her property, and used it as he chose. And Robbins,
                     his partner in the crime, was satisfied enough with the money he had received,
                     to dispose of the orphan in any way. Conscience was something that never
                     troubled him in the least. Now that he had attained the age of manhood, he was
                     as hardened as it was possible for him to be. Money was his god, and was fast
                     paving his way to the dark regions of endless misery But of this he gave no
                     thought.
                  
                  Early one morning, a sturdy looking man might have been seen wending his way to
                     the office of the overseers of the poor; he led by the hand a little child,
                     which was none other than Blanche. Can it be possible that it is indeed her—one
                     so accustomed to every luxury heart could desire? Ah, yes! it was too true:
                     Blanche was now like the little beggar who has no home, no friends.
                  "Where did you meet with the child?" asked one of the proper authorities.
                  "I found her strolling about, sir; her parents are both dead: feeling a sort of
                     sympathy for the child, seeing she was very young, I thought it best to get her
                     a place in the alms-house. I would take her myself, but am not married; a man
                     without a wife cannot do much with a child."
                  "Your mother is dead, then?" said the officer.
                  "Yes, sir," replied Blanche, meekly, with a blush.
                  "Poor child! I am truly sorry for you, because you look by far too pretty and
                     sweet to be sent to the alms-house; but it is the best I can do for you as
                     yet."
                  Robbins, the iron-hearted man, fearing lest he should be detected by the
                     replies which Blanche might make when thrown off her guard, hurried as much as
                     possible, and soon the little orphan was on her way to the alms-house. Blanche
                     had not the least idea where she was going. She was told by Robbins not to
                     answer too many questions, for people would not love her if she did;
                     furthermore, that the gentleman who came with her was not her uncle, but only pretended to be.
                     After saying this, he bade her "Good-bye," and gave her some flowers to pacify
                     her; he well knew how she loved them, and thought that perhaps it might make
                     her forget to cry.
                  Stern and cold-hearted as was this man, he felt something akin to a deep pang
                     of conscience when he gave up the child to the man who was to convey her to the
                     alms-house; all seemed darkness around him, and he was almost tempted to falter
                     even at the last moment; but he could not, for the weight of the money in the
                     purse kept him from so doing.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  "YOU are a pretty thing to be talking about fine houses, flower gardens, big
                     arm-chairs, birds, and the like of that; I would like to know where you ever
                     saw any!"
                  "My mamma had them in her house."
                  "Don't tell me that again," said the enraged spinster, as she looked menacingly
                     at Blanche; "a pretty tale for beggars to tell. If you were ever so rich as all
                     that, you would not have been here. No, no; when you tell a story, let it be a
                     probable one; this has too little foundation to support it. It isn't very
                     likely that such rich people's children would be landed here."
                  These words were addressed to little Blanche by the spinster school-teacher,
                     who had charge of her, and was as well fitted for that station as the wolf
                     among lambs. Blanche, it seems, had been talking about her mother, and in her
                     childish way, spoke of the house, etc., but the spinster could never be made to
                     believe that she had ever been accustomed to any thing of the kind; at least
                     she tried to make Blanche believe so; but honestly, she thought the orphan had
                     been used to better days, for there was a degree of refinement about her not
                     found in the common run of children.
                  "You are awful sensitive," said the spinster to Blanche one day, whom she saw
                     weeping because she was whipping a little child of her own age or size; "I
                     guess you will cry more when you get it yourself. What matter does it make to
                     you how many times a person gets a whipping, so you don't?" (Blanche knew not
                     how soon her turn might come.) "Children never seem to know they have any thing
                     to learn, and those who have to instruct them must put up with every thing. I
                     never saw such a set in my life before; to be sure, it is a warm summer's day:
                     I feel as sleepy as any body, but you don't catch me nodding. The first one I
                     catch asleep I will soon awaken, and in such a manner, too, that they will be
                     apt to remember."
                  Little Blanche heard these words, and trembled from head to foot; she tried her
                     best to keep her eyes open, but it seemed in spite of herself she could
                     scarcely keep awake. She remembered the time when she was laid on a neat little
                     lounge to take a nap, while good nurse Dinah gently fanned her; but how
                     different were all things now. She commenced life with sunshine around her; but
                     how soon was all this turned to bitterness—at the time, too, when she should
                     have enjoyed life to its fullest extent. Very long and tedious were the days to
                     sweet Blanche; though she had been an inmate of the alms-house twelve months,
                     still it seemed as if she could not get acquainted with those around her, for they were not congenial. Many
                     times she was reprimanded for her pride by the unfeeling teacher, but it could
                     effect no change. Often did she wish for some one to love; she looked around,
                     and found none suited to her taste. The only person she fancied was a poor
                     little boy, who had a good ear for music, and would sing songs for Blanche—some
                     of those songs, too, she had heard her dear and darling mother sing so sweetly.
                     It brought to memory other days, and Blanche would weep while her friend sang.
                     Yes, for the tender chords of her heart were awakened. Those who are void of
                     that tenderness and delicacy of feeling which actuated the sweet child, of
                     course cannot appreciate them at all, as was the case with the stiff spinster,
                     who said it was all put on to make people pity him. She who dissembled so much
                     herself, thought all the world guilty of the same: this is ever the way of
                     suspecting, designing people.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  WE will now pass rapidly over the space of five years, all of which time
                     Blanche remained in the alms-house. Her cruel uncle, James Woodville, had
                     enjoyed, or rather made use of, her wealth, while the one to whom it rightly
                     belonged was debarred the smallest indulgence. He speculated largely in stocks;
                     kept a box at the opera by the season; put large sums in the
                     contribution-plate.
                  He was a great man, too, for lecturing on the importance of aiding the
                     destitute; was the principal officer of the Humane Association, &c. Oh!
                     what a hypocrite—what a monster in the sight of Heaven, to make such
                     boasts—pretend to possess those virtues which were entire strangers to him,
                     while he revelled all the while in the wealth belonging to his orphan niece,
                     whom he promised to defend and protect, both in property and in person! Alas!
                     how had he fulfilled that promise—the sacred promise he had made to one in the
                     dying hour?
                  But Heaven will not permit those who act so unjustly to remain quiet and at
                     peace; no, no; for there are moments when feelings of remorse will steal over
                     them, and they will desire to die rather than drag life out in such a wearisome
                     way. And though they seem to enjoy all around them, yet are they truly
                     miserable. The poorest are infinitely better than he who appropriates another's
                     wealth to his own use. There came to him, at the still hour of the night,
                     recollections of the wrongs he had committed on his orphan niece; and he feared
                     almost to look around him lest the spirit of the mother might be hovering over
                     him. If he slept, the most fearful dreams would cause him to startle; and he
                     imagined, at times, that he was grappling with the evil one. If he walked in
                     the open fields, every flower seemed to shrink from his gaze; the very sun
                     itself was not bright; no dish, however dainty, tempted his appetite, but was
                     insipid. Alas! what profited all his unkindness to his niece? What good had her
                     wealth afforded him? It was rather a curse than otherwise. Now did he wish he
                     had dealt justly by his little charge; but his pride would not permit him to
                     claim one who had been an inmate of the alms-house; and, beside this, the law
                     could take hold of him, if all his
                     foul deeds were brought to light. He was truly a burden to himself—a meet
                     reward for the crime he had committed.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  "EVYLINE, I do wish you would say nothing more about that little pauper; it has
                     been a long, long time since you saw her going to the alms-house, yet, for all
                     this, it does seem to me as if you will never forget her."
                  "A sweet face like hers is not so easily forgotten, mamma."
                  "You are the most perfect devotee to beauty I ever saw, Evy; how you can fancy
                     that pauper, I cannot imagine; to be sure, she is not so homely; but, then, she
                     is by no means pretty."
                  "Why, mamma, how can you say that? I am sure she has one of the sweetest faces
                     I ever saw. She is the very personification of goodness."
                  "I do not wish to take her, Evyline; for what do I want with a pauper? Just as
                     sure as you bring her here, and make much of her, she will get completely above
                     herself; I do not care to litter my house up with people of that kind; beside,
                     I do not wish any addition to the family. It is quite enough for your father to
                     do to dress you."
                  "As to the dress, mamma, I could do well enough without it. I would be willing
                     to wear the plainest clothes, if you would only consent to give that little
                     orphan a home."
                  "I never yet saw that pauper you did not feel some interest in."
                  "I pity the sorrows of all, mamma, and think it my duty to do so. But I feel an
                     uncommon interest in that child—I would like to have her for a companion. I
                     have nothing to do, and it would be employment for me to instruct her."
                  "The paupers are instructed at the alms-house."
                  "I know that, mamma; but they have to associate with all kinds of children, you
                     know."
                  "Well, the orphan you speak of is no better than the rest of them."
                  "I can see at a glance, mamma, that she is no common child; and I think, if we
                     knew her history, we should learn that she is an orphan who has not been dealt
                     justly by. It is a lamentable fact, that there are too many in the world who
                     are rendered homeless through the unkindness of others. The day of judgment
                     will indeed be an awful one for such people."
                  "Why, Evyline, how you do talk! I do not know what to make of you."
                  "I speak just what my heart prompts me. Only consent to take that little
                     orphan, mamma, and I will not tease you any more."
                  "How do you know that she is still at the alms-house?"
                  "I only presume she is; at all events we can find out."
                  "That would be quite a new business for me to go to the alms-house, to inquire
                     for paupers."
                  "I am sure, mamma, that a good, sensible person would not think any the less of
                     you. Heaven would smile on you and bless you for giving a home to the orphan.
                     Only say, mamma, that you will go, or let me go, to the alms-house, and bring
                     the child here."
                  
                  "I will think of it," said Mrs. Grey, with a haughty toss of the head. Evyline
                     said no more upon the subject, but hoped her mother would finally consent.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  'TWAS the hour of midnight. James Woodville paced up and down the floor of his
                     chamber; he had retired once, but thought would not permit him to sleep. On a
                     table near him, lay pen, ink and paper. Taking from a richly cut glass decanter
                     some rosy wine, he sat down once more and commenced to write. Line after line
                     he penned. He again paced the floor, again sat down to write; his movements
                     evidently showed that he was much troubled in mind. The last page was written;
                     getting up from his cushioned chair, he took a small box and laid in the
                     writings very carefully, locking it afterward. All this would have seemed very
                     mysterious to one who might be looking on; the words he uttered, too, were very
                     incoherent.
                  "Yes, I will restore Blanche's property to her; this letter will reveal all the
                     wrong I have done her; probably she will not know of it till after my death.
                     Oh! if I had heeded the words of her dying mother—had discharged my duty
                     faithfully—then might I have been at peace with God and all the world, and when
                     the hour came for me to resign my fleeting breath, then might I feel as if I
                     were going to a better world; oh! how can I escape my awful doom. Poor Robbins!
                     he was hanged the other day, one crime led to another, till, at last, he had
                     the con- science to murder a man for the paltry sum of a thousand dollars—the
                     very amount I paid him to get my poor orphan niece, Blanche, in the alms-house.
                     Ha! well, he has his reward, and I shall, no doubt, get mine—an awful thought
                     to meet such a fate. Dear Blanche! how I did deceive her; she was too young and
                     unsuspecting to know that I was taking her from her home of elegance and
                     splendor, for the purpose of conveying her to the alms-house. Could I recall
                     the past, but alas! it is too late now; I feel each day that life is gliding
                     away from me. Had I pursued an upright and honorable course, I might have been
                     spared longer; but, alas! I must ere long slumber in the dust, and my spirit
                     go—I know not where. Alas! what does all the ill-gotten wealth of the earth
                     profit one? It only gives them the keenest pangs in their dying hour, and
                     causes the soul to be sent to perdition. Day nor night can I rest; the
                     Scripture saith 'There is no peace for the wicked;' 'tis only the good and
                     virtuous who can hope, or deserve to be smiled upon by heaven, which always
                     gives merit its reward."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  ONE bright and beautiful morning, Evyline Grey and her mother, set out for the
                     alms-house. By her gentle and winning way, she often gained the ascendancy over
                     her mother, who, by the by, could seldom refuse any request she might make.
                     Evyline was a kind and amiable creature; and though reared in opulence, and
                     surrounded by any thing that wealth afforded—unlike many others upon whom
                     prosperity smiled—she did not forget
                     those less highly favored than herself, but pitied and relieved them so far as
                     she could. Had she not been interfered with many times by her mother, she would
                     have committed three-fold acts of charity; but she was often compelled to give
                     up to her mother, who always happened to disagree with her on most every point.
                     Evyline, so kind and meek, submitted without a murmur. Evyline cared but little
                     for the gaieties of the world, in which she was compelled to mingle so often
                     against her wishes. She would much prefer visiting the poor, and catering to
                     their wants, than any thing else; she felt it her duty to do all that lay in
                     her power, with a cheerful and willing heart. She never disdained to drive up
                     in her carriage to the door of some lone widow; on the contrary, nothing
                     afforded her more real pleasure than to feel that she had added to the
                     happiness of any one.
                  After much talking and reasoning with her mother, (making at the same time many
                     promises,) she prevailed upon her to visit the alms-house, in quest of the
                     little girl, to whom she had taken such a wonderful fancy. There was something
                     which seemed to draw her toward the child; and she had fully determined to find
                     her out, and to bring her to her own home, and act as near as she could, in the
                     place of a mother. The young Evyline was not void of all those feelings and
                     experience, so often wanting even in older heads. After a pleasant drive, Mrs.
                     Grey and her daughter arrived at the alms-house; they, of course, were very
                     politely received. The splendid carriage and dress of the two ladies, did not
                     fail to attract the attention of the keeper. After a few moments they were
                     shown around.
                  "I wish," said Evyline, "to go to the children's department."
                  "In a few moments, Miss; you came just in the right time for that; they are all
                     now in the school room; that is about the only time you are apt to see them all
                     together; for after school hours they are scattered—some in one place, some in
                     another."
                  Evyline was so extremely anxious to see Blanche, that she scarcely listened to
                     a word the keeper said. Much to her delight, she soon reached the school room.
                     How eagerly did she look around to find the child she was so anxious to see.
                     Little Blanche, was, at that time, saying her lesson. Evyline, who caught a
                     glimpse of her, beckoned to her to come; but Blanche was uncertain whether or
                     not to obey the summons, as the spinster eyed her so intently and
                     peculiarly.
                  "I wish,"said Evyline, pointing to Blanche, "to speak to that little girl."
                  "Certainly," replied the keeper; while he went immediately to bring Blanche to
                     them.
                  "What is your name?" asked Evyline, taking her hand within her own, and
                     brushing back her soft, glossy hair.
                  "Blanche," she replied; blushing like a rose.
                  "A very pretty name you have, my little pet."
                  The kind words brought tears into the eyes of Blanche, and Evyline saw it
                     too.
                  From this moment, the strongest attachment sprung up for the little orphan.
                  "Would you like to go home and live with me?" asked Evyline of Blanche.
                  "Yes, ma'am; and I will love you if you love me. Mamma 
                        oved
                        loved
                      Blanche while she lived."
                  
                  "Your mamma is dead, then?"
                  "Yes, ma'am."
                  The tender chord had been touched, and little Blanche wept.
                  "Do not weep, my sweet child. I am going to take you home with me soon; and you
                     shall be my own sister, and I will love you very much."
                  Blanche smiled through her tears, while Evyline kissed her, and told her not to
                     forget her before she came to see her again.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  BLANCHE could think of nothing but the lady, who talked so kindly to her. The
                     time appeared twice as long as it used to do. Day after day did she look for
                     Evyline to come.
                  "I am going away soon," said she to her little friend Willie, the day before
                     she left the alms-house. "Who will you sing for then?"
                  "Oh! I am so sorry, Blanche, that you are going to leave me. I will not have
                     any one to love me. Poor Willie! you must not forget him."
                  "No, no; I will always think of you, Willie."
                  "And love me, too?"
                  "Yes, I will always love you."
                  "Then I will be happy. Will you not come sometimes to see me?"
                  "If I can, Willie, I will come. You must sing just the same as if I were here,
                     or you will forget how."
                  "I am afraid you will forget me, when you go to live in that fine house."
                  "No; the fine house could not make me forget you."
                  "If you promise that, I will not be sad."
                  "Oh, how lonesome for poor Willie! Nobody to love him but Blanche.
                  "Sing me a new song now, for I love to hear you; perhaps I may go to-morrow,
                     and then it may be some time before I hear you again."
                  
                  The morrow came. Blanche was informed by the keeper to be ready at a certain
                     hour to leave the alms-house. Evyline, who was all anxiety to conduct her to
                     her house, was not tardy in getting ready at an early hour to go for her little
                     pet.
                  "So you are willing to go, then?" said Evyline to Blanche.
                  "Yes, ma'am. Oh, if Willie could only go too!"
                  "And who is Willie?"
                  "Come here, Willie, and see the lady who is going to take me home with
                     her."
                  Immediately he came at the bidding of Blanche, to see her benefactress, who was
                     almost unwilling to part the two children; but she knew she could render
                     Blanche far more comfortable than she was there, and could make her much more
                     happy. Thoughts like these, in a measure overcame all other feelings.
                  "I will bring Blanche to see you sometimes," said Evyline; "so you must not be
                     sad when she is gone."
                  "Oh! you are such a good lady. Blanche will love you, I know, and so will
                     Willie."
                  
                  "Come, tell Blanche 'good bye;' she must go now, for it is quite time."
                  Who, to have seen the parting between the two innocent children, could have
                     kept back the tears? They whispered a few words to each other, and then
                     separated.
                  
                  How happy was Blanche in her new home! Evyline reminded her somewhat of her own
                     mamma, for she was so kind, so gentle; she studied every wish, and spared no
                     pains whatever to make her happy. Such toys and books as she thought Blanche
                     might fancy were purchased for her, from her own purse, and placed where she
                     could get them any time she wished. Evyline took her under her special charge;
                     and it was her greatest delight to teach her, for she found her little protégée had a very quick mind, and could easily
                     comprehend any thing she undertook to learn. Blanche had a great taste for
                     music. Evyline delighted in playing for her, and determined to instruct her
                     soon.
                  Who could but love one so good and gentle as Evyline Gray; Blanche, though
                     young, discovered much to love; and permitted no opportunity to pass that she
                     could prove to Evyline how much she loved her, and how great was her delight to
                     do all she could to please her benefactress.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  WE have said Blanche was happy. Yes, she now felt as though her mother was
                     replaced in a measure. The only thing she had to mar her felicity in the least
                     was the tidings of the illness of Willie. Oh! how she pleaded to go to see him.
                     Evyline felt she must grant the child that favor, for it was so simple. One
                     morning she told Blanche she would take her to see Willie on that day. It had
                     been six months since Blanche had left the alms-house, and she had seen Willie
                     but a few times; however, if she did not see him as often as she wished,
                     Evyline permitted her to send him many little dainties she thought would please
                     his appetite. Evyline, it seems, anticipated the wishes of every one, and loved
                     to make all happy whenever it lay in her power. Willie was exceedingly ill; and
                     as Blanche stood by his bed, and held his hand, she saw how thin he had become
                     since the last time she had seen him. At the sight of Blanche, the poor child
                     seemed to revive, and he looked at her most imploringly. The poor child was
                     sick indeed, and no kind mother was there to soothe him or to smooth his
                     pillow. He wished much to see Blanche, and persuaded the keeper of the
                     alms-house to send word to her.
                  "I am going home soon, dear Blanche. Yes, for I saw the little angels beckoning
                     to me this morning. My dear mother, too, was with them. Will I not be happy,
                     dear Blanche?"
                  "Yes, Willie, very happy; for you will go to heaven."
                  "You will hear me sing no more, Blanche, on earth, but I will sing with the
                     angels."
                  
                  Blanche's eyes filled with tears.
                  "Do not weep for me, dear Blanche, for Willie will be so happy in heaven. You
                     will meet me there, won't you, Blanche?"
                  "Yes, I will meet you."
                  "You have always been so good to me, and good people always go to heaven."
                  Blanche still held his hand; it was fast growing cold, and the damp dews of
                     death were gathering upon his brow. He faintly murmured—
                  "Blanche—Blanche."
                  "What, dear Willie?"
                  She gazed upon him for a moment. A most heavenly light illuminated his
                     countenance. One more glance at Blanche—his eyes are closed on earth, to open
                     in heaven.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  'TIS the dying hour of James Woodville: physicians are there; friends are
                     there; but all this is of no avail, for not long can he remain upon earth. A
                     clergyman is sent for to pray for him, but, alas! he feels that there is no
                     hope. A member of the bar stands by him, to whom he gives a small key, telling
                     him it belongs to a certain box containing papers of the greatest
                     importance.
                  "Give the box," said he, "to Blanche Woodville; she is an inmate in the house
                     of Mrs. Grey, in — street. Be sure to deliver it yourself. Attend to it
                     faithfully, for if I had done so, not now would I feel the pangs and remorse of
                     conscience.
                  She will pay you well for your trouble. Oh! Blanche, Blanche, had I but
                     performed my duty faithfully, not now would I have felt as though I could not
                     see my God!"
                  These were the last words of James Woodville. The clergyman looked at him, and
                     was deeply moved. He had seen many resign their fleeting breath, but no death
                     was more horrible than that of James Woodville; for fiery demons taunted him on
                     all sides, and he expired without one ray of hope. Those who deal so unfairly
                     with the orphan surely cannot expect a better end, for Heaven will not smile
                     upon those who wilfully wrong the orphan. No, no; great is the punishment of
                     such persons. But James Woodville had expired—had gone to try the realities of
                     another world.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  "MAMMA, I told you I thought Blanche was something more than an ordinary pauper
                     when I saw her going to the alms-house. She talks of her mamma's harp, piano,
                     fine house, and every thing."
                  "Well, you know children will sometimes dream such things, Evyline, and imagine
                     they really existed."
                  "No, mamma; I think Blanche was wealthy once. There is something very
                     mysterious about her, any how. I cannot understand it at all."
                  "Nor any one else, I presume. I think her a perfect enigma myself."
                  
                  "I find so much in her every day to love. She is so docile, so meek. Poor
                     child! she grieves so much about Willie, the little boy who died at the
                     alms-house some time ago. All this proves to me that she has a tender,
                     sensitive heart. Some children would have forgotten him entirely by this time;
                     but she talks about him as though it were but yesterday he died. She has been
                     used to better days. It was a pity she was left an orphan so young; but she has
                     not contracted any bad habits, as I see. It is my opinion she may be moulded
                     almost into any form."
                  "Depend upon it, Evy, there is nothing like beginning right with children. I
                     think you commenced in a most admirable manner with Blanche, and I doubt not
                     she will come up to your mark, for she loves you so much that it seems a
                     pleasure for her to do all she can to please you."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  BLANCHE'S life was indeed one of pleasure; the most powerful attachment existed
                     for Evyline, whom she regarded as a mother to her, for such had she proved. But
                     still brighter days were in store for Blanche; yet of this fact she was
                     entirely ignorant. She was quite happy, for Evyline did all in her power to
                     make her so.
                  
                  The person in whose charge the mysterious box was placed, happily was one
                     governed by highest principles of honor and integrity of character. He
                     discharged his duty faithfully in every particular; and, even, had he not felt
                     so disposed, the words of the dying man who had so wronged his own niece, were
                     enough to deter him from acting in any way but that which was strictly
                     right.
                  
                  "A gentleman wishes to see you, Blanche, dear," said Evyline one morning. "He
                     has some news of great importance to convey. Be expeditious, as he may not have
                     time to wait very long. He looks to be a lawyer."
                  Blanche immediately hastened to the parlor, and there found a gentleman who
                     introduced himself as John Bateman, counsellor and attorney-at-law. Blanche,
                     after finding out the nature of his business, excused herself for a few moments
                     and went in quest of Evyline, whom she thought proper to be present, so that
                     she might hear all that was said.
                  "This box is for you, Miss Woodville; it was given me by your uncle, on his
                     death-bed."
                  "My uncle!" exclaimed Blanche; "I have no uncle."
                  "You know him not as your uncle, but such he truly was. The contents of this
                     box will amply explain all."
                  "And pray how did my uncle find out I was here?"
                  "That question I cannot answer. I only know he was aware of the fact. I have
                     kept the promise I made him on his deathbed faithfully—that is, in delivering
                     the box in person. Any advice or assistance you may need, I offer my services,
                     and promise to do all in my power for you. Here is the key; the box has never
                     been unlocked since the death of your uncle, James Woodville. I bid you good
                     morning. If you choose to appoint me as your attorney, here is my address."
                  
                  After the lawyer left, Blanche hastily opened the box, and drew from thence a
                     will, the legacy left by her mother. Blanche, though only ten years of age, had
                     more discernment than some girls at sixteen. She could scarcely command herself
                     at all while examining the contents of the mysterious box. What! Blanche
                     Woodville, once the inmate of an alms-house, now an heiress! No, it seemed
                     impossible; she fancied it must be a mistake; but on reading the letter,
                     written by her own uncle's hand, containing the wrong he had committed, the
                     truth flashed upon her mind like lightning. She scarcely knew whether to be
                     glad or sorry. And as she read the heart-rending words of her uncle, she wept
                     bitterly. Though he had seriously wronged her, still she pitied and forgave him
                     from her heart.
                  What could possibly have exceeded the joy of Evyline Grey, when she found out
                     that Blanche was rich, and now could be educated in the best manner possible?
                     This was a desire that had been uppermost in her thoughts for a very long time;
                     and yet, she dare not broach the subject to her mother, who, though not by any
                     means unkind to Blanche, did not show any decided affection.
                  Happy the day when Blanche was put in possession of the wealth which justly
                     belonged to her. Now she felt it in her power to do so, she had a simple, yet
                     tasteful monument erected in memory of Willie, of whom she so often thought;
                     and deeply regretted she was not put in possession of her wealth before, so she
                     might have made some provision for him—made him, indeed, as comfortable and as
                     happy as herself. Though Blanche felt the need of a thorough education, she
                     could not tolerate the idea of leaving Evyline: she loved her too well to leave
                     her. But she often assured her that she would never lose that deep regard she
                     felt for her, and would ever look upon her as her benefactress. As she grew
                     older her gratitude increased, and she embraced every opportunity to prove to
                     Evyline that she was uppermost in her thoughts and affections. Never could she
                     forget one who was a friend to her when she so much needed one.
               
            
            
               
               In Memory of My Pet Canary.
               "SUCH is the end of the beautiful!" I exclaimed, when my maid awakened me early
                  one morning and told me my pet bird was no more. "Take the cage away, for I would
                  not see my bird lifeless; no, but rather remember it as when last I saw it,
                  hopping from perch to perch—would rather think of it as in spring-time, when it
                  poured forth its sweetest song, as if welcoming the festive season. The tears
                  come, no power of earth can keep them back—and why should no tear be shed! Could a
                  purer creature demand them? Summer is in her fading glory; the falling leaves tell
                  me that ere long the chill autumn wind will sear the tender flowers and leaves—and
                  with sweet summer fled my bird. In the hours of winter it will not be here to
                  gladden me with its untaught songs; it will no longer demand my watchful care.
               "Oft times when I looked at it, it would teach me a lesson; for, though caged
                  while the forest was in verdure clad, though birds would pour forth their notes,
                  birdie murmured not, but seemed content with its lot. How pleasant it was to watch
                  it folding its head under its tiny wing to sleep. How I loved to watch it skipping
                  so gaily from perch to perch!
               "But my sweet bird is gone! In memory will I erect a monument, one more permanent
                  than man can make, with all his skill. My heart will turn to thee, sweet one; I
                  will think of you at twilight's soft hour, when you were wont to sleep. And
                  morning's bright dawn but makes my heart the more sad, for with it comes no longer
                  your sweet songs. No other pet can replace you. No, no, birdie, for that sunny
                  nook in my heart I give to you alone."
            
            
               
               "Keeping up Appearances."
               "PAPA, it is high time we were giving a party; only think how many have been given
                  this winter; full well I know that the people are wondering among themselves if
                  the Wilburns do not intend giving any. We have been to no less than seven this
                  season, and I think it high time that we were giving one. Yes, yes, papa; only
                  think what the fashionables will say if we do not! We must 'keep up appearances,'
                  any how."
               "Keep up appearances at the risk of getting largely in debt? When pay day comes,
                  what would then be done, if my funds are not sufficient to defray my expenses? I
                  tell you candidly, my daughter, that 'keeping up appearances' is a hard matter
                  with me. I know my circumstances too well, to wish to give way to the follies and
                  extravagancies of the 'beau monde;' there is, indeed, a sort of splendid poverty
                  among some of them, because they are not contented with the solid pleasures of
                  life, they endeavor to eclipse each other, in mere shadowy appearances. Many a one
                  who could count his thousands, has been reduced by the extravagant notions of his
                  wife and daughter. Pray tell me, if those very persons who will attend your
                  parties during your more flourishing condition in life, while you 'kept up
                  appearances,' would visit you if you had a downfall? No, no, depend upon it, my
                  daughter, they would not."
               "Papa, do not talk in that manner, for it sounds more like a funeral dirge than
                  any thing else. Only say that you will consent for us to give the party. It will
                  not be such an expense, I'm sure."
               "Then let us make a slight calculation. First of all are the kid gloves."
               "Only two pair, papa."
               "Another item, sash ribbons—humdrums, of course, for you would not wish to wear
                  what you have—a hair dresser must be employed, of course, since it is not
                  fashionable to dress one's own hair."
               "Another little item, papa, you left out."
               "Well, what is that?"
               "You know we must employ the violin; it is awfully insipid to dance by a
                  piano—why, there is not the least animation in dancing, unless we do have a
                  violin. To be sure, I like piano music for a parlor, but oh, give me a violin to
                  dance by; it gives me panics to think of not having one. Now, papa, I am quite
                  sure you will consent for us to give the party."
               "Well, my daughter, I suppose I must. We are far from being rich. Of course, your
                  dressing is tolerable; you do not wear the most expensive kind, nor do you change
                  your velvet cloaks every season, nor wear the most costly laces and embroideries,
                  yet you dress very well, that is, as well as I can afford, to 'keep up
                  appearances.' It is my will to attire you both in the most elegant style, but a
                  person must go according to the ability of his purse. I never like to go beyond my
                     in- come. I do not object to the
                  party at all, I was thinking of the many expenses which would necessarily be
                  incurred. My bills at the grocer's, dry goods merchant's, etc., have already run
                  up high. But I suppose we must 'keep up appearances.'"
               "We may have the party then, papa?"
               "Yes, my daughter."
               "Delighted! delighted!" exclaimed the two girls in one breath. "We must have as
                  brilliant a one as possible. We must be about the dresses, which, by the way, we
                  will have to make ourselves. Oh, dear! how I wish we were rich."
               "I will write the invitations, and have them sent out this afternoon. To-day is
                  Thursday—well, what day small we name for the party?"
               "Why, next Thursday."
               "Agreed. Papa, will we not have a charming time? It is not the party I care so
                  much for, but the 'keeping up appearances.' Why, what would the L.'s and C.'s say
                  if we permitted the whole season to pass without giving a party? I could not think
                  of any such a thing—I knew papa would consent, for he never refuses any thing we
                  ask him."
               The invitations were written and very soon despatched by the waiter. Many smiles
                  pervaded the countenance of those who received them, and great preparations, of
                  course, would be made for the party, to take place at the Wilburn's, for it would,
                  no doubt, be a very brilliant one.
               A week rolled round. How much had been done in that one week by the fair sex to
                  outvie each other! Gorgeous was the dressing, and large the sums of money expended
                  for it. Anxious grew the heart of many an over-indulgent father and husband, when
                  he listened to the extravagant wishes expressed by his wife and daughter, who had
                  determined upon looking as well as the rest. Many a father looked doubtful as he
                  surveyed the endless variety of dressing purchased by his daughter, whose vanity
                  and folly taught her to eclipse every one, if possible.
               The long looked for evening came at last; a beautiful one it was, too. Each star
                  in heaven was brightly beaming, while the moon was resting amid a few fleecy
                  clouds, whiter than the new-born snowflake. A brilliant party it was, indeed; and
                  much too brilliant, we fear, for the purse of Mr. Wilburn. He looked upon the
                  scene, and a doubtful shake of the head was all that he gave utterance to.
               Merrily glided the evening away; many were the compliments passed, and, we might
                  add, that a little slander might now and then have been heard, for woman is
                  indeed, after all, the most bitter enemy to her own sex.
               The hours wore on; the first glimmering of morning was seen in the east ere the
                  company dispersed. But time waited not for them, and soon the parlors were
                  void.
               For a week or more the party at the Wilburn's was the chief subject of
                  conversation. Many were the remarks made upon the different styles of beauty and
                  dress, not unmingled with a little jealousy and envy.
               The Wilburns were, no doubt, delighted with the furore which their brilliant entertainment occasioned, and
                  congratulated themselves that after all they had given a party which had competed
                  with any they had attended during the season. Gay and thoughtless girls! They
                  thought not of the shadows which were
                  gathering thick and fast, that their own light would be o'ercast with clouds. But
                  such is life!
               
               "Mr. Wilburn has failed!" exclaimed Pauline Grey, looking up from the paper which
                  she had been reading intently for some minutes. Why, it cannot be! it was only two
                  months ago since they gave the brilliant party—you know we went to it. Well, it
                  must really be true, since it is in the public papers."
               "I thought it would come to this, after all," replied Laura Merton, who, by the
                  way, was among the guests at the party. "I always thought the Wilburns lived
                  beyond their income; they strain every nerve to pattern after us wealthy people,
                  and all for what—merely to 'keep up appearances.' I think they were entirely too
                  extravagant, but I will wager any thing that their high notions will have to come
                  down now. What a check it must be to their pride. I am not at all sorry for them,
                  for they should not have been so extravagant."
               "I do not think, Laura, that they were at all extravagant in their dress."
               "They were as much so as they could well be. Anyhow, be that as it may, the party
                  they gave was too much beyond their income."
               "Well, that was given through compliment."
               "I suppose it was. Did you observe what a quantity of expensive confectionaries
                  they had at the party. I thought at the time they could not afford it."
               Laura was not the only one, by a great number, who thus spoke (and they were
                  present, too, at the party), after hearing of the misfortunes of Mr. Wilburn. So
                  much for the charity of the world.
               The Wilburns saw the folly of "keeping up appearances," and heartily wished they
                  had led a less fashionable life. But repentance came too late, and they were
                  compelled to suffer the ills resulting from it. It is needless to say that they no
                  longer found favor in the eyes of the fashionable world, who were the very first
                  to triumph over their misfortunes, and say that it was the final result of persons
                  who are not wealthy attempting to pattern after those who are; in other words,
                  going too far for the sake of "keeping up appearances."
            
            
               
               Woman's Work and Influence.
               
                  
                     
                        "Is aught so fair,
                        In all the dewy landscape of the spring,
                        In the bright eve of Hesper of the morn,
                        In Nature's fairest forms, is aught so fair
                        As that refinement found alone in woman."
                     
                  
               
               A certain writer has said that woman can be talented, witty and gifted, but can
                  never become truly great. A more erroneous idea never existed.
               What, woman never become great? And why not? Is she lower, in an intellectual
                  point of view, than man? Certainly not. She possesses just as much talent, and is
                  as capable of understanding the arts and sciences, and subjects of deep thought as
                  man. It is true she is not allowed a place in the Legislature; she does not plead
                  at the bar; she is not a politician. Woman should not fill such places; she was
                  not designed to make laws—it is not her duty to acquit or condemn at the bar; she
                  wishes not to mingle in the political world, for she feels that hers is a
                  different sphere altogether.
               And why is not woman truly great? If she be the means of instilling the seeds of
                  true greatness in the bosoms of her sons, can she not then be said to be truly
                  great herself? Who was it implanted the spirit of true greatness within the breast
                  of Washington, West, Patrick Henry and many others? Ask them—they will say, "My
                  mother."
               The same writer remarks that woman has not the patience to study any thing long or
                  think deeply upon any subject. It is false. It is true, she does not dive deep
                  into the sciences; she will never have to put it into practice, granted she did
                  understand the theory. She will not dwell upon the pages of Blackstone with the
                  deep interest of the lawyer, and why? It is not for the want of patience; it would
                  only be useless for her to make it her study, for it could be of but little profit
                  in the end.
               Woman has patience and perseverance; she is capable of studying upon any subject,
                  however deep, and she can comprehend it, too. She has the capacity of revolving
                  any thing in her mind; it does not fly out with lightning speed, for her mind is
                  not so giddy as to allow any thing to pass in that manner.
               "She can never become a Washington," says one; nor does she wish to be, in any
                  sense of the word. She does not wish to command armies, be amid the din of battle.
                  No! in that point she would not wish to be a Washington. She would only imitate
                  his true greatness and nobleness of character; she would have her name
                  immortalized for good deeds alone. She could not be a Clay; she has no ambition to
                  stand in the forum and deliver orations; she would not discuss the great political
                  questions of the day—slavery or anti-slavery, hard or soft shell democracy. In
                  that she does not wish her true greatness to consist.
               We are fully aware that women's rights' conventions have been held by those who
                  are fond of Bloomer costumes. This is
                  only sanctioned by a few who love to make themselves conspicuous. Those who hold
                  them, digress much from the true dignity of woman, and she should blush to be a
                  member of such an association. But we must not judge all by a few, nor must we
                  imagine that woman wishes to usurp any place belonging, by proper right, to
                  man.
               The heart of woman is the resting-place of all that is high and noble. Woman is
                  alive to every feeling of sympathy; the compassionate tear; she soothes the sad
                  and careworn; she is the guardian angel to man, the light of his pathway, the
                  brightest star in the crown of man's earthly happiness; she graces his fireside,
                  and is a meet companion for him when the cares and toils of life oppress his
                  soul.
               A true woman! she is the brightest gem upon earth; her dazzling lustre illuminates
                  the pathway of man; her kindness and gentleness exerts a most powerful influence
                  over his heart; she can accomplish more by one kind word than the monarch with his
                  mighty sceptre. God placed her upon earth to adorn society: and what, we ask,
                  would be that society apart from that holy influence which woman exerts? Would not
                  man be less refined, less social? Certainly he would. This fact has been
                  demonstrated many times, for we find that those gentlemen who are the most
                  polished are those who spend most of their time in the society of ladies. There is
                  something in woman which commands respect; she must, she will be revered.
               Woman has been too frequently censured on account of her loquacity; some one says
                  "it is as natural for a woman to talk as a Canary bird to sing."And why should she
                  not talk? Was it not to defend herself? She carries no weapon of de- fence but
                  that, and, when properly used, can do no mischief But sometimes great harm is done
                  by the injudicious use of her tongue, but she must be very careful how she uses
                  it, in order to prevent herself from being censured.
               The tongue, like all other members, may be of great use or abuse. Æsop, on one
                  occasion, was told by his master to purchase the best thing in market; when the
                  time came for dinner to be served, his master was chagrined by seeing nothing but
                  tongue, and reprimanded Æsop. "Well," replied he, "I was told to buy the best in
                  the market, and the tongue is the best." The next day he ordered him to get the
                  worst article. On entering the room, his master found tongue again. He became much
                  enraged. Æsop told him that the tongue was the very worst thing when not put to a
                  good use. This all goes to show the use and abuse of the tongue.
               And where is the true sphere of woman! Where should she preside? Is it not at
                  home?—is not this the place designed by her Maker? Should she not be in the social
                  circle as a brilliant star in the midnight heavens?—should she not be as an angel
                  of mercy to others?—should she not be the instructor of his children?—should she
                  not plant the gem of true greatness within their bosom? Should she not, like the
                  mother of Washington, teach her child to revere the truth? Yes! surely this is her
                  sphere. In the family circle her influence is great; she is the best teacher for
                  her little band; she can best train their minds and open for them the secret
                  springs of Literature and cause the crystal waters to flow. She can point them the
                  road to heaven; she can lead them in the path of virtue; she can guide their wandering footsteps so they may
                  falter not, but press on to the mark of their high calling. Such is the powerful
                  and salutary influence which woman can exert, and for such will be given her a
                  crown of glorious immortality. Through life she may have borne many ills, yet,
                  when she draws near to the end of life, she will feel that she has endeavored to
                  do her duty, of having faithfully performed the work of her Creator, and give a
                  good account of her stewardship.
            
            
               Leaves from my Journal.
               CALM, placid, aye, beautiful in death. No sign of rebuke, no frown. A sweet smile
                  lingers round, as serene as the unruffled lake sleeping in moonlight. The cheek is
                  pale; the roundness is gone; the eyes have receded—but what of that? Is there not
                  something to tell the path beauty trod? The blood no longer circulates; the pulse
                  has ceased to throb; the voice is hushed; the mirrors of the soul have closed.
               He lies in death's cold embrace, silent as the pale watches of night. The scene
                  could but awaken emotions, call to mind memories of the past—the casket has lost
                  the jewel heaven now claims. That was a noble youth; a rare combination of virtues
                  one seldom finds; but alas! he was not appreciated; his hopes were nipped in the
                  bud, and he sank prematurely into the grave; gradually life wasted away—he was now
                  no more. And if no spark of love had been kindled in the heart he loved, he hoped
                  for, aye, died for; though he had been regarded with feelings of indifference;
                  though she repulsed the affection by coldness and indifference, could the tears
                  even then be kept back, when one reflected what a world of affection was lavished upon the one who gazed upon
                  the lifeless body. Was it not pleasant to know and feel that we were worshipped,
                  though not one kindly feeling was returned? Ah, whatever might have been the
                  feelings of indifference through life; however cold and insensible to the earnest
                  instructions of one who makes you the idol of his dreams, when life's "fitful
                  dream is o'er," a still small voice will tell us that perhaps we might have
                  prolonged the life of him who passed away from earth so soon. But there are
                  emotions of the heart over which one has no control, and there are times when
                  "conscience makes cowards of us all."
            
            
               Leaves from my Journal.
               FASHION has its many fascinations and allurements. The favorite watering-places,
                  Newport, Saratoga, etc., are each season thronged with those who flock there for
                  pleasure and amusement. Many and varied are the scenes presented. The butterflies
                  of fashion flit from flower to flower, gathering the nectar from honied lips which
                  are ever ready with compliment for those to whom they are so well adapted. For it
                  is there the envier and the envied meet; the "green-eyed monster could not have
                  chosen a better place to give vent to his spleen. The less attractive and
                  beautiful are eyeing those who are considered "stars," and pass encomiums not very
                  flattering, to say the least of it.
               Dinner time arrives; now matrons, dressed no less gaily than their daughters, make
                  their way to the dining-saloon. Young ladies, with the most coquettish smiles that
                  one can possibly imagine, are stealing glances across the table (taking good care
                  to keep one eye on mamma all the while). Dinner is over; now the piazzas are
                  thronged; soon a drive is proposed, and, perhaps, before night a very desirable
                  match is made.
               Evening comes; the ball-room presents, indeed, a gorgeous spectacle. What an array of diamonds, pearls, etc.
                  The dance begins; now faces seem to grow, if possible, more bright, while the rose
                  mantles the cheek.
               But fatigue naturally follows, and when the small hours come, the ball-room is
                  deserted by the gay throng, who become suddenly sensible that sleep is, after all,
                  a luxury.
               
               The season is over; the gay and fashionable crowd return home. Their temporary
                  happiness has ceased for a while. How shall they employ themselves? What shall
                  they find to do? What shall they do to kill time? Ah! there's the rub. No longer
                  surrounded by a galaxy of admirers: no envious ones to eclipse in dress; no rival
                  ones to make jealous. But, say you, why do they not read? Alas! literature has no
                  charm for some of them; they have no love for the beautiful (except a beautiful
                  dress). They can know no permanent happiness, for they seek such transitory
                  pleasure; time hangs so heavily on, and they look in vain for something to cheer.
                  The books are lying on the table, likely not to be opened at all. The only
                  happiness they promise themselves is the return of the next season, when they
                  shall enjoy the same routine of gaiety.
               Oh, happy are they who can find pleasure, not only in that which is sought at
                  watering-places, but are not dependent upon it. With so many books from which we
                  may make a choice; so many sources from whence we can obtain knowledge, one cannot
                  reasonably say that "time hangs heavily on."
               Moonlight sheddeth her gentle influence o'er me, 
                     trauquil
                     tranquil
                  , soft evening hour, calm and beautiful as twilight in Eden. Wondrous
                  enchantress, why lurest thou me? Why lead me to Eden's bowers! Is not earth less
                  bright than thy own home? I am mortal, thy companions are angels. Oft hast thy
                  magic influence been felt, and yet one cannot tell why thou wilt thus enrapture.
                  Who hath not loved to watch thy silent majesty? Who would not woo thy gaze? Thou
                  art a bright-winged messenger sent to cheer us. Without thee earth would seem
                  nought but a barren waste, a desert without an oasis. 'Tis thou who givest cheer
                  to the benighted traveler, and doth lead him through the trackless forest. Day
                  seems to smile upon us even after she hath departed, for thou wearest her apparel.
                  Magic moonlight, all feel thy power, all are led captive to thy witching
                  charms.
               Oh, music! thy power is boundless; neath thy mighty voice the most turbulent heart
                  must bow. Oh, music, sweet music, thou heaven-born spirit, thou messenger of light
                  and peace, dwell thou with me ever! Methinks I could live upon thy harmony—oh,
                  lonely spirit, my heart is filled with rapture, and, as I list to thee, my ear
                  seems to drink in the melody. Thy whisperings bring to memory other days. Oh, that
                  it were thy mission to waft 
                     thonghts
                     thoughts
                   and wishes to loved ones far, far away; gladly would I choose thee for
                  my messenger. Thou art my talisman, gentle one, I dream of all that is beautiful
                  when near thee, for thy cheering presence brings peace and joy.
            
            
               
               A Leaf.
               UNDER his wife's thumb. I pity him. No, I don't either; for in my opinion he might
                  find an escape-valve somewhere. It is rather unpleasant, I should think, to be
                  nudged every now and then, or else have a pet corn trodden upon, because the eyes
                  would be a little truant sometimes. What a face! why it is as long as the Moral
                  Law. Poor man, he sees his own troubles—wonder if he thinks he has drawn a prize
                  in the Lottery of Matrimony? Wonder if he wouldn't be willing to sell his ticket
                  for half price. But he has made a contract in which there is no backing out. He
                  gets affectionate pats on the cheeks (that is, when he does not look at the pretty
                  girls). A kiss greets him every time he comes in; but he would be willing to
                  forego all these little luxuries (?) if he was only permitted to breathe when he
                  felt like it, or go out one or two hours in the evening to meet a friend on
                  business without being catechised an hour prior to starting, and then the strict
                  injunction to come home precisely at ten.
               But Mr. Longface is not so much under his wife's thumb as one might imagine when
                  he is seated by his fair and lovely (?) spouse; "still water runs deep," and so do
                  his thoughts. A capital one he is at planning, his phrenological developments in
                  that particular are prodigious.
               Haven't I seen him chatting and enjoying himself as the mouse does when the cat is
                  away? Don't he like to play sick, and by that means go to the sea shore just long
                  enough to have a few delightful flirtations? What sweet letters he writes to his
                  darling after enjoying a promenade with some famous belle.
               Doesn't he express a great desire to be in his charming wife's presence in his
                  letter of love? and winds up with a pressing invitation—even positively insists
                  that she shall join him for the purpose of returning home. How he groans when he
                  finds she has actually consented to come. What an astonishing effect the sea air
                  and baths have had after her arrival; "Richard is himself again!" The sooner the
                  better he gets out of sight of those bright eyed belles and the sound of their
                  merry voices. He always knows which way the wind blows and when the storm is
                  likely to rise, since he is advised of that fact by the roar of distant thunder,
                  which is the voice of Mrs. Longface How he laughs in his sleeve when he reflects
                  what a farce he is sometimes compelled to play in order to get a little recreation
                  and keep peace in the neighborhood.
            
            
               
               A Fragment.
               YOU have never lost a dear one—then you know not what pangs lacerate the heart
                  when entering the chamber so lately occupied by that friend; you know not what it
                  is to feel that there is a vacancy every where; by the fireside, at the table, in
                  the pew at church. No scalding tears roll down the cheek at the sight of the "old
                  arm-chair," that was sure to be brought forward at a certain time. You know not
                  what painful emotions fill the bosom, as one listens to the howling of the winds;
                  Ah! you have not lost a dear one; it were not well, for those who have never known
                  sorrow cannot sympathize with those who are deeply grieved—ah! no. Every thing
                  with them is sunshine and brightness. You dream not that clouds may come, you
                  reflect not for a single moment that ties may be broken, that near and loving
                  friends may be called away; you know not that a cheerful home may be made gloomy;
                  that its halls will all seem deserted.
               I have lost a dear parent, a loving, kind father; one who doated upon me; one who
                  felt that I was the sunlight of his existence; who delighted to have me as his
                  companion during the tedious hours of illness. Aye! and I know what it is to stand
                  beside the couch while the angel of Death was on its way to call him hence; and
                  though the cold dews of death which gathered thickly on his forehead, were wiped
                  quickly away by my own hand, still did hope, the golden star, beam and bid me
                  imagine he would not die yet. Alas! even while I watched so eagerly for signs of
                  recovery he was called away. I felt the hand as it grew cold, and noted the pulse
                  when it ceased to beat. Ah! there is a great vacancy, one that can never be
                  filled; everything too forcibly reminds me of the stern fact. But with him it was
                  not death to die. Ah! no; his pure spirit is now free and untrammeled. Angels hath
                  borne it away to their home in Paradise. Our loss is indeed his gain.
            
            
               
               A Peep out of the Window.
               PAT, pat goes the rain against my window; now and then the shower grows more
                  copious. The threatening clouds seem prophetic of rain for all day, if not for
                  several. Every body is perfectly drenched, children are hurrying to and fro,
                  market-women with baskets well filled sufficient to last two days (remembering
                  Sunday). A few have been caught out in their best bib and tucker, and are not very
                  well pleased with the idea of having them rendered unfit to appear in again. The
                  streets certainly look any thing but inviting, nothing but mud puddles to step
                  over; dresses are raised just high enough to display various styles of feet—some
                  are pretty enough to be seen (and those who are fond of scandal might hint that
                  such days were generally taken advantage of for displaying them), while others are
                  not exactly of such a mould as an artist would take for a model.
               I have stood by my window for about two hours highly interested and amused—a rainy
                  day never makes me gloomy; no, no, not while there are so many looks both in and
                  out doors. We often read a volume in a face; frequently the introduction is better
                  than the finale. A rainy day does seem, above all others, to be the very one to
                  see people unmasked; it is not well to see the best side of a character always—we
                  like variety.
               What gallantry (?) here, like the knights in the age of chivalry (?). On the
                  opposite side stands a young girl, who has been accosted by one we suppose passes
                  for a gentleman. There she stands chatting away, and looking as coquettish as
                  possible. The rain had nearly ceased. Still an umbrella was requisite. What a
                  perfect model of a gentleman (?). Barnum ought to have him for certain. There he
                  stands like a post, unmindful of the broad hint the fair one gives for the aid of
                  his umbrella: he is as deaf to that hint as a delinquent debtor when a bill is
                  handed him. She finally finds that it is no use to waste her killing glances on
                  him, for he may, evidently does not intend to play the gallant. He very politely
                  makes a bow (so he thinks), says "Good day," and is off, would you believe it?
                  with his umbrella. What gallantry! I exclaimed. How incongruous it did seem to me,
                  for a man to be so entirely void of politeness, and the only way one can account
                  for it is the same the old woman gave, when some one wanted to know why cows had
                  horns, "It is the nature of the beast."
            
            
               
               The Lottery Ticket, and the Prize it Drew.
               "WHAT makes you so dispirited and dolorous of late, Roland?" remarked a dark-eyed
                  sister, as the young man alluded to entered the parlor and took a seat on the
                  sofa. "Really," she continued, fastening her dark eyes on him, while a mischievous
                  smile lingered on her fair features and her delicate foot tapped the pliant carpet
                  petulantly, "I cannot tell the day when I saw you look so solemn and gloomy as you
                  now do; in fact, brother, you look as melancholy as a weather-beaten gable on a
                  rainy day. Now, I should really like to know the cause of this, and if there is
                  any remedy or antidote that I can prescribe, I shall be most happy to do it. I am
                  sure the day never was fairer, the sky clearer, the meadow more beautifully
                  carpeted with soft, green grass, nor the peach trees fuller of gay blossoms, than
                  now. Then why this sombreness, if I may be allowed the use of the epithet, of your
                  deportment?"
               When she concluded, Roland looked up as grave and awe-inspiring as a deacon when
                  exhorting his hearers to repentance, and inquired, in a corresponding tone—
               "Have you got through, sister?"
               "Through? No. I can give you a whole lecture, if you wish; but first, how do you
                  like the tone of my remarks?"
               "I have nothing in particular to say, either pro
                  or con, because they were anticipated. You
                  charge me with being gloomy, and I, with equal propriety, can retort by calling
                  you querulous; because, if I am merry and jubilant, I am foolish in your opinion
                  and estimation, and when I am thoughtful and serious, you say I am as doleful as a
                  funeral train. Now, is this not true, sister?"
               "I must, like the culprit at the bar of justice, plead guilty as to part, while to
                  the remainder I will plead the general answer; whereby I controvert each
                  allegation and deny the same."
               "Of a verity, Amelia, I should advise you to enter some lawyer's office and
                  commence reading Blackstone and Kent, as you quote legal phraseology as fluently
                  as an infant does the Hebrew tongue," said Roland laughingly.
               "Avast to your joking, especially at the present time, as I wish to learn the true
                  cause of your late conduct."
               "There it is, again; when I do make a pleasant remark, you repudiate it
                  immediately; but I don't feel disposed to enter into any altercation with you; and
                  will, as you appear to be so anxious to learn it, tell you why I have been
                  somewhat thoughtful for the last month or so."
               "Now you begin to talk as a brother should; and, by all means, go on."
               "To gratify your womanly curiosity, then, I was just ruminating over what I have
                  lately done, and —"
               He dropped his head and paused, as though the thought was terrible and too painful
                  to relate.
               
               She saw with astonishment this singular manœuvre, and said, in an agitated
                  manner—
               "Go on, brother; tell me all! You surely have not committed a mur—"
               The remainder of the word was uttered in an inaudible whisper.
               After sighing nervously, he raised his head and replied—
               "No, 'Melia; I have not committed any thing that is strictly criminal, other than
                  in a moral view, and even then, I might be exonerated."
               "You have excited my curiosity to its highest pitch; so please tell me all about
                  the matter, so that, if necessary, I can aid you; and if it is so that it will not
                  admit of aid, that I can sympathize with you."
               "Thank you, sister, for your kindness, but I do amazingly hate to tell you any
                  thing at all concerning it, as it in no wise relates to you; and, furthermore, I
                  am sorry that I have been the unhappy means of arousing your curiosity."
               "Oh, plague take you, brother, for thus tormenting me. I never thought you were so
                  cruel. Pray tell me all, as you have told me a part."
               "Well, I have taken a —"
               "What, brother, what?" she eagerly asked, interrupting him.
               "Do not permit yourself to become so excited; I have done nothing so very
                  outrageous."
               "I was too fast, Roland; but will now remain silent till you get through."
               "As I was saying, I have taken —"
               "Nobody's life, I hope; have you, brother?"
               "You appear very apprehensive and mistrustful lest I should have done that which
                  is wrong; so much so, in fact, as to totally disregard your promise to cease
                  interrupting me while I relate that which gives you so much uneasiness and
                  dissatisfaction. If you will endeavor to keep as quiet as you conveniently can, I
                  will proceed."
               Perceiving that her eagerness had led her too far, she slightly bit her lips, and
                  requested him to tell his story, and she'd "do the best she could."
               "To commence anew, I have lately taken a chance in a lottery which has caused all
                  this (so called) 'seriousness.'"
               "I am sincerely sorry, Roland, that you have been again allured from the path of
                  strict integrity, by the tempting inducements held out by these lotteries. Don't
                  you remember you promised me, not long ago, that you would never risk any more in
                  those fraudulent concerns? I should think, too, that your experience in that
                  business was sufficient to steel your heart against them all. You know the manner
                  in which they are conducted, and that a prize scarce ever leaves the firm who own
                  the lottery. They are nothing more nor less than a fraud and an imposition, where
                  the community is annually robbed of many thousands of dollars. You have purchased
                  ticket after ticket, and package after package, and what have you realized from
                  it? Why, sir, nothing, aside from an empty purse and a burning anxiety to try
                  again, only to lose more. If you have purchased another ticket, and whether you
                  draw a prize or another blank, let it be the last one. Hearken to the advice of a
                  sister, and you will never fill a suicide's grave."
               "St. Peter, St. John, St. Michael, and St. Dominic, deliver me from being obliged to swallow all the orthodox
                  morality that you can preach; but this is quite immaterial, as my determination is
                  concluded, and it precisely corresponds with your advice. I should not have
                  purchased this last chance had I not been confident of securing a prize. Indeed, I
                  am so sure of it that I would not sell my chance for a thousand pounds sterling,
                  which amount Ned Harris offered me, yesterday."
               "So you choose rather to make him your confidant, than your sister!"
               "Ha! ha! 'Melia, I wonder if you think I could trust you with a secret of mine,
                  with any degree of certainty that you would retain it? I never yet came in contact
                  with a woman who could keep a secret in any other way than to keep it a-going.
               "How provoking you are, this morning! Now that you have taken a chance in a
                  lottery, please inform me when you expect to receive the prize."
               "As you haven't asked me which particular lottery I have procured the
                  chance in, I will tell you something as to the time of its being drawn. I think in
                  about a month. That I shall get a prize, rest assured; but I must now fulfil an
                  engagement previously made."
               Saying which he sprang to his feet and left the house.
               "What a diffident set of beings these brothers are," mused Amelia, after Roland
                  had quitted her presence. "No doubt he thinks my curiosity is excited to its
                  highest degree; and by his conduct he appears determined to keep it there; but I
                  am not foolish enough to permit such a small matter as the purchase of a lottery
                  ticket—a mere piece of paper—and as worthless as it is small—to agitate
                     my feelings a particle. No, no; he may do as he has a mind to. I
                  shouldn't have said a word about his looks, hadn't I suspected something more
                  radical in effect was in his head.
               "Well, well," she continued, after a moment's pause, "things have arrived at a
                  pretty pass, when a brother can't or won't trust his sister. I'm sure
                  I don't care any thing about his 'chance,' other than I wish he would lose, just
                  because he cast such insinuations upon the ladies. Talk about a woman's not being
                  able to keep a secret, when he knows I kept one for him a whole week; and when I
                  did tell it, it was purely accidental. But never mind, I may yet be the possessor
                  of a secret that he would like to know, when I will retaliate this conduct of
                  his."
               After thus relieving herself of her pent-up thoughts, she seated herself before
                  her piano, and commenced drumming away just as though she was going to drown her
                  curiosity with "the concord of"—of—any thing but "sweet sounds."
                  Alas! such was not the case; and the more she played the more agitated she became.
                  Finding that music was but a poor antidote for a disturbed mind, she reclined on
                  the sofa and began reading "Bleak House," which possessed the "sovereign balm"
                  sought for, because in less than ten minutes she was wandering in the fairy realms
                  of dreamland.
               Roland, in the meantime, sauntered down the street, and called upon a certain
                  young lady of his acquaintance, to whom he had already applied the endearing
                  epithet of "my dear Sarah;" and he might have changed it a little,
                  with equal propriety, and read thus: "My intended."
               A pleasant hour, or an hour was very pleasantly spent in her society, when he
                  journeyed on, down the shadowy vale of life. I will not deign to tell or even presume the nature
                  of their conversation, being yet but a novice in such matters.
               Time passed onward as rapidly as usual, until a month had disappeared, when Roland
                  entered his sister's apartment, one evening, and said, in a meaning tone—
               "There, sister, is the ticket of which I spoke, some time since."
               On receiving it she hastily glanced at it, and found it to be a wedding card.
               "Oh, you cruel wretch, you!" she exclaimed, in well affected astonishment, "to
                  thus fool me."
               "Why, sis, I did not try to deceive you; you tried to fool yourself."
               "I don't know whether to construe this as real, or another ruse of yours. Is it or is it not a ruse?"
               "I am perfectly honest in this; the card means just what it says; and now that you
                  have learned which lottery I purchased the chance in, will you tell
                  me whether or no you deem my course and selection a judicious one, taking into
                  consideration the fact that I was so sure of getting a prize."
               "Yes, with all sincerity, I can say, in biblical language, 'Thou hast done well,'
                  for a better girl never smiled over a cook-stove than Sarah Kayton. While I
                  disapprove of your having kept all knowledge of your courtship from me, I must say
                  that you have made a good selection."
               "So you have relented in a measure, and don't cherish such feelings of animosity
                  against all lotteries?"
               "No, not a particle. When I made that remark, I had direct reference to money
                  lotteries, and never even thought of what the old poet said when he sung,
                  'Marriage is a lottery.' No, no, brother; I entertain the same opinion of money
                  lotteries now that I did then."
               "Well, I concur with you, and shall always remember that sage advice you gave
                  me."
               
               A month afterward, if you had entered a pleasant little vine-clad dwelling
                  on—street, in the village of N—, you might have been a witness to a practical
                  demonstration of "love in a cottage."
               There dwelt Roland and Sarah, as contented and happy as two earthly mortals
                  possibly can be.
               Although many years have since passed, and reverses have crossed his threshold,
                  yet he has never had occasion to regret the procuring of his last "Lottery Ticket, nor the Prize It Drew.
            
            
               
               Suggested on Seeing a Little Child at Prayer.
               A CHILD at prayer—a beauteous sight! Dimpled hands clasped; eyes lifted heavenward
                  imploring a blessing upon the youthful one. An orphan of six summers—God help the
                  orphan—though not one word was breathed, her looks would be eloquent enough. An
                  orphan! sweet child, like a frail bark upon the uncertain sea of life, to battle
                  with the waves of sorrow and disappointment. But a mother's spirit watches over
                  you, and though the canopy of heaven veil her from view, yet she is a talisman.
                  The evening hour bears upon its fleeting wings your orisons to the shrine of
                  heaven; angels there the record write. Who could harm you? Who could say one
                  cruel, unkind word when they gaze upon you and reflect that you are indeed an
                  orphan? An orphan! What does that word convey? It is but a name, alas! of too many
                  thrown upon the unfeeling world, trusting to kindness when so little is to be
                  found. Heaven shield you from all harm; pluck the storms from your pathway, and
                  strew sweet flowers. As I watch you on your bended knees, does it not seem an
                  example bidding me to "go and do likewise." And as the sweet words, "Our Father,"
                  fall from your lips, angels are the listeners. Let it breathe its simple prayer.
                  He who hath said, "Suffer little children to come unto me," will hear your voice,
                  sweet one.
            
            
               Reflections.
               [WRITTEN ON MY RETURN HOME AFTER THE GREAT EPIDEMIC, 1855.]
               GONE! whispers the passing wind—yes, gone. Those dear and cherished friends upon
                  whose familiar faces we loved to gaze—no more will that sweet smile beam upon us;
                  ah! that well-known voice is hushed in death—that step which we never mistook will
                  never be heard again—"gone," "gone."
               Yes! the fond husband, who watched with so much anxiety at the bedside of his
                  loved and cherished wife while sickness had seized upon her frame. At the midnight
                  hour he watched untiringly as if to chase away the angel of death. But soon
                  returning health came, and lo! in a few days he was indeed "gone"—oh! the bitter
                  agony of that dark, gloomy hour.
               The mother, as she gazed upon the pallid features of her dear and only child,
                  felt, that she must go too, should the messenger of death come and bear it upon
                  its wings away. And yet, she was the one destined to leave the child whom she had
                  prayed to Heaven to spare, to face the cold, unfeeling world.
               "Gone"—the young maiden just on the very verge of the marriage altar, while the
                  orange wreath is being twined to deck
                  her brow, is suddenly seized, and in a few moments an angel gently
                  whispers—"gone."
               The noble pastor who still clings like the good shepherd to his little flock, day
                  after day, administering to the wants of his people—ah! how welcome is his
                  presence, it is so like the sunbeam peering through a dark cloud, or a bright star
                  rising at the midnight hour.
               But his work is done on earth—spirits at the evening hour tell him ere long he
                  will be among the blessed. Now the good pastor hath bade adieu to his little band
                  on earth to join with those who have gone before—oh! the happiness of welcoming
                  him home to his celestial mansion.
               The saddened orphan as she mourns in her desolate home, remembers the accents of a
                  loving mother—oh! how dear, yet how sad the thoughts of the past—now cometh the
                  remembrance of scenes which live but in memory. The mother's gentle voice is
                  hushed, yet still the sweet echo lingers in her ear.
               And Christmas is in our midst. Oh! what a sad, sad change hath taken place in a
                  few months. Death hath been among us, and, like the woodman in the forest who
                  fells down the most stately and healthy oak, so hath death laid low those whom we
                  thought bid fair to dwell long in this beautiful world of ours. Yes! the world is
                  beautiful—are not the twinkling stars which shine in heaven beautiful? whisper
                  they not some tale of other days? or bring us tidings of those who dwell above?
                  Are not the flowers which bloom in spring time fragrant and fair?—are they not the
                  "alphabet of angels?"—have they not a story of their own? The rising sun, too, in
                  its golden splendor, sheds a lustre over all creation, gilding the streams and
                  tall spires, adding a brightness and joy to the landscape of nature. Oh! yes, the
                  world is beautiful. But we have digressed.
               Ah! how many will be absent at the Christmas dinner—how many will be wanting at
                  the fireside. Every thing will seem to whisper—"gone," "gone."
               Many a sweet and artless child who hailed the dawn of Christmas with joy, and
                  smiled with happiness when the expected gift was presented, is now no more.
               Strange faces we meet every where; but oh! we cannot give up those dear friends to
                  whom we have been so much attached—no, no, our heart is with them, and we love
                  them in their graves. We dreamed not that when last Christmas dawned upon us, so
                  many would be missing when this festival season came around again. We trust that
                  we never will be called upon to witness such scenes as the past few months have
                  presented to our God-forsaken cities, Norfolk and Portsmouth. May the dark clouds
                  clear away, and many a heart which is now bowed down with grief, see yet a
                  brighter day.
               We must not close without adding a word for the "Carrier." Remember him liberally,
                  for while you rested he toiled silently to present you with the paper. Bear in
                  mind that he has but little of this world's goods. Ye, upon whom fortune hath
                  smiled, should ever lend a ready hand in assisting those who are less highly
                  blessed. "A merry Christmas," a "Happy New Year," and many returns of the
                  same.
            
            
               
               A Fragment.
               YOU never knew old Hannah; perhaps not, for one so obscure and familiar with
                  poverty is not likely to attract attention. Slowly and silently she trudges along
                  this vale of tears unheeded and unmasked. Not one spot hath she to call her own,
                  yet she is not to be respected any the less for this. No, no; her gray hairs
                  should be regarded with reverence.
               Old Hannah has passed her three score years and ten, and is now truly in second
                  childhood. The times had changed and she had changed with them. One day, coming to
                  ask her little bounty as usual, she held up a coin to me and asked, "How much is
                  this?" "One cent," I replied; it was the new cent. It was with much effort that I
                  made her hear, for she was very deaf; she seemed surprised at my answer. How was
                  she to know the changes going on in the currency? she could not read, and there
                  were none to tell her, for so few cared to talk with her.
               Oh, how it makes my heart bleed when I look at her emaciated frame. But she does
                  not forget to smile; when she comes in her face seems to lighten up; it makes me
                  feel a thousand times more happy when she seems so; why, I would meet her with a
                  smile if my heart were breaking with grief the while. I love to take her thin hand
                  within my own, and lead her to the warm fireside. What if the alms-house is her
                  home? What if my Heavenly Father has blessed me with every comfort while she has
                  none? should I not be the more charitable for all this? Our hearts should ever be
                  open to give freely to the poor.
               Old Hannah has none of this world's goods, but she is rich in those virtues which
                  should ever cluster around a true Christian's heart. Benignant Heaven has not
                  forgotten to reserve a place for her; for there is "no respect of persons." Though
                  the burning suns of summer scorch her brow, and the keen winds of winter howl
                  around, while she has no comfort, yet the time will come soon when old Hannah will
                  land in that haven "where the weary shall be at rest."
            
            
               
               TABLEAUX.
               SPARKLING eyes shedding their softest tints upon all; you star beameth not more
                  brightly nor giveth greater joy to my soul. How they seem to kindle anew while
                  gazing upon the lovely scenes in nature, the soft tinted flowers, the beauteous
                  night—all, all so lovely. Those cheeks, like the downy peach in its pride and
                  beauty; not more beautiful is the virgin moon when she peeps, as it were, from
                  behind the veil of night, blushing as if fearing to meet Venus, with sparkling
                  diamonds shining upon her brow. May that brightness ne'er fade from her cheeks.
                  Ruby lips parted by two smiles which play hide and seek with the pearls they
                  encase, aye! the most gorgeous ruby would faded seem when compared with those
                  lips.
               That voice! not sweeter or more enchanting is the strain borne from Æolian harps,
                  or whisperings of nightingales which lull the weary one to rest. The spring bird
                  might pause as on light wing it speeds away to its forest home, while the cadence
                  of a voice more sweet is poured forth. Ever let me hear that lute-like voice. Form
                  of symmetry and beauty! to what shall I compare thee? A goddess indeed, yet more
                  beautiful! With what care and grace doth she move along, not more hath the swan
                  upon the gentle lake. Truly this is a picture of life.
               
               Closed forever are those bright eyes! are they destined no more to gaze on me?
                  have they indeed been shut by some unseen hand? shall they behold no more the
                  beauties of this lower world? But hark! methinks I hear a spirit whisper "they
                  have opened in a far brighter world than this." What, faded and gone, ye roses?
                  Ah! too soon hast thou withered; much did I love to watch thy timid beauty. Alas!
                  alas! too true: ye have been blighted by an untimely frost. I would not that thou
                  should have died so soon. A whisper, a voice tells me they bloom in Paradise.
               That voice! I hear it no more—like a harp whose strings have been severed, or the
                  mute lyre o'er which no fairy fingers now pass. Shall I indeed hear that loud
                  voice no more. Oh, sad reality! an echo from the spirit world—it chants the song
                  of angels!
               That form! is it indeed marble cold? Shall I see it glide along no more? must it
                  moulder away in the tomb? must it be the prey of worms? What, that form God hath
                  made so beautiful, decay? Will it no more be imbued with life and beauty? This
                  surely is Death. That being, whispereth a seraph, will again live, aye! it was
                  made in God's own image; and while it seems to decay, the grave shall hide it from
                  view. Hast thou not seen the flowers fade away at early summer, and e'en the
                  parent stem wither—did'st thou not in spring-time behold it bud forth again? Know
                  thou then this being shall live again; an immortal soul cannot die but will live
                  in a still brighter world. Surely this is not death, but a gentle, quiet slumber
                  from which the seemingly dead shall awaken into new life.
            
            
               
               Yet Wanting.
               TO say that Lena Worthington was truly beautiful, would be to pass but a
                  common-place encomium upon that rare charm we so seldom find in persons. Her soft,
                  dark eyes mirrored forth a high and noble soul—one ever alive to the keen
                  sufferings of others. The world pronounced Lena proud and cold; she stood aloof
                  from the common mass of people, because they were not congenial with herself. They
                  could not approach her, because she was so unlike them. Her's was a heart replete
                  with fondest love and devotion. Surely, then, it could not be impervious to the
                  shafts of Cupid. Ere she knew it, that gem, priceless, indeed, was bestowed upon
                  one whom she almost worshipped. He was noble, good and kind. Lena saw in him every
                  virtue the heart could possibly desire—she thought. Consenting, she was soon led
                  to the bridal altar. What joy sat enthroned in her heart while she twined the
                  orange-wreath 'mid her dark tresses!
               * * * Time passed on; Lena's brow had a shade of care, and yet, she knew not why.
                  He to whom she had given herself, was kind in the general acceptation of the term;
                  if she expressed a wish, it was immediately granted. Yet wanting! What could be
                  wanting? every kindness possible was shown. Ah! Lena was a solitary star whose
                  beams found no congenial spot to centre upon; a weary and wandering dove which
                  hath no haven where to alight and fold its wings in peace.
               There were moments when more than kindness was needed; more than the external
                  demonstrations of affection. But, alas! she found it not in him who had led her to
                  the altar; and though he loved her with the purest devotion, still something was
                  wanting. He could not fully appreciate those sentiments and feelings which would
                  arise spontaneously within the bosom of Lena. If he saw the tear steal down her
                  velvet cheek, he thought it woman's weakness. Not once did he reflect that a
                  single kind word from himself was like the dew-drop at the presence of the golden
                  sunbeam.
               Yet wanting! something would seem to whisper to the gentle Lena while she brooded
                  over her sorrow, and the more was added to the weight of her grief because none
                  could enter into her feeling. But few in this cold, matter-of-fact world can fully
                  appreciate those tender sentiments which are so often awakened within the bosom of
                  those whom the world calls dreamers. Ah! they know not, feel not, the richness and
                  beauty of that heart which lingers o'er some sweet dream of other days, that was
                  too light to be of long duration. Oh! that there were some spot where one could
                  soar away and find a congenial spirit to partake of its grief—that grief the cold
                  and callous world calls folly.
               Yet wanting! Ah! how many a fair and lovely creature pines away like sweet Lena,
                  who had given her heart to one whom she thought could value it, and though he was
                  what the world called "the best of
                  men," Lena found him "yet wanting."
               Heaven grant that each lone and wandering spirit may yet find one to love them as
                  they would be loved—who can mingle their joys and sorrows—who may never feel the
                  force of the words, "Yet Wanting."
            
            
               A Portfolio Leaf.
               OH! it is sad to see the young die; to stand beside the couch, and watch the cold
                  dews of death as they gather upon the brow—we wipe them away; but, ah! they come
                  but the thicker and faster. Ah! it is heartrending to see one of the group
                  snatched away in its very bloom and loveliness, and perchance the gayest of them
                  all; who enjoyed life to its fullest extent—one who made father, mother, sisters,
                  aye! all, happy, whose presence was like a ray of golden sunlight bringing joy
                  even in sadness. It is as if a choice flower were suddenly blighted by the
                  withering touch of death.
               One link in the domestic chain has been severed—one is missing from the
                  household—every thing brings forcibly to mind the "loved and lost." The chamber so
                  long occupied by the sick one, is now deserted indeed; no footsteps tread lightly,
                  no feeble voice is heard, no faint light glimmers at the midnight hour, no anxious
                  mother keeps the watch nor takes the feverish hand, as if almost fearing to feel
                  the pulse—the great watch of life—lest it beat even more feebly. It was painful to
                  see her upon the couch of sickness; yet there was a great satisfaction to know she
                  still lived, and that converse could be
                  held; it was pleasant to see a sister's smile of love, or hear a word of gratitude
                  spoken by the sufferer.
               But alas! all is changed now—she is gone—oh! it was a sad hour among the dear
                  friends upon earth when the jewel left the casket. It was a triumphant hour when
                  the angelic host opened the gates of Paradise to admit that spirit, and place upon
                  the brow the unfading wreath of immortality. She whispers in the calm evening
                  hour, "Weep not for me, for I'm happy now."
               There is a vacancy every where—the accustomed place in the house of God, which she
                  was wont to fill each Sabbath in the hours of health; the fireside; the table,
                  every where!
               But thou hast gone to thy resting-place; like the weary dove, thou hast folded thy
                  wings in peace. The evening hour will seem to bear upon its wings the message of
                  love to the household band who mourn thy loss.
               Thou art not dead—no! for with thee it was not death to die; thy spirit hath burst
                  its prison fetters, and soars away to those realms of joy; even now thou roamest
                  at will through the amaranthine bowers of Paradise, whose unfading flowers bloom;
                  where stars are ever bright and skies cloudless. Like some star did'st thou recede
                  from view whilst we watched its brilliancy. No voice can call thee here again; no
                  tears can bring thee back to earth.
               Thou wilt not be forgotten—no! no!—thy virtues, like the perfume which lingers
                  around the flower ever after it has faded, will ever serve to bring thee to mind.
                  No time can ever efface so bright an image from memory.
            
            
               Christmas.
               CHRISTMAS is coming! Christmas is coming! burst forth from the lips of a merry
                  group of children. Now their little heads are filled with the thoughts of the
                  pleasure they will then partake of; the number of presents "Santa Clans" will
                  bring them, and the sugar-plums kind papa and mamma will have in store on that
                  occasion. Great talk is made of the Christmas-tree, which will be loaded with
                  every article to fascinate the little creatures. Gladly would they hasten the two
                  remaining weeks which remain ere Christmas would dawn upon them. Kind, indulgent
                  parents have they, luxuries surround them; of money they know no use, save in
                  gratifying their every childish whim and wish. Brightly blazes the fire upon the
                  hearth; they all cluster around it, and, while nurse is preparing them for bed,
                  they talk of Christmas, and wonder if "Santa Claus" is not thinking about what he
                  shall get for them; each make a wish, as to what they most desire, and hope that
                  kind "Santa" is within hearing. Now, being ready for bed, kind nurse tucks them
                  nicely away, and draws the curtains around; soon they are sleeping, and dream of
                  Christmas and its joys.
               
               
               "Christmas is only two weeks off, Papa! will you not promise to give that elegant
                  diamond set? Only think, I will be seventeen on that very day. I am sure you could
                  not refuse, dear papa, to grant that simple request. I would prefer that to any
                  thing else you could give me. Now, do not forget, dear papa, for I shall look for
                  it among the numerous other presents which I expect to get on that day."
               Thus spoke a young and gay creature. Ever since the hour of her birth had she
                  shared largely of the luxuries of life. Her home was elegance itself. Every thing
                  that money could purchase was hers. Much had she desired the gorgeous diamond set,
                  and kind papa had already obtained it, unbeknown to her. Great will be the joy of
                  her heart on that auspicious morning. Lovely and beautiful was she; in soft rings
                  lay her auburn locks on her brow of snow, and upon the neck on which the diamond
                  necklace was destined to be placed. Although womanhood had dawned upon her, yet
                  she still retained that childishness and innocency which characterized her earlier
                  years. She was the only child, and no wish could be left ungratified; life for her
                  was one perpetual sunshine; no dark cloud spread itself o'er her pathway, and no
                  rude storm had seared the petals of the tender flowers of love and hope, which
                  sprang up in her pathway. Thus may life ever be with the fair child of
                  fortune.
               
               "Christmas is coming, mother; I have been laboring harder these two weeks than
                  usual, for I wanted to have a nice turkey for you and my little brother. We have
                  been debarred from any dainties of late, because I was out of work; but, mother, I
                  will spur up and keep good courage; I will try to save money enough, after our
                  rent is paid, to get something to make some pies, too. It makes me sad to see you
                  look so pale and wan of late; I will use all my endeavors to get a good supply of
                  wood for the winter, to protect you from the cold; I am not at all anxious about
                  myself, it is for you and my little brother I care."
               So said the devoted daughter to her widowed mother, whom she had supported for two
                  years; her health had so failed her that it become necessary for her to depend
                  entirely upon the exertions of her daughter. Christmas was coming, but it was not
                  looked forward to with joyful feelings for the kind and gentle mother thought of
                  her child who had been laboring so hard to gain a sustenance and to obtain
                  something to make Christmas appear more joyful to them. Pale and wan was the cheek
                  of Lettia but she toiled on faithfully and performed her work, hoping by this to
                  gain the necessary comforts for her widowed mother and orphan brother, who
                  numbered but six summers.
               
               "Christmas is near dear mother and you will then get paid for that work; you know
                  Mrs.—told you to call on that day and she would then pay you." Still closer clings
                  the little orphan boy and he nestles his head in the lap of his mother.
               Just glance kind reader around the apartment and see the picture, a few broken
                  chairs and a scanty couch constitutes all the furniture; a few coals are upon the
                  hearth and dimly burns the lamp upon the table. The cold wind is howling without
                  and the orphan clings to his mother as if to screen himself from danger. Christmas
                  hath no joy for them—no, it only serves to remind them of former years when a home of comfort
                  was their's; but now all those days have passed away.
               Oh! how many hearts throb at the thoughts of Christmas; how many preparations are
                  being made. Those who have every comfort that heart can wish, know not the pangs
                  of those upon whom poverty rests. A cheerless day indeed is Christmas to the
                  destitute; no dainty table is spread; no fire brightly glows upon the hearth; no
                  merry voices are heard. Many are the sad changes which each year brings around. To
                  the opulent, perchance some freak of future may frustrate their many plans; to the
                  desolate, a new joy may dawn upon their hearts, and they will exclaim "a merry
                  Christmas for me."
               * * * * * This festive season is looked forward to with much delight. Many are
                  joyful at its dawn, while others shed the tears of sorrow when they reflect what
                  hath passed since the last twelve months first commenced their rapid flight upon
                  the unstable wings of time.
               A "merry Christmas" to you all my dear friends. May it ever be thus with you
                  through life. May future ever smile joyously and each returning Christmas be
                  hailed with gladness.
            
            
               The Valentine.
               A VALENTINE! a Valentine! yes, I was sure I would get one. I knew that Clarence
                  would not forget. Oh! he is a noble soul, and worthy is he of the love of all.
                  Just think, he is now in China—yet distance makes no difference with him. I knew
                  very well that he would not forget, for he told me that he would prove true. Oh!
                  constant Clarence, ever will my heart beat warmly and truly for you; absence can
                  never make me cease to love one so faithful. Truly can I speak what my heart now
                  prompts me. Yes! these words come from the innermost chambers of the heart—they
                  are not mere lip service.
               
                  
                     I love thee yet, I love thee yet,
                     Ne'er can this faithful heart forget
                     The pledge of love thou gav'st to me,
                     My sailor of the deep blue sea.
                  
                  
                     Art faithful? yes, I know thou art —
                     And though from thee I'm doomed to part,
                     Yet still my heart e'er clings to thee,
                     My sailor of the deep blue sea.
                  
                  
                     Haste, haste, ye winds, oh! bear him here,
                     And then I'll wipe away the tear,
                     Which hath been shed so oft for thee,
                     My sailor of the deep blue sea.
                  
                  
                  
                     Methinks I see that smile so sweet,
                     Which did my gaze enraptured meet;
                     No more that smile now beams on me,
                     My sailor of the deep blue sea.
                  
               
               These were the ecstatic expressions of Claudia Leslie, as she opened a most superb
                  Valentine, containing a chaste ring, and a large gold heart, with plaited hair
                  beneath the glass. She found, on looking at the direction, that it came from
                  China. She knew the hand-writing of Clarence Marvel too well to be mistaken. She
                  had parted with him some six months since, and they had corresponded punctually.
                  She never once mistrusted him, for his letters were so frequent, and the same
                  affectionate tones ever breathed in them.
               Claudia gazed upon the richly wrought ring, and discovered that the initials "C.
                  M." were carved on the inside.
               "Oh! is it not exquisite?" exclaimed she; "what a beautiful design it is. Here is
                  the ring, which is emblematic of his increasing affection, and the heart
                  symbolizes that I have his. By the way, here is a piece of cedar; I did not
                  discover that before; a rosebud, too, nicely pressed. Sweet, sweet Valentine, I
                  give you one fond kiss for the sake of the donor."
               Clarence Marvel, (the one of whom Claudia spoke), was a youth of extreme beauty;
                  his talents, too, were very rare, and his conversation calculated to please all;
                  hence, wherever he went, his society was courted. Being in the Navy, he had the
                  advantage of seeing distant parts of the earth, and was a great observer of all
                  that was passing; consequently he had much to converse upon when thrown in
                  company. He fondly loved Claudia, and when they parted, many tears were shed by
                  both He admired none so much as his own Claudia. She was, indeed, a specimen of
                  the warm-hearted and whole-souled Southerner.
               He was first struck by her unequalled beauty at a soirée, held at the mansion of
                  Mrs. —. She certainly was a most graceful dancer, and very winning in her manners;
                  there was too, that roguish expression in her eyes which told that she was full of
                  mischief at any time. Clarence, being very desirous of making her acquaintance,
                  soon succeeded in getting an introduction, and was her partner for the evening.
                  His acquaintance extended beyond that of the ball-room, and he became very
                  intimate indeed at her house.
               But this delightful acquaintance must be broken off (for a while at least), as
                  Clarence was ordered to sea. Oh! how sad did he feel when he found that he must go
                  away; and Claudia's grief knew no bounds; but promises of fidelity soon served to
                  cheer her a little, and she endeavored to bear the parting bravely.
               Letter after letter came, and each breathed that same love to Claudia, and she in
                  return promptly replied. Her happiest moments were spent in perusing the lines
                  penned by his own hand. She never once mistrusted, for she thought him to be too
                  true; and, as she would gaze upon the beautiful Valentine, her heart swelled with
                  delight. But oh! inconstant man—his vows are so soon broken; and, though he may
                  swear eternal fidelity, yet he will forget and love another, who little dreams how
                  deceptive he is.
               'Tis St. Valentine again—but, ah, that pledge of love comes no more! Clarence has
                  forgotten Claudia, the idol of his
                  dream. Yes! her brave sailor remembers her no more; her name even sounds strange
                  in his ears. In vain does Claudia await the arrival of the post-boy; no letter
                  comes; no Valentine brings its message of hope and love.
               "Oh! he must be ill," exclaimed Claudia; "or perchance he is dead—who knows? He
                  may slumber beneath the ocean's briny waves. Oh! that I knew where his grave was—I
                  would haste there, and slumber with him too. Yes, I would fly like a bird into the
                  foaming surge, for then I would be with Clarence. It has been three months since I
                  have had a line from him. Oh! it cannot be that he has forgotten me; he is too
                  loving, too faithful to forget me."
               But, Claudia, he has forgotten, yet you little dream of it. He now breathes his
                  vows to another. The Valentine has been sent to the dark-eyed Spanish girl; he
                  thinks no longer of Claudia. Yes, strange as it may seem, he loves you no longer.
                  In distant lands he roams; and you, who were once so near to him in thoughts, are
                  now most distant. He remembers the Valentine as some long, half-forgotten dream;
                  and the ring he now disowns, and has placed another upon the finger of one who now
                  holds his heart. Oh! trust him no longer, faithful Claudia, for he is
                  false-hearted; erase his name from your memory, and love him no longer, for
                  Clarence Marvel is not worthy of the affection of one so innocent and true.
            
            
               Thoughts on Spring.
               GLORIOUS morning! All nature smiles: surely every zephyr speaks of joy and
                  rapture. The spirit of spring smiles upon the altar of winter. Witching goddess,
                  thou hast come to linger a while in our midst. The sky above wears a cerulean
                  mantle; oh, how soft, how balmy! Every thing hath a voice for me. You bird, as it
                  soars along chanting a lay, tells me of a brighter clime; see how his wings seem
                  to kiss the fleecy clouds—how light and gay! Would that every heart was thus free
                  from care and sorrow! Would that we could fly from earth to a land more glorious!
                  Sweet bird, bear me on thy wing, for e'en now do I envy thy freedom.
               Behold that wanton sunbeam—how it plays hide and seek with the golden curls of
                  that little child; the zephyrs, too, are lifting those rings from their resting
                  place, as if to take a peep at that brow purer than the fairest marble. How it
                  laughs as it gambols like a fawn so gracefully. May thy heart, sweet child, ne'er
                  feel the weight of that unbidden guest—sorrow!
               There are a row of stately trees extending their branches to the sky—how they have
                  a semblance to the evening of life. At early spring they were clothed in emerald
                  robes, sparkling in the glare of
                  dewdrops, or sang to the music of the sportive breeze. Now, divested of all, they
                  stand as remnants of former grandeur.
               But there is an evergreen looking as bright and fresh as when summer smiled. How
                  that resembles a true friend! one who will cling to us when the cold, chilling
                  winds of winter fan its brow, as when the balmy zephyr of summer chanted its song.
                  Oh! what an emblem of constancy! How the wreath of love remains unfaded! as
                  unchanging as you sun. A little bird lingers round it, as if spell-bound to the
                  spot.
               Another scene presents itself. See the cattle as they exult in the glory of the
                  morning—how they raise their heads as if to meet the gaze of the gorgeous sun.
                  "How fragrant is the breath of morning," they seem to say.
               And shall not my heart, too, rejoice? Shall I be unmindful of these beauties? Will
                  not orisons arise to the great King of the world? Shall I view these scenes with
                  coldness? Ah, no! My heart shall ever feel a gratitude to Him who hath made earth
                  so beautiful, who hath gilded the streams, added a hue to the flowers, given a
                  lustre to the diamond, and, above all, a mind to appreciate so much loveliness and
                  harmony—who has given the stars to gild the crown of night, the flowers to bring
                  joy to man, the balmy air to fan our cheeks; in a word, he created all things for
                  our enjoyment.
            
            
               The Influence of Music.
               HARK! what voice comes stealing so gently over the waters? I see no form; but
                  tones that seem too sweet for earth are floating around me, and like my dreams of
                  the lays of angels. 'Tis the voice of Music—that sweet messenger from heaven who
                  comes to cheer the hearts of weary mortals. Sweet Spirit, of invisible form, thy
                  whisperings tell me thou art near, and thy mission is a joyful one. I look upon
                  the mighty ocean lulled to calm repose, yet there is a gentle murmuring, like the
                  deep breathing of the slumberer, that tells of thy presence. The playful Naïads
                  welcome thee, and in their pearly grottos respond by their songs to the whispering
                  of the waves. And when the storm-cloud rises darkly, thou dost speak in the voice
                  of thunder and the dashing of wave upon wave—in the tinkling of rain-drops and the
                  solemn moaning of the distant wind.
               Music has an influence o'er human hearts—the tyrant's adamantine nature is melted
                  by her presence, and while she lingers near him she shrinks with horror from deeds
                  of cruelty, and sheathes the sword just ready to be bathed in innocent blood. To
                  the despairing she whispers that happiness is a child of earth still lingering
                  round him, and he imagines care to be a
                  deceptive fancy. The saddened orphan, as she mourns in her desolate home, listens
                  to some long remembered song, and the voice of melody restores the joys of happier
                  years, the father's love and the mother's fond caress. Then, as the sweet voice of
                  music is lost to her senses, a calm delight reigns in the breast of the sorrowing
                  girl.
               The mission of Music is not confined to any station of life: she visits all, high
                  and low; her voice is heard from the lordly palace to the humblest cot. When the
                  young and gay are assembled in Fashion's brilliant halls, her richest tones awaken
                  emotions of love and joy in their hearts; she bids them move in unison through the
                  dance. When the brilliant crowd has retired, and fair heads are pillowed beneath
                  snowy curtains, their repose is broken by her voice as the serenade arouses them
                  from slumber. They wake to brighter dreams than those which cheered their hours of
                  sleep, for Music breathes to them her most powerful spells.
               The soldier owns her influence as her voice leads him on to victory. He hears her
                  tones in the clarion blast, and his heart is filled with a spirit of fearless
                  daring and his hand strengthened for the fight. When the camp fires burn brightly
                  and the foe is far away, perchance her gentle tones fall upon his ear—he forgets
                  his rude couch and imagines himself in a lordly palace, surrounded by the
                  loveliest of the land. And when morning dawns, he hears her voice in the notes of
                  the song-bird, and his thoughts fly to his childhood's home, where a mother's
                  prayer is ever breathed for him, or a sister counts his weary days of absence.
               Nor does music disdain to dwell in the peasant's lonely cot. She comes to him
                  through the murmuring of the streams, the early notes of the lark, or the sweet
                  voices of children. As he listens to these varied notes, they bid him be content
                  with his lot, though he seems to lead an humble and solitary life, and assures him
                  that he is happier, amid these voices, than the monarch on his throne, surrounded
                  by perils. Night draws her mantle around the cottager's home. The sky is lighted
                  by burning sapphires, and sweet Philomel has commenced her songs. But music
                  speaketh in a sweeter strain as the evening hymn of the little band ascends to
                  heaven. Again the same sweet tones arise from the chamber where there is one of
                  the youthful flock. List! as she chants her evening song of praise to her Maker,
                  how sweetly her voice ascends in harmonious strains, and blends in heaven with the
                  melody of angels.
               Music dwelleth in all the scenes of Nature's beauty. The breath of Night fans the
                  tender flowers, and they raise their drooping heads to listen to its music as it
                  moves on perfume laden in its way. She speaks to us in the merry carol of the
                  feathered songster, it falls sweetly upon the ear, and it greets the heart as we
                  listen to his thoughtless song. Ere morning dawns they commence their favorite
                  themes, and grove and forest are filled with sweet music. With a gently murmuring
                  course the rippling streams speed onward, kissing the rocks as they pass over
                  them, and, perchance, an autumn leaf may lightly fall upon its surface, adding
                  another note to the almost inaudible melody.
               Music is heard in the speaker's voice. The mother's tones are always sweet to the
                  ear of an affectionate child, though she even chides her faults. Music speaks in
                  every tone of that cherished voice; but
                  is saddest and sweetest in the long remembered tones of a dying mother's last
                  words. There is a melody in poetry when unsung, for thoughts of beauty are clothed
                  in words that fall harmoniously upon the ear—and it seems as if the spirit of
                  music had plucked the flowers of sentiment, and kept them alive by her revivifying
                  breath.
               But the holiest mission of this blessed spirit is to lift the soul of man in
                  adoration to his Maker. When the work of creation was finished, and the "morning
                  stars sang together," ever since that hour has music been chosen to bear the
                  worship of the human soul to heaven. From the deep organ peals of the lofty
                  cathedral, to the simple hymn of the peasant's child, her strains are heard in the
                  home of the blest. She cannot die when this earth and the things thereof pass
                  away, for we are taught in the Holy Volume that the golden harps of the redeemed
                  shall be tuned to sing the praises of God forever and ever.
            
            
               Nettie Harvey, or, the Debt of Impatience.
               "ISN'T it too bad? Here I have been waiting for half an hour. I declare I am just
                  tired to death; one's patience is forever tried. I have half a mind to lay aside
                  my bonnet and say that I won't go at all. I verily believe some gentlemen think
                  they can make engagements and then break them when they choose."
               "Why, Nettie! at it again? O, I fear your impatient disposition will yet cause you
                  a great deal of trouble. Pray, what is the matter now?"
               "The matter? Why, enough's the matter! Here I have been waiting a half-hour for
                  Edmond Laurie, and he has not made his appearance yet; I am sure he will never
                  come."
               "Wait with patience, my dear; you must not expect every desire of your heart in a
                  moment. I have lived much longer in the world than you have, and if you will take
                  an aunt's advice you will be more patient."
               "I am sure I do not see how any one in the world can keep their temper when they
                  are disappointed; besides, if he does
                  not come very soon, it will be too late to take a walk. I verily believe the sun
                  is most down now."
               "Wait, dearie, be patient; he will come directly; if you do not mind, you will
                  distort your face so much that it will be almost impossible to get it in its
                  proper place again. There is the door bell now. I'll wager it is Edmond."
               The entrance of Laurie interrupted the conversation between Nettie and her
                  aunt.
               "Well, really, Mr. Laurie, I think you have taken your time indeed; more than a
                  half-hour has elapsed after the appointed hour. I began to get out of all patience
                  in the world, and have a good mind not to go at all. I don't like to wait a minute
                  on any occasion whatever."
               "I am extremely sorry, Miss Harvey, but circumstances, over which I had no
                  control, prevented my coming before. However, I hope it has not put you to any
                  inconvenience."
               "O, no! not any in the world; but then I cannot bear to have to wait a
                  minute."
               The reader can readily imagine the surprise which Nettie's conduct caused on the
                  occasion, and what strange thoughts must have sprung up in the mind of Edmond
                  Laurie. He never knew that Nettie had that deplorable trait of
                  character—impatience; before, she had ever appeared perfectly lovely in his eyes,
                  but now much of that beauty had vanished, for he had obtained a fair insight into
                  her real character.
               Now, while Nettie is taking a promenade, we will give a slight description of her
                  character and person.
               In the first place, Nettie was extremely pretty, and as a matter of course, was
                  vain. She was much admired, too, by the beaux, for several reasons. We cannot say
                  that she possessed a bad temper, not by any means; but then the slightest
                  circumstance would try her patience in a moment. Her mother died when she was but
                  an infant, and her aunt assumed the whole control of her. Again and again did she
                  remonstrate with Nettie upon her impatient disposition, and did all in her power
                  to effect a reformation, but it proved a fruitless attempt. Nettie never seemed to
                  think her impatience to be a disadvantage to her, and when her aunt would speak of
                  its evils and the pain it might some day cause her, she would console herself with
                  the idea that she could conceal it from those she wished. But Nettie,
                  unfortunately, betrayed herself. Edmond Laurie could but see, the moment he
                  entered the room, that Nettie had become very impatient, because of having to wait
                  a half-hour; it was evident from the manner in which she spoke that she was
                  displeased.
               Edmond was truly hurt at her conduct toward him on the occasion, but endeavored to
                  overlook it. He was not very sure, however, that Nettie would make him a happy
                  wife, because of a propensity to become impatient. He thought of some plan to
                  devise in order to test her patience. He at last thought of a scheme. Accordingly,
                  one evening, having made an engagement with Nettie to take a ride, he waited a
                  half hour after the time before he called for her. She had completed her toilette,
                  and was talking at the greatest rate.
               "I do think Edmond Laurie has a great deal of assurance to treat me thus. This
                  makes the second time he has acted so. I declare it is insupportable, and I will
                  not stand it. I intend to give him his walking-ticket the moment he proposes to me, for I feel assured the parson
                  would have to wait a half-hour after the time."
               In one of Nettie's numerous gestures on the occasion, she slapped her hand
                  violently with a very superb fan which Edmond had given her, and broke it.
               "There," said she, "I do not care if I have broken it, for I do not think any more
                  of the fan than I do of the giver."
               "You don't, Miss Harvey? Then I am perfectly satisfied, for my end is
                  accomplished."
               Nettie started and turned pale. Was it indeed Edmond Laurie who stood before
                  her?
               Yes, he had been listening in some hidden spot, and he thought it best to
                  interrupt her in the midst of her exclamations.
               "Miss Harvey, my end is accomplished."
               "Your end! Pray, tell me what you mean?"
               "I will be very plain with you. I do not wish to hide any thing whatever. I have
                  long desired to put your patience to the test, for I doubted whether you possessed
                  that very important quality. I thought once of asking your hand, but I find that
                  it would only cause me to be miserable, and to such a life as that I would prefer
                  death at once. Nettie, adieu: we meet hereafter as friends."
               Ah, Nettie had learned a sad lesson, indeed; she now saw the evils of impatience.
                  She had proved her own betrayer—had lost the affections of one who almost adored
                  her. But 'twas too late, for Edmond Laurie was of a very determined mind, and he
                  feared to marry Nettie, lest he might run a risk, or take a step which would cause
                  him a life-time repentance.
               Nettie was more careful in future, and obeyed the injunctions of her aunt. Day
                  after day she had the pleasure of seeing her niece endeavor to overcome the habit
                  of impatience, and always thought that the circumstance of Edmond Laurie
                  overhearing her talk in a fit of impatience "happened for the best."
               In about two years after the affair, Nettie was married to one who loves her with
                  the same devotion as Edmond Laurie, and now she is one of the most amiable
                  creatures in the world. She never thinks of the manner in which she acted toward
                  Edmond Laurie on the evening she took the walk, without blushing, and has made up
                  her mind fully to wait patiently under whatever circumstances she may be
                  placed.
            
            
               
               Life's True 
                     Picturse
                     Pictures
                  .
               
                  TABLEAUX I.
                  UPON a couch of eider down lies the rich man; his head rests upon a snowy
                     pillow—the apartment is furnished in the most magnificent style. But why looks
                     he so pale and emaciated? Why is each sound hushed—why physicians so troubled?
                     Ah! the man of opulence hath been seized by disease, and amid all this elegance
                     he is not happy. Every hour in the day anxious friends are sending for miles
                     around to learn whether he still be in a dangerous condition. The prince and
                     the king forget not to pay their visits, too; in coaches of richest livery they
                     come; in finest purple and linen they attire themselves. Mark with what
                     cautious step they enter the sick man's chamber.
                  The mind of the sick man is in a state of inquietude; his whole frame is
                     tortured with pain; he thinks of the vast possessions which have so occupied
                     his attention during the hours of health and strength. Now they must all be
                     given up, and he is to fill one narrow place—the grave. He forgot that he must
                     die, and amid the luxuries of life he had remembered not his God. A few more
                     hours, and the physicians tell him that there is no hope! "No hope!" gasped the
                     terrified one—"and must I die? My life has indeed been a vain one, for I have
                     laid up no treasure in heaven."
                  
                  Evening hath quietly stolen over the earth. Silence reigns in the chamber, for
                     the voice of the rich man is hushed. The spirit hath taken its everlasting
                     flight, and now naught remains but the lifeless body. Mark those features in
                     death; they are not placid and calm; they plainly show that the mind was ill at
                     ease.
                  Alas! what profited him all the gorgeous draperies and luxuries around—for he
                     had forgotten to lay up his treasure in heaven. A long funeral train followed
                     the rich man to his grave; coaches of state, drawn by splendid steeds—every
                     thing presents a gorgeous appearance. What profited all this glittering
                     exterior? The rich man is about to be consigned to his grave—the dark, gloomy
                     abode; and beyond that he had no hope, for his treasures were all on earth.
               
               
                  TABLEAUX II.
                  IN a scantily furnished apartment, where scarcely the comforts of life are
                     known—where luxury would indeed be a stranger—lies one upon whom fortune has
                     never smiled. His couch, though formed of rude straw, is refreshing to his
                     body. He has suffered long the buffettings of the world; but he despaired not,
                     for he had lived in the fear of his Maker. The sweet consolation of having done
                     his duty seemed to soften his pillow.
                  
                  None came to inquire about him, for he was "the poor man." None of those
                     dainties which are so palatable to the sick, were offered. But few knew that he
                     ever filled a place upon this earth. Amid all his sufferings the angel of mercy
                     consoled him by these words, "Thou hast laid up thy treasure in heaven."
                  
                  Night comes; a dark, gloomy one it is. None watch by the dead, save the loving
                     wife and child. Oh! what a comfortless air has the whole apartment; no bright
                     lights gleam to cheer; no, 'tis but a small taper which lends but a feeble ray.
                     It is the "poor man's" abode.
                  No funeral train has he; no coaches of state; no rich coffin is prepared for
                     the poor man; no costly stone is raised to tell that here his remains lie.
                     Naught but a rude grave is prepared for him. Few knew that he lived, and fewer
                     still knew that he died. But he cared not for pomp and splendor, for that would
                     have gained him nothing.
                  The rich man had laid his treasure up on earth; the "poor man's" was safely
                     placed in heaven.
               
               
                  TABLEAUX III.
                  "JAMES, had we not better send our coach to the funeral this afternoon? You
                     know that the Weston's are some of the Ton, as well as ourselves; for
                     appearance, if nothing else, we should do so. By the by, we have not much time
                     to spare, for I believe the funeral takes place at four o'clock."
                  "To be sure, my dear, send it by all means; why, I certainly thought of doing
                     so. I did not think it worth while to mention it to you. I will tell Robert to
                     put every thing in readiness."
                  "Yes, do; see that he has his white kid gloves; and get a piece of white muslin
                     to put on his hat. Take care that everything is in the nicest order possible,
                     for I know that the funeral will be a very large one. The Western's are very
                     wealthy people, you know, and it would not do for us to slight them, by any
                     means.
                  The elegant coach was sent; all was put in the nicest order imaginable. It
                     drove up to the splendid mansion of the Westons, and every one knew that it was
                     the coach of James Holdman, Esq., for it was the only one of the kind in the
                     city. Its elaborate silver mountings attracted the attention of the stranger,
                     who would always desire to know whose coach that was. But this was not the only
                     fine coach in the procession; no, indeed! for the Westons were a very wealthy
                     and aristocratic family; hence it would not answer to slight them, under the
                     penalty of losing their favor—on such an occasion as that was—great respect
                     should be shown.
                  
                  Mr. Holdman was seated in his counting-room, looking over the numerous piles of
                     bank notes, and counting up the immense sums of silver and gold, for the
                     purpose of depositing it in the bank. A rap was heard at the door; one entered
                     with a pale, wan countenance. Oh, that face? It betokened worlds of care.
                     Surely such an expression could not fail to arrest the attention of any human
                     being.
                  
                  "I have come, sir, to ask a simple pittance at your hand. My father has died,
                     and we have not the means wherewith to bury him; all I ask is just money enough
                     to hire the hearse, which is used principally for those who are not able to
                     hire the best one. As for myself, I can walk to the grave; perhaps some, out of
                     pity, may follow me. Oh, sir! my poor father is indeed dead, and what we shall
                     do now, Heaven only knows! He was our only stay. I am as yet a youth; I find it
                     hard enough to get along in this cold world—for I have neither friends nor
                     money. Ah! you who live in luxury little know the wants of the poor—who seldom
                     enjoy the common necessaries of life. Our humble home is darker still! The last
                     ray of sunlight has gone. Yes, forever gone! And my poor widowed mother weeps
                     sadly! She knows that her only stay is gone. But I will do all in my power to
                     assist her. Poor broken hearted mother, my heart bleeds for her.
                  The rich man knit his brows as if hearing with impatience the tale of wo.
                     "Enough—enough," said he. "Here, take this money; perhaps this will be enough
                     to defray the expenses. Beggars are entirely too numerous now-a-days; they do
                     not seem inclined to work at all, for if they did, I would not have to listen
                     to the same woful tale so often. I have no time to talk longer, for I am
                     extremely busy this morning."
                  Ah! the poor youth's heart bled as he took up the small sum of money given to
                     him so grudgingly. After having expressed his thanks to the rich man, he turned
                     his steps homeward. Oh, what a comparison! the home of elegance—the home of the
                     poor.
                  And did the rich man send his coach to the funeral of the destitute one, to
                     whose pitiful tale he had listened? Oh, no! The coach was sent to those only
                     who could afford to hire any number. The remains of the poor man were consigned
                     to the lonely grave, and but few followed. Oh! how unequally are favors
                     distributed in this world of ours. What if Heaven should mete us out thus
                     unequally. Oh, Charity! where is thine abode? Surely thou art not a dweller
                     upon earth.
               
            
            
               
               "I've Wandered In Dreams."
               I'VE wandered in dreams to eastern climes, where flowers are chosen to be the
                  bearers of love-messengers to the cherished one; and sweetest perfume ladens the
                  zephyr as it passes; and whose orisons are poured forth at the shrine of beauty.
                  Ah, yes! I've wandered in that clime, and watched the blushing sun-set of a
                  mid-summer's sky. I've gazed with rapture upon a soft moonlight scene, till my
                  soul was as it were, lost in ecstasy. Lovely forms of beauty have appeared and
                  enchanted my sight with their unparalleled loveliness.
               I've wandered in dreams in the portals of Paradise; have gazed upon the Peri, with
                  her sad countenance, till a tear filled my eye. O'er the velvet turf I've lightly
                  tripped, regaling my senses with the perfume of sweetest flowers. Through the
                  diamond path I've trod, scarcely knowing upon which sight to first feast my eyes.
                  Above me is the soft blue sky, interlaced with gem-clouds of gold and purple;
                  perchance a pearl may here and there mingle its modest beauty. At my feet are a
                  countless number of gorgeous flowers, each rivaling in perfume and beauty. Around
                  are trees of the most inviting hue, affording a soft and delightful shade. Further
                  still, and birds of the most gorgeous plumage make their bowers, and ere they
                  retire to their nightly couches, in one harmonious choir they join to pay their
                  tributes to the spirits which watch at the gates of Paradise.
               I've wandered in dreams to some bright star, whose trembling brilliance awakened a
                  sympathetic chord of my soul. A sad story, indeed, hath it told me of its nightly
                  watchings upon the sea; of its bitter tears at the sight of the wreck of some
                  noble ship. The voice of the deep hath it heard at the lone hour of midnight, and
                  it trembled to gaze upon a sight so terrific.
               I've wandered in dreams to the golden bowers of fancy, where brightest pictures
                  were drawn by the muses and fairies to give joy to the dreamer's heart.
               Yes! I am a dreamer, a happy dreamer.
               Oh! how sweet to close the eyes as it were, upon the cold realities of the world,
                  and soar away on Fancy's wings. Oh! how buoyant, then, is the soul, and how
                  careless to all that is going on in the world without, while one is indulging in
                  the sweet dreams of poetic fancy. Oh! ever let me wander in dreams.
            
            
               
               On The Close Of The Year.
               ON fleet wings another twelve months have passed away; another wave upon the ocean
                  of Time hath been hurled into an endless eternity. The bright visions which spread
                  themselves upon fancy's canvas when the last twelve months dawned upon us, have
                  fled; aye! like the cloud passes over the noon-day sky, so have those rainbow
                  tints faded from the horizon of anticipation. Where are the flowers which bloomed
                  at early spring? They have been blighted by the frosts of winter. Flora has sought
                  a more genial home, till Spring, virgin goddess! shall mantle each tree and lawn
                  with an emerald robe.
               Many, yes, very many have been the changes during the past year. The orange wreath
                  which we twined for the bride hath withered, and the wearer, too, perchance may
                  slumber in the cold, dark grave. The mother who hushed her cherished infant to
                  sleep, has endured the pangs of parting: yes! I those bright eyes she saw closed
                  in death: now, as another year commences, she thinks of the past—the happy past,
                  the sad, by-gone days; and like a dream cometh the recollection of them stealing
                  o'er, she feels that those ties can no more be united save in the spirit
                  world.
               Among many of you, my friends, no changes of a serious nature have taken place; no
                  cloud has passed to mar the home which, as a true and shining guiding star, ever
                  looms o'er your pathway; and may it continue to glow in all its pristine
                  splendor—may each ray of that bright star, as it penetrates your heart, shed a
                  lasting joy.
               But the broad, uncertain future is before us: the ocean of life, though unruffled
                  now, may in one moment be troubled—the flowers of memory that bloomed in the
                  garden of the past, will fold their petals in despair. As we stand by the tomb of
                  the year which has just closed upon us, think we not of the many joys which filled
                  us with so much ecstacy? and do we not reflect that some of our dear friends have
                  been torn from us, severing the links in the chain of friendship, or plucking some
                  favorite flower from the garden of love? Once those friends laughed as gaily as
                  we; the beautiful things of earth delighted them as much: but where are they now?
                  Ah! in the solitary shades of death sleep they. The weeping willow waves its
                  branches; and as the night wind passes over the silent graves, and when the quiet
                  stars look so mildly down, they drop a tear.
               
               Year multiplies upon year, until at last the locks of youth are frosted, the brow
                  is furrowed, the rose leaves the cheek, the firm step grows less elastic—finally
                  we make our exit from earth. There is something in the close of the year that
                  bears a semblance to the end of life: at its dawn we are all joy and vigor, but at
                  its close come the sad thoughts of the past moments which have glided away. There
                  is something that seems to tell us that another year has fled; even the solemn
                  moaning of the midnight wind whispers,
                  "Gone, for ever gone!" The little gems that sparkle upon the brow of night seem to
                  say, "It hath passed." Watching spirits forget not to remind us of its close.
               "May all of you, my dear friends, who have hailed the "New Year" with so much
                  gladness, have many returns of the same; may the future smile graciously upon you;
                  may angels ever guide you aright through life; may no tear of sorrow fall upon
                  your cheek, but the flowers of peace and happiness strew your pathway.
            
            
               "A Mother's Love."
               "A MOTHER'S Love!" and the orphan sighed. "Alas!" exclaimed he, "I have no mother
                  to lavish upon me her world of affection, her fathomless devotion. A Mother's
                  Love! the words like music fall upon my ear; they have a semblance to the last
                  lingering strain borne from Æolian harps while the sporting zephyrs play around
                  it. A Mother's Love!" again sighs the child; "'tis like some long cherished dream
                  too beautiful to endure." The orphan boy bowed his head and wept.
               A Mother's Love! and the ocean wave sends back the echo to the ear of the sailor
                  boy whose brow hath already been exposed to the burning rays of a tropical sun.
                  Far, far away from that cherished parent he thinks of that unceasing affection,
                  that pure, immutable devotion, while the tears well up from his heart. "My
                  Mother!" "Thine is a Mother's Love," whispereth the wave. Ah! that love is a
                  talisman to him; it keeps him from acts he might otherwise commit.
               A Mother's Love! the angels in unison exclaim 'tis pure, 'tis holy, fathomless and
                  unbounded; the only remnant of Paradise, the only thing that escaped unblemished
                  after Eve committed the fatal sin. 'Tis the only fadeless flower, the mighty
                  inseparable chain which binds the child to its mother. Cherish then ever a
                  Mother's Love.
            
            
               
               The Angel Trio.
               THE storm raged in all its violence; the black clouds having a semblance to
                  funeral palls, hung in heavy festoons from the vault of heaven. The very elements
                  seemed to wage war with each other; the rain fell in mammoth drops; the wind
                  howled fiercely. Those who were reveling in all the luxuries wealth affords felt
                  not the keen winds, nor heard the pelting of the rain upon the massive panes of
                  glass; for the rich, heavy curtains seemed to subdue the sound. Oh! what a night
                  was this for those who had not the most common necessaries of life. Yet, of this
                  the opulent thought not, for they were comfortable enough—too much so, to imagine
                  that there were any who were otherwise.
               'Twas a wooden house; for many years had it faced rude storms, and now it seemed
                  almost to totter. One would hardly imagine that it was tenanted; for it seemed a
                  meet haunt for nightly spectres to roam at random unmolested. Now as the storm
                  raged, it shook as if another stroke of Æolus would felt it to the ground. But
                  this humble dwelling was occupied; for there were many who would gladly accept
                  such a shelter from the storm on a night like this. Though unin- viting in every
                  particular, yet those who were its occupants deemed it quite a home. It was a home
                  to them, for they could afford no better.
               The old couple sat side by side, each "bending with the weight of years," and as
                  they looked at the little group about them, and thought what sad changes time had
                  wrought, they sighed heavily. Time was when they knew not a want—when life was a
                  sunny scene, gilded with every pleasure imaginable. They little dreamed that in
                  their old age such a home would be theirs. Scanty was the table spread for so
                  many, yet it was all they had, and who would supply them with the next meal.
                  Heaven only knew! But, hark! who cometh at that hour of the night, while the storm
                  reigns supreme? Who hath a thought for the needy ones seated around that table?
                  Behold, a lovely form entereth; how beautiful, how serene is that face! She
                  seemeth not of earth, and yet hath a mortal's form. Softly she speaks, and now
                  presents to their view a well-filled basket—enough to supply the wants of
                  to-morrow. But, who is this? Surely heaven hath sent a messenger, an angel, into
                  their household.
               'Tis Charity! that lovely angel-being, whose heart is ever open to the wants of
                  the poor, who ever considers the sorrows of Heaven's less favored children. How
                  beautiful, how graceful her mien! How serene and placid her countenance, all
                  radiant with angelic smiles! She scorns not to visit the hovels of the poor; but
                  feels it her calling to administer to the wants of others. In the quiet midnight
                  hour, a gentle spirit whispereth, "He that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
                  Lord."
               
               
               An infant slumbered; a mother sat watching it with anxious eyes. The day was
                  serene and beautiful. Summer had passed away, and now came Autumn in all her
                  queenly beauty. A few flowers remained upon the grave of sweet Summer. The tall
                  forest trees were equipped in garments of a varied hue; the leaves lay scattered
                  on the ground, and ever and anon some wanton breeze would bear them away on its
                  sportive wing. The mother looked for a moment upon the scenes without, and then
                  upon her lovely infant. How cautiously she felt its pulse, as if fearing life was
                  fast ebbing. The sweet babe smiled; then softly came a being to console the
                  mother's heart. She knelt and breathed a prayer to Him who heareth always. Oh,
                  what a consolation did she now feel! The mother was not alone with her child—no,
                  no—for Hope, soothing spirit, was there. And though the cheek of the child was
                  pale, and the fever increased, yet did the fond parent despair not, for Hope, with
                  her healing balm, came to cheer her heart. The burden no longer rested on her
                  heart, for hope dispelled the gloom; her presence brought sunlight and joy to the
                  chamber of sickness.
               
               The sailor-boy stood upon the deck of the ship. The body of one of his comrades
                  had just been consigned to a watery grave. He heard the dread splash, and turned
                  to wipe away a tear. Ah, that was a true tear, if it was shed by the rough
                  sailor-boy. Though the scorching suns had tanned his once fair brow, they had not
                  hardened his heart—no, no, he too well knew what sympathy was.
               As he stood gazing upon the ocean, his thoughts were varied; many times had he
                  witnessed the burial of the ship's crew. A disease had broken out, and was taking
                  them away rapidly. Would he ever behold the face of his fond mother again? Would
                  he feel the gentle pressure of her hand within his own once more? Death had been
                  doing its work of destruction, and how could he hope to escape? Did he not
                  remember the last words of his near and cherished mother? "A mother's prayers for
                  your safe return, my son. God will protect you."
               Behold, a phantom seems to glide upon the waves; it hath no mortal form; the
                  sailor-boy beholds it, yet trembles not. The dark cloud lingers around his heart
                  no longer.
               Faith, the angel-spirit, tells him that God heareth the prayers of his mother, and
                  he will be spared though the disease should seize him.
               What a beauteous night! The sailor-boy kneels and raises his eyes to Heaven; his
                  heart is filled with gratitude to his Maker for having thus given ear to his
                  mother's prayer, and faith to him, who had rejoiced in the answer it had
                  brought.
            
            
               
               St. Valentine Story.
               "WELL girls," said Aunt Fanny, "I will tell you a little story. It is freezing
                  cold without and a blustering night, so I do not think any of your beaux will
                  come. They tell me, though, that love will surmount any barrier; if that be the
                  case, then I will be debarred the pleasure of your society this evening. However,
                  draw up nearer to the fire and wait a few moments—if no visitors come within the
                  next half hour, then I think I may make sure of you all for the night."
               We all did as Aunt Fanny bade, and heartily wished no one might intrude upon our
                  agreeable tête-á-tête. But pretty soon the door
                  bell rang, and who should be announced but a boy bringing a Valentine; of course
                  we were all extremely anxious to ascertain what direction it bore, and after
                  gratifying our curiosity, we sat quietly down again. "How late," thought we, "to
                  receive a Valentine; it should have come this morning; but the motto is, 'Better
                  late than never.'"
               "I was just thinking, my nieces, what story I should tell you, when the entrance
                  of that Valentine suggested one immediately."
               "Let us hear it, let us hear it," we all exclaimed in one breath.
               "You have, no doubt, wondered why I am sad on St. Valentine's Day. On this great
                  occasion every one seems so happy and gay; the Post Office is thronged at an early
                  hour in the morning, waiting for the mail to open. The young boy with eyes beaming
                  brightly, is in just as anxious expectation of this pledge of love as the full
                  grown man—even the colored population hold a claim to St. Valentine.
               "I once ever looked upon this day with the greatest pleasure imaginable, for I was
                  sure to be remembered by many. And now as I look over those I received from time
                  to time, my eye rests upon a particular one I hold as the greatest of
                  treasures.
               "The last Valentine I received;" (here Aunt Fanny paused to heave a heavy sigh,)
                  "Yes, the last one—how boldly and beautifully were the lines traced. It bore a
                  Foreign stamp. Ah! I was still fondly remembered: although miles separated us, yet
                  we were together in spirit. How high beat my heart when I took the Valentine from
                  the postman, and felt that hundreds of dollars could not sufficiently repay him
                  for bringing it to me. A tiny note accompanied it, saying that on the next St.
                  Valentine he would, be with me. Oh! how wearily and heavily hung on the hours. I
                  would have done any thing to hasten the flight of time; but, alas! I could
                  not.
               * * * * "The year rolled around; how happy and free was I on that morning, for the
                  ship was due and Arthur would soon be with me. The sun looked gloriously bright
                  and beautiful; every thing in nature seemed to respond to my smiles. Many messages
                  of love did I receive on that day, but I scarcely gave them a passing thought, for
                  I was so happy in the thought that Arthur was coming.
               
               "An hour passed away; 'I will see him soon,' thought I. Another and another glided
                  by, and yet he came not, but still I hoped he would come directly.
               "Papa sat talking over his wine, teazing me about my Valentines, &c., when a
                  post-boy handed me a letter; it was the handwriting of Arthur, and yet the seal
                  was black; how could that be?"
               "Do tell us the contents, Aunt Fanny."
               "I will show it to you, for I could not read it, even at this late day; though it
                  occurred a very long time ago, yet it is as fresh in my memory as though it were
                  but yesterday."
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "FANNY DEAREST:— You await my coming on the day you receive this
                              letter. Not long will these eyes behold the things of earth, for they
                              will be closed for ever. Oh! how I prayed that I might have strength
                              to write before I died, and Heaven hath heard my prayer. We will be
                              united in the bright world above, to be separated no more. God bless
                              you, ever,
                           
                              "Arthur."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The story was told by the perusal of those few lines, and we no longer wondered
                  that Aunt Fanny should be so sad on St. Valentine's Day, for with it the most
                  painful associations were connected.
            
            
               A Page from Every-Day Life.
               
                  
                     "She never sees the Sun save through her tears."
                  
               
               LILLY GRAY was fading rapidly; the world could not account for her sadness of
                  late—she scarcely ever smiled, but looked as if not one ray of hope was left to
                  cheer her heart. Her friends were astonished, for they could not divine the cause
                  of her grief. Her husband was certainly a very cheerful man; he was extremely
                  polite and attentive to her (that is when the eyes of the world were upon him)—he
                  always answered her so smilingly when she asked him a question (of course when any
                  one was around).
               He was a very correct, upright sort of man; never used spirituous liquors (only
                  when he could not get it). He was a regular church-goer (for he took religion as a
                  very convenient mantle to cover his hypocritical heart). He was very talkative and
                  agreeable (every where except at home). The world was completely blind to his
                  faults—no wonder, when he had such a tact for throwing pepper into their eyes.
               We said sweet Lilly was fading—her round, plump cheeks had grown hollow, and the
                  rose had fled. Her soft blue eye, which, as the poet has so beautifully said,
                  looked as if it opened first in Heaven,
                  lost all its former brightness. Her merry laugh, once so musical, was now no
                  longer heard.
               The world wondered at Lilly's grief, for they could see no cause.
               But had they known how many hours certain evenings in the week Arthur Gray spent
                  at "the Club" room enjoying himself in a social way (those who belong to Clubs
                  know what is meant by a social way of enjoyment), spending the funds Lilly really
                  needed—did they know at what "small hours" he came home in such a state that he
                  might well blush to have his wife see him—could the world but know how patiently
                  she bore it all, her secret trouble, how she waited for him till the fire had died
                  out and her delicate fingers were blue with cold, and the spark of life burned as
                  dimly almost as the flickering taper—did they but mark the tears—silent messengers
                  of grief—as they glided down her cheeks while she bent over her sleeping "Willie,"
                  and wondered who would care for him when she was gone—had you heard that prayer
                  which only a mother's heart can pour out at the shrine of Heaven—then the world
                  would not have wondered at the change.
               
               But two years had glided away since Lilly was led to the altar. Alas! in that
                  brief time her heart had its own sorrow, and her soul had drooped—yes, sweet
                  Lilly. 
                     
                        "There is a kind of mournful eloquence
                        In thy dumb grief, which shames all clamorous sorrow."
                     
                  
               
            
            
               Life's True Pictures.
               
                  SCENE I.—A Watering Place.
                  "HOW lovely and smiling you look this morning, Miss Harcourt; why, you are as
                     fresh and blooming as a rose. We will now proceed to breakfast. I have been
                     waiting for you fully an hour, expecting every moment to see you come dancing
                     along."
                  "And have you not read the morning papers, Mr. Smith? Surely you might have
                     passed your time very agreeably in that manner. But really, I was not aware
                     that you were waiting for me so long a time, or I most certainly would have
                     hurried myself."
                  "No excuse at all is necessary. You ask me if I have not read the morning's
                     paper. What care I for that? I would not give a sous to read the morning's paper before I caught a glimpse at
                     your bright eyes—it would be insipid I do assure you. I am at your command,
                     Miss Harcourt."
                  "But I insist, Mr. Smith, on your reading the paper before we breakfast; for I
                     am quite sure you will relish your repast much more."
                  
                  "Never mind the paper just now; we will settle that matter after
                     breakfast."
                  
                  "Shall we not ride now, Miss Harcourt, since we have got through breakfast? It
                     is really a delightful, charming morning, and I feel quite sure that you will
                     enjoy it." (The paper still unfolded.) "Believe me, Miss Louise, I
                     have not thought of it a single moment. My attention was so completely
                     engrossed with the idea of a ride with your charming self, that I really forgot
                     there was a paper in the world. Go get yourself in readiness."
                  "I must say, Mr. Smith, that I think you are so very different from the most of
                     gentlemen. You do not seem to feel as if you must read the paper before you
                     attend to any thing else."
                  "Oh! I assure you, Miss Harcourt, that your society compensates amply for any
                     loss I might sustain by detaining myself from reading the paper. You are an
                     exception to the general rule. The carriage is ready, now for a delightful
                     ride. A beautiful morning we have for it."
                  It will not seem strange when we say that during the ride, Mr. Smith offered
                     his heart and was accepted.
               
               
                  TABLEAU II.
                  [Two years have elapsed. Mr. and Mrs. Joe Smith at home.]
                  "Mr. Smith!"
                  [Mr. S. is too much absorbed in the morning's paper to hear his wife.]
                  "Mr. Smith, are you deaf!" [Still no answer.]
                  "Mr. Smith, I would like to know if you do not intend to come to breakfast
                     to-day."
                  [Mr. Smith still so much absorbed he does not hear.]
                  "Mr. Smith, I cannot stand it any longer. I am out of all patience in the
                     world; the coffee is getting cold, and so are the waffles and every thing else,
                     except myself."
                  Mr. Smith still responds not. Louise, not in the most 
                        amiaable
                        amiable
                      mood in the world, goes up and taps him not very lightly upon the
                     shoulder, at which Mr. Smith springs to his feet and exclaims, "Yes! well, I
                     think it is quite time."
                  "I think so too."
                  "It is the fact, I say, Louise."
                  "Why not long before, then, Mr. Smith?"
                  "Well, my dear, I cannot tell."
                  "Don't call me love any more. Yes, it is time."
                  "Yes, it ought to have been taken long ago."
                  "Mercy on me, has the man lost his senses?"
                  "No, not quite. But say it is time it was taken."
                  "What?"
                  "Why Sebastopol, and all the cross women in the world."
                  "I was not saying any thing about Sebastopol. I was telling you it is high time
                     you had taken your breakfast."
                  "What, breakfast ready?"
                  "Certainly, a half hour ago."
                  "Well, I beg your pardon, my dear, but I was reading some very important news
                     from Sebastopol, and did not hear you."
                  "No, I presume not. I suppose you have forgotten by this time how very pointed you were in your
                     attentions two years ago at Saratoga. Oh! you could not read the papers then
                     before breakfast, before riding, nor any thing else. You said when a lady was
                     about you could not look at a paper."
                  "I beg pardon, I said when an agre—, I meant, meant—"
                  "Yes, you meant just what you said, when an agreeable lady was about. I suppose
                     I was agreeable then. I tell you, Mr. Joseph Smith, if I was single to-morrow,
                     I would not marry the best man in the world; no, not if I knew what I know now.
                     I'll guarantee you would find me much harder to take than Sebastopol ever was.
                     Catch me marrying a gentleman who would take up the morning's paper, and read
                     it as though he thought his very existence depended upon it; his wife, too,
                     calling him some twenty minutes before she can get him to hear; and, besides
                     this, keeping her waiting till her patience is threadbare. This is just the way
                     with the whole of you; it is a great pity we get taken in so."
                  The scene closes. Mrs. Smith does not perceive that Mr. S. has left the table,
                     and is diving still deeper into the "Foreign News," while she has been talking
                     all the while to her own sweet, amiable self, and the breakfast table.
               
            
            
               Nora Grey.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "IT is nothing but a foolish, romantic idea you have, Harry. I always thought
                     you would, some day, be guilty of something wonderful; but never, no, never,
                     thought you would ever stoop so low as to marry a poor girl. Why, Nora Grey is
                     only a dependent in her uncle's family; and, so far as I can understand, is
                     quite an intruder. But, if I were in her place, I would have more pride than to
                     stay when I felt assured my company was not acceptable."
                  "Ah! sister, it is well enough for you, who have wealth, to talk thus; but if
                     you were poor, as is Nora Grey, you would then be compelled to do what you
                     deride now. A poor dependent! She shall not be so much longer."
                  "Why, Harry, what do you mean?"
                  "I mean just what I say."
                  "Then have matters come to a close. And do you intend to marry Nora Grey?"
                  "Yes, Nora Grey is the one whom I have chosen to be my companion through life;
                     and I do glory in the thought, too."
                  "Only think, Harry! There is her cousin Pauline, who is in love with you; that
                     I plainly see; she is wealthy."
                  
                  "I do not sell my heart to any one; that is a gift I bestow freely; but, as to
                     any one imagining, for a single moment, that she will purchase my love, is an
                     idea perfectly ridiculous. 'Love gives itself, but is not bought.' Nora Grey
                     will consult the wishes and happiness of her husband; she will not seek for
                     admiration from any one. No; Nora Grey is by far too sensible a woman for any
                     thing of that kind. I tell you, sister, there are more heartless, insincere
                     women in the present day, than one can tolerate; some marry from policy. There
                     is Emma Wheeler, who married quite an old man; he took her from a store where
                     she had been accustomed to tending for some years, and placed her where she
                     would not be compelled to seek her livelihood; and what is the result? Why, she
                     does not care a fig for him; but will flirt with any and every body who comes
                     along. Did I not hear her actually abuse her husband, on one occasion? She was
                     sitting, conversing with a gentleman, whom she thought was much pleased with
                     her. She remarked to him: 'Do you see that old fellow sitting over there?—he is
                     my husband.' Then followed a hearty laugh. 'Old fellow!' If it had not been for
                     that 'old fellow,' as she pleased to term him, she would not now enjoy so many
                     comforts. Oh! how some people in the world will forgot. I made up my mind, long
                     ago, never to mind a word a heartless woman told me; but, when I was in search
                     of a partner for life, to find one who would prefer me above every body else.
                     Yes, that's the woman for me."
                  "Marry the 'poor cousin!'" vociferated Claudia St. Clair. " Yes, the poor
                     cousin! How crest-fallen I will feel!"
                  "You must feel so then, sister. I study my happiness. As to Pauline Walthall, I
                     would not marry her on any account, for she will certainly lead any man a
                     miserable life. Nothing but fashion, fashion, fashion. Oh, dear! I would rather
                     die at the stake by far. I will never marry any woman without a heart,
                     sister."
                  "Marry the 'poor cousin,' then. What will the world say?"
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  HOW beautiful is the early dream of love! how like a gentle fountain gusheth
                     forth the heart, in all its purity and affection! Every thing in nature seems
                     to wear a more beautiful aspect; the flowers are more fragrant, skies
                     brighter—in a word, love gilds every object.
                  Love had found its way into the heart of Harry St. Clair, though but eighteen
                     summers had shed their bloom over his brow; and Nora, the gentle, good Nora,
                     was queen of his affections. Oft did he wander, at the sunset hour, to take a
                     fond look at the little cottage where first he met Nora, ere her mother's
                     death. Oh! how dear was each flower, each leaf, to him; every note poured forth
                     by the sweet song-bird was familiar to his ear; once had Nora listened there
                     with him. Now she dwelt in a splendid mansion; but oh! how miserable was
                     she—like some sweet and rare flower, transplanted from its native clime. She
                     felt herself a dependent; but, alas! what was she to do? What can an
                     unprotected female, left without a fortune, do? Nora's heart bled as she
                     entered the home of her proud cousin, for she felt herself an intruder.
                  
                  Beauty ever has its train of worshippers, and this Pauline Walthall knew too
                     well, and felt that Nora, her beautiful and lovely cousin, would win, by her
                     charms and artless ways, that which her own wealth could never obtain. And why
                     did she dislike sweet Nora? Why, on every occasion, seek to treat her in a
                     manner most unbecoming? Why had she told her, many times, that she was only a
                     "poor cousin?" Ah! it was because Nora had won the affections of him whom her
                     cousin loved—or, rather, thought she loved; for she was incapable of that deep
                     affection, that pure devotion, which characterized Nora.
                  Harry St. Clair saw in Nora all those virtues so attractive in woman. It is not
                     strange, then, that he loved her. His proud sister had, more than once,
                     endeavored to turn his affections away from Nora; but it was all of no avail.
                     She pronounced it "boy's love." But Harry knew his own heart, and trusted to
                     his own feelings alone. His sister wished to gratify her pride and ambition;
                     Harry thought only of his future happiness; he was not attracted by the glare
                     of fashion and heartlessness. No, no, that could never make him happy. Nora was
                     his world—Nora the pride and joy of his heart; he lived but for a cherished
                     being, which life would be an entire blank without. He felt that, though she
                     was poor in this world's goods, yet in her heart was a mine of wealth—a casket
                     of richest gems, whose value could never be told. What a wealth, indeed, is
                     this!
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  "YES, I suppose it would not look exactly right for Nora not to come into the
                     parlor this evening. You know how people will talk; and, treat her as we may in
                     private, we must be exceedingly careful in public. I have an idea that it is
                     whispered already that we do not treat Nora well. That is a falsehood; for, I
                     am sure, we could not be more kind. I could not think of granting her the
                     liberties I do you, Pauline, because you are my daughter. People of any kind of
                     sense at all would know that."
                  "But, mamma, I do not wish Norah to be in the parlor to-night. It is my
                     company, and I cannot see what use it is for her to come down."
                  "Well, well, child; you must make the best of it; we cannot do any better, you
                     know very well. I assure you she does not go with my consent, We will have to
                     ask her to come; but, if she has any sense, she will not accept the invitation,
                     for she knows very well that we do not care to have her company.
                  But, to change the subject, Pauline, I wish you to make yourself as beautiful
                     as possible to-night; perhaps you may yet succeed in winning the heart of Harry
                     St. Clair. I know it would be the most severe cut Nora ever had if you were to
                     win him from her. It does seem so very strange to me how he can fancy her; to
                     be sure, she has a pretty baby face—just like her mother, for all the world;
                     she attracted every body toward her; but she had no such rival as you, my dear.
                     You dress elegantly; you are wealthy; in a word, a fit match for any one I
                     shall ever regret the day I consented to have her come here; but what could I do? It would have seemed so
                     unnatural for me to permit my own sister's child to starve; poor creature! it
                     was her misfortune to marry unhappily. I am, indeed, sorry for her. Her husband
                     was a fine-looking, dashy gentleman, and won her heart; he became dissipated,
                     and squandered her property; so, after her death, it was the least I could do
                     to take her child. I would not say it where Nora could hear me; but she is,
                     truly, a sweet and interesting child; she looks well in mourning. I do not
                     believe I can ever persuade her to take it off; she says she feels better in
                     that than any thing else—a romantic idea of her's, no doubt. Girls in love will
                     sometimes get peculiar notions in their heads, in spite of all you can say or
                     do."
                  "Do you think Nora really loves Harry?"
                  "I know she does. I will show you a slip of paper I picked off the floor; she
                     dropped it from a book she had been reading. You know she is always scribbling
                     some thing. Shut the door; she might hear us."
                  "Do, do let me see it, mamma," said Pauline.
                  
                     "TO HARRY:— If all the wealth of earth were mine, (she feels her poverty)
                        each diamond that decks the monarch's crown—each star that gilds the evening
                        hour—each gem that hangs from beauty's ear—each flower that blooms in Eden's
                        bowers—if all were mine—if all could purchase thy changeless, fondest
                        love—even then would I consider it cheaply bought."
                  
                  "What nonsense! Did you ever hear such a strain? I verily believe that the girl
                     is half crazy, for she seems to take no notice whatever of any body but Harry.
                     I think it presumption on her part, to dream of him, for he is so far above
                     her."
                  "So far above her!" Ah! why should Nora be inferior to him, even though he
                     possessed wealth? What ideas the proud and wealthy will have.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Unkindness, do thy office; poor heart, break;
                           Those are the killing griefs which dare not speak."
                        
                     
                  
                  "COUSIN, I wish not to participate in the gaiety of this evening. Alas! my
                     heart is but little fitted for such amusement. One dressed in deep mourning
                     seems not suited for the ball-room."
                  "Oh! that is just the answer I expected. There is no need of your wearing
                     mourning, for it has been quite a long time since your mother died. You only
                     wear it because you think it makes you look interesting."
                  "Ah! no, cousin. It is that I mourn the loss of my dear mother. Though I knew
                     but poverty, yet with her I was happy. I could not be reconciled to lay aside
                     my mourning. It is but the emblem of what my heart feels, and will ever
                     continue to feel. There are but few pleasures on earth for me."
                  "Foolish, romantic girl. You should be grateful that we even consented to let
                     you come here at all. But it is generally the case that those people for whom
                     we do the most are the most ungrateful."
                  "Ungrateful! Heaven knows I have not such a feeling in my heart. I only feel my
                     dependence."
                  
                  "That you ought to feel. People should not forget those upon whom they are
                     entirely dependent."
                  No reply was given. Nora felt her cheek crimson, and her blood flow faster in
                     her veins. For a moment she scarcely knew where she was; all things seemed to
                     reel before her. Gladly would she have sought some spot where she might give
                     free vent to her emotions. Alas! that heart was almost breaking. If she was but
                     a dependent in her uncle's family, that was no reason why she should be
                     subjected to unkind remarks, or treated with contempt. But Nora hoped for
                     brighter days to dawn upon her, and that buoyed up her soul at times. O! Hope,
                     thou golden star; 'tis thou who bids us be of good cheer, when all seems gloom
                     and sadness around—thou who dispelleth all sorrow.
                  The brilliant company had assembled. Pauline never looked more bewitchingly,
                     nor felt more gay. What added to her mirth was the absence of her cousin Nora;
                     she felt that no one would eclipse her that evening, for she was the wealthy
                     heiress of "Belvidera Hall." Anxiously did she await the coming of Harry; for
                     she was sure of his attentions that night, and hoped, by her cunning wiles, to
                     win him entirely from Nora.
                  After a while Harry came. Pauline was seated at the piano; when he entered the
                     room, her eyes seemed to kindle, and a smile pervaded her countenance. He
                     approached her, and stood, for a few moments, listening to the music—rather
                     seemingly listening, for it was very evident, to a close observer, that he was
                     a little dissatisfied in mind about something. In vain did he look around for
                     Nora. She was not to be found.
                  After chatting awhile, he excused himself, and joined a young lady who was
                     standing some little distance off.
                  "You seem to be lost," remarked she to Harry; "but I can account for that
                     easily enough—Miss Nora is not present. I wonder at it, too. I saw her on the
                     verandah a few moments ago, and she seemed very sad."
                  Harry could scarcely refrain his joy at finding out the whereabouts of Nora;
                     and, as soon as he could with propriety, he joined her.
                  Is there not one step for which we anxiously listen?—one sweet voice we love to
                     hear?—one glad smile we fain would see?—one fond heart which throbs for us?
                     Yes; and if there be heaven on earth, surely this is heaven.
                  These were the thoughts that passed through the mind of Nora, as she sat there
                     alone; she preferred not to mingle in the gay scenes, for her heart was too
                     heavy. Well she knew that Harry would be there; but, then, she was aware of the
                     feelings of her cousin, and would not show any anxiety to be where she knew
                     Harry was sure to go. On every occasion did she avoid any thing she thought
                     would offend her proud cousin; for, having herself such a refined and delicate
                     heart, she could not add one pang to another. She felt sure of the love of
                     Harry; and yet she sometimes thought she must be mistaken—for, surely, he might
                     prefer Pauline, who was wealthy, and by far a more queen-like person.
                  But it is not always the most brilliant who attract. Ah, no! Like some gorgeous
                     flower, they may have a fine exterior, but contain no intrinsic merit whatever.
                     The good, the beautiful and true, are sure to find some one to love whom they
                     are worthy of, and who will study
                     their fondest wish. Yes! the innocent and pure never lack for some one to love
                     them. Thank Heaven for it.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  NORA was a little startled at the appearance of Harry, for he was unexpected.
                     She knew that he would be present at the entertainment, but dreamed not that
                     she would see him. And, when he did come, his presence was most welcome.
                  "Alone, Nora?"
                  "No, Harry, not alone. I was busy with my own thoughts."
                  "And why not amid the gay and happy to-night?"
                  No reply was made; a sigh was all the answer.
                  "I am too happy, Nora, to find you here alone. I care not to mingle with the
                     crowd, since you are not there."
                  "But, Harry, you must not stay here, for I fear it will give offence to
                     others."
                  "I care not, Nora. I am in your society, and that is all the happiness I
                     desire."
                  "Say not so."
                  "And why should not I speak the true and honest dictates of my heart? I love
                     you, Nora. Ay! and no other mortal can I, will I, love. If you spurn me, then I
                     am indeed a most miserable man, and wish no longer to live; for earth will,
                     indeed, seem a blank to me. Nora, what answer do you give me? To-night am I to
                     be made the most miserable or the most happy of men?"
                  "Harry, I am poor. I am but a dependent in my uncle's family."
                  "Nora, I care not how poor you may be; I will love you all the better for that;
                     I glory in your poverty for my sake."
                  "But, Harry, there are others more gifted, more beautiful than Nora, the 'poor
                     cousin,' as I am frequently called."
                  "If you but say the word, I will render you independent of the favors of any
                     one. Yes, dearest, and I will give you all heart could desire. I paint no
                     scenes like these to fascinate your fancy. No, no. Say, Nora, for what may I
                     hope?"
                  The voice faltered; she could not raise her eyes, which, even then, were
                     suffused with tears of joy. No word was spoken. Ah! there was an eloquence in
                     that silence, which expressed more than words could ever speak. And, though
                     Harry knew this, yet he was impatient to hear the words from her own lips.
                  "Tell me, tell me, dear Nora, what I may expect. What do you offer me in
                     return?"
                  "A heart replete with devotion."
                  "Then I am, indeed, too happy. Oh! that words could express my joy. We will
                     know no sorrow, love; for you, as a bright star, a talisman, shall guide me
                     through life. Oh! I am too happy."
                  "Harry, will you not leave me now? I entreat you to, because I do not wish to
                     incur the displeasure of any one. However much I enjoy your society, yet I must
                     consider."
                  "Nora, I obey your every wish; believe me, you have made me too happy, and it
                     will be my aim in life to do all I can to prove it. Yes; I feel now as if I had something
                     to live for. Adieu, dearest, adieu."
                  Harry entered the spacious and brilliantly illuminated parlors. Oh! he was too
                     happy. All noticed how gay he was, and attributed it to every cause but the
                     right one. He felt as though a leaden weight was removed from his heart.
                     Pauline was as distant and dignified as possible; she knew he had been on the
                     verandah, conversing with her cousin, and thought it was decidedly rude. But if
                     he had been talking to her, in the same place, it would all have been very
                     proper. "Circumstances alter cases;" so thought Pauline, as she bit her lips
                     spitefully; she did not show any desire whatever to talk to any body during the
                     evening; but, of course, she had to force herself to converse with any one and
                     every one, lest she might elicit some remarks. Her pride always got the upper
                     hand of every thing. She knew not what the feeling of humanity was.
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              NORA'S JOURNAL.
                              "Oh! could I but wander in some sweet clime, where perpetual
                                 spring-time crowns the year; inhale the perfume of flowers,
                                 transplanted from the bowers of Paradise; could, at my bidding,
                                 call you star that trembles upon the altar of heaven; could I pluck
                                 unnumbered treasures from the mines; could bedeck myself with
                                 diamonds most rare;—in a word, call all the world my own—even then
                                 would I be desolate, feel deserted, unless some fond and faithful
                                 heart throbbed for me. You, dear Harry, first taught me how to
                                 love; and I will ever fondly cherish that heart given to me. Yes, I
                                 will live for you—will 'know no joy, save in thy smile.' But the
                                 hours are gliding swiftly by, and I must to 'Dream-land.' Peace to
                                 thee."
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  In its beauty, innocence and purity, what can exceed that gift which woman
                     sacrifices at the bridal altar? What can compare with its value, its lustre?
                     Ah! she makes a step, a doubtful step; she trembles, like the light of a star
                     fanned by angels' breath. Oh! that man deserves to die a thousand deaths, if he
                     returns not that world of wealth—a heart of fidelity and truth. Ah! woman
                     dreams not that some dark-eyed one may yet usurp that place which so justly
                     belongs to her. But "they who love most, suffer most."
                  Nora had no such forebodings as these, nor need she have; for Harry was,
                     indeed, one in every way worthy of her, and she felt it to be the case. She
                     might have searched the world over, and yet not found one so well suited to
                     herself in taste, feeling and sentiment, as Harry.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  
                     
                        
                           "The ocean, lashed to fury loud,
                           Its high wave mingling with the cloud,
                           Is peaceful, sweet serenity,
                           To anger's dark and stormy sea."
                        
                     
                  
                  "YOU, no doubt, enjoyed yourself much last night," said Pauline, the next
                     morning, while they sat at breakfast. "I thought you had some design in not
                     coming into the parlor. I know too well the whims and caprices of women not to
                     understand you. It was all affectation, on your part, pretending not wishing to come. I dare say you had a plot
                     made. As for myself, I would never use all my power to see any gentleman, but
                     let him seek my company, if he wishes it."
                  "Cousin, I knew nothing of St. Clair's movements. I was sitting on the
                     verandah, as I felt very lonely in my room. He came out there of his own
                     accord; how he ever knew I was there, is more than I can tell."
                  "Oh! that is a pretty excuse to make. I would not let a gentleman see I loved
                     him, it mattered not how much I thought of him. It was decidedly rude for him
                     to leave the room; there were enough without him, I know; but then it was his
                     place to remain with the company, and ask for you, if he wished to see you
                     particularly. It will not make him think any the more of you, I can tell you. I
                     do not believe he would marry you. It would seem very strange to me if he were
                     to marry a poor girl, like yourself, when there are so many rich ones, who
                     would be glad enough to have him. Some persons are very presumptuous. I tell
                     you, it is rather a difficult matter for a young lady, without any fortune, to
                     marry, now-a-days. Most gentlemen are fortune-hunters."
                  "If I were wealthy, cousin, I should never wish to marry one whom I thought a
                     fortune-hunter. It is safer to be poor, then, according to what you say."
                  "It will do very well for you to console yourself with that idea. But I would
                     never push myself into the company of any gentleman."
                  "I did not seek the society of Harry St. Clair; he sought mine; he knew me long
                     before the death of my mother. It was not by any will of mine that he came on
                     the verandah last night."
                  "If you thought him an intruder, you ought to have told him so, then; and not
                     entertained him for full two hours."
                  "I did not mean to say he was an intruder; but that he came on the verandah
                     entirely unexpected to me."
                  "A very agreeable surprise, no doubt. I will never be the one to let a
                     gentleman know I have any partiality. On the contrary, however much I may love
                     one, I will always lead him to believe that I am not by any means easily
                     won."
                  Nora made no reply, for she knew if she did that it would only add more fuel to
                     the fire. She was too well acquainted with the disposition of her cousin, and
                     that it was her chief delight to tantalize her whenever she could. She thought
                     it best to conceal her feelings on all occasions, and made it a point never to
                     speak unkindly. Many would deem such a course of conduct a want of pride, but
                     such was not the case with Nora; she was governed by the highest principles of
                     the strictest integrity; her mother had taught her to speak kindly to all, and
                     that to return good for evil was the noblest revenge. The good example set by a
                     mother has a salutary effect; and a fond, dutiful child will never forget the
                     lessons taught by a parent. No, the young mind retains, and is very apt to be
                     guided by them through life.
                  
                  Nora Grey was engaged to Harry St. Clair. It was indeed true that her youthful
                     and pure heart pined for some one to whom she could unbosom her every thought
                     and feeling, now that she felt the need of a mother's counsel. It is true she
                     was entirely satisfied that Harry was well worthy of all the affection she
                     could possibly bestow, and that he would prove true and faithful to her; yet, under such
                     circumstances as these, woman feels that she must have some one to whom she can
                     breathe freely every thought and feeling.
                  Nora should have found in her aunt a proper person to unbosom her thoughts.
                     Yes, for that one should have supplied a mother's place; yet how different was
                     she, and how unfaithful did she discharge the duty devolving upon her.
                  Nora knew that it was her duty to tell her aunt of her in tended marriage with
                     Harry St. Clair; but she dreaded to do so; for she too well knew the answer she
                     would get, and her aunt might possibly do all in her power to prevent her
                     marriage. How inconsistently did Mrs. Walthall act; she had repeatedly told
                     Nora that she was a poor dependent upon her bounty, and yet she was unwilling
                     to see her marry well. But this world is made up of strange people, who are
                     selfish and exacting to the greatest extent. How often are the innocent and the
                     good compelled to suffer because of them. But the day finally comes when they
                     are released from their prison-like fetters, and are happy in their glorious
                     freedom.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  ONE morning, while Mrs. Walthall sat reading, some one tapped gently at the
                     door; but this was something so usual that she paid but little attention to it,
                     and carelessly said, "Come in."
                  Nora's heart failed her for a moment, as she heard the words; she scarcely knew
                     whether to enter or not; but she had gone that far, and of course had to enter
                     the presence of her cold, haughty aunt. Mrs. W. was much surprised at the
                     entrance of her niece, and, for a moment, scarcely knew what to say. Nora
                     noticed her extreme uneasiness, and it made her feel the more embarrassed.
                  "Wonder not, aunt," said Nora, "at my very unceremonious visit this morning. I
                     came on the most important business; perhaps I ought to have done so ere this,
                     but could not make up my mind. One who feels that her confidence is an
                     intrusion, cannot, of course, place it upon the person whom she well knows will
                     perhaps refuse it. I owe it to you as a duty, aunt, to acquaint you of the
                     state of affairs, and beg that you will hear me through, say whatever you may
                     afterward."
                  "Well, Nora, why not come to the point? I cannot endure all this parley about
                     nothing. Remember that I do not wish to be disturbed; so make your interview as
                     brief as possible."
                  "I will tell you, aunt, in as few words as possible, that I am engaged to be
                     married."
                  "Engaged to be married!" exclaimed Mrs. Walthall. "Impossible—impossible! A
                     poor girl, like yourself, dependent upon the bounty of an aunt."
                  "Strange as you may deem it, aunt, nevertheless it is true."
                  "And, pray, to whom?"
                  "Harry St. Clair."
                  "Harry St. Clair! When will wonders cease? Truly, this is the age of wonders. I
                     did not dream of any thing of the kind. I say that you shall not marry Harry.
                     St. Clair! But for you, Pauline would have won him."
                  
                  "It was no fault of mine, aunt, that she did not win him. A poor girl, like
                     myself, can be no rival for an heiress. But you, aunt, have no right to oppose
                     me in the matter."
                  "I say that I have, and will do it, too."
                  "How can you wish to interfere with a marriage that will make me no longer a
                     dependent?"
                  "Ah! I see that you marry for mercenary motives. You, like many others, can be
                     caught with a golden bait."
                  "No, aunt; it is not Harry's wealth I marry him for; no, I love him truly."
                  "No, you do not love him; it is only a foolish notion you have in your head.
                     You shall not marry him. I will not consent to it."
                  "Then I must marry without your consent."
                  "Elope, I presume. I suspect notes have been carried; I know that Pompey likes
                     you, and will do any thing for you. But, if I find him taking or bringing
                     notes, I will sell him. I will not own a slave who will not obey my orders. I
                     am mistress of this establishment, and intend to be so always. Would it not
                     look well for a young lady to be the cause of having a poor slave sold away
                     from his friends!"
                  "The person, aunt, who sells one for the mere act of carrying or bringing a
                     note, would be rather the worse of the two."
                  "Disobeying orders! No, Pompey shall obey me; and, if I do detect him doing any
                     thing of the kind, I will offer him for sale. And as to you, Nora Grey, I wish
                     you to leave my room, and not enter it again to-day. You have offended me, and
                     I wish you to quit my presence. As to marrying Harry St. Clair, you may just
                     discard that notion altogether, for I say you shall not marry him. It is just
                     as well for you to give up all notion of him at once. Do you hear?"
                  Nora left the presence of her aunt, undecided as to what course to pursue. She
                     wished to write a note to Harry, and knew that Pompey would gladly take it;
                     but, then, the consequences. She felt that her aunt was indeed a tyrant, and
                     was offended merely because Harry chose to offer himself. She wrote him a note,
                     and, seeing Pompey in the garden, gave it to him.
                  "Take it to Mr. St. Clair, Pompey; and, if you are sold because of it, I will
                     get him to buy you."
                  "God bless you!" said Pompey. "Dat I will, missus, do any ting, case you are
                     good to poor Pompey."
                  Nora's heart felt lighter as she saw Pompey vanish from view. She knew that
                     Harry would do any thing to please her, and, if Pompey was sold, Harry would
                     purchase him. Pompey was never tardy; so, in a few moments, he came 
                        runing
                        running
                      back. Harry requested her to meet him, at six o'clock, in A. M—'s
                     ice-cream saloon, and there they would settle matters satisfactorily.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  
                     
                        
                           "She is as constant as the stars
                           That never vary, and more chaste than they."
                        
                     
                  
                  "AM I wrong? I do not feel as if I were about to commit an act unjustifiable.
                     Am I disobedient? My aunt is proud and tyrannical; she has never acted a
                     mother's part toward me. Whenever I ask her counsel or advice, she treats me
                        with levity. Alas! what am I to
                     do? Harry loves me; I love him with my heart's purest and fondest devotion. Is
                     it right for me to elope? There is no alternative, for my aunt most positively
                     affirms that I shall never marry Harry St. Clair. What am I to do? Shall I drag
                     out a life of misery to myself, or shall I be made truly happy by marrying one
                     who fondly and devotedly loves me? I know he marries me for myself alone. I
                     have no wealth; I am very poor; I have told him so, and yet he says he loves me
                     the more. I take but one more thought—shall I, or shall I not go?"
                  "Go!" said a voice. "Yes, Nora, for your heart is with Harry."
                  
                     
                        "Rocks have been shaken from their solid base,
                        And what shall move a firm and dauntless mind?"
                     
                  
                  Thus soliloquized Nora, while she made her toilette. She was to meet Harry at
                     six o'clock. She stopped to reflect but a moment more. She faltered once more;
                     her better feelings overcame her, and, in a few moments, she was in the company
                     of Harry, who had waited with all anxiety for her coming.
                  Nora, of course, was a little agitated; not that she felt criminal at all; but
                     she knew what would be the feelings of her aunt when she heard of it.
                  "Do not have any fears, Nora. No matter what your aunt may think or say. Has
                     she positively forbidden you to marry me?"
                  "Even so, Harry."
                  "Who shall dare forbid any thing of the kind? Am I, are not you free to marry
                     whom you may choose? Yes, and all the combined forces of earth shall not
                     prevent it. Would you hesitate to marry me because she forbids it?"
                  "No, Harry."
                  "Then am I satisfied. There is no other way the marriage can be effected than
                     by eloping."
                  "Aunt would call that a romantic freak," replied Nora, laughing.
                  "I care not what she may call it."
                  "Is it wrong, Harry, for me to elope?"
                  "Wrong! why, no; you would not do so, if she permitted you to marry in her own
                     house. But she says that she will not; so, of course we must elope. We can get
                     Pompey to assist us."
                  "Oh, Harry, my aunt has told me if she caught him bringing or carrying any
                     notes, she would sell him."
                  "Well, I promise to purchase him; and, if he will do all he can to assist us, I
                     will liberate him. Will that not please you?"
                  "Oh! you are so good, so good," said Nora, clapping her hands for joy. "I told
                     Pompey I knew you would do any thing to repay him for all his trouble."
                  "Yes, dearest, any price, so that I obtain the precious prize—Nora Grey.
                     To-morrow, then, Nora, at dawn, we must make our escape. I will have the
                     carriage in readiness; and we must get Pompey to watch, and bribe the dog with
                     a plenty of fresh beef, so that he will not be likely to make any noise.
                     Remember, then, at dawn. Do you promise it?"
                  "With all my heart, Harry."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Yon gray lines,
                           That fret the clouds, are messengers of day."
                        
                     
                  
                  NORA returned home; her absence, of course, caused no wonder, for it was
                     nothing unusual for her to walk at that time in the evening. She endeavored to
                     appear as calm as possible, although she was very far from feeling so. Tea
                     being over, she went up on the verandah, and, seeing Pompey standing below, she
                     descended the flight of steps and beckoned to him —
                  "I know all 'bout it, missus, for Mas' Harry done tole me. What you want put in
                     the carriage in the mornin', just heave out de winder, and Pompey will 'tend to
                     it. You had better go, Miss Nory, case ye know how Missus is;' if she cotch me
                     talkin', she tink I do somethin' I no bisnis."
                  Nora hastened to her home, and, looking in her trunks, she found dresses given
                     her by her aunt; she took them out, one by one, for she was determined not to
                     take away any more than she was compelled to. Pompey ascended to the window by
                     a ladder, and threw a rope in, to which was attached the trunk of Nora.
                     Descending, he watched very carefully for the trunk, which he took and put
                     safely away.
                  This being done, Nora's heart felt lighter. She lay down for a little while,
                     but it was quite impossible for her to sleep; even if her mind had been in the
                     proper place, she would have feared to do so, lest she might oversleep herself.
                     At dawn she was to be ready to meet Harry.
                  
                  When one is awaiting the arrival of any particular time, how very long and
                     tedious seem the hours; we almost fear to hear a footstep, lest it may be one
                     to betray us. Nora scarcely knew how to while away the time. She read till she
                     was weary; then watched the soft, beautiful light without. "Oh! will the day
                     never dawn?" thought she. "What a long, long night."
                  Exhausted and overcome from fatigue, Nora fell into a quiet slumber. Hush!
                     breathe not a word, for Nora sleepeth; the quiet stars look mildly down and
                     smile. Nora hath forgotten her troubles, for 'sleep knits up the ravelled
                     sleeve of care." Why does she so sweetly smile? Ah! she dreams of Harry. Soon
                     that sweet dream will be realized, for already hath the spirit of night
                     commenced to leave her haunts.
                  
                  
                     
                        "Look, love what envious streaks
                        Do lace the severing east;
                        Night's candles are burnt out, and jocund day
                        Stands tiptoe on the misty mountain tops."
                     
                  
                  The bright morning star told that day had come. Nora awakened, for it seemed as
                     if some little fairy kept watch, lest she might oversleep herself. She looked
                     out upon the beauty without. Oh! what a glorious morn was that; indeed, all
                     nature smiles joyously. The tender blades of grass, laden with their pearly
                     necklace, now raised themselves, as if to kiss the golden wings of morning. The
                     gushing of the fountain in the garden seemed to sign as Nora gazed upon it; the
                     song of the bird was not merry and free. In a word, all things lamented the
                     departure of the lovely Nora. She gazed amid all these scenes, and yet no regret was in her heart; for
                     what regret had she to make? She was not a welcome inmate of that home.
                  With what a noiseless step did she descend the steps that led to the gate; she
                     almost feared to breathe, lest she might be detected. Soon she reached the
                     destined spot, and there found Harry waiting with a carriage. What could exceed
                     his joy? Nora, his dear and lovely Nora, would soon be his forever!
                  Fearing that Pompey would get the worst for his trouble, he gave him a note,
                     which ran thus:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "MR. MAURY—Dear Sir:—If this man, Pompey, is put up
                                 for sale, purchase him; I care not what price you may give. I
                                 promise to buy him from you on my return. He has served me
                                 faithfully in a certain way, and I feel that I wish to reward him.
                                 Do not part with him until I see you.
                              
                                 "Yours truly,
                                 Harry St. Clair."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  "Be sure to give this to Mr. Maury, Pompey, because it will benefit you. Here,
                     take this purse. Good-bye. You have been a faithful friend, and I will reward
                     you."
                  "God bless you, mas'."
                  A few moments and the carriage is out of sight. In a few hours they arrive at
                     the place where persons under a certain age are married.
                  We will not attempt to portray the happiness of the happy couple, but leave the
                     reader to imagine.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  
                     
                        
                           "There is not in Nature
                           A thing that makes a woman so deformed, so beastly,
                           As doth intemperate anger."
                        
                     
                  
                  "UNGRATEFUL, ungrateful creature, Nora Grey, thus to marry without my
                     consent—to steal out of my house by daylight; and, what is worse than all,
                     marry a man I positively forbade her. See what thanks persons get for their
                     pains and trouble. When I took her she had neither house nor home. She, only
                     sixteen years old—a mere child; never mind, she will see her folly soon enough;
                     I hope so, at all events. Is not this a very pretty example to set my daughter?
                     But Pauline is a girl of too much good sense to do any thing of that kind. I
                     think she made a good miss, truly, not to marry Harry St. Clair; for a man who
                     will persuade a young girl to elope, is, in my opinion, no better than a
                     thief."
                  "What is the matter, mamma?" said Pauline, as she entered the room.
                  "What is the matter? Why, matter enough. Nora has actually run away. Do you see
                     her trunk is gone? There are the dresses I gave her left out. I do think her
                     intolerable."
                  "Eloped, mamma? Impossible!"
                  "Impossible as it may seem, nevertheless, it is true. At daylight this morning
                     did she make her escape. Well, well, I must say that things have come to a
                     pretty pass. A girl of sixteen marrying. Who ever heard any thing to equal
                     that? Never mind, Pauline, you will yet marry some one far above Harry St. Clair. I cannot get over this at all.
                     It is not that I mind his marrying Nora, but what people will say. The very
                     idea of eclipsing you is more than I can stand. But, my child, we shall have to
                     submit to it. I told her, a few days ago, that she should not marry Harry; and
                     yet, on the very face of this, she eloped. Pompey is concerned in the matter,
                     and I will not own him any longer; for I told him, if he persisted in taking
                     notes, that I must certainly dispose of him, no matter how little I might get
                     for him. You are invited to the grand entertainment given at Madam Ravel's
                     to-night, and perhaps you will captivate somebody. We should rather be glad
                     that Nora has gone. I do not wish to see her any more, and; if she ever
                     presumes to come here, I will actually order the doors to be shut on her. I
                     consider that she has acted a most ridiculous part, and I intend she shall feel
                     the might of my displeasure. Who would have thought that one with such a
                     saint-like face, would ever run away; but it is generally the way with these
                     straight-laced people; they will do more mischief in one hour than a reckless
                     person in twenty years. I really am glad she has gone, and Pompey shall go. It
                     was his place, instead of carrying notes to St. Clair, to bring them to me.
                     Never mind, they will both be sorry for their conduct."
                  Pompey feared that he should meet with some difficulty, for he knew too well
                     the disposition of his mistress; so he hastened to Mr. Maury, to whom he gave
                     the note. That matter being settled, his heart was at ease. He was happy in
                     knowing that he had been of service to Nora, and he was willing to suffer the
                     consequences.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  MADAME RAVEL was a fashionable woman—that is to say, she lived in a splendid
                     mansion, furnished in most elegant style; gave large parties; kept a box at the
                     opera; owned a pew in one of the most fashionable churches; gave large
                     entertainments to her numerous friends, who went for different purposes—some
                     because it was a passport into the aristocratic circles, some to talk sense,
                     some to talk nonsense, and some to scandalize. One lady was not dressed well;
                     another was a consummate flirt; a certain married lady showed more attention to
                     another gentleman than her own husband. These, and a thousand other remarks,
                     too numerous to mention, was the amount of the conversation generally among
                     those who met at Madam Ravel's one evening in every week. The lady in question
                     was rather more fashionable than learned, as one might soon discover; five
                     minutes' conversation was all that was necessary to find that out. She did not,
                     for a moment, dream she was the subject of ridicule among those very persons
                     who were entertained so handsomely at her place every week.
                  "What an old goose," says one; "how ignorant," says a second; "how
                     extravagantly she dresses for an old woman," says a third; "she tries to look
                     so young," says a fourth; "I should think she would keep her mouth shut, since
                     she is so ignorant," says a fifth. Such were the encomiums passed upon Madam
                     Ravel on the evenings of her soirées. Alas! for the deceitful world.
                  
                     "Ah! that deceit should steal such gentle shapes."
                  
                  
                  Among the crowd was Pauline Walthall. Rich, and rather elegant-looking, of
                     course she was the cynosure of all eyes, particularly fortune-hunters. She was
                     introduced to many by Madam Ravel, who was quite proud of her guest.
                  Pauline has fastened her eye upon a very handsome gentleman; and it seemed the
                     admiration was mutual, for he sought her hand for every polka and quadrille;
                     stood by her when she played on the piano; and, after a little while, wished to
                     know if she would allow him the pleasure of escorting her home; true, much to
                     the chagrin of both, it was an utter impossibility, as Pauline was compelled to
                     return with the gentleman who escorted her there.
                  Eugene Du Pont was the gentleman who was so much attracted toward Pauline; he
                     heard it whispered that she was wealthy, and of course that was no objection.
                     He had made up his mind to marry as soon as he saw one he thought suited him;
                     and, upon the whole, he thought Pauline the very one for him.
                  The evening passed rapidly and pleasantly away with Pauline, and she was indeed
                     sorry when the time arrived for her to leave.
                  "How were you pleased, dear, with the party last evening?" asked Mrs. Walthall
                     the next morning of Pauline.
                  "Oh! mamma, I could not begin to tell you; I was perfectly delighted. You ought
                     to see Mr. Du Pont. He is truly charming; dances and waltzes most beautifully;
                     and he has such delightful manners, too. I never passed an evening more
                     agreeably; indeed, I would not have missed going upon any consideration."
                  "I told you, Pauline, that you would meet with some one far above Harry St.
                     Clair."
                  "Do not speak of him, for he is not a circumstance; how blind I was to admire
                     Harry."
                  "You did not admire him; you only thought you did, that was all."
                  "Mr. Du Pont is truly elegant. I do not know of any one I admire more, he was
                     so particularly attentive to me."
                  "Well, my dear, I am very, very happy that you are so much pleased with him.
                     Perhaps he will offer—"
                  "I have not the least doubt of that at all, mamma. Perhaps I may accept,
                     too."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  AFTER the marriage of Harry and Nora, they proceeded to the nearest city. Nora
                     was compelled to remain a week, in order to get some dresses made, as she was
                     not in a fit trim to visit any of the fashionable watering places. Harry
                     persuaded her to lay aside her mourning. Nora, of course, would do any thing to
                     please Harry; whatever was his will was her pleasure.
                  After getting through the tedious job of completing her wardrobe, they went on
                     their journey. How charming did each scene appear to her! How could it be
                     otherwise? She felt no smiting of conscience, because she did not, for a
                     moment, imagine she did wrong to elope with Harry; for she had laid the whole
                     matter before her heartless and exacting aunt, who ridiculed every thing she
                     said, and plainly told her she should not marry St. Clair. If there had been any plausible reason why she should
                     not have done so, Nora would not have persisted; but so soon as she saw it was
                     only a selfish movement of her aunt, she felt that she could not possibly give
                     up to it, particularly as her happiness would have been at stake.
                  A woman, perhaps, never feels more fearless and free than when about to
                     accomplish a particular wish of her heart; it seems to give new vigor, and she
                     feels dauntless. She would dare the eagle, stand at the cannon's mouth, scale
                     the heavens,—do any thing for the one who reigns supreme in her heart. And thus
                     it should ever be with every true and noble-hearted woman who values her
                     happiness. She should permit no one to choose for her. No, let her choose for
                     herself; and, if she is not then made happy, then she can blame no one but
                     herself. Nora felt this; she had studied and pondered the question well ere she
                     took the responsible step. So far from any feeling of doing wrong entering her
                     heart, it was the contrary; and, though she knew her aunt wished her all misery
                     in life, yet she hoped that all her happier days were yet to come. Many sad and
                     painful hours had she passed in days gone by, but now her's was to be joy
                     indeed.
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "I cannot express my indignation, Harry, at your conduct. You were
                                 well aware that I was most bitterly opposed to your marrying Nora
                                 Grey, the poor dependent. Well, I must say that I feel as though I
                                 could never raise my head again. I had hoped you would marry some
                                 one more worthy of you—Pauline Walthall, for instance. I am quite
                                 sure you could have gained her hand without the least trouble at
                                 all; but no, you chose rather to marry Nora Grey, and, what is
                                 worse than all, you eloped with her. It has created quite a
                                 sensation in our city, and every body is asking me about it. I do
                                 wish people had better sense than to keep me continually subjected
                                 to mortification. And I very plainly show, by my looks, that I feel
                                 crest-fallen; but every one knows it is no fault of mine that you
                                 married as you did. I never wish you to enter our house with Nora
                                 Grey. What would father and mother say if they were living? Why our
                                 old housekeeper, even, seems to feel it as much as I do. I
                                 sometimes think you must have been crazy, surely, to have taken
                                 such a step. But I am satisfied that you will repent of your folly
                                 before long. I had a good mind not to write at all, but I wish you
                                 to feel my indignation.
                              
                                 "Your Sister,
                                 Anna."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  It was well for Harry that Nora was not by when he read the letter, for he
                     could not refrain from giving vent to his anger after reading it. The very idea
                     of his good and lovely Nora being spoken so lightly of was more than he could
                     stand. As to Pauline Walthall, he had actually learned to hate her: he saw
                     nothing lovely or interesting about her in the least; and, as to marrying her,
                     that was something he never intended doing.
                  "Let every one make his own choice," said Harry to himself. "Heaven has granted
                     that right to all. We are in a free country, and are a free people. Anna has no
                     cause to speak thus of Nora Grey, and I will never intrude the company of Nora
                     upon her. No, she need have no fear of that, I can tell her. I am just as proud
                     as she is heartless, and she will see it, too."
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  EUGENE DU PONT continued his visits to Pauline regularly; went riding with her;
                     was her escort to all the parties, balls, &c. Every evening he was at her
                     side, no matter where she might be. Mrs. Walthall was much pleased with Eugene,
                     and considered him a most capital man. "He had every accomplishment," &c.
                     Pauline thought him the "ne plus ultra." If
                     he had any faults, she was perfectly blinded to them, or did not wish to see
                     them.
                  When a person makes up his mind with regard to any thing, he is not very long
                     in effecting his purpose. It was the intention of Eugene to make a proposal to
                     Pauline, and felt quite sure he would be accepted, since she had given him
                     every reason to think so.
                  One beautiful evening, as they rambled together, Eugene felt courage to express
                     the sentiment of his heart; fatigued, they sat upon some rocks, by the bank of
                     a lovely stream, that sang as it sped gaily along. For a few moments silence
                     ensued; then, taking her hand, he said—
                  "'Tis you alone can save or give my doom. Yes, Pauline, as Dryden has most
                     beautifully expressed it:— 
                        'This hand I cannot but in death resign.'
                      Tell me, Pauline, what is my fate?"
                  She gave one glance, and, in a low voice, said:— 
                        
                           "Forever thine, whate'er this world betide—
                           In youth, in age, thine own, forever thine."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Then am I most happy, Pauline, for mutual love is the crown of all bliss. I
                     had hoped to call you mine; but, so many sought your hand, that, alas! I feared
                     another might claim it; admired and caressed by all, I trembled lest I might
                     not gain the object of my heart; but I am too happy in thus having won the
                     prize."
                  The sun was slowly sinking in the west. Oh! what a gorgeous scene. Clouds of
                     gold and purple floated above. Ah! that was a sight no mortal limner could
                     portray with pencil. All around was quietude and peace. Pauline thought she
                     never felt more happy, and in that moment did she forget Harry; and it were
                     well that she did, for, if she cast one thought on him, it was sure to make her
                     most miserable; and, though she was by far too proud to acknowledge it, yet did
                     she love him sincerely. At times, it seemed as if she could not banish his
                     image from her mind. Pride at all times will not overcome love; very often,
                     when one uses all her endeavors to strive against it, in spite of herself, it
                     will gain the mastery.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  THREE weeks had passed very pleasantly away at N—. Nora was much delighted with
                     her trip; her health and spirits seemed to gain new vigor. Harry, finding she
                     enjoyed herself so much, determined to make as protracted a stay as
                     possible.
                  One morning he came into his room very much agitated; this being so unusual, of
                     course caused Nora to feel somewhat uneasy.
                  
                  "Anna is extremely ill, Nora: I have this moment received a telegraphic
                     despatch, and must hasten home. I regret much taking you from a place where you
                     enjoy yourself; but, under the existing circumstances, I cannot do
                     otherwise."
                  "Dear Harry, I would not have you remain one single moment longer. No, no; your
                     sister is ill, and you should, by all means, go to her. I will promise to nurse
                     her faithfully."
                  A tear filled the eye of Harry; he could not keep it back: he thought of the
                     unkind letter he had received from his sister, only three weeks before, saying
                     she did not wish him to return to her home any more.
                  "Yes, Nora, we must go, for no one is there except the housekeeper, and she is
                     not over and above amiable, you know."
                  "I dare say Anna needs some one to comfort her; true, there are plenty of
                     servants; yet there is nothing like having some one to be gentle and kind
                     during illness. She always loved me very much; we are, however, so entirely
                     different in our dispositions, that I wonder we could ever assimilate at all.
                     However, we generally managed to agree very well. It is my desire to go, Harry,
                     to do all in my power to aid her. I assure you nothing can give me more real
                     pleasure than to attend to her during her illness. Although I know full well
                     she was most bitterly opposed to my marrying you, and has spoken unkindly of
                     me, yet do I forgive it all most freely. Yes, I will forget it if
                     possible."
                  "Noble, noble girl!" exclaimed Harry. "Oh! I feel that, in 
                        
                           'Wooing thee, I found thee of more value
                           Than stamps in gold, or sums in sealed bags;
                           And 'tis the very riches of thyself
                           That now I aim at.'
                        
                      Yes, Nora, you are very dear to me, and will ever be: it were vain for
                     mortal tongue to tell half my love for you. You are a gem to me indeed. What a
                     noble revenge will be that, to befriend one who has treated you unkindly. Noble
                     girl—a very angel in human form: my life shall be devoted to your happiness
                     alone. My heart was set upon you the first moment I saw you, and I fully
                     determined to call you mine. And, Nora, I have succeeded in winning the great
                     prize, and could not possibly place a greater estimate upon it than I do."
                  "I feel assured, Harry, that you married me solely for love; fortune I had
                     none."
                  "A person like you, dear Nora, so good and gentle, I consider in possession of
                     a great fortune indeed, and one much to be coveted."
                  "It shall be my aim to prove, in every way, most worthy of you, Harry."
                  A few days, and Harry reached his home; there was a cautiousness about the step
                     of every one, that made him fear that his sister might be dangerously ill;
                     physicians consulted each other, and shook their heads doubtfully. Harry
                     watched their every movement closely, and almost feared to ask them what they
                     thought. In so brief a time Anna had, indeed, changed; the roundness and
                        embonpoint was gone. She was pale and wan;
                     and, as Harry stood gazing at her, he could scarcely realize that it was his
                     own sister. Like the rose fading, looked Anna; one would not have thought that,
                     in so brief a time, she would be so sadly altered.
                  Nora sat by her side constantly; each day did she watch the suffering one, and do all in her power to
                     minister to her happiness. No one could persuade her to leave the couch of the
                     sick one, and it was almost by force that Harry could prevail on her to take
                     necessary repose. Anna, though so ill, was not insensible to the kindness and
                     tenderness of Nora; no, no; and often did her conscience smite her for penning
                     the letter she did to Harry. And then Nora was so like a ministering
                     angel—always giving good cheer and hope to the sick one; gently did she smooth
                     the pillow, and prepare with her own hand every thing she ate.
                  One evening, while Nora sat watching Anna, she heard her name called. Taking
                     the hand of Anna within her own, she asked:
                  "What is it, dear Anna?"
                  "Nora, I am so unhappy."
                  "And why should you be so unhappy?"
                  "Ah! I have not treated you as I ought."
                  "Hush, dear Anna; do not say any thing about that; you are by far too ill to
                     talk much."
                  "But I cannot until you say you forgive me."
                  "Forgive you, dearest? With all my heart."
                  "And will you love me as a sister?"
                  "I do love you as a sister, Anna. Yes, and I wish to do all I can to prove
                     it."
                  "Oh! you have already done more than I really deserve."
                  "You must not talk any more, Anna, for you are too weak. I shall have to leave
                     you if you talk, and that I shall be very sorry to do."
                  "Oh! do not leave me, for I feel that no one can do half so well."
                  Now imprinting a sweet kiss upon Anna, she bade her go to sleep. Oh! what an
                     angel of goodness and mercy was around that couch.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  THREE months have passed away. A great wedding is in contemplation. Pauline
                     Walthall is about to marry Eugene Du Pont. What a sensation the news created
                     among her friends; it seemed everybody knew of it, and regarded it as one of
                     the grandest weddings that had come off for some time. No pains were spared to
                     obtain every article of the most elegant kind. No expense considered too great.
                     Mrs. Walthall was indeed delighted at the conquest her daughter had made, and
                     wished to gratify her every whim. Such a talk as there was—the marriage of a
                     great heiress! To be sure, it was nothing strange for her to have admirers; and
                     the event of her marriage was looked forward to with great pleasure by some,
                     for then they would have the whole field to themselves. Pauline, as a general
                     thing, was no great favorite with her own sex; yet this gave her no uneasiness
                     whatever, since her society was courted by the gentlemen. Every one was on
                     tiptoe as to the time when the marriage would come; they knew the time was not
                     far distant, because the wedding apparel was already purchased.
                  
                  The much-wished-for time at last arrived. Pauline was married to Eugene Du
                     Pont; great pomp and parade there was on the occasion, and everybody seemed to have something to say about it.
                     Hundreds of invitations were extended, and everybody seemed to accept. Nora, of
                     course, did not receive any invitation, nor did she expect it. Even had she
                     been so honored, it is not very likely she would have accepted, under the
                     circumstances. Many times was she passed on the street by her proud aunt and
                     cousin, who did not deign to recognize her at all, but only treated her with
                     the most perfect contempt imaginable. But Nora did not return any thing of the
                     kind, for she was a person of too much good feeling and refinement to resent
                     it. She had done nothing to merit her displeasure at all; and, having a clear
                     conscience, she was perfectly satisfied. If we are at peace with ourselves, it
                     is, indeed, a most happy feeling.
                  Madame Du Pont, for such was Pauline styled, now figured very extensively at —
                     Springs. She was surrounded by a host of admirers, and seemed perfectly
                     delighted. She received the attention of a host of gay butterflies, and had a
                     pure relish for it, too. It was plainly to be seen that Eugene Du Pont (who, by
                     the by, was not the least jealous person in the world) did not altogether
                     admire his wife's course of conduct. She seemed to like the society of any one
                     else quite as well as his own; and, indeed, for some she showed a decided
                     preference. But Pauline seemed to disregard him altogether, and gave him to
                     understand that she intended to receive the attentions of whomsoever she
                     chose;—not very pleasing tidings to Eugene Du Pont, to be sure, who, like all
                     other men, are jealous in matters of love.
                  Pauline, who had never been accustomed to being opposed in any way, was not the
                     one to permit a tight rein to be held over her now. Eugene Du Pont saw it was
                     no use to say aught against her conduct, for he could not convince Pauline that
                     there was any possible harm in it. So blinded was she by the inordinate love of
                     admiration, that she cared only to be the great centre of attraction—the
                     admired of all admirers. She enjoyed herself, and that was all she desired; for
                     she gave no thought whatever as to what might be the feelings of others.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  ALAS! for vain hopes—alas! that the bright sky should suddenly be o'ercast with
                     clouds—that flowers should fade even while we watch their budding beauty. Harry
                     and Nora had fondly hoped, fondly expected that Anna would recover; they
                     dreamed not that soon she would bid them all "adieu." Day by day sat the
                     faithful Nora by her side, for Anna could not bear the thought of her leaving
                     her. Pain seemed to be soothed sooner if she was near; no hand was so soft, so
                     tender; no words so musical as those of Nora. And she, too, had pointed her the
                     way to Heaven—had shown her the follies of all earthly enjoyments, and turned
                     her thoughts where she hoped her soul might wing its flight. At midnight, at
                     early dawn, at noonday, did many prayers ascend to that throne where sits the
                     "King of kings."
                  Anna felt that she must die—that no hope was now entertained of her recovery;
                     and, when she asked the doctor to tell her the truth, she saw, by the
                     expression of his countenance, that
                     earth would not long be her abiding place. But she received the summons not
                     with fear; ah, no! for, through the prayers of Nora, she was prepared.
                  Oh! how beautiful indeed is it to stand beside the dying-bed of one for whom
                     death hath no fears; to watch that calm, serene countenance, lighted up with
                     angelic smiles; to see one waiting patiently, till death should release it of
                     its prison-like fetters; to hear a sweet voice talking to the convoy of angels
                     that surround the dying one.
                  And such was the death-bed scene of Anna St. Clair—the once proud, gay, and
                     heartless girl; now a meek, quiet, gentle, and trusting Christian, placing full
                     confidence in the God who gave her being, who had wrought a most wonderful and
                     powerful change in her. And, though Nora would have her live, to show a bright
                     and true Christian example, yet she felt that her soul was indeed purified for
                     Heaven; and it would be almost a sacrilege to wish for her to remain on
                     earth.
                  Anna, awakening one evening from one of the sweetest slumbers, called Nora to
                     her side.
                  "Dear Nora, I wish to say many thing to you; I feel that, ere long, I must bid
                     'adieu' to you and dear Harry. Oh! that words could express what I feel—my
                     gratitude to you for your prayers, and my gratitude to my Maker for hearing
                     them. I feel that you are a very angel; that you were sent to point me to the
                     way of the good and the pure. You have taught me how to die; to appear before
                     the great tribunal of a just God. You have been so faithful, dear Nora, both as
                     a wife and sister. I need not ask you to supply my place when I am gone, for I
                     feel that you will more than fill it."
                  "No, dearest Anna, I can never fill the place which you will vacate; but will
                     promise to do all in my power to minister to the happiness of Harry."
                  "Yes, my dearest Nora; and though you did not promise that, I feel you would do
                     so. Harry has, indeed, a gem in his possession—that warm, true, and faithful
                     heart which throbs in your bosom. I can die in peace, for you are here to
                     console Harry in his grief and trouble; you can heal the wound none other
                     could."
                  Anna looked up mournfully, and called for Harry; he came just in time to get
                     his farewell. Joining the hands of the two Anna said:
                  "Peace to you, my sister, my brother; meet me in Heaven."
                  Silence reigned. That gentle spirit had fled to its heavenly home. A purer and
                     brighter one had never left earth. The grief of those who stood beside can
                     never be told—it was too deep to give utterance to words.
                  Harry did not feel alone, for Nora was with him, and would do all in her power
                     to supply the place of Anna. How he blessed the day when first he saw the
                     choice of his heart. Now came to mind all the recollections of the past—the
                     unkind letter written by Anna, the conversation which we had noted at the
                     beginning of the story. But Harry could not rebuke her now, no, no; he felt
                     that she had made up for all past unkindness, and freely forgave her. He was
                     satisfied that her gentle spirit was at peace with God. She was his only, his
                     dear sister—his sole companion since the death of his mother; and now that she
                     was gone, he mourned her loss.
                  As he looked upon the lifeless form, so emaciated, he could scarcely realize that it was indeed that of his
                     beautiful sister Anna. He thought, as the poet has beautifully expressed it— 
                        
                           "Death lies on her like an untimely frost,
                           Upon the sweetest flower of all the field."
                        
                        
                           "This gone! forever gone! the King of Terrors
                           Lays his rude hands upon her lovely limbs,
                           And blasts her beauties with his icy breath."
                        
                     
                  
                  Nora looked a moment more, ere her form was hid from view by the coffin-lid,
                     and exclaimed— 
                        
                           "Early, bright, transient, chaste as morning dew,
                           She sparkled, was exhaled, and went to Heaven."
                        
                     
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  MATTERS, instead of getting better, became worse. Eugene Du Pont found that he
                     was entirely mistaken in the character of Pauline, and now saw the folly of
                     having linked his destiny with her. She found no pleasure whatever in home, but
                     cared only for the fashion and gaiety of life. Eugene was naturally inclined to
                     dissipation, and Pauline's conduct made him the more; and now he sought
                     pleasure in gaming, etc., with a number of his former reckless companions, whom
                     he might have abandoned, had the proper means been taken. Alas! Pauline was not
                     the one fitted to effect this change. She used none of her endeavors to make
                     home happy, and cared but little how or where he passed his time, and she had
                     her train of admires.
                  
                  Matters began to take a very different turn. The mother of Pauline was riding
                     one evening; the horse took fright, and ran away. Mrs. Walthall was severely
                     injured about the head—so much so that she became delirious. Nora, hearing of
                     the accident which befel her aunt, went immediately to her aid. In her delirium
                     she called for Nora loudly.
                  "Ah! Nora, Nora, how cruelly did I treat you—you who were so kind and
                     unoffending—my sister's own child. Oh! how could I ever reconcile it to my
                     conscience to treat you thus?"
                  Nora wept as she heard her aunt's words; there was no feeling of resentment.
                     No, no; it was sorrow alone. Faithfully she performed her duty to her aunt,
                     watching and attending to her every want. Pauline, as unnatural as it may seem,
                     showed but little attention to her mother; and but for the kindness of friends,
                     she would have suffered.
                  
                  Mrs. Walthall began to recover from her severe stroke upon her head, and the
                     light of reason was once more restored. What was her astonishment when she
                     beheld Nora, the wronged, the injured Nora.
                  "Is it indeed you, Nora?"
                  "Yes, my aunt; I've not left your bed-side for many days."
                  "Good, blessed child that you are. I am not deserving of your kindness. No, no,
                     dearest; I was cruel, cruel to you. I attempted to prevent your marriage from
                     self interest alone. Oh! how I used all my endeavors to keep you from
                        marrying the one upon whom you
                     had set your heart. But I have suffered, oh! how deeply because of it. I have
                     indeed pangs the world knows not of. My daughter has not married happily, and
                     that, of course, makes me very miserable. I have felt more than once that I
                     deserved all my punishment. I determined to send for you, but my pride would
                     not permit me."
                  "Dear aunt," replied Nora, "you must not talk any more; you are too weak."
                  "Only say you will forgive me."
                  "I do, from the very depth of my heart."
                  "Then I am content; I feel as if I will never recover again; no, no, though
                     reason has returned, yet I feel that my injury is past cure. In case that I may
                     never again speak to you rationally, dear Nora, I would say that I repent of my
                     past conduct to you, and ask, in your prayers, that Heaven will forgive
                     me."
                  "I do, I do, my dear aunt," replied Nora, while she clasped her hand still
                     tighter in her own.
                  The presentiment of Mrs. Walthall regarding her recovery was just as she
                     expected, for she gradually grew worse. Physicians were called to her aid; but
                     the brain became so much affected, that, ere many days passed away, Pauline was
                     an orphan.
                  It was now that she realized the true state of things, and the manner she had
                     treated her own mother. Even Eugene was noticed; but it was too late, for he
                     was fast passing away. Constantly imbibing spirituous liquors, it had so preyed
                     upon his constitution that he was very feeble. And not only that, but was
                     exceedingly reckless, and would not heed a word that Pauline said. Time was
                     when he would have listened to any thing she might say, and would have been led
                     by her. But, all! time had changed, and Eugene Du Pont was an altered man, and
                     the picture of the most abject misery.
                  Pauline felt as though she had no friends to lean upon but Nora, who was the
                     very essence of kindness, and gave her all the encouragement and hope in her
                     power. Oh! what a noble, pure heart has woman; how she will faithfully serve to
                     the last, and forgive the many injuries received. What a lovely picture is
                     woman, in all her beauty and innocency; no friend can express, no mortal paint
                     aught so enchanting as woman, in all her loveliness and purity.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  
                     
                        
                           "A villain, when he seems most kind,
                           Is most to be suspected."
                        
                     
                  
                  "CAPITAL, capital plan, is it not? I thought I would bring Du Pont's wife over
                     to loaning me that amount; if she can get it back again, I will not be the one
                     to pay it, I can tell you. What a fool Eugene is. Why, he gets so inebriated
                     that a person may rob him of every cent he owns. I found out the weak point in
                     his wife, and took advantage, too. You see I flatter her up; told her she was
                     so wealthy, etc., finally persuaded her to loan me the sum. I wonder what she
                     would say if she knew Eugene had been so generous. I am thinking poor Du Pont
                     is out of funds. He has had his pocket picked many times; and I do not wonder
                     at it, for he carries very large
                     sums about him generally. He is declining every day; poor fellow! he will not
                     live long; and when he dies I am afraid he will not have enough to bury him
                     decently, for he lost some very large sums at the last race. To be sure, I won
                     it from him; but that makes no difference; a man of honor always pays his
                     debts."
                  Thus spoke one whom Pauline had entertained so handsomely at her house, little
                     thinking that he was fast leading her husband to the brink of ruin; and scoffed
                     at him, too, when he plainly saw that he could not live much longer. But such
                     is the way of the world.
                  "Impossible! impossible!" said Harry St. Clair, as he dropped the paper from
                     his hands.
                  "What has happened, dear Harry?"
                  "I will read you an item."
                  "Found Dead:—About eleven o'clock, on Tuesday night, Eugene Du
                     Pont was found dead in Vine Street. His head was most terribly fractured, and
                     one of his limbs was broken. He was very much intoxicated an hour or two
                     previous to his death."
                  "Dreadful! dreadful!" exclaimed Nora. "Poor Pauline! what will she do? Truly
                     did the poet speak, when he said, 'Troubles, like vultures, always come in
                     flocks.' I am indeed sorry for her."
                  "I was told, this morning, that he was very much embarrassed in a pecuniary
                     way. He had lost large sums of money of late. He married unhappily, poor man.
                     Pauline, Nora, is the one, sister was so anxious I should marry; but, thank
                     heaven, I made the fortunate escape. I could never have loved her; I tell you
                     candidly, she could never make me happy; for she is, by far, too fond of gaiety
                     and fashion. I am domestic, and find more real pleasure in my home than any
                     other spot on earth."
                  "Yes, Harry, to me there is no spot like home. Ours has ever been a happy one,
                     and I sincerely hope it may ever be."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  
                     
                        "They who forgive most shall be most forgiven."
                     
                  
                  "GO, Harry, I cannot consent for Pauline to apply for a situation as governess;
                     she has never known misfortune till now, and is but little fitted to provide
                     for herself. In her case she scarcely knows what or how to do. This morning she
                     told me she would write to Mr. Mills, and see if he would not employ her as
                     governess; but I know that Pauline is not fitted for that position. It is true
                     she has a splendid education; but, then, it requires so much patience and
                     forbearance—more than Pauline could ever be mistress of. What a sin, a double
                     sin, it was for the profligate companions of Eugene Du Pont to rob him of so
                     much money. I call it nothing else but robbing, for such I consider it. Any one
                     who will take the advantage of a man while he is intoxicated, is no better than
                     a villain. But Pauline was somewhat to blame, too, because she did not
                        pursue the proper course. I will
                     not censure her. I pity her too much for that. Alas! she has troubles enough to
                     crush her to the earth. It was only twelve months since she was married, with
                     so much pomp and array. See what a reverse has come!"
                  "Let us offer her a permanent home, Nora. I feel perfectly willing to do so
                     provided it is agreeable to you."
                  "Agreeable to me? Yes, dear Harry, that is what I most wish; for I could not
                     permit her to leave my home to wander among strangers. I could not enjoy the
                     luxuries that surround me at all, if I knew she was depending upon her own
                     labor, day by day, for a support."
                  "Speak to her, Nora, upon the subject; tell her we most cheerfully and
                     willingly offer her a home, and that we will do all in our power to make her
                     happy, and forget her troubles."
                  "I will, I will!" exclaimed Nora; "it will give me joy to be the bearer of such
                     tidings to her. It would give me pleasure to know that I had brought happiness
                     to any one in so great distress as is cousin Pauline. Yes, Harry, methinks it
                     would make my dying pillow softer."
                  "You have healed many wounds, dear Nora, and your reward shall be great; so
                     true and pure a Christian need never fear the dying hour."
                  "Say not so, Harry, for I feel that I am indeed unworthy in the sight of my
                     Maker; but I will endeavor so to live, that, when the messenger comes, I will
                     be prepared to meet him."
                  
                  Nora, at the earliest moment, communicated the intelligence to Pauline, who was
                     so overcome that she gave vent to tears.
                  "I am not worthy such kindness and generosity, Nora; I had not expected so much
                     of you as to offer me a home. Alas! once I thought reverses would never come to
                     me. But my bright days have all passed away, I fear."
                  "Say not so, Pauline, dear; but rather hope there are many bright and happy
                     hours for you in the future. It shall be my constant aim to make you happy,
                     dearest, and we will forget the past."
                  "And will you forgive it?"
                  "Forgive it! with all my heart, dearest Pauline; but you must never recall it
                     again, for it only makes you the more unhappy. The past shall be buried in
                     oblivion, Pauline, and we will live but in the present."
                  "Dear, dear Nora, I cannot express the feelings of my heart —you, to whom I
                     have been so unkind, so cruel, now to prove to me the dearest and best of
                     friends; you were surely created to be my talisman, my guardian angel through
                     life. I will show, by my future conduct, that Pauline appreciates your kindness
                     and generosity; and my constant prayer shall be that every blessing of life
                     attend you, my darling friend, who has proved such an angel of mercy in my
                     distress."
                  What a noble revenge, indeed, was this!
               
            
            
               
               A Thought.
               IT is certainly quite astonishing to see what an intolerable amount of vanity some
                  men do possess. Let your eyes, by the merest accident (eyes will wander), rest
                  upon one. See with what eagerness he seizes his moustache (if nature or art has
                  furnished him with one), and gives it a curl, as if determined to make it go the
                  way nature never intended it should. How their faces seem to brighten up, when
                  their vanity is touched. A look is given at himself; the very first mirror he
                  chances to pass to discover (if possible) the captivating feature. How frowning he
                  looks upon the one whom he has chosen, I should have said who has chosen him for
                  better or worse (worse, we are inclined to believe), and wonder why he married so
                  soon, when he might have done so much better; and where in the mischief the
                  attraction was (forgetting all the time how the dimes dazzles his sight). How
                  disconcerted he seems the while, flattering himself that he is excruciatingly
                  handsome in the eyes of every member of the fair sex—when lo! if the truth must be
                  known, the gentle ones only glanced by way of feeding their vanity, and wondered
                  how some men could be so vain. It is my honest opinion that all had better steer
                  clear of vain men—they never make good husbands.
            
            
               "The Consumptive."
               HOW transitory, how fleeting is life! Like the sweet flower which smiles at the
                  dawn of spring when nature rejoices with a gladdened heart, so are the golden
                  hours of health. Yet fragile, indeed, for some unbidden storm may come over the
                  tender plant, and perchance crush forever.
               The maiden may be gay and happy; life wear its most bright and cheering aspect;
                  the rose blushes not more brightly, stars have not a greater lustre than her eyes,
                  no music is sweeter than her voice—fairest of the fair is she; all bow at her
                  shrine, for even is beauty worshipped and caressed. The cynosure of all eyes, the
                  envy of her sex, the most brilliant star which illuminates the fashionable
                  world.
               
               Months pass, and a change hath come. The blush keeps not its wonted place, but
                  burns for a while, and, like some brilliant meteor which suddenly flashes across
                  the heavens, it is soon gone. The roundness of her form hath vanished; the
                  beauteous cheek grows pale, the voice is low and sad, the echo of her laugh hath
                  died away with that of the fabled Nymph. Consumption hath seized upon her, and
                  soon a being so fair and beautiful must die.
               "Oh, earth!" exclaimed she, how can I give thee up? Oh! how many pleasures hast thou for me, indeed. Sweet
                  flowers, must thou bloom no more for me? Gay birds, shall I hear no more thy
                  songs? Bright stars, wilt thou beam no more on me? My friends, my gay companions,
                  must I leave thee all? Must I, indeed, slumber in the cold, dark grave? Oh, how
                  can I leave this beautiful earth. Saddening the thought to lie in the tomb, while
                  sweet summer smiles; and, sadder still, while the storms of winter howl furiously
                  o'er the grave, like some ill-omened bird.
               "And Horatio, too, will I never more behold thy face? For thee have I lived, thee
                  only do I love with my heart's purest devotion. Oh! will you not come to my grave
                  and drop one tear for me? My heart throbs in thy bosom; oh! keep it forever there,
                  and, though another may be thine, yet think, oh, think of Helen."
               Day by day wasted the form away, and like the petals of a withering flower, which
                  fall one by one, so did life's moments glide away from her. Her deep regrets
                  cannot prolong the stay on earth; the untiring devotion which she feels for one
                  cannot bind her here—no, no, for consumption hath seized her for its victim.
               
               Oh! it is sad to see one in the very bud of life fading prematurely; 'tis like the
                  death of the lovely rose which delights the sight so much. But death spares none,
                  for all must become its victims; and though we are reluctant to leave earth, yet
                  when the messenger comes, all the prayers, the tears of friends, can be of no
                  avail for on its tireless wings it beareth those we so much love from us.
            
            
               Aunt Lucy's Story.
               "IT is all wrong, very wrong, Julia; you should not trifle with the feelings of a
                  young gentleman in that way. It may be very nice for you; but you remember the
                  fable of the frog and the boys. You should not be so careless in a matter of this
                  kind, for it is a greater sin than you now imagine."
               "Law! Aunt Lucy, what a mountain you do make of a molehill. One, to hear you talk,
                  would think I had been guilty of some heinous crime, and after all it is nothing
                  but a little innocent flirtation in which I have been indulging by way of
                  fun."
               "Only an innocent flirtation, Julia! And do you not know that flirtations
                  sometimes end very seriously? You have, I am very confident, discarded Louis
                  Rand.
               "To be sure I have, long ago! ha! ha! ha! I do wonder if he thought I would be
                  goose enough to marry him."
               "If you gave him reasons for thinking so, (and I am confident you did) of course
                  he was under the impression you meant what you professed."
               "Well, to be very candid, Aunt Lucy, I did make him believe I thought all the world of him; but, honestly, I
                  was only flirting with him; I could never marry such a man."
               "What is the fault?"
               "The fault, why he has a thousand. He is, in the first place, too diminutive; I
                  like tall, commanding looking men (provided they do not want to command me after I
                  am married) whom everybody will admire, and say to themselves, 'I do wish I might
                  be so fortunate as to get such a husband.' But this is not all the objection. I
                  have a hundred beside."
               "You should have found out this before; I see the cause full well; you have become
                  infatuated with some one else. Aunt Lucy can see farther, much farther than you
                  think for. But, laying aside jesting, it is a great sin to indulge in flirtations.
                  Now sit down awhile, by me, until I relate you a little story; and, after I shall
                  have finished, answer me candidly whether or not flirting is a sin?"
               "Once upon a time, there was a young lady who, though far from being beautiful,
                  was, nevertheless, a great belle. Her admirers were numerous, too numerous for her
                  own good. Her propensity for flirting was very great; yes, as great as that of my
                  own niece, Julia. Among her admirers there was one whom she favored more highly
                  than all the rest. She gave him every reason to believe his devoted affection was
                  reciprocated. She would correspond with him, receive presents, etc. At last, he
                  proposed and was accepted. No particular time was appointed, however, for the
                  marriage to be consummated. In the meantime, a very handsome young gentleman
                  arrived, he had taken a degree at Paris as the D—, and came crowned with honors.
                  He, like the rest, soon became infatuated with this belle. She thought she fancied
                  him, and was indiscreet enough to accept his proposals of marriage, when she knew
                  she was engaged to another.
               "At length, being urged by the first one to whom she had given herself, relative
                  to fixing the all-important day, she, in the most playful manner imaginable, told
                  him she was only flirting? What a death-blow was this to the hopes of one who had
                  thought of no one but herself. He gave one look, (such a look was enough to have
                  smitten her forever) he turned away from her. He took passage in a steamer and
                  sought his home else-where, in hopes of burying in oblivion scenes that alas!
                  would ever loom before him."
               
               "One morning, on taking up the paper, the gay belle found him among the number
                  received in the lunatic asylum. A promising, fine-looking youth, just in the bloom
                  of health and vigor, so full of hope for the future, now delirious. Alas! what
                  profited him all his fortune? Now earth was dark indeed; there was no oasis in the
                  great desert of life. The bright star of hope had gone out. Not long did he
                  survive; for ere two months had passed away he had sunk into the grave.
               "His friends, upon examining the contents of his portfolio, found lines addressed
                  to the young lady in question, soon after he left her presence. The lines were
                  headed, 'Idol of my heart;' and they were most beautifully and touchingly written.
                  The last word he uttered, in his wild delirium, ere the flame of life had expired,
                  was her name. And—
               "Go on, go on, Aunt Lucy; why do you weep?" said Julia, who looked up with tearful
                  eyes.
               
               "He died with no kind hand to close his eyes. And, Julia, my dear niece, though I
                  blush to tell it, I was that gay, heartless creature who caused it all. But that
                  sad lesson has taught me much. Heaven grant you may take warning from it."
            
            
               "Rachel."*
               
               
                  *The great tragedienne, who died recently.
               
               
                  
                     
                        "Oh, how pale appear
                        Those clay-cold cheeks where grace and vigor glow'd.
                        Oh, disrual spectacle! How humble
                        Lies that ambition which was late so proud."
                     
                  
               
               HEAVEN could not paint a smile upon a more lovely face than was Rachel's. Brighter
                  diamonds than were in her eyes never shone; an infant smiling in its dreams of
                  heaven could not vie with her. A fairy's form not more lithe and graceful. She was
                  all poetry or painting could express, a sort of pet with the gods, who lavished
                  upon her gifts in profusion. Genius was her handmaid. As a tragedienne she stood
                  alone upon that pedestal none other could mount.
               Ah, lamented Rachel, you, like a brilliant meteor, flashed across the horizon of
                  our pleasure for a brief time only. You came among us to make us deeply regret
                  when you were gone. Beauteous vision to our enchanted sight; glorious were those
                  eyes—now melting and tender, now flashing with pride and scorn, now roguish, now
                  forgiving. You came among us not in
                  your vigor and strength of body, for already you were declining, yet your genius
                  was none the less brilliant and captivating. We saw "passing away" plainly written
                  upon your fair and classic brow. Ah! was there one who did not see your fragile
                  form bending 'neath the weight of disease, like the lily when the storm sweeps
                  over its tender petals? Surely none could be so insensible as not to regard you
                  with feelings of sadness.
               
               Seldom is nature seen upon the stage. In Rachel we find it. There is such a
                  witching grace in her every movement, each finger, as she uplifts it, speaks a
                  volume—your eyes are riveted to the spot—you pause almost breathless lest you may
                  lose a word—you feel that a great artist is before you. She takes parts no one
                  else could portray! Her Hermione, Andromaque, Camille, and Adrienne, stand
                  unrivalled. To see her in one character only, is like taking a view of some
                  enchanted isle through a small crevice, and while we gaze enraptured, the eye
                  yearns to see still more of the gorgeous beauty and figures.
               We saw her play at death in Adrienne Lecouvreur—this she portrayed to a painful
                  perfection—the mimic death all so true to nature—rigid and white grow her cheeks,
                  her eyes assume a glassy hue, her hands fall lifeless at her side, and Adrienne
                  dies! Alas! she was called upon so soon to die indeed.
               
               A bright star has set. Rachel, the lone star tragedienne, has passed away; but,
                  "whom the gods love, die young."
               We will not think of her faults; we will let them be lost in the unquenchable
                  blaze of her genius. We will hope that Heaven has been merciful to her, and her
                  spirit is at rest. Glorious is that name left to be carved upon the highest
                  pinnacle of fame, to be envied by generations yet unborn.
               Ah! Rachel, now lost to us forever.
               
                  
                     "No storied urn nor animated bust
                     Back to life can call the fleeting breath,
                     Nor honor's voice provoke the silent dust,
                     Nor flattery soothe the dull cold ear of death."
                  
               
            
            
               
               A Stray Thought.
               WHAT, Oh! what would life be without its romance—the sweet, poetic dream of love?
                  Love gives such a roseate hue to every thing; it gilds the streams, paints the
                  flowers, ladens the wandering zephyr with rich perfume. It makes the bright orbs
                  of night more enchanting, the star of hope burn more brightly, e'en when the very
                  soul seems to be crushed with despair. Without this dream, life would be a desert
                  with no oasis to gladden and to cheer the weary traveler on his journey, he scarce
                  knows where. 'Tis the very sunlight of our existence; the genial dews that revive
                  the withering heart.
               Every thing in nature whispers of love; the sweet flower as it uplifts its chalice
                  to meet the gaze of some disconsolate maid, seems to see at once her heart's deep
                  grief, and becomes willingly a member of the bouquet she is forming to convey in
                  flowers—love's truest and most eloquent language—the message of love. The bird
                  will stop on its way at her bidding to chant one little song, to soothe the sorrow
                  of her soul, for a sympathetic chord has been awakened within its own bosom.
               The wanton waves are unwilling to wash away the name she has traced in the sand;
                  and as her bright eyes fix their gaze upon the spot they retire abashed; and if,
                  perchance, they do cover the loved name, many are the sighs borne from them to the
                  sweet maiden. And then the zephyr will come dallying with her soft curls, lifting
                  them from a brow pure as the newborn snow-flake; then kiss her cheek till the
                  roses come and jealously chase it away, for it would be the sole gazer upon that
                  rare beauty.
               
               Oh! this earth is very beautiful, and it is the romance of life that makes it so.
                  If none saw the rich and rare beauty painted by the Great Artist, alas! all would
                  seem cold and sad. Happy, happy is that heart which exists in every thing
                  beautiful and bright; which loves the sweet flowers, aye! every thing God made to
                  adorn our earth. What a thrill of joy must every new born beauty give; how it must
                  elevate the soul, making it, as it were, more fit for Heaven!
            
            
               
               Beatrice.
               DEAR Beatrice! I stood beside her grave this afternoon, just as the sun was
                  sinking to rest. What a host of thoughts crowded into my mind as I looked at the
                  silent tombstone, which told but a tithe of her many qualities, too good for
                  language to describe. A month dead, and to me it seems long years, for grief adds
                  to time, while joy steals all the golden moments rapidly away. Good Beatrice!
                  methought her too beautiful, too pure to die—but death chooses the fairest and
                  sweetest flower upon which to lay its withering touch. Beatrice was an angel! but
                  for her, I would have been—alas! I know not where. She turned my footsteps
                  heavenward; taught me to reflect that there was yet another life—another haven
                  where I must eventually land. Her gentle, soothing words fell like dew-drops upon
                  the flowers. If I was reckless and careless of her happiness, did she rebuke me?
                  If I kept her waiting till the lamps upon the altar of heaven were extinguished by
                  the god of day, did she scorn me? If, at any moment harsh and unkind words were
                  spoken, did she frown or reply in the same manner? If I seemed at times entirely
                  to forsake her and forget that she lived, was I met any the less kindly? Ah, no!
                  and as I now wipe away the scalding tears which fall upon the paper, my prayer is
                  that I might forever obliterate the sad, sad past—the hours when Beatrice was so
                  unkindly treated. She was so kind, and all the reproof she gave was a tear, and
                  that tear should have been as a barbed arrow to my hard, hard heart.
               One incident of my life I now vividly call to mind; it was indeed a trying moment
                  with me, but Beatrice, like a good angel, accomplished the task. One starry
                  evening in December, I returned home just as the lamps in the streets were being
                  lighted—I had to knock at the door but once, for Beatrice was ever ready to open.
                  The room had not the comfort of other days; the fire on the hearth had died out,
                  the little infant was wrapped as warm as blankets could make it—my brain was all
                  on fire with the alcoholic stimulant so detrimental to both soul and body. As I
                  entered the room and sat down, Beatrice looked at me steadily for a moment with
                  such an expression as only such dark, lustrous eyes can give—although not quite
                  myself, I could but observe her. She approached the spot where the infant was
                  sleeping, and threw her arms around it, and wept in such a manner as Heaven grant
                  I may forget. It seemed as if an evil spirit was working within me, and I was
                  "halting between two opinions." In a few moments I rose to go; Beatrice seized
                  hold of me, and entreated me not to leave her. "Oh! it is so gloomy and cold," I
                  exclaimed, "I cannot stay here." "Edward, Edward," she replied, "if it is so
                  gloomy and cold for you, what must it be for me? The night without is so dismal,
                  and oh, it is so cold. We have but little fire; the wood is nearly exhausted, and
                  where shall the next be obtained? See
                  how scant has grown the furniture of late; you have sold it all to satisfy your
                  thirst. What, oh! what are you bringing yourself, Beatrice, and your child to?
                  Alas! we will be paupers, indeed, and that dear boy, sleeping in all its innocency
                  and purity, what will become of him? Oh, you have surely forgotten the promise
                  made only two years ago to a fond mother, whose head lies low now—the mother whom
                  you so faithfully promised to protect from all the ills of life. You have not kept
                  it, Edward. Oh, why will you not restore the joys of former days, and bring
                  sunshine once more to the heart of your Beatrice? Heaven knows that I forgive you
                  freely. We could be so happy again. Will you, oh! will you not, then, determine to
                  commence? Each day I am fading rapidly away, and who will take care of Charlie
                  when I am sleeping in the church-yard? Let, oh! let the few remaining days I have
                  to remain be passed quietly." She ceased, for her emotions had quite overcome her;
                  then, throwing herself at my feet, she remained silent for some moments; then,
                  raising her eyes heavenward, uttered a prayer, which my heart, had it been
                  adamant, could not have withstood We wept together. I solemnly promised in the
                  sight of Heaven to reform and live for Beatrice and my child.
               And did I keep my promise? The angels will answer for me. But repentance comes too
                  late sometimes. Would that I might call dear Beatrice again; gladly would I prove
                  to her that her happiness is far dearer to me than all the wealth of the Indies.
                  But I have the consolation of knowing that she was made happy for a brief time at
                  least.
               Dear Beatrice, it is by your gentle and angel-like influence I cherish the hope of
                  meeting you in the Better Land.
            
            
               Clara Manvers; or, Aunt Deborah's Advice.
               "WELL, well, Clara Manvers is to be married! and pray, what is she going to do?
                  She is a young creature and knows nothing of household affairs. But children
                  now-a-days will do as they please any how, and their over-anxious parents are
                  afraid to have them taught anything. As for my part, I always thought Clara was a
                  spoiled child, but I can tell her, she will have to be brought out of it all some
                  time."
               Thus soliloquized good old Aunt Deborah as she sat knitting a pair of stockings,
                  every now and then placing them in her lap to think of the news she had heard. Now
                  Aunt Deborah was as kind and as good hearted an old soul as ever lived; but she
                  was one of that sort (as all maiden aunts generally are) who thought that unless
                  one could make a pudding or pie, that she must necessarily be a perfect "blue
                  stocking." She was not at all in favor of boarding schools, for she thought that
                  girls always learned more nonsense there than any thing else. Aunt Deborah had
                  arrived at quite a good old age, consequently had seen much of the world. She
                  really thought (as she often said) that
                  the girls of the present day were the most giddy set she ever knew, for they
                  thought of nothing else but beaux, (forgetting at the same time that she had been
                  disappointed in love, and had found as much pleasure in the company of the dapper
                  beaux as any one.) Just go to a little drawer which she keeps locked up and you
                  will find a few letters which she received in her "young days," that will convince
                  you at once that she used to write "billet doux." Dear good creature, she has no
                  confidence in them now, for they are but counterfeits, and every one she sees "the
                  girls" reading, she denounces severally against them.
               But we have been saying so much about Aunt Deborah, that we have almost forgotten
                  Clara.
               At the age of ten she was sent to a fashionable boarding school to be educated.
                  Now to this Aunt Deborah was strictly opposed; but her mother being a highly
                  educated woman, saw the importance of her mind being properly cultivated, and well
                  knew that it could never be accomplished at home. Clara remained there until she
                  had completed her eighteenth year, and then returned home. She was indeed a
                  beautiful creature, and withal, possessed those airs which are peculiar to
                  boarding school girls. She was ushered into society immediately after her arrival
                  home, and became the belle of the season; she was admired and caressed by all.
                  Often she received a reproof from Aunt Deborah who saw that she was totally
                  enwrapped with gaiety and fashion. It seems that Clara could never agree with her
                  aunt on any one point, consequently, when they met, their conversations were of a
                  very opposite nature.
               Aunt Deborah puts on her old fashioned black bonnet and goes around to see Clara;
                  we will first stand behind the curtain and listen a few moments to the
                  conversation. Clara sits there, playing with her lap-dog; her good old aunt looks
                  at her for a while in silence. But soon the slumbering volcano bursts, and Aunty
                  commences:—
               "Well, Clara, I hear you are to be married soon; and now, my child, take the
                  advice of one who is your senior by a good many years. Now put the dog down and
                  listen to me. The first question (of course), have you learnt to make a pie
                  yet?"
               At this Clara starts."Now pray tell me, Aunt Deborah, if you think that after I
                  get married I am going to turn washerwoman, cook, and every thing else?"
               "Well, my child, I see all that you think about is visiting, chatting, beaux, and
                  all those sort of things. Now, what are you going to do after you get married? It
                  is, I believe, three months yet before you marry, so just set to work and learn to
                  be domestic. You have all the accomplishments and all the ornamental education,
                  now, seek to learn some of the useful branches; for I assure you that when you get
                  married, you must not only be a parlor companion for your husband, but his
                  housewife. Now, my child, I must go, for I have some stockings to finish knitting;
                  the winter is coming on, and I must prepare for it, being very rheumatic. Good
                  bye, my child; attend to my injunctions, and I know you will never regret so
                  doing."
               "Well, well, I do wonder what put it in Aunt Deborah's head to come around here
                  this morning and give me a curtain lecture,"said Clara Manvers."It is a great
                  wonder that she did not ask me who I was going to marry, but I suppose she knows. I should not be much surprised
                  if she were to lecture Carlos, too. I do wonder how he would take it; laugh in his
                  sleeve, I warrant. I know Aunt Deborah means well, but then she judges me too
                  harshly, and besides, I have a plenty of time to learn."
               We will pass over the space of three months, during which time many preparations
                  were being made for the wedding. Among the number invited, Aunt Deborah, of
                  course, was not forgotten.
               On receiving the invitation, Aunt Deborah exclaimed, "Why, bless my heart, the
                  child is to be married next Thursday! let me see, it is only a week off. A short
                  time, indeed," and she shook her head. "I must go around and see if she has taken
                  my advice; I will wager she has not heeded a word."
               "There, now, I knew aunt would be here to-day," said Clara, as she heard her
                  infirm tread upon the steps. "Mary, tell her to come in my room; I will prepare
                  myself for a good lecture."
               Just as expected! After the usual greetings, Aunt Deborah commenced questioning
                  her, but found that her advice had been cast upon the desert air.
               "Depend upon it, depend upon it, my child," said her aunt, putting on her
                  spectacles to take a view of the superb dressing which was scattered about the
                  room; "this will never do."
               Clara said not a word, neither was she vexed, for Aunt Deborah was so good natured
                  that no one could get angry with her. She made quite a prolonged visit, as it took
                  some time to give all the salutary advice so essential to a young girl on the
                  verge of matrimony.
               
               Six months more passed away; Clara's mother was absent, so also was the
                  seamstress; Carlos wanted some repairs—in consequence of this the good aunt was
                  sent for. How cheerfully, too, did she come—not without reminding her wayward
                  niece of the folly of not learning something useful, particularly when a woman is
                  about to fill so responsible a position.
               We will put our ear to the key-hole a moment:—
               "Don't you remember what I told you Clara, before you were married? Have not my
                  words come true? I will show you how to do any thing, and will be most happy in
                  the undertaking."
               After cutting out and fixing the work, Aunt Deborah gave it to Clara, saying that
                  she must do it herself, or she would never learn in the world. After all necessary
                  explanations were made, she left Clara, telling her, at the same time, that when
                  she needed her services, she must not for a moment hesitate in sending for
                  her.
               "I must really acknowledge, after all, that what Aunt Deborah told me was true,
                  and had I heeded it, I would never have regretted it. But I hope this is the only
                  trouble I will have to surmount."
               Ah! Clara was much mistaken, for very often she had to send for Aunt Deborah.
               One day, shortly after the return of Carlos, several gentlemen were invited there
                  to dine. Clara knew exactly how every thing ought to be, and when a table was
                  tastefully arranged, but did not understand how to go about it herself. Her
                  pastry-cook had been taken suddenly ill; and what in the world was she to do? here
                  was trouble sure enough.
               
               After spending some time in quest of some one, she at last had to stop at Aunt
                  Deborah's door.
               Clara explained all to the good old lady, who very kindly offered to assist
                  her.
               "You see, my child," said Aunt Deborah, "how necessary it is for one to know how
                  to do every thing; and had you taken my advice in time, it would have saved you so
                  much trouble. But we must hurry, for it is getting late, and every thing is to
                  fix.
               But these were not half the troubles that Clara had to encounter, in consequence
                  of her ignorance in household duties. She no longer thought it unnecessary to know
                  how to do every thing, and very plainly saw that the useful education was as
                  requisite as the ornamental. She found that, in order to make a useful wife, she
                  must have a knowledge of household affairs; and that a young lady's education is
                  never complete until she is versed in every thing relative to domestic affairs. In
                  a word, Clara found that Aunt Deborah's advice would have saved her much trouble
                  had she taken it in time.
               Under the instruction of her good aunt (which she now gladly accepted) she
                  improved daily. Carlos saw how industrious Clara had become of late, and felt as
                  if he could never thank Aunt Deborah enough for thus instructing his young and
                  beautiful wife in those duties which renders the home an Eden.
            
            
               "That Ugly Man."
               "DEAR me!" exclaimed Geraldine, "what an ugly man! I declare, he is enough to make
                  the very ants wink. Who can he be? Only see what a nose he has, and how singular
                  he is in his dress.
               "Of whom are you speaking?" said Lilian.
               "Why, I am talking about that man coming down the street; wait a minute, and then
                  you can see him better. Here he comes—just see how peculiar he is dressed. I do
                  hope he is not coming here Lilian, for I declare I would not go in the
                  parlor."
               "Oh! he would not come to see us, for we have no acquaintance with him
                  whatever."
               "You know well enough, Lilian, that papa must insist on our going in to see
                  him."
               "Papa is not at home, Gera."
               "Well, that does not matter; for, if he were to call, and find him out, he would
                  leave his card for papa, stating a certain time when he would call again; and then
                  papa would be at home. There, I told you so; she is coming up the steps now. Do
                  look," said Geraldine, "what large teeth he has, and what an aquiline nose. He is
                  perfectly hideous."
               
               This conversation was going on behind the blinds, between the sisters. They were
                  great advocates for beauty in the opposite sex, and nothing (save high titles),
                  could compensate for it. Many a dashy beau was the subject of their remarks, as he
                  went past, and often caught a word or two, but looked in vain for the speaker.
               At dinner time Mr. Smithers said to his daughters that a young gentleman might be
                  expected up in the afternoon, and they must be in readiness to receive him.
               "Who is it?" asked Geraldine.
               "Do tell us, papa," exclaimed Lilian.
               Mr. Smithers, knowing the unbounded curiosity of his daughters, he, for his own
                  amusement, kept them a little in suspense. At last he told them that it was a
                  count, in whose company he had been thrown, and he gave him an invitation to
                  call.
               "I do wonder who that was called here this morning."
               Mr. Smithers said not a word, for he suspected that he had called that morning;
                  and afterward found it to be the case, on the presentation of a card by the
                  servant. Wishing to take his daughters by surprise, and to have the pleasure of
                  communicating the news himself, he had given the servant his orders to conceal the
                  card.
               Geraldine and Lilian hastened to beautify themselves, having a great desire to
                  create quite an impression with the count. Toilette being completed, they went to
                  the window, hearing the rattling of wheels near. Looking out, they saw a
                  magnificent coach, drawn by four horses; the driver and footman were splendidly
                  equipped, and every thing presented quite a dazzling appearance.
               "I know that is him," said Gera.
               "Yes, for that is such a splendid coach," replied Lilian.
               "Wait, the footman is opening the door, and we will have a peep at him as he gets
                  out."
               Who should the count be but "that ugly man" they had seen in the morning coming
                  toward the house.
               "Why, Lilian! it is the very same person whom we saw this morning."
               "Yes, the same one that stopped at the door!"
               "Well, really," said Geraldine, "I do not think him ugly; on the contrary, I think
                  he is quite handsome."
               The sight of the splendid coach and livery, the fine equipage of the count, and
                  the high sounding title, caused him to appear very handsome, now, in the eyes of
                  Geraldine. The same morning he was, she said, ugly enough to make the ants wink;
                  but now, if any one had even hinted that he was ugly, she would have got into a
                  passion, and declared them devoid of all taste and sense.
               The count being announced in the parlor, Lilian and Geraldine were introduced to
                  him. His nose had become quite pretty since the morning, his teeth no longer
                  projected, and his features were decidedly fine—in the opinion of Geraldine; she
                  thought his voice extremely musical, his manners very winning. In a word, he was
                  pronounced, by Gera, to be a very handsome gentleman.
               But, reader, do not start when we tell you that Geraldine accepted the hand and
                  heart of "that ugly man" in less than six months!
               There are a thousand Geraldines in the world, and this but shows us how people alter their opinions. Great
                  titles and wealth will transform the worst specimen of humanity into a being of
                  perfection, and will cause him or her to have a thousand adorers.
               As for Geraldine, we will only add, that she often wondered how she could ever
                  have thought a man of so great a title unhandsome; and we dare say, that if she
                  had known what a handle he had to his name, she would never have called him "that
                  ugly man."
            
            
               Lola Wildham; or, the Last Treasure.
               OH! this cold, unfeeling world! how fortune changes! and, as her wheel performs
                  its rotations, how people alter with it! In prosperity friends smile upon us, and
                  flock to our stand, but when adversity frowns, see how they forsake us. Not one is
                  left to offer a word of sympathy.
               Thus mused Lola, as she sat alone pondering upon the past. Her fortune had indeed
                  changed; for already the keen winds of poverty had touched her brow, 'Twas at the
                  close of a cold December day: no bright fireside cheered her; only a few coals
                  glimmered faintly on the hearth; there she sat, while tears of sorrow tickled down
                  her youthful cheek, soft as eider down, and lovely as the morning cloud which
                  meets the eye of the weary traveler, who has journeyed the long, lone night. By
                  her side was seated a little child, her only sister, who had been left to her
                  guidance by a mother, now laid low in the grave. The child spoke not, but sat in a
                  thoughtful mood. No light filled the apartment, save the rays of the moon, which
                  threw her beams compassionately into her lone chamber. The snow had fallen deep, mantling each hill, while the stars
                  reflected a halo of light upon its surface, giving it a more beautiful aspect.
               Lola had never known sorrow until within a short time. Fortune had ever smiled
                  upon her; but now proved a gay deceiver. At an early age death deprived her of a
                  devoted father, and she was left to the protection of a doting mother, to whom she
                  was rendered more dear after his death. Just as Lola was verging on womanhood, her
                  mother was taken too. Now, all she had to love was a little sister, to whom she
                  devoted her utmost attention.
               Why does Lola look so intently upon one corner of te room? And why does she sigh
                  so sadly, and softly whisper, "my treasure! my treasure! must thou go too? My
                  mother now slumbers in the grave, and all friends have forsaken me; and oh,
                  Heavens! it is too much you must be taken away. Alas! what will serve to cheer the
                  sad hours of the day—to chase away the gloom that steals over my soul? Alas! alas!
                  my mother loved it too. She bid me, on her dying couch, ever to cling to it for
                  her sake alone. It served to soothe her bed of pain at the gloom of midnight. Ere
                  she breathed her last, she called me to her side, and bid me part from it
                  never."
               But of what is Lola speaking, and what means this incoherent language? Would you
                  know? Ah! I will tell you. She speaks of her harp, her last treasure. An unfeeling
                  and cruel one has demanded it of her for a small debt—he, too, who once desired
                  her hand and heart, but, since fortune had so changed, loved her no longer.
                  Probably the incidents relative to the harp will be of interest to the reader,
                  hence we will give its details.
               After the death of Lola's mother, there were not funds enough to defray the
                  expenses of the funeral, and the only object of any value left was Lola's harp.
                  Oh! she loved it fondly; and when, in fits of despondency, she would play upon it,
                  its very vibrations seemed to be an echo from her own heart. For awhile she would
                  experience, in imagination, "by gone days." She often played the air her mother so
                  fondly loved, and tears would fill her lovely eyes. Lola felt as if she could
                  never part from it, and would make any sacrifice rather than give up her harp. She
                  felt as though, if she could still retain it, it would render her more happy, if
                  it were merely because it were fulfiling the request of her departed mother.
               One morning as she sat alone, reflecting on the past, her attention was arrested
                  by a loud knocking at the door. Who can it be? thought she. On opening the door,
                  who should she see but Clarence Leston; she was perfectly amazed, and could not
                  divine why he came there. For though he had loved her fondly once, he scarcely
                  recognized her now. He accosted her thus—
               "I am very sorry, Miss Wildham, to intrude upon you; but demands are made about
                  the payment of your debts, and I came to see what could be done." Lola turned
                  pale, and her heart was too full for utterance of words. Leston resumed speaking.
                  "The debt must be paid."
               The word must echoed in Lola's ear. Leston looked around the almost
                  destitute department, and his eye rested upon the harp. Lola followed his gaze;
                  and, as she saw his eyes riveted there, she sighed. She well knew that the person
                  to whom she was speaking had no compassion whatever, for he was a heart- less being, and his love for money
                  would lead him to do any thing for the acquisition of it. After a silence of a few
                  minutes, Leston told Lola that her harp would probably defray the expense, and
                  that it must be sent to the auction room, on the following morning.
               "Oh! spare me that," said she, "for, alas! I have nothing else to love. It was my
                  father's gift in my brighter days, and you—yes, you have heard me touch its
                  sweetest chords, and poured out flattering words into my ear; and now you are
                  ready and willing to deprive me of the simple object which consummates all my
                  happiness. My mother loved it, and perchance her spirit weeps for the fate of her
                  child."
               Leston possessed a heart of adamant. He was not alive to any feelings of sympathy;
                  he was avaricious, and allowed that passion to rule him. Uncouth as avaricious, he
                  answered Lola only by harsh words. He replied—
               "It is useless, Miss Wildham, to plead thus; and pray what do you, now so poor,
                  want with a harp? Remember it incurs expense to keep it in order, and, instead of
                  contracting more debts, you should seek to settle those you owe now. But I have
                  not time to parley longer; all I desire is, that you will deliver the harp
                  to-morrow to the servant whom I will send for it." He left the house, and Lola
                  sank into the chair.
               It was on the evening after this interview with Leston that she soliloquised upon
                  the unfeeling world. "Oh, my treasure! my last treasure! must I part from it! Oh!
                  my mother, look upon your child, and pity her fate." Lola lighted a taper, which
                  gave such a faint glimmering light, that she could scarcely see to read by it. She
                  thought by reading to divert her mind; but oh! her heart was sadly troubled, and
                  she found that her thoughts wandered far from the book before her, while a tear
                  stood in her eye. Now and then she would give her last treasure a wistful look,
                  and pray that it might yet be spared her. Wearied with sad thoughts, she went to
                  her harp, and commenced playing a soft, melodious air, accompanied by her voice.
                  How sweet! how sad! She played the air which her mother requested previous to her
                  death. She fancied she heard her whisper, "Lola, Lola, my child, there are yet
                  bright days in store for thee." She was almost absorbed in a reverie, and scarcely
                  knew she was playing. Suddenly she heard a gentle knocking at the door. She bade
                  her little sister open it. She was accosted by a gentleman of tall stature, and
                  withal an intellectual face. She blushed deeply, and it gave to her face more
                  beauty. The stranger gazed upon her with admiration, and wondered that one so
                  accomplished and beautiful should be thus destitute. Lola's appearance was
                  certainly never more lovely. She was attired in deep mourning, which contrasted
                  strongly with her delicate complexion. A modest blush mantled her whole visage,
                  and a soft light shone from her eye.
               "My attention," said the stranger, "was arrested by hearing the harp, accompanied
                  with a sweet voice; and, having heard your history, I determined to seek your
                  acquaintance. I have been looking for the house, and, but for the music I heard
                  just now, I might not have found it. I knew your mother previous to her marriage,
                  and in boyhood was quite a frequent visitor at her father's house; but, somehow,
                  the acquaintance got broken off. I went to sea, having a desire to visit foreign
                  lands. On my arrival at Paris, I addressed several letters to her, which were promptly answered until her
                  marriage. Perhaps my name will be familiar to you; it is Hubert Stanley whom you
                  now see!"
               "Stanley!" exclaimed Lola; "yes, well do I remember of hearing my mother speak of
                  you. Did you not once address her a letter from Naples?"
               "Yes, I recollect the day, the hour that I wrote it; it was just as the sun was
                  setting, for, as she had desired me to give her a description of a sunset in
                  Italy, I took advantage of that hour to write it. But do not, I pray you interrupt
                  your music."
               "Ah, me!" sighed Lola, "that is my last treasure now; my piano was sold yesterday,
                  and this must go too. Necessity compels me to sacrifice it, and I must be resigned
                  to my fate."
               "Who is the one so cruel as to deprive your of your last treasure?" asked the
                  stranger.
               "A lawyer by the name of Leston."
               "Leston! Oh! I am not surprised that such an one as he should deprive you of it.
                  If it costs me my life I will restore it to you; and this night I will go and
                  shame him for thus daring to intrude upon you, who were once the child of fortune,
                  nursed in the lap of luxury, and reared as a hot-house plant. The harp is yours;
                  and if any one dares to take it from you, they will first have to deprive me of my
                  own eyes."
               Lola knew not how to express her gratitude for this unlooked for kindness. Oh! how
                  soothing it was to her soul, for it was the first word of kindness that she had
                  heard since her mother's death, and like an angel's message it came. Yet she felt
                  as though she were thrown upon an unfeeling world, and must seek a livelihood.
               What to do she knew not. She was well qualified to instruct, but her heart
                  recoiled, as it were, at the idea of being a governess. Not that she was too
                  proud, but she well knew she would have much to bear, and then, she was not
                  accustomed to sedentary habits, and she was conscious that it would impair her
                  health, for already she had suffered much from grief caused by her mother's
                  death.
               Hubert Stanley was so enraptured with Lola's conversation, that he could scarcely
                  take leave of her; but he well knew that if he followed his own inclination he
                  might remain till too late an hour. After giving Lola necessary directions with
                  regard to the harp, he withdrew, and requested permission to continue his
                  visits.
               Lola felt she could not remain at the house, for, after the quarter's rent was
                  due, she must leave it. Each day she endeavored to devise some plan to pursue, but
                  gave up in despair, yet hoped that Providence would pave a way for her.
               The next morning Lola woke cheerful and happy, for she felt that her last treasure
                  was restored to her. Oh! who can tell her heartfelt gratitude when she looked upon
                  it, and knew that she was permitted to keep it?
               Hubert Stanley's visits to Lola were very frequent, and each time he saw her he
                  liked her the more. In the first place he admired her intellectual attainments,
                  and these, united with physical beauty, rendered her peculiarly lovely in his
                  eyes. He felt as though he had found a diamond in some sequestered spot, and determined that its beauty should be no
                  longer hidden. He knew that he loved her, and his heart yearned to tell her so,
                  yet he dared not, but hoped that ere long he might be enabled to open his soul to
                  her, and that she would accept his proffered hand.
               He saw that she was indeed a prize, and preferred her acquirements and merits to
                  worlds of gold. His was a noble soul, and he knew how to appreciate the true worth
                  of woman, and considered her as earth's greatest ornament. Lola was conscious that
                  he loved her, and reciprocated it. She felt that Heaven was benignant in sending
                  to her one, who, perhaps, would, at a future time, be her protector. Each day her
                  attachment grew stronger, and when in his society she was perfectly happy.
               Early one morning, she, with her little sister, took a ramble in the fields.
                  Nature had never seemed to her so lovely before; every flower was more fragrant,
                  and every song the birds uttered, was more joyful. She came near a spring, and
                  seated herself on a rock. Her little sister Ittie went forth to chase the
                  butterflies; it reminded Lola of the search for pleasure; she thought as ephemeral
                  as was the life of that insect, so transitory is happiness. She heard footsteps
                  near. On looking round, she saw Hubert Stanley.
               "What chance breeze has caused us to meet this morning, in this romantic spot?"
                  said he. "Look how beautifully the waters sparkle; and how sweet the perfume of
                  flowers. Oh, is it not an enchanting place? It reminds me of Elysian fields. Would
                  that a little naiad might come forth now, and promise to fulfil all my
                  wishes."
               "And pray, what would be your wish?" said Lola in a playful manner.
               Hubert felt that this was a fine opportunity of offering her his heart in the
                  reply which he would give to the query.
               "Do you ask me, Lola," (it was the first time he had not affixed Miss to her
                  name,) "do you ask me what I would desire? Can you not imagine? I would have a
                  faithful heart. I would gladly give worlds if I possessed it. That is the height
                  of my ambition, and when I attain the zenith I shall be supremely happy. Lola,
                  will you not be that kind fairy, and grant my desire by giving me your heart?"
               What could exceed Lola's astonishment? The deepest blushes spread over her cheeks,
                  and tears fell from her eyes.
               Hubert, seeing her thus overcome, became more passionate in his declaration, and
                  exclaimed,
               "Be but mine, Lola, dearest; you have my heart and hand would that I had more to
                  give thee. Speak, oh, speak to me, and say that you will be my bride. This were a
                  meet place to exchange our hearts. Look how beautiful are all things around us;
                  see the blue canopy of heaven—not one cloud obscures it; thus should thy life ever
                  be, and if thou wilt but be mine, nought shall disturb thy pathway. All I have on
                  earth is thine. Would that I had the wealth of Ormus to offer thee. Would that I
                  had a diadem to place upon thy brow. But I will crown thee with my smiles, my love
                  shall be my wreath, and thou shalt make my home an Eden. Lola, speak to me—say
                  that thou wilt be mine."
               Lola's blushes answered, and, as the poet says,
                  
                     
                        "'Twas then the blush suffused her cheek,
                        Which told what words could never speak."
                     
                  
               
               Hubert felt that she loved him in return, and now his measure was filled. They
                  lingered some time, planning for the future. Lola soon arrived at her humble
                  abode, but she was, not to remain there long; soon she would be in the hall of
                  luxury, and all happiness was in store for her. She gazed at her harp, and
                  regarded it still as a treasure, but not her last, for her heart had found
                  another. It was through the voice of her harp that Hubert first found the way to
                  her home. Bright indeed were her dreams for the future; a fond heart beat truly
                  and warmly for her, and she would be revived by the dew of love. The days passed
                  less heavily on, for each one brought the time nearer when she would be united to
                  Hubert. He counted the hours, the minutes, the seconds, until the time should
                  arrive when he should call her his own.
               She never looked at her harp but that she thought of Leston's unkindness—it might,
                  with propriety, be called cruelty. He soon heard that Hubert Stanley was to be
                  married to her, and heartily repented of the manner in which he acted. Hubert
                  always felt a contempt for him, and Leston could never look him in the face.
               We will pass over six months after the time alluded to, when she thought her last
                  treasure was to be taken from her. Lola is no longer dependent; she is the bride
                  of Hubert Stanley and is as happy as aught could be. Her home is indeed the
                  picture of elegance and comfort; her treasured harp occupies a place in the
                  boudoir, and oft she sweeps its chords, as if with magic fingers. Hubert's leisure
                  hours are devoted to the society of his loving Lola, who ever seeks to make him
                  happy. Many friends who had discarded her when adversity passed her threshold, now
                  courted her society, but it only excited more contempt, and brought to mind more
                  forcibly the deceit and cold-heartedness of the world. She saw that friends were
                  few indeed; many caress when prosperity smiles, but forsake us when fortune
                  changes.
               She could not countenance those who had slighted her at one time, for she knew
                  that they wore only the mask of friendship, beneath which was concealed a cold
                  heart. Leston's conduct showed her forcibly what men are, for he would have
                  deprived her of her last measure had not Providence sent some being to protect
                  her. It seemed as if some bright angel ever hovered around her, for her home was a
                  scene of domestic happiness; in it she forgot for a while the deceit and
                  false-heartedness of mankind.
               Hubert sought his happiness in the society of Lola, who ever greeted him with a
                  smiling face and an overflowing heart. She remembered with delight what her last
                  treasure had brought to her, and Hubert never regretted the choice he had made. He
                  felt indeed that he had found a mine of wealth, surpassing every earthly boon
                  which Heaven could bestow. Their days passed on as tranquilly as the limpid
                  stream, or the evening star which moves on in its unimpeded course, shedding its
                  soft light and beauty over the landscape.
               Who would not rejoice at the happy fate of Lola, and heartily wish that those who
                  are placed in the same circumstances may meet with the same good fortune?
            
            
               
               Why was he taken?
               OH, why was he taken? He was so lovely, so interesting—at the very age, too, when
                  I so much wished him to live; every day he was more endeared to me by ties a
                  mother's heart can only know. The dear child has passed through so many trying
                  ordeals! I looked upon my bright bud of promise with delight; I thought of the
                  time when he would make me feel proud of him—when he would show by his actions
                  that he had not forgotten a mother's kindness during the years of his
                  helplessness. But alas! how deluded I was! his dark eyes shall behold my face no
                  more on earth. Oh, why was he taken? The form before me, strewn with flowers—all
                  seems a mockery. Would that I might awaken from this dream, and fold my child to
                  my bosom again. Spring-time comes—all, all will be gay but my heart will be bowed
                  down with deep, deep grief. Earth is beautiful to me no longer; for a dark shadow
                  has come o'er, a cloud no sunbeam can penetrate. The last look was given, the
                  cherished one was hidden from view.
               The mother could not fathom this mysterious affliction; she who was buoyed up with
                  every hope of recovery, now sank but the deeper in distress. Other mourners there
                  were, but ah! whose tears are like a mother's? Who feels as if her darling is
                  riven from her bosom? Who treads, as it were, alone, though in a crowd? She hears
                  no voice now that makes her heart pulsate with joy; she no longer waits for nurse
                  to bring her cherished one, to kiss the bright roses the balmy air has brought to
                  his cheeks; no toy books are to be hunted for, no tops, no marbles to amuse her
                  pet. When night comes, no little one to be put snugly to bed and lulled to sleep
                  with songs, no voice at morning's dawn is heard with the lark to welcome the
                  glorious day; no little chubby face or dimpled hands to wash. All this was such a
                  delightful task to perform, and though mamma did not go through the regular
                  routine herself, she "looked on" to see that it was well done. Now all was ended,
                  all was dark. Why was that sweet, sweet flower taken?
               A few years rolled by. Time, though it had in a measure softened the grief, had
                  not obliterated the memory of it. No, no; it was a sadness of the soul, a grief
                  too deep to take counsel. Each day was the churchyard visited, and each time a
                  true tear dropped. The sweet flower planted by that hand bloomed and faded each
                  season.
               As the mother wended her way to and from the churchyard she would exclaim in her
                  own heart, " Why was he taken?" A great change had passed over her; pale and
                  emaciated grew the faithful mourner, she was not the being of her former days, a
                  disease developed itself rapidly. A month since the father was buried by the side
                  of the pet; and now, as she lay upon a couch of sickness, thoughts of other days
                  flit o'er her brain. A bright angel seemed to come as a solace for her: it softly
                  whispered, "Why was he taken?" Alas! what would she have done, now that fortune had fled? The father
                  was gone, and she was ill-fitted to bear fatigue. What if her darling lived now,
                  would it not make her the more reluctant to die? for who would then care for it,
                  and watch faithful even in its youthful years? It had been consigned to the best
                  of father's protection; she now saw why it was taken, and calmly said, "It is well
                  with the child."
            
            
               Impromptu on Galt's "Bacchante."*
               
               
                  *The Bacchante is a beautiful specimen of
                     sculpture, executed by Mr. Galt, of Norfolk, Va.—a native genius.
               
               
                  Oh! faultless art thou, gem of grace;
                  I in thine every feature trace
                  All that's lovely, all that's fair —
                  Yes, every grace is figured there.
               
               
                  I watch that smile—I watch those eyes
                  In which enchanting beauty lies —
                  And feel that truly thou must be
                  A form of spotless purity.
               
               
                  Perchance some little fairy sprite
                  Didst bring before the artist's sight
                  Thy gentle self—an angel too!
                  That he might thy beauties view.
               
               
                  He, then enraptured, sought to give
                  To marble, form which seems to live;
                  And to those eyes seraphic fire,
                  Which did his lofty soul inspire.
               
               
               
                  I stood as if in awe before
                  The form which heathens might adore.
                  I'd rather feast my eyes on thee,
                  Than brightest stars—fair Bacchante!
               
               
                  Then toil on still, thou gifted one!
                  Thy laurel wreaths already won
                  Are pledges of that future fame
                  Which shall immortalize thy name.
               
            
            
               Leaves from My Journal.
               ISN'T it nice to have a romp? What if we have been let out the boarding school
                  cage for a year or two, and are dignified by the name "young lady?" What if we do
                  wear flounces, hoops, etc.? Will all this subdue the desire to romp? No, no; we
                  love to get with a group of merry ones, and be the greatest child in the crowd. We
                  love to skip over the green lawns and hills, even if we do lose a hoop. It is
                  quite a recreation to be released a while from company, where we are compelled to
                  play the dignified, whether we will or not. All the Miss Prudence Prims in
                  creation could not stop us when we feel just in the humor for mischief. We love to
                  hide mamma's work basket, let the big dog into the parlor, and get him before the
                  mirror, where he will bark most vehemently at himself. We love to steal grandma's
                  spectacles and put them where she will have a little hunt, and find them, at last
                  where she least expected—any thing for us for mischief.
               It is pleasant to be a wee child again—in imagination if not in years—for then we
                  are so gay and free. Wasn't that a nice time, when we were not obliged to be on
                  our P's and Q's? We had no anxiety to captivate any particular one—no rival to make jealous; and when we went to the
                  watering places, we were not compelled to dress so many times a day, just because
                  it was fashionable to do so; no parting scenes to go through; no heart to leave
                  behind us.
               Yes, we love to live those golden days over in memory. No demure one can deter us
                  from it by telling us "that it is not dignified." We will romp and play when the
                  spirit moves us.
               How much a man is to be sympathized with who has a jealous wife. It is far better
                  that he should have no eyes at all, for it would save him a vast deal of trouble.
                  If he is at a hotel where the gay and beautiful are assembled, the very loveliest
                  young lady in the whole group seems destined to sit directly opposite him. Look!
                  why, how can he help looking, when there is something like a magnet all the while
                  attracting him? It would not do for a note to be handed him, if the autograph is
                  at all suspicious; he must not mention that he has any choice of seats at the
                  table—no, rather bribe the waiter to show him to the one he prefers. It is as much
                  as his head is worth to say any lady is pretty. He must have eyes for none except
                  that jewel of a wife he has had the ill luck to marry. Now he becomes fully
                  sensible of the fact that marriage is a lottery, and that he paid dearly enough
                  for his ticket. He must not call the youngest any nick-name, for it will be sure
                  to be done in honor of a pair of black eyes which captivated him.
               And lastly, though not leastly, he must not stay out later, any night, than nine
                  o'clock; for his good lady does not approve of "Clubs," and thinks gentlemen
                  should discard every thing of the kind after marrying—particularly when one
                  chances to get such a lump of perfection as herself. No note is taken of the fact
                  that the husband is closely confined to business all day; he needs no recreation,
                  certainly not. He has to pay the bills—he ought to do it.
               That is a second Mrs. Caudle. Why, one could tell that by merely glancing at her;
                  only see how she watches her husband; he is afraid to look either way. We only
                  hope he won't glance at us, for we should certainly expect to see a fork aimed at
                  us, and that would be quite a scene for a hotel table.
            
            
               
               A Stray Leaf.
               "MEN are so contrary." What a face the one wore who made this remark. Oh, I
                  wouldn't be that woman's husband for all creation, such a mouth—it tells for
                  itself—no comment is needed. The whole contour of that face would grace the
                  frontispiece of any almanac or "Yankee Notions." "Contrary!" I'd be contrary too
                  if that face was my vis-a-vis, for three hundred
                  and sixty-five days in succession. Just think of it! What a prelude to coffee and
                  rolls in the morning! Wouldn't I forego the breakfast, rush right off to the
                  "office," minus breakfast, and live like the chamelion on air. Oh! I tell you Mrs.
                  Snip is a great woman. She finds Mr. Snip contrary because he will not hand over
                  his pocket-book every time it is asked for without some little hesitation—she
                  wishes funds (she says) to buy materials for clothes to be made (by guess), and
                  sent to the Orang Outang or Kangaroo Islands. She takes no note whatever of the
                  immense bundles of clothes needing repairs. Mr. Snip positively affirms that he
                  does not own a pair of socks without holes, and his coats are in a sad plight, all
                  the linings coming out. Nellie, Johnny, Bobby, and a score of others (it is Mr.
                  Snip's good fortune to be blessed with a household of juveniles who inherit the
                  amiable (?) temper of their mother), never know the luxury of finding buttons on
                  their clothes; they returned from school with faces scratched with pins that their
                  attentive mother put where buttons were intended to be. She has no time to attend
                  to her own children's clothes while so many far away need care taken of them. You
                  must know that Mrs. Snip is a great pillar of the church (with what a sanctified
                  air she folds her hands, and thanks God she is not as others are; how many have
                  reason to be very thankful they are not as Mrs. Snip)—every week the "sewing
                  circle" meet to gossip—I mean to say, to sew for the benefit of the friendless.
                  Mrs. Snip is very philanthropic; her very heart bleeds at the thought of the good
                  left undone. There is nothing so effectual as a little diplomacy, you see. Mrs.
                  Snip knows this fact very well. She will (if perseverance can accomplish any
                  thing) get herself into the good graces of those she calls the "Tons," by inviting
                  them to join her sewing circle, not forgetting at the same time to spread the
                  dainties on the occasion.
               Mr. Snip chooses to be "contrary," not that he is at all unwilling to give his
                  share toward doing good, but he knows too well how amiable (?) Mrs. Snip disposes
                  of the funds—banqueting her friends (?). All her sham piety is perfectly
                  understood by himself; full well he realizes the sad fact that the "winter of his
                  discontent" has been a long and tedious one; but is consoled with the thought that
                  "it is a bad tide that never turns." If it would only turn speedily; then he would
                  not be bored to death with long-winded sermons that go in at one ear and come out
                  the other. He thinks wisely, that "charity begins at home"—that people ought to make their family
                  neat and comfortable before they undertake to spread so much tinsel before people
                  who are weak enough to believe all "that glitters is gold."
            
            
               The Mysterious Casket.
               AN ALLEGORY.
               I ROAMED in a Fairy realm; forms as light as sunbeams floated round me.
                  Flower-queens were taking recreation in their gardens and giving friendly advice
                  to the haughty flowers, who, with proud tosses of the head, shook the dew-drops
                  from their resting places. Soon I came to a coral grotto; fairies were holding
                  court there; their queen rode by in a dainty chariot, fashioned from a large
                  diamond, carved like a cameo; and to it were harnessed innumerable humming birds,
                  of every hue.
               She alighted, and entered the hall; her voice resounded through the grotto, like
                  the notes of a silver bell. The assemblage appeared to be much absorbed in
                  conversation. I endeavored to divine the important subject they were discussing,
                  when suddenly my eyes glanced toward a magnificent casket; every one seemed to be
                  looking at it eagerly. One of the tiny nymphs, of imperial bearing, commanded keys
                  to be brought forth; one of gold, one of silver, and another of inferior metal.
                  The queen spoke thus: "Whoever can unlock this casket, shall possess the power to
                  understand all things." The first one upon whom her eyes rested, was Pride. "Come
                     forth," said she, "and essay thy
                  skill." Now haughtily advancing at the summons, with the golden key she attempted
                  to unlock the casket;—but alas! it was all in vain.
               The queen called another, another, and another; but none could accomplish the task
                  imposed. At length but one remained—she sat in the most retired spot, and looked
                  as if wishing to be screened from the view of all—much did she resemble the modest
                  violet in some hidden nook. Her name was Wisdom; she possessed, apparently, no
                  charms whatever; her person was unadorned by any costly gems; she was clad in the
                  simple attire of innocence. The queen knew well that she was present, but allowed
                  her to be the last. At this moment, her gaze fell upon her, and she said: "Come
                  forth, and see if thou can'st reveal the prize which lies in this mysterious
                  casket." With light step, her cheeks suffused with the blushes of roses, she took
                  the iron key, and lo! what a magic touch! she had unclosed the casket. All eyes
                  were turned toward her. Pride and Envy, with all the rest, looked down, at last
                  abashed. In the casket, was a roll of parchment, on which was written the single,
                  but regal word, "Knowledge." Suddenly her eye became animated, and she seemed to
                  understand all things. She expounded all mystery. What an imperishable treasure
                  did she possess, through that key which had thrown open to her, the Casket of
                  Knowledge.
            
            
               Voices of the Night.
               NIGHT, how beautiful in all thy princely majesty; thy brow bedecked with jewels
                  rivaling each other in splendor. Thy sable robes, interlaced with myriads of
                  stars, hang in graceful folds around thy form, adding still more gorgeous
                  brilliancy to thy beauty. Oh, what shall I compare to thee? Peri would stand
                  abashed in thy presence, though her form were as peerless as thine own. All the
                  proud queens of earth at thy feet might fall and shade their eyes from thy
                  dazzling charms. The sun e'en hides his face ere thou comest, and though he
                  lingers for a while beyond yon western hills, he feareth to meet thee.
               Beauteous queen, tell us thy messages, for we would gladly be the bearer of them.
                  Thou dost whisper to everything in nature and all heed thy gentle voice. Let me
                  hear thy whisperings. Timid bird, to thy nest away; cover with thy wings the tiny
                  ones who await thy coming. Haste thee lest the breeze should chill the unfledged
                  offspring—chant one sweet song ere thou goest, for I would hear thee.
               Man of toil, cease thy labor, for I come to close the gates of day; wind thy steps
                  homeward, where near and dear ones await thy coming; the cheerful fire gleaming on
                  the hearth and all within is so
                  inviting. Comfort shall be the reward of thy diligence, for thou hast truly earned
                  it.
               Little children: I come to close thy eyelids in sleep; cease thy prattle and I
                  will full thee to rest with sweet music. Dreams shall cheer thee 'till morning
                  cometh, and then with the lark shall ye join in music to welcome the rising sun.
                  Fear not, for though my garments are sombre, nought shall harm thee. I leave thee
                  for I have other messages for a sphere more bright and beautiful than this—yet I
                  do not forget those less highly favored while seated on my regal throne.
            
            
               A Leaf.
               
                  
                     
                        "The evil that men do lives after them;
                        The good is oft interred with their bones."
                     
                  
               
               NOT true—no, indeed! Shakspeare never spoke more incorrectly in his life, than
                  when he wrote the above lines. A man never was known to die, but possessed more
                  virtues than he ever was entitled to during his life-time. A splendid or simple
                  monument is erected in memory of him, extolling his good qualities, etc.
               Jonathan Snubbs, for instance, may die; a more intolerable man perhaps never
                  existed; he whipped his wife no less than twice a day; frightened away all the
                  servants; made the children's hair fairly stand on "end;" the yard dog to run
                  yelping away at the very sound of his footsteps. The widow has been turned out of
                  doors; the orphans sent to bed minus a supper—and why? because Mr. Snubbs could
                  not live without people who rented his houses paid him.
               But he is not to blame for all this, since his income is only about ten thousand
                  per annum. This is but a paltry (?) sum for a man with an extravagant wife, who
                  wishes to figure pretty extensively at some watering-place during the summer
                  season. Beside this, the many comforts of winter are to be taken into consideration; his store-house must be
                  well filled, for Jonathan loves the luxuries of life as well as the next one. To
                  do all this, he can with impunity turn the widow out of doors, unless she pays
                  promptly the last month's rent. Oh! he is a very lenient landlord indeed; all he
                  requires of them is, to promptly pay that rent—he will not exact any more.
               The said Jonathan is held in great esteem by the people, for he is deacon of the
                  church, and of course could not do any thing improper. He argues warmly upon the
                  subject of charity, little dreaming that he is even as "sounding brass and a
                  tinkling cymbal."
               But Jonathan, after all, has to pay the debt of nature; there is no possible
                  chance of getting out of that. He feels the truth of it too well, and thinks in
                  the mean time of the 
                     posessions
                     possessions
                   which he must leave behind; he cannot carry the last month's rent which
                  he collected from the widow with him. Now seeing there is no alternative, he
                  leaves a large portion for the purpose of establishing some charitable
                  institution, so that his name may be handed down to posterity, for some good and
                  noble act. A goodly sum is laid by, too, for the purpose of erecting a stately
                  monument. Some of the wealthy friends whom he left behind see that every thing is
                  properly attended to, and at the shortest notice, for it would be highly unjust
                  for a man of so much "departed worth" to lie in the grave-yard long without every
                  one knowing him to be there.
               How all his imaginary virtues glow in deeply traced letters, upon his
                  tomb-stone!—a good man, kind and benevolent to the poor; they have indeed lost a
                  friend (?)—a friend not easily replaced. The Scriptures saith, "blessed are the
                  merciful, for they shall obtain mercy"—"he that giveth to the poor lendeth to the
                  Lord."
               A pious, devoted, self-sacrificing life he led.
               Oh, Jonathan Snubbs, how they have slandered thee in the grave! Coulds't thou but
                  behold what is here inscribed, if thou hadst any shame, surely thou wouldst be
                  appalled.
               It is my private opinion (though I tell it to the world) that, instead of all
                  these eulogiums, it should have been written, "he that seeth his neighbor hath
                  need, and shutteth up the bowels of compassion, how dwelleth the love of God in
                  him?"
            
            
               
               Only Waiting for an Offer.
               "WHAT a nonsensical, shallow-pated concern that James Atkinson is. I declare, if I
                  were Lucy Bowers, he should not walk in the street with me. How fantastically he
                  lifts his hat; he just does it to show his kids, which, by the way, make his hands
                  look like stuffed bags. He cannot meet any one, when he is with Lucy Bowers,
                  without saying, 'Ah, Miss Lucy, what a distingué
                  air Mr. So-and-so has; and what a degree of hauteur Miss L. possesses.' You see, he only does this to make Lucy
                  believe that he knows how to speak French, and I'll wager he does not know the
                  meaning of the words he uses; I believe his whole thought is upon dress, and I
                  know he practices his gestures a whole day before the glass. There they come
                  now—only see his manœuvres! If I were Lucy, I would push him off the side-walk. I
                  see him casting his glances up this way—he only wants to see if any one is looking
                  at him; if he only knew what a perfect eye-sore he is to me, he would certainly
                  not pass here so often. I do declare, I would not have him, if he were the last
                  man in the world—no, not if I felt assured I would die an old maid. It is no
                  manner of use for a young lady to sacrifice herself for the sake of getting
                  married; as for my part, I go in for handsome, sensible gentlemen."
               "Why, Gertrude! you astonish me. Why do you speak thus of Mr. Atkinson? I am sure
                  he is not shallow-pated, as you said just now, for he graduated with the highest
                  honors; I do not think it very likely that he would have attained the Valedictory
                  if he were a numskull. I would be willing to stake any thing that there is not a
                  young lady in the city (myself not excepted) who would refuse the offer of such a
                  gentleman as Mr. Atkinson."
               "Oh, that is just the way with you, Kate; if a boy has been to college, it matters
                  not if he stay but a single day, you think he must of necessity be a Plato or
                  Socrates."
               "No, Gertrude, you are mistaken. I know too much about Mr. Atkinson to sanction
                  the eulogiums which you passed upon him just now."
               Gertrude and Kate Manning were sisters; there was all the difference in the world
                  between them. Gertrude was certainly one of the most envious persons in the world;
                  if any of her associates (even her most intimate friends) should eclipse her in
                  any way, she would directly say some thing against them. Envy was her most
                  predominant trait—it seemed to take possession of her completely. She had very
                  frequently heard of the attentions of Mr. Atkinson to Lucy Bowers, and always felt
                  a jealousy arising when ever she saw them. Atkinson was a young gentleman of fine
                  talents, and withal very accomplished: his manners were exceedingly refined and
                  winning. Gertrude knew all this, and being among that number of young ladies who
                  have no admirers, never liked to see any one have them.
               Kate was quite the contrary; she always treated every one kindly, and was not at
                  all disposed to be jealous. Every one
                  could but love her, for she was so gentle and good. Why, often she would speak to
                  her sister about the manner in which she expressed herself with regard to people,
                  and assured her that it would never gain her any friends; but Gertrude never
                  listened to a word she had to say on any occasion, but would endeavor to bring in
                  some thing to justify her remarks. Kate felt that all her advice was useless—that
                  a deaf ear was turned to all she said.
               
               "There has been quite a change in the state of affairs," said Mr. Manning as he
                  sat at tea.
               "What do you mean, papa?" said Gertrude.
               "What do I mean? Why I mean that Miss Lucy Bowers is to be married next week."
               "I thought so," replied Gertrude. "I knew that she and that dummy James Atkinson
                  would make it up. Well, all I have to say is, she will get a man without any
                  brains."
               "You are mistaken, Getty; she is not going to marry Mr. Atkinson."
               "Well, I thought after all, that Lucy would see the folly of marrying that
                  booby."
               "That booby, indeed! James Atkinson is no booby, I tell you; he is a very
                  accomplished and sensible gentleman. Have you ever been in his company?"
               "Never."
               "Well, some evening I will invite him up."
               At this remark, Getty's eyes brightened up a little, for she had never had a beau
                  in her life, nor is it very probable she would ever meet with the luck to have an
                  admirer, for no one could admire her, but she might manage to induce some one to
                  think that he loved her.
               "Papa, do tell me who the gentleman is to whom Lucy is to be married."
               "Mr. Frank Jennings."
               "Frank Jennings! he is a charming young gentleman—I admire her taste very much; a
                  great goose she would be to marry that James Atkinson. I am thinking he will have
                  to wait some time before he is married, for no one would have him any how."
               "Ah! Getty, I would not trust the girls. I will go so far as to say, that I would
                  not trust even you."
               "Even me! I had as lief be an old maid as to marry him; indeed I would prefer it a
                  thousand times."
               
               "Well, Gertrude, Mr. Atkinson will call up this evening, and as your sister is out
                  of town, the whole of the entertainment will fall pretty much upon yourself."
               "Oh, papa! what did you invite that bore up here for? I declare I do not wish to
                  see him."
               "Never mind; you must entertain him to the best of your ability, as I have invited
                  him up to see you."
               Evening came. Mr. Atkinson called at the residence of Mr Manning. He was
                  introduced to Miss Gertrude, with whom he was left. Mr. Manning stated that he had
                  some little business which would detain him in the library, but would join them in
                  a little while.
               Gertrude did her best; all the smiles she could muster up were put on that
                  evening. She, of course, wished to make a deep impression upon the gentleman in
                  question.
               
               
               "Well, well, what is the world coming to? That old maid, Gertrude Manning, is
                  going to be married to James Atkinson. I do wonder what he sees in her to admire.
                  I am sure she is not pretty by any means. She is certainly very wise to get
                  married now, for I am sure if she misses this opportunity she will never get
                  another."
               Such was the language of the gossiping world, when the news of the intended
                  marriage was spread. Many knew how bitter she was against Mr. Atkinson, and
                  wondered what had changed her notion.
               
               "Well, what do you think, Kate?" said Mr. Manning to his daughter on her return
                  home.
               "Now hush, papa," exclaimed Gertrude, coloring.
               "Really you surprise me, papa; I cannot tell. Gertrude has not certainly made any
                  attempt at a runaway match since I've been gone."
               "Oh, no; she is to take 'the leap in the dark,' or in the light, just as you are
                  pleased to term it."
               "Indeed! Pray tell me who is the one to assist her?"
               "None other than James Atkinson.'
               "James Atkinson? Impossible."
               "It is true. Nothing is impossible now a days."
               "Well, well, Gertrude," said Kate, laughingly; "what are you going to marry that
                  shallow-pated, nonsensical numskull for? You certainly have changed your mind very
                  much."
               "Oh, she was only waiting for an offer," said Mr. M. "There, did I not tell you
                  that I would not trust her, Kate? Do you remember the reply she made me?"
               "Yes, yes, I remember very well."
               And so it was sure enough. Gertrude, like a great many other young ladies, was
                  only waiting for an offer. Very readily did she accept the proposal of Mr.
                  Atkinson—her eye-sore, as she was once pleased to call him—and she no longer
                  thought him a booby or a dummy, particularly after she found out the quantity of
                  dimes he had in his possession. Nothing now could excite her ire more than for
                  Kate to call him, in a jesting way, a shallow-headed concern, although Gertrude
                  once thought that Lucy Bowers had a very perverted taste to receive the attentions
                  of such a piece of humanity, and wondered where her eyes (if she had any at all)
                  could be to fancy James Atkinson. All she wanted was a chance, and she was only
                  waiting for an offer.
            
            
               
               "Departed Worth."
               SILENCE reigneth, for death, with noiseless tread, hath entered the household. Lo!
                  what a mass of rich drapery meets the eye; what superb carpets, what an array of
                  mirrors, reflecting the forms of spectators. Silence, around; aye! for surely
                  death is there.
               The man upon whom fortune hath lavished her many gifts, now lies in the cold
                  embrace of that sleep, from whence there is no waking on earth. The richly
                  finished coffin is brought, and the precious remains, clad in finest fabric, are
                  laid in carefully. Many are the sobs of loving friends, who come to take a
                  farewell glance at the lifeless body. Soon must the tomb receive it, and the clay
                  rattle like a death-knell upon the coffin lid. But what pomp and array! 'Tis the
                  funeral of the rich man. The news of his death has spread far and wide. Coach
                  after coach follow in succession, slowly too, as if reluctant to reach the
                  cemetery.
               The gate of the church-yard is entered at last; now the old sexton waits to
                  perform his accustomed duty.
               'Tis done—the grave has been closed. Friends group around and seem to cling to the
                  very grave. This was the rich man's burial. The costly monument is not long being
                  prepared to his memory, so that all may know his merits. Each page of the
                  newspaper glows with the words "Departed Worth;" all lament the death of one so
                  worthy. And, why should they not? He, surely, was departed worth. His coffers were
                  well filled; he once occupied a splendid mansion—but alas! "death levels all
                  distinction," and the rich man was in his "narrow cell forever laid."
               
               The widow's home; oh, cheerless spot, grief and sorrow are indeed there! The faint
                  taper glimmers feebly on the little pine table. There she lies upon the rude
                  couch. Poor widow! her only child sits beside her, and buries his little head in
                  his hands. Young he is, yet not too young to know his grief. The night wind is
                  howling mournfully; the cold, icy air penetrates every crevice. The fire has
                  nearly died away, and there is no fuel left for another. Oh! the misery of
                  poverty. Alas! where are friends? Where the charitable? Echo answers, "Not in the
                  widow's home!" The door opens—perchance 'tis some kind friend. Yes! like the good
                  Samaritan, the physician comes to heal the wounded heart. He shakes his head
                  doubtfully, for full well he knows life hangs by a single thread. He consoles
                  himself with the thought that she will soon be with the Mighty Physician.
               
               A stained wooden coffin is brought; the remains of the poor widow are laid
                  carefully in. Soon the hearse is at the door. But what a funeral! Where is that
                  stately array of coaches? Ah, they go only to the funeral of the rich, who are
                     able enough to hire them. None
                  follow the widow. No monument stands to tell who lies beneath the sod. Here should
                  have been traced in letters of gold, "Departed Worth," for she had devoted herself
                  to the service of her Maker, and committed more acts of charity in her heart than
                  all the men of wealth who placed large rolls of bank bills in the contribution-box
                  "to be seen of men." The poor widow, like the one of old who contributed her mite,
                  found favor in the Saviour's eyes. And, though men wrote not "Departed Worth," yet
                  her name was written in the Lamb's Book of Life. There was One who knew her worth,
                  and he will repay tenfold.
            
            
               Meta.
               I SAW lovely Meta as she, with slow steps, wended her way to the bridal altar; the
                  delicate veil was drawn aside, and revealed a face—of joy? say you. Ah, no, there
                  was a gloom upon her brow as if a dark cloud loomed o'er the fair forehead where
                  nought but sunlight should have lingered. The aisles of the spacious church ne'er
                  seemed more gloomy; and when the ceremony was over—aye, when the minister
                  pronounced them one, the sentence fell upon her ear like a death knell; and when
                  her gay companions, one by one, imprinted a kiss upon her cheek, she felt as if it
                  were all a beautiful mockery. None knew why Meta wept. He who stood by her side
                  was noble; his locks were mingled with silver; his voice was full; his brow was
                  stern. Meta was many years his junior; he had, when she was but a tiny child,
                  dandled her upon his knee; now she was his wife! It was like mating May and
                  December. Yet, this would not have made the gentle Meta unhappy, had she been
                  allowed to choose for herself. Ah, no: for the young and gay girl can fix her
                  affections upon one many years her senior, and be truly happy. Yes, the happiest
                  and brightest moment of her life is the one when she resigns her heart in the safe keeping of one, though old in
                  years, is young in affection still.
               Meta was bartered away for wealth. Her proud father made the contract, and she
                  submitted because he willed it—not that she wished it; ah, no; for much rather
                  would she lie in her final resting-place, than wed the one whom her father had
                  chosen. Now indeed was all the world to be gloomy and dark; the sun would lose its
                  golden hue; the song of the birds would die away; the flowers would wither 'neath
                  her gaze.
               I entered the lone church-yard, and beheld a newly-made grave. But why should that
                  arrest my attention? Ah, he who stood beside that grave I recognized as the father
                  of Meta; bowed down with grief and sorrow, he scarcely raises his eyes to Heaven,
                  as if fearing she will wreak her vengeance upon him still worse.
               
                  
                     "Death lies upon her, like an untimely frost
                     Upon the sweetest flower of all the vale."
                  
               
               Yes, dear Meta, thy youthful heart was crushed, indeed; thy warm affection was
                  frozen up just as it gushed forth like the fountain.
               But thou wert too pure for earth.
               Meta, Meta!—oh, how that name echoed in my ear as it fell from the lips of her
                  father. But that repentance came, alas! too late.
            
            
               A fragment.
               HOW many precious hours are wasted in doing what is termed ornamental work? How
                  many bright eyes are impaired by sitting steadily day after day doing embroidery?
                  Exercise is sadly neglected, too; no fresh air can enter the lungs if one will sit
                  constantly in a close room. It is essential to health to take exercise every day;
                  walking briskly causes the blood to flow more freely through the veins, making one
                  vigorous and hearty.
               The mind suffers too, for the hours which are spent in embroidery should be
                  devoted to reading. What can it profit a person to be gaudily decorated by her
                  skilful hand, if the mind is left untilled and choked up with weeds that will
                  require a lifetime to eradicate?
               There is sometimes a decided objection to what is termed a "sewing circle." A
                  group are seated around, not for the purpose of sewing exactly, but they dissect a
                  neighbor's character—"at every word a reputation dies." Some sit crocheting tidies
                  or purses; every skein used for the purpose represents a skein of scandal. These
                  persons are the ones, too, who never talk about any body; no, they are the leading pillars, and but for them the church
                  might tumble down.
               But this does not apply to all. No! for there are too many noble people good and
                  pure at heart; they would as soon traduce their own character as that of a
                  neighbor. While this is true of many, it is too lamentably the case that visitors
                  are frequently entertained, while sipping the social cup of tea, with a rehearsal
                  of all the faults (imaginary and real) of Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Jones. They take
                  very good care to see the mote in the eye of others, not for a moment imagining
                  the beam (and a very large one too) in their own. We have discussed but one thing;
                  the female mind generally suggests another, hence from embroidery to slander. Some
                  will argue the necessity of doing their own embroidery—it is cheaper. What,
                  cheaper to put one's own eyes out?—to have stooping shoulders, sunken and sallow
                  cheeks? Lastly, though not least, to have one's conscience blunted? Southern girls
                  should give more attention to literature—read more—reflect more—talk less about
                  their neighbor's failings instead of magnifying them beyond all computation.
               We would not encourage idleness by any means; on the contrary: we censure
                  employing the time in doing ornamental work so far as it consumes the precious
                  time one should devote to reading and cultivating the mind. A person who reads and
                  reflects, has but little time to heed
               
                  
                     "Soft buzzing slander—
                     A silky moth that eats an honest name."
                  
               
            
            
               A Portfolio Leaf.
               
                  
                     
                        "Neglected beauty now is prized by gold
                        And sacred love is basely bought and sold,
                        Wives are grown traffic, marriage is a trade,
                        And when a nuptial of two hearts is made
                        There must of money too a wedding be."
                     
                  
               
               MISS BREMER has said "many a marriage begins like a rosy morning but falls away
                  like a snow wreath." How truly spoken, for do we not every day see instances when
                  the most promising marriages have alas! doomed many to a life of misery?
               While gold is held up and worshipped as a God, it will ever be the case. The
                  innocent unsuspecting young girl consents to resign her heart and hand to the
                  keeping of one who is actuated by mercenary motives alone; she little dreams her
                  row of elegant houses or servants were the great magnets, and not herself; that he
                  so much wishes to be a gentleman of leisure and considers her the best chance for
                  that. Others will stake their happiness for the sake of getting a position among
                  the order of "mushroomdom," who are far from being the creme de creme, but merely the skim milk and that of rather an
                  inferior quality, too. A very great mistake is made by one who permits herself to
                  be led to the altar by the "gold worshipper." The "fortune hunter" should never be
                  chosen; he has a heart of steel, and
                  though he manages to steal hearts yet he takes good care to give none in
                  return.
               An incongeniality is a very great source of unhappiness; a woman possessing an
                  affectionate, confiding disposition, should never marry a morose, callous man who
                  knows not the meaning of affection; let her be assured he will never see a tear
                  she sheds, and if, by the merest accident in the world, he does discover it, it
                  will not move him any more than if he were a rock.
               Husbands sometimes are too apt to lay aside all their polished manners after
                  matrimony, this is a very great mistake; for any woman of delicacy and refinement
                  could not pardon this great fault; she feels it equally as important for him to be
                  exceedingly polite and polished after marriage as before.
               Every woman should show out her true character; should never affect amiability if
                  she has not been so fortunate as to have been gifted with that heavenly trait.
               If she acts openly and candidly, and then one chooses with all her faults to
                  select her from the world, he can blame no one but himself if he gets a termagant
                  for a wife.
               It is the duty of every husband to be as lenient as possible, (for women are not
                  angels by any means), making the best of everything, and acting upon the
                  philosophy of enduring what they cannot cure. Remember a woman will never be
                  driven; but kind words will work wonders.
               Love is the only sceptre that should be wielded; "you shall," "you must," are two
                  phrases never to be used, for one had as well try to remove a mountain as to hope
                  to persuade a woman against her will.
            
            
               Consistency.
               "CAN'T think of such a thing! What, pay that large bill these hard times? Wife,
                  you are entirely too extravagant; it must be stopped at once, or else I shall be
                  compelled to fail," said Edward Jones to his pert little wife, as she held before
                  him a bill of $60.00. Her eyes beamed with mischief, and now making the wryest
                  face imaginable, she said—
               "Now Edward, I hope you do not call sixty dollars a large bill."
               "Sixty dollars! yes, I do call it a large amount for these hard times. Where in
                  the world do you think I can get all that money from? It is very certain that
                  money cannot be picked up in the street. I verily believe that women think it
                  makes no kind of difference at all how much money they expend upon dress; why in
                  the world do you all wear so much finery? It certainly does not add to your looks
                  at all. 'Beauty when unadorned is adorned the most;' so says the poet."
               "It is my opinion, Edward, that the gentlemen are far more extravagant than the
                  ladies. They are for ever puffing away at a cigar which costs at least six cents.
                  But it is nothing, I know, for them to
                  smoke up sixty cents per day—oh, no! that is not extravagant, by any means—not a
                  bit of it."
               Minnie tossed her head and pouted her pretty lips, which looked like newly ripened
                  strawberries. She was waiting to hear the answer which Mr. Jones would give to her
                  remarks.
               Well, you know, Minnie, that smoking is a luxury which gentlemen so much
                  enjoy."
               "Well, now I want to know if we don't enjoy dressing?"
               "But fine dressing is something so superfluous."
               "I suppose, then, that smoking is not superfluous at all; would you not think me
                  deranged, if I were to roll up a parcel of bank notes and burn them? I know you
                  would: I consider smoking cigars the very same."
               "Well, now, Minnie, do you know how many I smoke during the day?"
               "No; for I never took the trouble to count them."
               "Well, I am exceedingly moderate in smoking—only six or eight."
               "Oh, I do not care how many cigars you smoke. Tell me, are you not going to pay
                  this bill? A small one it is." An ironical smile followed the last remark.
               "Small bill, Minnie! nonsense; where am I to get sixty dollars from?"
               "That I cannot tell."
               "You ought, then, to be more prudent, and not incur any such expenses, since you
                  know it is out of my power to meet the payment of such large bills."
               "You say, then, that you cannot pay it."
               "I do—and furthermore, that you must not contract any more large bills, or small
                  ones either."
               "You do not owe for any cigars, then?"
               "I pay for all I use—yes, all to the very cent."
               Mr. Jones seated himself very complacently in his arm chair, and commenced puffing
                  away at a cigar. Minnie could not refrain from smiling at his appearance, for she
                  knew very well, when she drew the curtain aside, that he would not look quite so
                  composed.
               "What pleases you so much, Minnie? It cannot be hard times. Do tell me, so that I
                  may enjoy the laugh too; I do not believe in people keeping all the fun to
                  themselves."
               "Would you really like to know what pleases me so much, Edward?"
               "I would, most certainly. Tell me any thing to make me forget 'hard times.' '
               "Oh, I was only laughing at this little note."
               "What note?—let me see it."
               Minnie handed it over, and the contents were —
               "Mr. Edward Jones—To Rayson, Tyler & Co., Dr. To 1 box cigars, $60.00."
               Mr. Jones looked at the bill, and in his confusion threw the lighted cigar into
                  the fire. He found that Minnie had been playing some of her pranks upon him. He
                  never felt worse in all his life; he had no other alternative but to take his hat
                  and leave for a little while, till he recovered from the shock.
               
               "Oh, consistency, consistency!" were the words which rung in his ears as he made
                  for the door.
               Minnie heard no more of hard times. Mr. Jones affirmed that Minnie was "wide
                  awake" that time, and he, no doubt, took good care in future how he disputed an
                  account, for the cigar bill would rise before him like some dreaded spectre to
                  haunt his brain.
            
            
               The Echo of a Mother's Heart.
               YOU wonder that the mother should look so pale and wan; you cannot understand why
                  she should grieve for the loss of her child, while so many are left to comfort
                  her. You watch her, as she handles the tiny dresses, that once enwrapped the form
                  so cold in death; you note her, while she looks over the little toys, now laid
                  away carefully. Ah! for her, each of these trifles hath a value, dearer than
                  imagination can conceive; each hath a history. The group of happy children,
                  romping and playing merrily as ever, seem solace enough for her; yet she grieves
                  the more, as she listens to their voices. One loved sound is not there. The house
                  is in mourning; the halls are desolate; you cannot but feel that a great loss has
                  been sustained. The father returns to his home, with a sad face; he takes up some
                  toy, with which the lost one was wont to play; and a tear steals down his manly
                  cheek.
               Why all this gloom? Little Allie is gone! That portrait, so smiling, has not half
                  the rich beauty, with which nature blessed the dear original!
               They have laid her low in the ground; a simple stone marks the place. Upon it are the words: "Death found
                  strange beauty on that brow, and dashed it out!" Yes; it was a beauty we seldom
                  gaze on; a lustrous dark eye, fringed with draping lids—a bright intellect beaming
                  clearly forth from every glorious feature.
               Had you known that little Allie was the angel of the household—had you known that
                  the happiness of her father had its source in her soft dark eyes—had you seen that
                  sunny smile, when she would throw her dimpled arms around his neck, and press her
                  velvet cheek against his own—had you heard her musical tones, when she said,
                  "Allie is going to heaven,"— had you known how much she was missed, when her
                  fairy-feet no longer tripped upon the floor—you would then have understood why the
                  mother wept, when she stood by the tomb in summer, when earth was clad in its
                  gorgeous robes of beauty. She saw everything that Allie had loved—the gay wild
                  flowers—the soft blue skies; she heard the songs of birds; and all these scenes
                  reminded her of the one loved and lost—the one, whom the grave had veiled. And, in
                  the dreary winter, when the snow-wreaths, twined by seraphs' fingers, encircled
                  the tombstone, she would wander there, melancholy and alone, to give vent to her
                  grief. The tears, that fell upon that grave, were sacred.
               
               A mother clings fondly to her little lambs. 'Tis she who shields them from harm;
                  'tis she who tends them faithfully in health; and, when sickness comes, no
                  vigilance is like hers. The last coin will be taken from the slender purse. Ever
                  watchful and untiring, she guards the couch, through the long weary hours of
                  night; and, at early dawn, her heart is cheered, when she feels the pulse, and
                  finds that it still throbs. And, when the angel of death comes, first is she, in
                  the soul's deep grief; last is she, to quit the shrine of memory.
            
            
            
               
               Not in Fault.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  "NOT the happy girl of five years ago," sighed Alice Neville, as she threw
                     herself carelessly upon a lounge. Her dreamy eyes, such as only Sir Peter Lely
                     can paint, wandered about the richly furnished parlors. The rosy curtains, as
                     the shower of sunbeams fell upon them, bathed the room in a flood of oriental
                     light. Every thing, to the casual observer, was there—paintings of every
                     description; the Madonna of Raphael, with her holy face, seemed to look
                     admonishingly down; next in rotation was Beatrice Cenci, with her wealth of
                     sunny curls. And then, there were Claude Lorraine's pictures, with their
                     exquisite tints. And thus might we go on enumerating. But the portrait of Alice
                     must not be overlooked. It represented her as she was at the age of
                     eighteen—beautiful, gay, light creature, the picture of joy, song, and
                     gladness. The drapery flowing around her graceful form added, if possible, more
                     beauty. As her eyes fell upon the portrait a shade of momentary sorrow seemed
                     to pass over her. "Am I happy?" was a question she many times asked herself.
                     What was wanting? Wealth was surely at her command; no fairy foot trod upon
                     softer velvet; no epicure had more sumptuous fare; no belle enjoyed a greater
                     share of admiration; the less highly favored envied her, and she knew it. Her's
                     was a warm, impulsive heart—a generious nature. Never was a beggar turned from
                     her door. No! they knew where to come for aid in time of need.
                  Alice Neville was a woman of too much good sense not to keep her troubles to
                     herself; she knew that by relating them she might subject herself to the
                     extreme pain of hearing them repeated by the gossips. By prudence and caution,
                     she escaped thus far the sneers and jeers of the world. To all appearances she
                     was a happy woman. If she gave went to her feelings, it was when no one saw
                     her: and yet there were times when it seemed quite impossible for her to keep
                     it any longer concealed. Yet, a person of discernment might have discovered
                     that she was troubled.
                  "Alice," her intimate friends would say, "is such an enigmas and will ever be
                     thus; as to understanding her, that is a matter quite impossible; she is too
                     sensitive—too tender."
                  
                  Perhaps nothing is more painful to a woman of delicate sensibilities than a
                     feeling that she is not appreciated—that her love is treated with a sort of
                     indifference. A woman, though she may possess all the wealth of Ormus, could
                     not be happy, if she meets with disappointment in one whom she has trusted and
                     placed the most implicit confidence. She would gladly give up all, and share
                     the humblest cot, if she could by this means reign supreme in the bosom of one
                     to whom she has given all she held dear to herself.
                  "Not the happy girl of five years ago," she again sighed, and sank, as it were,
                     into a reverie.
                  
                  
                  Five years ago, Alice Hawthorne, the belle and heiress of "Hawthorne Castle,"
                     married Arthur Neville. In making her choice, she had no one to consult—no
                     kind, tender mother to advise—no father to suggest what was the best course to
                     pursue.
                  She loved Arthur Neville, and made him her husband, consented willingly to be
                     led to the "bridal altar." Trusting and confiding in his love, and placing full
                     confidence in his promises, her heart throbbed with joy when the reality burst
                     upon her that she was indeed the wife of Arthur Neville.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  IN a verandah beautifully ornamented with jessamine and woodbine, sat two
                     persons. One was a young girl of about eighteen summers; her soft, golden hair
                     shaded partially a beautifully moulded neck; her eyes were beaming with
                     delight. The other person was a gentleman of elegant exterior and polished
                     manners. It was none other than Arthur Neville. The peerless Rosa Brighton had
                     met him at the various watering places which he had visited during the summer.
                     Strange to say, although he was the husband of so beautiful and accomplished a
                     woman, yet his heart had wandered involuntarily at times. He was fascinated by
                     Rose Brighton, for she was, beyond the shadow of a doubt, a beautiful woman. It
                     was very evident, from the blush that suffused the cheek of Rosa when he spoke,
                     that something very graceful and complimentary was uttered.
                  
                  "Mr. Neville, you must not stop here so often on your way home. It is true, I
                     am delighted to see you, for you always have something pretty to tell me.
                     However much I may relish your company, you must reflect what the uncharitable
                     world would say—you know too well the shafts aimed by the envious at the
                     innocent. And apart from this, Alice, your wife, is very beautiful and a highly
                     educated woman: the time not engrossed in your business should be devoted
                     entirely to her. I feel that I am doing wrong to take one moment of your
                     society, when I reflect how much pleasure you give her when you are at home.
                     Mr. Neville, I tell you in a very friendly, yet serious manner, that I will no
                     longer permit you to stop here on your way home—you must not come again, unless
                     accompanied by Alice. Remember, now, what I say to you."
                  "But, Miss Brighton, it is not your fault that I stop when passing. You could
                     not treat me impolitely or unkindly. I come, and you as a lady must feel it a
                     duty to treat me as a gentleman. Come, Miss Rose, do not begin to put on any
                     airs to an old friend. My heart has quite room enough for two, you see."
                  "Mr. Neville," replied Rose, blushing deeply, "if you ever utter such
                     sentiments in my presence again, I will never recognize you as my friend. You
                     certainly forget. Alice is very beautiful, and then she is such a sweet woman,
                     that I deem it your special duty to do all you can toward making her happy. She
                     may perhaps blame me if you were guilty of the least slight.
                  
                  I cannot imagine why I permitted you to visit me so often without saying
                     something. I tell you, Mr. Neville, that I am very much displeased with the
                     sentiments you have uttered."
                  "Pardon, pardon me, Miss Brighton. I confess that I spoke hastily—it was merely
                     the impulse of a moment; pray pardon me for uttering them. You are very
                     beautiful. Our Heavenly Father made the beautiful to be admired."
                  "If this be the case, that the 'beautiful were made to be admired,' then surely
                     Alice, your wife, deserves a great share of admiration. She is not only
                     beautiful, but the impersonation of goodness, purity and sweetness. A man may
                     admire a woman, but should love none except his wife. I am sadly afraid that I
                     have permitted you already to spend too many hours in my society, and it was
                     all, too, through thoughtlessness. I do assure you that I would never be the
                     person to cause the heart of Alice a pang—she is too much like an angel. But
                     time is stealing on and you must away. Remember, now, that you must not visit
                     me any more, as I have before told you, unless you are accompanied by
                     Alice."
                  "Do come over and spend the evening with us, Miss Brighton; I really fail to
                     deliver, every time I come, the invitation; Alice begs me not to forget."
                  "Not this, but to-morrow evening, Mr. Neville, I will accept your invitation.
                     Tell Alice I will come, and anticipate a charming evening. Remember what I have
                     told you, and be very careful in future."
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  "What, asleep, and so late in the afternoon, Alice! I should certainly have
                     thought you would be up and have your toilette made for the evening. You
                     remember who takes tea with us—Miss Rose Brighton, the beauty of the city.
                     Come, Alice; you seem so cold and indifferent—why, just as if no one was
                     coming. Have you forgotten the engagement?"
                  "Forgotten? No, Arthur, I never forget anything you tell me—but strange to say,
                     you seem not to remember the little orders I frequently give you to
                     execute."
                  "Have I not proved my punctuality in coming up so soon from my office to remind
                     you of the engagement made by Rose Brighton? I was certain that I would find
                     you as usual—asleep!"
                  There was a tone of bitterness in the words of Arthur Neville, as he uttered
                     the last sentence, which lacerated the heart of Alice. What could she do to
                     while away the tedious hours? Arthur was so seldom there. The time he should
                     have spent with her, when he should have been at her side, he was not present.
                     She looked sadly into his face. Arthur felt the gentle rebuke.
                  "Do you not intend to make any preparation, Alice? If not, I will say to Miss
                     Brighton, that you are indisposed, and I will go somewhere, anywhere to spend
                     the evening in order to get rid of that doleful countenance; I cannot enjoy
                     myself at home, hence must go elsewhere."
                  Looking tenderly at her husband for a moment, she said:
                  "I would see any one, Arthur, rather than Rose Brighton— she has been the bane of my happiness. If she
                     does it wilfully, I must say that she is a very cruel woman. She has attention
                     enough from all the young gallants of our city—and I cannot tell why she would
                     seek to rob me of your love, when she has so many to worship at her shrine. She
                     ought to remember that I must find my happiness in my home, and if my husband
                     who is so dear to me, prefers her society to mine, then must I pass indeed a
                     gloomy time. Why she finds any pleasure in your love, I cannot tell. It is not
                     from the promptings of jealousy that I speak—no—but I feel myself dealt by
                     unjustly. I am not deserving of it either."
                  The light, the truth flashed suddenly into the mind of Arthur Neville. How
                     prophetic, indeed, had been the words of Rose Brighton! How innocent of what
                     she had been accused!
                  "Alice, you are in the wrong; Rose is not in fault; but, on the contrary,
                     entirely innocent of what you have accused her. I am sure she would feel very
                     unhappy if she knew you cherished a thought that she was endeavoring to win my
                     love. But, Alice, dry your tears, and dress, else I must make some excuse."
                  "I will do as you say, Arthur, but my heart is very heavy. Of late I have been
                     the most miserable of women; but of this the world knew nothing—I kept it all
                     to myself. For hours have I sat all alone when you should have been with me to
                     comfort me. Those hours, Arthur, were spent with Rose Brighton."
                  "Rose Brighton is innocent, Alice, and you will find it so."
                  "Would that I might, for then my unhappy hours would pass. Time is hastening
                     on, and I must prepare to receive your friend—your guest," she added, as she
                     left the room. It was gently, kindly, yet firmly said.
                  
                  Arthur Neville reflected seriously for the first time in his life perhaps. He
                     was young, handsome and wealthy; but his wayward propensities sometimes caused
                     him to do many things he afterward regretted. He loved Alice, and yet Rose
                     occupied a very sunny nook in his heart. He felt that he had unintentionally
                     caused Alice to feel very sad at times. The whole truth came rushing upon his
                     mind. He would have thrown himself at the feet of Alice had not his pride
                     triumphed over every thing else. His reverie was broken by the entrance of Rose
                     Brighton, who was ushered into the parlor by the servant. At the sight of Rose,
                     he felt for the first time a pang through his inmost soul. Alice appeared in a
                     few moments, and Rose was pained to see her unusually pale; her hand, too, was
                     cold and nervous. Arthur, in order to prevent being betrayed by his violent
                     feelings, left the room for a while, under the pretence of having a note of
                     importance to dispatch, promising to join them at tea.
                  
                  Rose removed her bonnet, and Alice thought she never before beheld her so
                     beautiful. Her golden curls were in profuse masses over her fair parian-like
                     shoulders. It seemed as if the admiration was mutual, for never appeared Alice
                     so lovely, though she was so pale; there was such an angelic beauty in her
                     classic face. Alice, ever amiable and gentle, tried to smile for the sake of
                     Arthur. She remembered that she had promised to make herself agreeable; and, like a true
                     woman, would do any thing to afford pleasure to one whom she so tenderly and
                     truly loved. For a moment the two—Alice and Rose—sat silent. It was very
                     obvious to the mind of Rose that Alice was quivering with emotion. Taking her
                     hand gently, she sweetly asked—
                  "Alice, dear, what is the matter? You are not yourself; it pains me to see you
                     serious. Come, tell me your grief, and if I can by any means make you happy, I
                     will, dearest, with all my heart. I love you tenderly and truly; yet of late I
                     have fancied that you are so cold and indifferent to me—all, too, without a
                     cause."
                  Alice could hear no more, but, falling upon the neck of Rose, she wept, and
                     unbosomed all her troubles to her.
                  Rose was awakened as if from some dream. She could not believe that Alice was
                     weeping for the wrong she imagined she had done. Ah no! for she would never be
                     the one to bring a pang to the heart of so sweet a being as Rose Brighton.
                  "I would not see you thus cast down, Alice; for my friendship is too great, too
                     pure. Thoughtlessly, I received the attentions of your husband. I told him to
                     come no more; for I would not receive him. Though there was no harm, yet the
                     world would censure me, and, above all, Alice, you might accuse me unjustly. I
                     made him faithfully promise that he would come no more unless you were with
                     him."
                  "He promised, then?" exclaimed Alice, while a new joy seemed to have entered
                     her heart.
                  "Yes, he promised. And has this been the cause of your coldness of late? If
                     such was the case, then I am very sure that we can be friends again. Rest
                     satisfied, Alice, and know that your husband tenderly, truly loves you. He is,
                     perhaps, a little wayward, but forgive him; for I am sure that, in the future,
                     he will be more careful. Let me see you smile as in days gone by, dear one.
                     Perhaps my errand here has been a holy one. I came to offer a word in time—to
                     prove that I was not in fault. Believe me, my dearest friend, that I am,
                     indeed, innocent."
                  
                  Alice seemed to have gained new life—the cloud was dispelled—she was at once
                     convinced how great was the error under which she labored.
                  Arthur entered; Rose joined the hands of both.
                  What a happy trio, indeed, was there assembled around the table. Arthur
                     declared that Alice never looked so beautiful and lovely; and, as he kissed his
                     bright-eyed boy, as it lay sleeping, he prayed that he would never again have
                     cause to make Alice sad. He blessed Rose Brighton for thus clearing away the
                     clouds, and made a firm resolution to be very cautious in the future not to
                     wound, by word or action, the feelings of his amiable and faithful "Wife."
               
            
            
            

               Patches.
               "SEE what patches he has on his jacket and shoes. Boys, don't play with him, for
                  people might take him to be our company, and then you see our companions would
                  slight us if they saw us playing with 'Patches.'"
               I stood for a moment looking intently at the one who was the target for those
                  rude, unfeeling boys. Such a bright, open face as that boy had—there was energy
                  and force of character in every feature. How he struggled to keep back the tears
                  which the unkind remarks called forth: he had too much pride to permit them to
                  discover that he noticed what they said. His patches were no disgrace, nor had he
                  worn them always. Time was when every luxury of life was his—he wore a fine suit,
                  lived in a splendid house—in a word, was wealthy. But misfortune overtook him, and
                  he, with his broken-hearted mother, left their native country to avoid the
                  unpleasant feelings which naturally arise when the world sneers and jeers at them
                  because fickle fortune takes a reverse step.
               Little Freddy was only nine years old. He was a child of uncommon talents, and
                  excited the envy of his classmates because of his readiness to answer any
                  questions put to him. United to native genius was application—this made him first
                  in his classes. He looked many times at his patched, yet tidy clothes, and the
                  tears would come. He was quite old enough to know the opinion of uncharitable
                  people who passed remarks upon him. Though cast down and sad, his mother never saw
                  him weep. No; he always had for her a smile; he possessed too much good, noble
                  feeling for her, to permit her heart ever to know a single pang on his account.
                  How he talked of brighter days yet to dawn, when he would become a man.
               "When I am old enough, mother," he would say, "I will do all I can to aid you. You
                  shall again enjoy what you have been accustomed to."
               Noble, generous boy! In spite of his patches, he was far better than those who
                  derided him. He may yet fill a position they would gladly occupy.
               * * * None but the unfeeling will scorn a person because he is compelled to wear
                  clothing of a cheap kind. Patches often show honest poverty and industry—the
                  wearer of them should not be entitled to ridicule because he cannot afford
                  better.
            
            
            
               
               Which Will You Choose.
               "OH! dear! What a stupid man my husband is! It is no use for me to ask him any
                  thing, for he never knows. People tell me he belongs to the order of "Know
                  Nothings" and I am fully convinced that he does. Dear aunt Tabitha, you cannot
                  tell what a perfect bore a man is who knows nothing. Why, as to reading, he never
                  thinks of taking up a newspaper. If I ask what the news is? He says I ought to
                  read the papers myself; just as if I had time to do any thing of that sort—with
                  such a quantity of clothes to mend—to say nothing of the socks wanting to be
                  mended. Oh! dear! what did I ever marry him for? I am sure I am at a loss to know.
                  Every new book that comes out I want him to buy it—he says women must not want
                  every thing they see. The moment he comes into the house he romps and plays with
                  the children as if he were a child himself. If I only had a literary man for a
                  husband—a senator, member of Congress—any thing but the one I have."
               "You should not murmur Maria—for you certainly have a capital husband—so fond of
                  home and his family. If you are not happy, the fault is all your own. Take aunt
                  Tabitha's word for it; you should be very thankful that it did not fall to your
                  lot to marry a politician or literary man."
               
               "Oh! What an insipid man my husband is—he is no company for me at all. The moment
                  he comes into the house, he takes up either a book or paper, and never thinks of
                  talking to me. If I ask a question, he tells me not to talk to him when he is
                  reading. In the morning, the first thing he does is to take up a paper and read as
                  if his life depended on it. If he chances to come in during the day, he props his
                  feet up and reads unmindful of every thing going on. I only wish everybody knew
                  what perfect bores literary men are. There is a proper limit to every thing, but
                  when a man, on all occasions, gives his wife every reason to suppose he prefers a
                  book to her society; I say with all emphasis it is too bad."
               "Now Maria, you who said that you wished your husband was a literary man, let me
                  ask which will you choose? Your husband is agreeable and attentive—not immersed
                  too deeply in politics to give any of his time to his family. Let me ask you again
                  which will you choose?"
            
            
            
               
               Whisperings.
               "QUIET stars, you who look so mildly down, cheering earth's mortals during the
                  gloom of life's darkest hours, what say ye? Tell me, for I fain would hear what
                  Nature whispers to you."
               "Nature hath created us to tell that there is a God. He formed us to raise the
                  heart of man, in adoration, to his Maker, and point the way to Heaven. Do we not
                  add a beauty to the night? Are we not brighter far than earth's greatest and most
                  costly gems? Gaze upon us and learn thy duty."
               "Sweet flowers, can you not speak? Tell me if this earth be not too cold for you,
                  and why you have left Eden's bowers for a less genial clime."
               "God made us to beautify the earth. He hath given us the various tints, He paints
                  our cheeks, He fills our chalices with the richest perfume. We were transplanted
                  from our homes to gladden the sight of man. When winter comes, our tender petals
                  are crushed by the nipping frosts; but when spring returns, we again come forth in
                  all our loveliness and beauty—fit emblem of thyself, oh, man! for though thy frail
                  body shall pass away in the cold dark tomb, yet shall thy spirit soar away to
                  everlasting bliss. Not long wilt thou be an inmate of the tomb, for, like us frail
                  flowers, you will again flourish in all your wonted brightness and beauty."
               "Gay birds, what is your mission? Why were you blessed with such musical
                  voices?"
               "We are heralds of the spring; we gladden men with our simple notes. God gave us a
                  voice to create friendship with thee. He gave us our existence. He protects us
                  from the storms of winter. By this man is taught that God careth for every thing
                  He made."
               "Little earthworm, tell me thy story. Why should aught so insignificant be
                  permitted to dwell on this majestic earth."
               "Man, though small I be, though powerless I seem, yet my Heavenly Father careth
                  for me. I enjoy life to its fullest extent. By me do you learn lesson, that though
                  a mere worm, I have a space allotted me on earth. I can feed on the most choice
                  fruits, and have my resting place upon the bosom of the most lovely flowers.
                  Despise me not, for God hath made me; permit me then to pass thee, without being
                  crushed by that foot; oh! harm me not."
               Man, speak for thyself.
               "Above all others I reign supreme. God hath given me a heart, a mind, a soul. I am
                  the most perfect of all his works, yet I am as frail, and like the most delicate
                  flower will I pass away. To-day I bloom, to-morrow I die; yea, ere the morrow's
                  sun may set, my spirit may have passed into eternity. I was created to admire the
                  works of my Creator, and to adore him. He made all things for my enjoyment, and me
                  to enjoy them."
            
            
            
               
               Blossoms versus fruit.
               "HOW beautiful my tree looks, Cecile; only see what a load of blossoms, and so
                  early, too. Why, this is enough to make me fancy that spring is here. What a
                  promise I have of an abundance of fruit. I know I made the best choice when I
                  selected this tree. Why, it casts yours completely in the shade. It is quite
                  enough to discourage you, Cecile; why, see how forlorn your tree looks beside
                  mine. It, no doubt, views mine with the eye of envy. How chagrined it must feel to
                  see itself eclipsed."
               "Oh, I do not give myself any uneasiness at all, Bertha. It is true, mine has not
                  a single blossom; it is, no doubt, a wise provision of nature, and I feel
                  perfectly satisfied."
               "Perfectly satisfied! why you cannot call any one to take a view of the tree you
                  planted, for it looks the very picture of despair—not a blossom yet."
               "Never mind, that is no matter. These beautiful sunny days in spring sometimes
                  deceive us; for the blossoms which put forth are apt to be nipped by the cold,
                  frosty air; then what would all the array of blossoms profit? Why, you would not
                  have any fruit in the end. I prefer to see mine less promising at first, and am
                  much indebted to Dame Nature for keeping my tiny blossoms under her kind
                  protection a while longer."
               "You know very well, Cecile, that you envy my tree, and prefer it to your own this
                  very moment."
               "You may think as you please about it, but I tell you candidly that I would not
                  make an exchange with you, if you were to plead with me for a whole week."
               "It is my opinion that you had better have your dilapidated tree cut down."
               "No, not for any thing you could offer me would I do it. I am not at all
                  impatient."
               We will see in due time.
               
               "Oh, dear, what a cold, disagreeable day! It has been raining the whole morning.
                  How delightful a fire feels this weather. I really thought a few days ago spring
                  had surely come for good, but I see she was only joking with us. It does seem as
                  though I cannot get near enough to the fire, while I thought only yesterday we
                  would dispense with them altogether."
               "I wonder how your peach-tree, with all its blossoms, looks! fine, I dare
                  say."
               "Oh! this weather will not injure it at all. I dare say it will put an end to your
                  forlorn-looking tree—that is, if an end has not been put to it long before."
               "Suppose we take a walk into the garden after the weather clears up, and see the
                  condition of your favorite tree. I dare say it will bear up bravely against the
                  storm. We will see at all events."
               
               
               "Dear me! scarcely a blossom left—all, all are scattered upon the ground, and some
                  of the boughs are broken, too. Surely this cannot be the very beautiful tree only
                  a week ago. And yours, Cecile, is scarcely injured at all. I had expected that
                  yours would have looked wasted by the storm. Oh! it is too bad to think that it
                  should have been thus blighted by the storm. It looks as though it never boasted
                  of a blossom. Alas! I will not have any fruit, for it has all been nipped in the
                  bud."
               "Just as I thought, sister; trees that put out their blossoms so soon, are not apt
                  to thrive so well. The keen air is not beneficial to them."
               
               "What a balmy, sunny day! I must take a look at my tree. Come, Cecile, you must
                  accompany me."
               "Oh! what a pleasant sight—my tree full of delicate blossoms; see how it is
                  loaded. Before very long we will enjoy a delightful repast upon peaches. The
                  weather is so charming and settled now, that I do not fear for my blossoms at all.
                  My forlorn tree presents rather a cheering aspect."
               "And mine a most gloomy one. I never dreamt that I would thus lament over my
                  favorite tree. Ah! well, I regret much, but lamenting will do no good."
               
               "A fine lot of peaches," said Mr. Justin to his daughter one day, as he came in
                  from the garden. "Allow me to congratulate you on your good luck. I thought some
                  time ago that it would not come to any good, but I find it has proved to the
                  contrary. Cecile's promised so much, and has scarcely any fruit at all, and what
                  there is, is so very indifferent. The two trees, my daughters, will, no doubt,
                  teach you a good lesson. Often that which promises the most brings forth nothing,
                  whilst that of which we expect nothing agreeably disappoints us in the end. It is
                  the way with every thing in life. We should not get discouraged if we fail in any
                  attempt, but try again, hoping after all to accomplish something. Appearances are
                  too deceptive, and we should not trust to them, lest in the end we may be so
                  unfortunate as to discover that it is merely blossoms, which will soon be nipped
                  in the bud, and when harvest comes there will be no fruit.
            
            
            
               
               Where Does Beauty Dwell?
               
                  ASK ye where doth beauty dwell?
                  Look to Nature, she will tell
                  Thee, that true beauty's there;
                  For beauty lieth everywhere!
               
               
                  Ask the bird on airy wing,
                  As he his matin song doth sing,
                  To tell thee where is beauty's home —
                  He will say, she loves to roam!
               
               
                  Ask the yew-tree's leaves that wave
                  Their evergreens above the grave,
                  To tell thee if true beauty's there,
                  They will say, she's everywhere!
               
               
                  Ask the beauteous orb of night,
                  Who sends to earth her silvery light,
                  To tell thee where true beauty lies —
                  And she will whisper, in the skies!
               
               
                  Ask the lovely flowers which bloom,
                  If beauty lies within the tomb?
                  Yes, there the germ of beauty lies,
                  To spring and bloom for Paradise!
               
               
                  But there's a priceless gem of worth,
                  Surpassing far all gems of earth;
                  Its beauty lies in secret dells,
                  Ah! yes 'tis there true beauty dwells!
               
               
                  Oh! 'tis, indeed, where beauty lies,
                  Like gems amid the deep blue skies,
                  Would ye search, ye sure would find
                  The gem lies hid in Human Mind!
                  
               
            
            
            
               
               Mrs. Snip's Shopping Notice.
               "IT is no use for me to think of giving up shopping this morning, for go I must. I
                  intend to demand of Mr. Snip (oh horrors, what a name!) one hundred dollars; but I
                  know full well he will make such an awful face that I will tremble from head to
                  foot. One h-u-n-d-r-e-d dollars; there's that moiré
                     antique at Stewart's, which comes to just forty-five dollars, at the
                  lowest cent; and that superb velvet mantle (it is quite excruciating, I declare),
                  at fifty dollars (I consider that a great bargain); then I would have but little
                  left. I'd like to know where that exquisite set of Mechlin or Honiton lace is to
                  come from? By-the-by, the hoops, too (I must go the whole figure, while I'm about
                  it). But Snip (plague take that name) won't hear me when I begin to reason with
                  him; he tells me that we feminines and fashion are both alike, perfect
                  weather-cocks, keep changing all the time.
               "Since I commenced to think more upon the subject, I find I will have to have two
                  hundred dollars—for there is the ruffling for Pauline Claudia Melodia's pantalets
                  (she will be compelled to have them to correspond with the velvet overcoat). But
                  Mr. Snip (that name will be the death of me) thinks that I am by far too
                  extravagant. I don't care if he does. There will sure be a tempest here to-day,
                  for it always ensues whenever I ask for a little of the needful. Here comes Snip
                  (dear me, how did I ever make up my mind to take that awful name?) but I must look
                  as smiling as a May morning. Dinner is all ready, too. There is nothing like
                  understanding how to get around people."
               [Enter Mr. Snip; much to his astonishment dinner is all ready; his wife so
                  smiling, too—begins to feel uneasy, and, at the same time, for his
                  pocket-book.]
               Mrs. Snip, loq.: "My darling Snip (how I like that name, it is so uncommon), only
                  see how neatly I have hemmed your pocket handkerchiefs."
               "What, finished them so soon? I thought you were going visiting this morning?
               "I did think of it, dear, but changed my mind, as I felt as if I might go shopping
                  this afternoon."
               [Mr. Snip begins to tremble for the next.]
               "Say, darling (Mrs. Snip pats his cheek very affectionately), can't you spare a
                  little change to-day, only a little? (Mr. Snip becomes suddenly very deaf.)
               "Ah, I thought you would, 'silence gives consent.'" (Mr. Snip more frightened than
                  ever, looks upon the floor as though he would burn a hole in the carpet.)
               "Money, Clara, the times are very hard. How much do you need?"
               Mrs. Snip, kissing his forehead, replies, only two hundred (Mr. Snip springs up
                  suddenly and is not quite sure whether he is on his head or his feet)."Two hundred
                  dollars! I don't own that much. Let me
                  see?" (He takes a small piece of paper which falls unperceived on the floor, but
                  Mrs. Snip, like the most of women, pretty sharp-sighted, eyes it immediately and
                  takes it up.)
               "Why, I haven't got fifty dollars in the world."
               "Pray tell me, Snip, what use you made of that large amount you collected
                  yesterday?"
               "Oh! that was paid away; a man must pay his honest debts, you know. One should be
                  just before he is generous, as the old saying is." (Mrs. Snip becomes much
                  absorbed.)
               "What are you reading, Clara?"
               "What am I reading? See for yourself:"
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "Mr. Solomon Snip:
                              
                              "To Coleman, Stenton & Co.,
                           
                           "Furnishing Supper to twenty persons $250 00
                           "Received payment,
                           
                              C. S. & Co."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               Mr. Snip grows lenient immediately.
               "My dear, here is a check for that amount. There is nothing after all like a
                  woman; it is no use trying to get the better of her, for all we know she got Adam
                  into a terrible difficulty."
            
            
               The Young Mother.
               "SAY, isn't it a little dear, Aunt Torrey? Only see its lovely eyes of heaven's
                  own blue; the tiny dimples in its little cheeks I tell you, Aunt Torrey, that
                  there is nothing, to my mind, so sweet as this dear child; now I know what it is
                  to love."
               "Just the way with all you foolish girls," said Aunt Torrey, as she gathered the
                  folds of her elegant brocade still closer to herself, as if fearing the little
                  babe might touch it."Yes, you are all foolish alike Now what is there about that
                  fussy child to love? But I suppose it is natural enough for you to love it a
                  little while."
               "For a little while!" exclaimed the young mother in utter astonishment. "Why, I
                  will always love Byron."
               "Byron! just like all the rest of the foolish, romantic, novel-reading, poetry-mad
                  girls! yes, he is named Byron; why didn't you name him something sensible—James or
                  John, or even Bill, rather than Byron!"
               "Oh, they are entirely too common; I do hate those kind of names."
               "Yes, I suppose you do,"said Aunt Torrey, as she gave little Bruno (her lap dog)
                  an affectionate pat upon the head.
               
               "Oh! do listen! how sweetly little Byron is talking. He is the dearest child in
                  the world," said its mother.
               "So every other young mother would think; I don't see anything so wonderful about
                  him; I only hope he will have better sense than his mother has; but I think it
                  likely he will, for, as a general thing, men have more sense than women."
               "Why, Aunt Torrey, his father makes just as much fuss over him as I do. You ought
                  to see him sometimes."
               "Well, as for my part, I cannot see any beauty in babies; they are so troublesome;
                  all the time squalling and making such a noise. If they take a notion to have the
                  moon, all creation could not persuade them they couldn't get it. To me children
                  are nothing but nuisances. Some people make themselves perfectly ridiculous about
                  them, and cannot pass a baby without kissing it."
               "Ah! Aunt Torrey, that plainly shows that they are fond of children, and know full
                  well how to appreciate them. Bless their dear little hearts! it seems to me that
                  the world would be a perfect blank without them."
               "A blank indeed. I wish there were no children in the world. Once or twice every
                  week I am persecuted; the children upset my work-box; my knitting needles are
                  taken out of the stockings I am so intent upon knitting. Toys, and the dear knows
                  what, all strewn over the floor by those troublesome little vixens, my nieces and
                  nephews. I only wish sister would not bring them when she comes to spend the day;
                  if I was mistress of that establishment she should not. But as I am only a
                  boarder, I must bear it patiently. The nursery is the most proper place for
                  children.
               "You have much to learn yet, Aunt Torrey; life can have no charms for you if you
                  do not love children."
               "Well I do not imagine it possible for me ever to love them now, as I never have
                  all this time."
               "Aunt Torrey, you remember how much the Savior loved little children. There is
                  something truly interesting and lovely about the little creatures. They are like
                  sweet flowers springing up in our pathway. Only think what the world would be
                  without them."
               "It would be a great sight better off. I tell you there would be less vexation and
                  trouble. You might talk to me till doomsday, and then never get me to think as you
                  do. No, no, I am much older than you, and know too well the folly of such things."
                  (Clara wonders to herself how Aunt Torrey knows any thing about it.)
               "Do look, do look, Aunt Torrey! Byron has fallen asleep; oh, can any thing be more
                  lovely?"
               Lovely did the cherub-like child look as it lay nestled in its mother's arms—the
                  very picture of innocence and happiness—a smile lingered round its ruby lips, or
                  nestled in the dimples of its rosy cheeks. The bright eyes of blue were gently
                  closed by some unseen hand. Oh, what a pride and joy did the young mother feel as
                  she gazed upon a picture drawn by the Creator's own hand. It held converse with
                  angels during its slumbering hours; for what seraph would not court the smiles of
                  one so lovely and fair?
               Yes, Aunt Torrey, that was a picture upon which you might gaze with admiring eyes,
                  and say in your heart, "Earth hath some who are innocent."
               
               
               "I must go, Clara, for I want to finish that silk bed quilt. It does seem to me it
                  will never be finished. I love to do patchwork; I think, Clara, if you had
                  something like that to employ your time, it would be better for you."
               "Little Byron takes up all my time."
               "So I suppose. What good is there, then, of your having a nurse? But I quite
                  forgot; it is fashionable, you know, to have a nurse—a piece of extravagance, that
                  is all. If it takes up all your time to 'tend to him, you had better discharge
                  Bridget."
               "Who could take him out, then, during these lovely mornings?"
               "Oh, I forgot he had to be taken out for a show, once in a while."
               "No, no, Aunt Torrey, not for that, He must have the fresh air. Flowers cannot
                  thrive without it: neither could little Byron."
               "Yes, I suppose they would, too."
               "Aunt Torrey, the nurse is not the proper instructor for children, either."
               "I suppose not. But what can such a child as you teach him? It is just like the
                  'blind leading the blind."
               "I confess I am not a very good instructor; but still, for all that, I can learn
                  him to talk."
               "Can't Bridget do that?"
               "Oh, yes, but—"
               "But What? Just nothing at all; only you want to be dangling him all the time,
                  just as a child does a mere toy; and, after a while, get tired of it. He will be a
                  spoiled child, I tell you."
               "It is most likely he will, Aunt Torrey."
               "You had better try to find something better to occupy your time than nursing
                  children."
               "But there are its little clothes to make."
               "It is your place to do that: I suppose you do make them. But such a quantity of
                  useless stuff as you do put on them—edgings, and fixings, and the dear knows what.
                  That is all right, though. Women need some employment to keep themselves out of
                  mischief. Why, sure as I am alive, he has a gold chain."
               "Well, Aunt Torrey, that was a gift from his papa."
               "I suppose it was. I tell you that you are going to bring that child up to be
                  entirely too extravagant."
               "Let me ask you some questions, Aunt Torrey: there is Bruno, your pet dog, with a
                  gold collar around his neck; now, do you call that extravagance?"
               "Lor bless you, child, no! why that chain will last him his life-time."
               "But that is the second one he has had since my knowledge."
               "The other was stolen."
               That stands the same chance. And, Aunt Torrey, just look at the jewelry you
                  purchase—the elegant dresses you wear at your time of life.
               At my time of life!" exclaimed Aunt Torrey, sitting up more erect; "
                  I hope you do not call me old."
               Oh, no," said Clara, perceiving she had touched a weak point. " I only thought you
                  lectured me too severely about Byron."
               
               "Well, that is a different matter altogether; a baby is a baby, no matter what you
                  put on it."
               "I cannot see how you can lavish so much affection on a lap-dog."
               "No, I suppose not. But a dog is no trouble; I only have his food cut up, water
                  given him, washed once a day in the winter, twice in the summer, take him out for
                  a little stroll once or twice a day. That is all, you see. But a child is so much
                  trouble." (Clara could not help smiling to herself while Aunt Torrey enumerated
                  the only trouble a pet-spoiled lap-dog was).
               "Well, good morning, Clara; come and spend the day with me; but don't bring
                  Byron."
               "Oh! I could not leave him for the world."
               "I suppose not. Good morning."
               
               Aunt Torrey was one of those persons whom the world calls an old maid. She had her
                  own peculiar notions about every thing, and one had as well try to bind the wind
                  as to turn her opinion. Children were her abhorrence, and she often said she could
                  tolerate any thing except a child. One great consideration with her was, when they
                  came near her, she thought of some serious detriment they might do her dress, or
                  else get her collar awry, or get one strand of her hair out of the right place,
                  where she had been so careful to put it.
               Her affections were lavished upon lap-dogs! Only think! a lady to prefer something
                  incapable of speech, to that to whom God hath given a soul, and breathed in it His
                  own image. But Aunt Torrey had her own views about such matters. Ah! "Bruno" knew
                  too well the meaning when she raised one of her menacing digits; he knew just how
                  far he could go by a single glance of her cat-like eye. But children now are not
                  so easily governed, and are apt to do pretty much as they may fancy.
               Aunt Torrey was sadly deficient in one particular; she was inconsistent, too; for
                  she seemed to think that little children—the very sunbeams of the world—ought
                  never to have any thing except what was of the plainest and cheapest kind. She
                  pronounced all mothers foolish if they lavished nothing more than the ordinary
                  caresses upon their little gems.
               There was indeed a dark film over the eyes of Aunt Torrey, through which she could
                  not see. Her heart had not been educated in the right school, or else she might
                  soon have discovered how and why it was young mothers make so much of their
                  children. She had never loved any thing apart from a lap-dog, or she might have
                  looked with more admiring eyes upon what she so much disliked. Instead of looking
                  frowningly upon children, she might have had a smile or a kind word.
               Depend upon it, Aunt Torrey, all is not right with you. Perhaps if you had not
                  resigned yourself to a life of single blessedness, you would love the little
                  creatures, too, and think with Clara, that life would be a desert without them.
                  Bless the sweet little creatures—may you ever find some one to notice your
                  innocent prattle, and have a kind word of encouragement to cheer you on. There are
                  some in the world who do not look upon you as a nuisance or trouble; but rather
                  take a delight in catering to your every wish.
            
            
            
               
               My Withered Bouquet.
               BEAUTIFUL in death! one long, lingering look I gave to my withered bouquet, once
                  so blooming and bright. Flowers yet fragrant, though time's relentless touch had
                  seared their petals. How they bring to mind friends of other days, Bertie, Ella
                  and Lucy, whose pictures are as bright in memory's gallery as the day when first
                  nature's true limner portrayed each feature—they have gone from my gaze now.
               Bertie was my rose; her sweet but fragile form draped, ere yet sixteen summers had
                  shed their bloom; how oft her dear hand was clasped in mine, and when I twined a
                  wreath of white rose buds to place upon her coffin, I felt that earth had lost one
                  of its rarest flowers. Ella was my Cedar; her friendship and constancy endeared
                  her to me. No new friend could turn her thoughts from me; often in a playful mood
                  she would say, "old friends like old swords are trusted best." We parted to meet
                  no more on earth; her fondness for traveling led her to make a long tour; an
                  epidemic laid its scourging hand upon her—and lo! Ella was no more. Lucy was my
                  Sensitive plant; a tear fills my eye when thoughts of her come over me; her
                  gentle, confiding heart was given to one who loved money; who was totally unfit to
                  have the care of sweet Lucy. She dreamt not that it was her fortune he sought, and
                  after he had squandered all, would treat her unkindly. Alas! that matches should
                  be so ill assorted, or the rose bear a thorn— but Lucy was transplanted soon; she
                  could not withstand the cold, chilling winds of indifference. Thank Heaven, Lucy
                  is happy now. Her little tomb in the church-yard is never passed by any who knew
                  sweet Lucy without weeping the true tear— the memory of the good and pure is ever
                  sacred.
               
               My bouquet teaches me how mutable are all things—beauty so witching to gaze upon,
                  vanishes away like my flowers withered before me now. It points me to the altar of
                  the Most High, where my heart should bow in grateful adoration; it tells me of the
                  beneficence of the great Architect of the world, who made sweet flowers to please
                  our sight and teach a lesson. Flowers beautiful even in death; I turn away from
                  thee, and thoughts flit before me of the time when you were so fresh and smiling,
                  when the dewy gems rested upon your bosom, or a moonbeam lingered near to court
                  your smiles.
               * * * Oh! what would earth be without the sweet, sweet flowers; what could be the
                  bearer of love's message? Surely thou dost "unite upon the hills and dales
                  mysterious truths."
            
            
            
               
               Ellen May.
               I NEVER could persuade myself that that is a happy match. The very idea of a young
                  girl of eighteen marrying a man old enough to be her grandfather. Why, the thought
                  drives me quite frantic. Only think of a fidgety, fussy, old fashion, notion fogy,
                  wedding a gay young girl like Ellen May. What will she do for balls, parties and
                  flirtations now, I would like to know. Every time he gets a fancy for being petted
                  he will pretend he is awful sick, so you see Ellen will be fixed for the day,
                  since she will be obliged to stay home and nurse him—but I would pretty soon tell
                  him another story. There is that handsome nephew of his—but wasn't the old uncle
                  cunning not to permit him to show his face outside of the college door until he
                  succeeded in securing his prize first? If I was Ellen, wouldn't I get up a
                  tremendous flirtation; and if there was any jealousy in the old man, wouldn't I
                  bring it out with a vengeance? Wouldn't I let him see he had woke up the wrong
                  one? Wouldn't I take a notion to go to the opera or somewhere else when I knew he
                  could not go, just for the sake of having his nephew as an escort? It was all
                  folly for Ellen to marry that old man; I feel satisfied gold was the bait there,
                  for he has no other attraction as I see. But girls will make themselves ridiculous
                  occasionally.
               Not a happy match! You would not have thought so were you to take a peep at
                  Ellen's bright face as she presides with so much dignity at the table; it is her
                  pleasure to do every thing she thinks will please her husband. What if her
                  marriage was like mating May and December? Who did every thing to make her happy?
                  Who selected the choicest fruits and rarest flowers? Who insisted upon her going
                  to the opera and everywhere else with the "Nephew" when he could not make it
                  convenient to go himself? Who put no limits whatever to the purse? And who folded
                  dimple arms around the old man's neck, and said in her heart (in spite of the many
                  disappointed ones who smiled at the bare idea of her making fond of the "old
                  grandfather," as they pleased to term him), that she would rather have married him
                  than all the flirty popinjays in the world? The sweet Ellen May, the pride of the
                  old man's heart.
            
            
            
               
               "Daisy."
               A SKETCH FOR OUR YOUNG READERS.
               AH! I was quite sure I knew that voice, for it is one I seldom mistake.
               "And is it you, my little Daisy? Why, bless me, if you haven't been crying. Your
                  eyes look this very moment like violets bathed in dew. What has disconcerted you
                  this morning? I see the trouble now; some wayward boy has disarranged the pretty
                  bouquet you were so kind to make me. I will think all the more of it since your
                  tears have fallen upon it. It is none the less beautiful for having been robbed;
                  you only imagined so. Never mind! Let me kiss the tear upon your cheek away."
               Sweet Daisy! how I love that artless innocent child; (Heaven bless little
                  children! who can help loving them?) her voice is as lovely to me as the sweetest
                  strain of music. Come when she will, (if the day is ever so cloudy, she seems to
                  bring plenty of sunshine with her. A prince might well be proud of little "Daisy;"
                  her lithe and symmetrical form, her sparkling eyes, were enough to make any one
                  feel as if they must not let her pass without getting a kiss; her mouth seems to
                  have been made for it.
               What if she is in the humble walks of life? What if her poor widowed mother does
                  keep a "penny grocery?" What if little Daisy never wore anything more expensive
                  than a sixpenny calico? She looked far more lovely and beautiful than many a
                  pampered child of fortune, who wears the most costly fabrics. "Thoughtless of
                  beauty, she was beauty's self." She was the light and joy of her widowed mother's
                  home; even the little birds which built their nests in the trees in the yard were
                  not afraid of her, but would come when she strewed crumbs on the ground. And
                  though the children of wealthy parents, who lived not very far off, were forbidden
                  to make a playmate of her, yet they were often tempted to disobey the order, for
                  little Daisy was so "nice and pleasant," they used to say. Very often a bundle of
                  something was brought her, for very well did they know that dainties fell to her
                  lot but seldom. "Daisy" is indeed one of nature's true nobility.
               
               One, two days have passed, and yet my little pet comes not. What can be the
                  matter? I will go and see the cause.
               I start at the sight of the black crape on the door-knob; something tells me my
                  "Daisy" is dead. I enter, and lo; her form is marble cold before me. I came but an
                  hour too late; her grief stricken mother tells me my name was the last word she
                  uttered. Sweet child! I can scarcely realize that you have indeed gone.
               I placed upon her bosom a bouquet of white roses, as pure and as beautiful as her
                  own sweet self. Her life was a brief
                  one; but "that life is long which answers life's great end." Daisy always seemed
                  to me like an angel rather than a child. Her lifeless form lies before me now, but
                  sweet Daisy blooms in Paradise.
            
            
               The Phantom.
               
                  'TWAS midnight's calm and holy hour,
                  The night wind fanned the tender flower,
                  And earth in quiet slumber lay,
                  Until the blush of dawning day
                  Was seen amid the roseate hues;
                  When flowers, laden with the dews,
                  Enameled mountains, fields, and dales,
                  Shed their sweet perfume o'er the vales,
                  Our ravished senses to regale—
                  How sweet such fragrance to inhale!
               
               
               
                  A youthful one in slumber deep—
                  Her very soul did seem to sleep;
                  She was alone—yet not alone—
                  For God beheld her from his throne;
                  He watched her while she gently slept,
                  And angels 'round her vigils kept.
                  But list! she hears a gentle sound,
                  Which echoes through the air around;
                  She oped her eyes, beholds a sight,
                  And lo! it is an angel bright!
               
               
               
                  Behold! a spirit clad in white!
                  And robes of Heaven's purest light
                  Fall gently down in graceful folds;
                  And, in its pure white fingers holds
                  A casket of the finest gold,
                  With gems, whose worth can ne'er be told.
                  And soon a golden key revealed,
                  The gem which this bright case concealed.
               
               
               
                  The spirit now the casket fair
                  Unlocked, and showed her jewels rare;
                  She gazed upon them with delight,
                  Those costly gems, so pure, so bright,
                  While radiant smiles lit up her face,
                  So full of Nature's charm and grace.
                  And then the kindly spirit said,
                  Of Heaven thou art the favored maid;
                  Those gems, tho' bright, are not so rare
                  As thine own native jewels are.
               
               
               
                  Unwavering and unerring truth
                  Hath e'er attended all thy youth;
                  Oh! may this gem be never sold
                  For beds of pearl nor mines of gold!
                  Remember that this gem is worth
                  Far more than every gem of earth.
                  Yes! Truth, in all its purity,
                  Is Virtue's best security—
                  The ægis of sincerity
                  From vice can ever keep thee free.
               
               
               
                  The Spirit closed the case of gold,
                  When she her secret thus had told;
                  But midnight's past! 'tis blushing day!
                  And fields are clad in livery gay!
                  The maiden now shall see no more
                  The Spirit which she saw before;
                  'Twas but a dream, a phantom bright!—
                  A fancy picture of the night;
                  But truth this vision will impart
                  To every understanding heart.
               
            
            
            
               
               AUNT TABITHA'S RAG-BAG.
               
               Aunt Tabitha's Rag-Bag.
               
                  SCRAP NO. 1.
                  "WHAT a beautiful child!" exclaimed some persons. Truly spoken, for it was
                     really a lovely child; such soft, hazel eyes (the very ones an artist always
                     selects for his master-piece), and such a gentle, winning way it had. Alas!
                     that so much beauty should have been spoilt by those horrid curls; they did
                     seem to me to be out of place. Boys were never intended to wear curls, nor men
                     either. Never give a boy a doll to amuse himself with, nor curl his hair, for
                     both are as unsuitable as crinoline and flounces. Let them play rough and
                     tumble; let them make dirt pies, run wild, scamper over hill and dale, tear
                     their pantaloons, wear out their shoes as fast as they choose. Exercise will
                     give health and vigor to their constitutions, and make them hardy men in time
                     to come, with such nerves and muscles as men ought to have in order to render
                     them fit for labor. They will have to work, or ought to at all events, if they
                     wish to fill any dignified position in life.
                  We were once thrown in company at a large and famous hotel, where many charming
                     and beautiful women boarded. Among the number was a lady whose only child was a
                     boy of about eight years old. His
                     was such an interesting, attractive face, and he, naturally, very active; but
                     his over-good mamma kept him so constantly in view, that he could not enter
                     into the out-door amusements (even if he were allowed) for fear of getting his
                     elegantly wrought clothes soiled, else his hair out of curl. Poor little
                     creature! what a martyr he was to dress at that early age. How did he long to
                     throw off his fetters, and wear clothes he could play in like others. He was so
                     pale, his kind and anxious mamma was very uneasy about her little darling, for
                     he seemed so drooping. Like flowers, he needed a plenty of sunshine and fresh
                     air. His careful nurse would only permit him to roam through the heated halls.
                     But the little creature felt the need of the pure, untainted breath of heaven.
                     Often have I looked at his beautiful mother, and thought how very soon she was
                     in danger of losing her darling, and it would be all her own fault, too, though
                     she was not aware of the sad fact. Yes! the angel form would lie in the tiny
                     coffin before her, motionless and cold, like the " untimely frost upon the
                     flower." Alas! that so sweet a being, one of the little stock the Saviour took
                     in his arms and blessed, should thus die a martyr at Fashion's shrine.
                  
                  Let the boy roam free and untrammeled; let him have the necessary exercise
                     without restraint. Clip off his curls (if he has any) instead of permitting
                     them to fall upon his shoulders. Dress him warm and suitably for the season,
                     and let him enjoy the life God intended he should, so that when he arrives at
                     the age of maturity, he may be a vigorous, hearty man, instead of a feeble
                     apology for one.
               
               
                  SCRAP NO. II.
                  PINKS.
                  GRACE HOLLAND has gone to house-keeping at last—what a wise conclusion she came
                     to, and I wonder she did not think of it long ago. The fact of the business is,
                     Grace has no taste for domestic affairs, having been a spoiled child, and never
                     acting or thinking for herself. She is a diamond in the rough; all will come
                     out well. To be sure, she has too great a fondness for literature; but literary
                     women are not half so bad as people make, or try to make them out; for they
                     will attend to the cultivation of their minds—if they marry, they do not turn
                     out slatterns (do not dress elegantly, to be seen by every body but their
                     husbands), as some we wot of, who have no pretensions to literature nor any
                     thing else. But Aunt Tabitha has digressed. Grace will be tidy, for that is
                     second nature with her. We will see what sort of a house she keeps (and we
                     venture to say she will succeed in keeping her husband, too, and that is more
                     than some can say, if the truth is to be told at all times). Poor child, what a
                     martyrdom she has undergone! What a relief it was to get from that
                     boarding-house, where no less than six young (?) ladies of either a certain or
                     very uncertain age took up their abode. Just think of it—six! Why, a
                     shower-bath of hail is not a circumstance to the shock they produce—Miss Rose,
                     Flora, Violet, Lily, and Betty; why was not one named Pink? Oh, they are truly
                     the pinks of that establishment. When they were assembled at the table, what meaning glances did they direct
                     toward Grace, and with what astonishment she would take a sidewise view of them
                     when she could get a chance, and wonder which was the stiffest and hardest in
                     their manners or faces, and which the toughest in their consciences or
                     skins.
                  What a tornado would have ensued if she had given vent to her thoughts. How
                     interesting it was to hear the many encomiums they lavished without mercy upon
                     their neighbors—how edifying their remarks. The truth was simply this: the six
                     flowers, or rather the pinks, of that boarding-house had grown sorely vexed in
                     consequence of not succeeding in their designs to entrap some lord of creation;
                     hence their chief amusement (not having lap-dogs to amuse them, such pets not
                     being attainable in boarding-houses) was to dissect character. No anatomist
                     could have been more skilful with his knife than these vinegar-faced ladies
                     were with their tongues; that weapon did not lie idle—it had no time to collect
                     rust, and if the blade had not been so durable, it would have worn off long
                     ago.
                  Now that Grace has left, they will never cease wondering how she can take the
                     responsibility of house-keeping upon her shoulders. If she would only give a
                     brilliant party, invite the six pinks and six bachelors, and be the means of
                     making a match for each, she would have their everlasting friendship. But such
                     a thing is quite impossible, for the young and beautiful girl can have no
                     effect upon them (the more to their shame!) and I am sure the precious pinks
                     may not expect it. Charming pinks! what a pity it is you should thus be doomed
                     to " waste your sweetness on the desert air." Is there no balm in Gilead? Comes
                     there no wail from a bachelor heart?
                  Here Aunt Tabitha gave vent to tears in behalf of the unfortunate pinks, and
                     added, by way of P.S., that " it was a pity that widows would sometimes fall
                     into the same error."
               
               
                  SCRAP NO III.
                  "UPPER story for rent," (Aunt Tabitha looked over her spectacles for a moment,
                     then through them on the paper.) In my opinion there are a great many " upper
                     stories" which might be labelled "for rent." How many living specimens are
                     every day to be seen to verify the assertion. If the right sort of tenant
                     (brains) could be obtained, we would not see so many fops walking around
                     supporting a bogus watch chain; twirling a cane around their little finger; kid
                     gloves on (as if they owned Astor's fortune.) How slowly he walks from dinner
                     to the store, to which place he repairs whining somewhat like Shakspeare's
                     school-boy. Oh! what an exertion it is for him to get those gloves off, if he
                     could only walk around—he ought to, for "the world owes him a living." He is
                     supported in a very mysterious manner (like some people who live so
                     extensively, fare sumptuously by means best known to themselves, and which is
                     far best to be kept secret.) People surmise, but what if they do? They go upon
                     the principle of the Spartans; it is not the crime of stealing the fox but the
                     detection of it. It is no body's affair if others do suffer; if their coffers
                     do hold funds belonging to other people, and deposited for charitable
                     purposes—if they choose to reap the benefit it is their own look out. It is all well enough to
                     tell a fair tale to those who have upper stories for rent, as they are
                     credulous. I know a most perfect cork-screw-dandy who has an "upper story" for
                     rent; he stands upon pipe-stems; he dresses exquisitely; quotes Shakspeare,
                     Byron, etc.—hasn't his promotion wrought wonders—don't he forget his "play
                     boys"—Buchanan could not be mentioned in the same day with himself; he piles
                     the agony on when he talks to the young ladies. Oh! I tell you, the sensation
                     he creates is tremendous—all the crinolines go into ecstacies when he appears.
                     In his opinion he might send his pocket handkerchiefs to Eugenie and she would
                     feel herself complimented to hem them, while Louis Napoleon would deem it no
                     light compliment to black his boots. Oh! he stands very high (except on his
                     feet.) He is an Apollo, if he is to be estimated according to the height of his
                     opinion of himself. What a pity he has an "upper story" for rent. Wonder if he
                     will ever find a tenant?
               
               
                  SCRAP No. IV.
                  I WONDER why literary women are chosen as targets. Men wont marry a literary
                     woman! wont, eh! please reverse that. If a woman cannot make pies and puddings,
                     she does not know anything—what a pity it is that some don't know anything
                     else. Are we to suppose that the end and aim of woman's existence is to know
                     how to preside over the kitchen? Is she designed to cater to her husband's
                     appetite alone? Let men eat bread and butter for desert. What is the use of
                     spoiling them by giving them puddings every day. If one is blessed with good
                     cooks (and they are scarce as good wives), who know how to make pastry instead
                     of gutta percha, then let husbands enjoy every luxury they wish. They wish to
                     marry a woman who knows how to do everything—delightful life to lead—to broil
                     one's brains over the fire and to have your liege lord come home and look
                     daggers because dinner is not ready—he can't wait a moment—never saw a man that
                     could.
                  It is an awful sin to read. It is by far better to put your eyes out working
                     fine embroidery. To know how to make "fancy fixins" is by far more important
                     than to know your letters. Men dread literary women—truly spoken, perhaps, for
                     they cannot find so much credulity among them. Very fine tales can they tell to
                     the silly girls who giggle at them (giggles and brains are never found in
                     partnership). What a topic they make of literary women! Calling them unfit to
                     fill any responsible position in life; while their own wives and sisters let
                     them wear socks full of holes, also coat-linings hanging in fringes.
                  But Aunt Tabitha does not harbor the thought for a moment that men are given to
                     scandalizing. No—it is the privilege of the other sex—believe me, it is the
                        normal state of young girls—they couldn't live without it. They
                     must talk about something, and I suppose literary women are worth talking
                     about. The beaux (whether they have any serious intentions or not) must be
                     entertained, so the most worthy subjects are chosen.
                  This would be a nice world if every body were blockheads, and men only lived to
                     eat pies and puddings. What would crinoline do for the last fashion? Who would
                     write the de- scription of fashion
                     plates, and who would publish them? How would the bashful bachelors make known
                     their love if they were deterred from writing "billet-doux?"
                  
                  Let literary women follow their own inclinations. If they have no taste for
                     making pies and puddings, they have for eating them—take my word for that.
                  P. S.—If gentlemen object to women for being literary (which is to be hoped
                     they do not) why do they find still more fault with the generality of women
                     whom, they say have no conversation at all—that it is quite impossible to
                        kill even an hour in their society; for they know nothing to talk
                     about. Take the piano from the parlor, the highly-embellished books—Court of
                     Napoleon, &c.—then you will see how soon conversation gives out.
                  Aunt Tabitha would suggest to the girls that "fancy fixins" wont make up for
                     conversation, as gentlemen soon get tired of them. They prefer to find
                     intelligence and graceful conversation. Depend upon it, a silly woman with a
                     pretty face cannot long attract a sensible man.
               
               
                  SCRAP NO. V.
                  "HOW we corks do swim," as the boys used to say when I was a child. Aunt
                     Tabitha had just returned home from shopping, doffed her bonnet and cloak, and
                     sat down quietly to knit and reflect upon what she had seen. "How we corks do
                     swim," again repeated the worthy dame, with great emphasis. "This morning's
                     jaunt has certainly made me open my eyes with astonishment. I went
                     into—dry-goods establishment to make some purchases, and who should I see but
                     the Gilmans. Of all airs, I think they certainly assume the most; one to have
                     seen would have imagined (without knowing them) that Baron Rothschild had left
                     them a large legacy; such a tossing of the head, such an air of would-be
                     something." Now, Aunt Tabitha does not object to airs at all times, and
                     affected by some certain persons, but they don't become every body.
                  Mr. Gilman died insolvent, this fact all the world knows; his daughters need
                     not gather up the folds of their dresses (which, by the bye, would not bear
                     very close inspection as to the quality) a little closer when they happen to
                     come in contact with those who are not their associates. No, a man never died
                     in debt yet but every body knew it, and too many laugh in their sensible
                     sleeves at the way traders act sometimes. An immortal one has said, "Pigmies
                     will be pigmies though perched on the Alps."
                  The Gilman's would not call forth half the remarks they do, if they would only
                     move along in a quiet, modest way; for every body knows how hard it is for them
                     to "keep up appearances." They should be very careful how they turn up their
                     would-be aristocratic noses when they meet their creditor's friends. But what
                     is the use of Aunt Tabitha's talking? it has and always will be the case, for
                     "corks will swim," and so will the Gilmans, if other people do have to suffer
                     for it. What if they did go to the Springs, and not pay their just debts.
                        What if they do owe a hundred
                     here, fifty there, to say nothing of the fives and tens—they are the Gilmans,
                     you know.
                  No matter what may be the opinion of sensible people, so they are classed among
                     the "upper ten." If they could only keep the great and troublesome secret of
                     not paying their debts from their wealthy friends!
                  Aunt Tabitha pays as she goes—
                  St. Paul says, "Pay what thou owest;" perhaps the Gilmans have either
                     overlooked that all-important passage, else do not approve of it, and even if
                     they do, certainly don't act accordingly.
               
               
                  SCRAP No. VI.
                  WHAT a good thing it was for me that I was young when I was young (Aunt Tabitha
                     sighed), for if I were just from boarding school and a candidate for matrimony
                     (the market is overstocked now), what would ever have become of me? It won't
                     answer for a woman to be pretty now-a-days; for the sex are too ready to
                     eulogize (?) What a pity it is that all the ugly women are not married, or else
                     expect to be soon; some are waiting for an offer like "Patience on a monument."
                     When will they get one? Echo answers "Never." How different are compliments
                     paid by gentlemen to ladies, to those passed by our own sex. But what am I
                     talking of? Don't I know that women never pay each other compliments? It is
                     said that compliments coming from ladies are far more valuable than those paid
                     by gentlemen; no wonder, when they are as scarce as Koh-i-noor diamonds. A
                     gentleman will meet a lady on the street and say, "What a beautiful color the
                     cool air has given you." One of the opposite sex will say, "How that woman is
                     painted." Sallow skins are so numerous that when one by the merest chance
                     happens to look as if blood flowed through her veins, she is "painted."
                  It is perfectly absurd to think that a person who is healthy, takes plenty of
                     exercise in the open air, travels much, should be blessed with a healthy
                     hue—no, but rather look like the "Last Rose of Summer."
                  "What a beautiful figure!" a gentleman remarks.
                  "How that woman is laced!" is the response. It is perfectly ridiculous to
                     presume that nature ever made a handsome form; no, it is but the ideal dream of
                     an artist portrayed in marble—what angular Miss ever saw a beautiful or
                     symmetrical form?
                  "What a pretty little hand!" exclaims a gentleman.
                  "She never does any work," is the reply. Now many I know of might wrap their
                     hands in feathers plucked from an angel's wings (if such a thing were possible
                     to procure) and yet they would never look the better for it. A hand not pretty
                     by nature, will never be so, no matter what precaution is used.
                  "A beautiful foot that lady has."
                  "What tight shoes that woman wears, and then goes out rainy days to show
                     them."
                  "That lady has a lovely set of teeth; so white, so even and so sound." What
                     reply can they make? How they would delight to say, "They are false;" for too
                     well is the fact established, that gentlemen have a great antipathy to false
                        teeth— no one fancies a set of
                     teeth which his wife leaves on the dressing table when she retires. No woman
                     can be pretty if she has false or bad teeth.
                  If a woman wishes to be a favorite, she must not be pretty. Let her have red
                     hair, light eyes looking as if they were bound with red tape, a very faulty
                     form, and you may take my best cap if she will not be a favorite; for Aunt
                     Tabitha never knew it to fail, that ugly women are liked by their own sex; but
                     for the other sex's opinion, it is perhaps best to leave the remainder to the
                     imagination.
               
               
                  SCRAP NO. VII.
                  THERE are some things for which I have the greatest antipathy: corns, cruel
                     omnibus drivers, dog catchers and—and—(here Aunt Tabitha hesitated for a
                     moment) a woman with a slanderous tongue. A woman who exhorts people in auction
                     rooms and stores. The first of the above mentioned abominations is a great
                     impediment in one's way for gratifying the vanity in getting a particularly
                     beautiful and tight fit in slippers or gaiters. The second, subjects one when
                     walking quietly along to the street to the annoyance of feeling in a revengeful
                     humor, in consequence of the great cruelty practised by men, who are in fact
                     greater brutes than the poor animals which they punish. The third makes us
                     tremble in dog days, for fear lest our pet Newfoundland or poodle dog (here
                     Aunt Tabitha wept at the thought) may be snatched up when we least expect the
                     awful shock. But the fourth and greatest of all, A
                     Woman With A Slanderous Tongue, who would rob you if possible of all, as
                     Shakspeare says, that is in man or woman "the soul's immediate jewel." Would
                     tear in shreds your good name; despise you for your beauty or superiority in
                     any respect.
                  Oh! how woman dismantles herself of all that loveliness and beauty with which
                     the Great Creator adorned her—how she becomes a monster dreaded by all—the
                     bosom and "parlor serpent" who darts its relentless fangs into the blood of the
                     unsuspecting victim, while she smiles. Lastly, (though not least) come those
                     women who exhort in auction rooms and stores; who beseech their neighbors to go
                     in the road they were never so fortunate as to get in themselves. How sham
                     piety puts on the armor of righteousness, and in auction rooms the Credulous will drink in the words of exhortation, thinking they come from the
                     heart—how they pronounce them pious, good people all ready for the journey to
                     the "better world,"—how they wish themselves as ready. Ah! did they but know
                     how these "would be" christians slander their neighbors when they are confined
                     to bed from sprained ankles at a noted watering place not a thousand miles
                     distant; how they entertained the gaping crowd dissecting their neighbors
                     characters. Oh! in one breath they talk piety and scandal. What motes they
                     behold in the eye of their fellow creatures while the beam in their own is
                     prodigious. Among this number you will find the auction room exhorter. Aunt
                     Tabitha is sadly afraid that they will be like the "sounding brass and tinkling
                     cymbals." Such religion is disgraceful to the "holy temple." None can be acceptable except it comes from
                     the heart. We are taught that we must worship in spirit and in truth. Remember
                     Holy Writ says, "If any man among you seem to be religious and bridleth not his
                     tongue, that man's religion is vain."
               
            
         
      
   
