
    ----CITATION----
        Argyle, Anna. Money and Marriage .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5592
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
          
             
             
               MONEY AND MARRIAGE: 
               A MODERN STORY. 
             
            BY ANNA ARGYLE.
             
             
                
                  
                      
                        A Woman in her Womanhood as great 
                        As he was in his Manhood * * * 
                        The twain together well might change the world. 
                     
                   
                  -TENNYSON. 
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               S. & A. HOYT, 29 SPRUCE STREET. 
               MDCCCLXII.
             
          
          
             
            INTRODUCTION. 
            
               THE following work would hardly have appeared before the public were its object but the amusement of the passing hour, as I am too well aware of my own incapacity for such an effort to make the attempt. I have other motives; and I trust the sincerity of my purpose may atone for any seeming presumption. 
            To all I have said there is even a much darker side; but I do not wish to harrow the feelings, or raise the cry of injustice where none is intended. My great object is to call earnest attention to what has become habit and fixed usage-the complete pecuniary dependence of woman during her married life. 
            I do not ask attention to this desiring that she may have one other luxury, one other needless fancy gratified, but that she may have all just facilities to the growth of a True Womanhood, and do her full duty, and bear her full responsibilities faithfully and hopefully in the world. 
            As we approach the more perfect equality of just rights in the government of men, so we have the grander type of man. Thus it will be with woman. Mind has no sex; its attributes are the same in all; only modified, not changed. Therefore the same principles will apply to her also. 
            There is a sad problem in society that has never yet been solved. By what means shall we modify this vast amount of poverty and all its concomitant woes, vice, ignorance and crime, that now steep the earth in wretchedness and sorrow? Let us try the solution here. One of our most acute political economists, John Stuart Mill, asserts that "if legislation tended rather to the diffusion than the concentration of wealth, it would be found to be highly beneficial to the world at large." 
            A great deal more might be said upon this subject, its wide range embracing in reality the whole of what is perhaps justly deemed the most important period of woman's existence, but it is not necessary by argument further to elaborate the idea contained in these pages. Let the indulgent reader follow in his own mind the train of thought that may be suggested. 
          
       
      
         
            Money and marriage 
             
             
            MONEY AND MARRIAGE. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "MUST we go?" I exclaimed, I fear rather petulantly, "How very sorry I am!" 
               I was reading aloud, and my sympathies were beginning to be deeply interested in the work I held in my hand. 
               "Excuse me, Lucy my dear," continued my kind aunt, "do excuse me for interrupting you, but I am exceedingly anxious to see my friend Mrs. Ward, and to hear from her poor sick niece. You see that it has ceased raining, and the sun is struggling through the thin clouds,-so we had better be off at once. I know you will go with me." 
               The words "poor sick niece," uttered in so kindly a tone, touched my better, my less self-indulgent feelings. I had formed a most favorable opinion of these friends of my aunt; for I knew they must be good and loveable to be so loved and cared for by her. I was on a visit to my relative, and the weather had been wet and drizzly ever since my arrival, so that we had been obliged to postpone our call from time to time. I was becoming used to this, and had sat down that morning determined to enjoy myself at home; which may somewhat excuse my impatience at the interruption. I had noticed my aunt's restlessness, so unusual with her. She would first go to the window, then to the door, earnestly watching every change; and now that there seemed a little promise in the shape of a bit of blue sky, she had brought me my bonnet and shawl, saying; "Let us go now, my dear Lucy;" when I made the above ungracious reply. 
               Any other than this dear, good woman, on perceiving, my fretful humor would have gone without me; but she made no remark, only saying in her pleasant way, 
               "You have been too much shut up lately. A drive in the fresh air will do you good-and it is your own congenial season, dear child-the early youth of spring, which so attractively invests the growing life with a new and all pervading beauty. The fruit-blossoms are putting forth, and the swelling leaf-buds are bursting into a perfect form, while the young grass is covering the earth with the brightest verdure. It is beautiful indeed-I am sure the ride must give you pleasure." 
               "Indeed, aunt, I must say," replied I, still disposed to be captious, "that I do not like the early spring. The weather, is so variable-so much, I confess, like may own moods-from one extreme to another. It is either all sunshine or showers. We can make no calculations, these changes are so sudden. Besides everything has such a bare look; all is expectation as yet; the branches of the trees and vines and shrubs are uncovered. We do not think of this in,the frost and cold; when everything speaks of death, but in this coming warmth we look forth for abundance. Now, see these naked fruit-blossoms and swelling leaf-buds-how scattered and unprotected they look! They remind me of poor, little, shivering, scantily clothed children, that may be destroyed by the first bitter blast that comes." 
               "True, my dear," replied my aunt, "there is blight as well as promise in this early season, for we often find the first fruits perish by the sharp frosts of winter; just as the bright promise of youth may be rudely nipped by the chilling storms of adversity. But as we are about to visit a true scene of youthful blight, let us not expend our sympathies in mourning over the premature decay of inferior life, but preserve them all in their freshest energy for the great work of renovating the drooping spirits of poor, weak humanity." 
               The words of my aunt seemed so full of sad meaning that I had no doubt of their connection with the objects of our intended visit; and I wondered how I could until this moment have been so indifferent to their situation, I now tried to make amends for this indifference by a cheerful acquiescence, and active endeavors to hasten our departure. 
                
               As we stepped into our little carriage the bright sun beamed forth with delightful warmth. I now felt happy to be out beneath its cheering influence; as we rode briskly on my spirits rose to the highest pitch, and I talked and rattled away without thinking whether my aunt was listening or not. 
               A short drive and a pleasant sail, and we found ourselves moving with that living mass, which, they told me was ever flowing through the great thoroughfares of New York. Drays, wagons, carriages of every description were hastening on, while their more bulky proportions rising high above us, seemed as if they might at any moment crush us to atoms. 
               I was really alarmed. To me, accustomed to the quiet of a country town, Broadway seemed as if it might be the center of some terrible convulsion of nature. 
               The eager haste, the anxious look, the clatter of footsteps, the hum of voices, were all woven together in one inextricable network of sight and sound. To cap the climax a military band was approaching, and in its train followed a motley group of all sorts sizes and colors, scampering through mud and filth, as if the whole world were before them in the shape of waving plumes and glittering sword-belts. Again arose a still wilder excitement; the great "Hall Bell" boomed forth,-one, two, three! and almost simultaneously with the sound, appeared a double line of active forms in bright red shirts and leather caps, dragging a dazzlingly polished machine along with unrivalled rapidity; while every voice was hoarsely raised in the exciting cry of "Fire, fire, fire!" with such a scampering and flying the very earth trembled beneath us. 
               I looked at my aunt to express my alarm; but she was perfectly calm, merely supposing that was impatient at the many hindrances we met with. 
               To my inexpressible relief we at last turned from this bewildering scene into a retired pleasant street, and began to approach that part of the city where opulence and wealth vie with each other in producing palatial dwellings with every luxury of ease and elegance. The change was complete: no wonderful magic of fairy wand could have more suddenly transported us by its witching spell into the seeming of another state. The very expression on the faces of the few we met was different; that eager aspect of determination to hold a place in the world, was lost in the quiet dignity of a calm assurance, which wealth and position give. 
               I was roused from the many speculations which these changed appearances brought, by my aunt, who suddenly called my attention to the number of beautiful little birds that gaily sported in the open park we were just then passing. It was, indeed, an enlivening sight to see the lovely little creatures, now here, now there, twittering and chirping amid the new found beams, as their varied colors were gaily flashing in the clear bright sunlight. 
                
               "Cannot we stay a little longer," I said, "to watch and listen to these sweet tones?" 
               But my aunt was anxious to hasten on; and we soon reached a pleasant but less exclusive neighborhood where children were playing on the sidewalks, and innocent young faces smiled on us as we passed. It was here we drew up at the residence of my aunt's friend. 
               When we alighted, we were met at the door by Mrs. Ward, who clasped my dear aunt in her arms in a transport of pleasure at seeing her. 
               I was received with much cordiality; and introduced as the niece they had so often talked about. I was flattered into an unusual interest in my new acquaintance by this introduction; so ready is our vanity to graciously interpret any such notice. 
               We were led into a neat sitting room; Mrs. Ward, still retaining my aunt's hand, sat down by her, saying, "This is kind of you, Martha-I have so longed to see you! I do need the sympathy of your warm heart. I am truly anxious, and a word from you will do me good, as it always does." 
               "Has anything happened?" asked my aunt, "Is Mr. Ward-is Mary worse? I heard that there was to be a consultation of physicians yesterday, and I have been waiting to hear their report. Is it unfavorable? Do tell me all!" 
               "Not more unfavorable, in Mary's case, than I supposed it would be. There is no cause, they assure me for immediate alarm, but they candidly say there is no hope of ultimate recovery. She may live months, even years, but she can never be well. This paralysis, which has destroyed her lower limbs, will probably extend over the whole system before the fatal issue. They considered it their duty, as they feelingly said, to let me know the worst." 
               "Poor girl!" said my aunt, much affected. "This is sad indeed-so young, so good! But, dear Sara, doctors are not infallible; they are often mistaken in their best judgments. She has youth on her side, and a loving and judicious nurse in you. Mental energy, we know, has much to do with throwing off disease, and Mary has her full share of that. No; we will not resign the dear girl yet. So cheer up, my own Sara! You are not apt to be so desponding. God is good-there are happy days in store for you yet." 
               Mrs. Ward looked at my aunt with a mournful smile, but shook her head doubtingly; 
               "Ah, Martha, as ever the hopeful comforter! But the future looks dark to me. I do not mourn for Mary as dying-dear child! it is her living I fear. Could she go with me I would feel blest; but must I leave her in this helpless, dependent state? She has been more than a child to me. She has lived but for my happiness,-must I leave her indeed, in poverty, to this slow, and lingering death?" 
               I was much surprised at these strange remarks, and looking scrutinizingly into the speaker's face, observed, what I had not before noticed, its wan and colorless aspect. I was startled. The smile, which in affectionate greeting had irradiated her fine countenance, was now gone, and the marks of that insidious disease, with its hectic flush, was too discernible in every feature. My heart throbbed painfully as I looked at her, so wasted and frail, as she sat beside my dear aunt, whose form was so fully graced with health. Still I could not but perceive an expression of power about this sick lady that put to flight all the ordinary emotions of protecting pity, and instinctively felt that I was in the presence of one peculiarly endowed; one that might suffer, but could not be subdued, until some terrible stroke should cut off at once all the supplies of life. 
               I was fascinated; and I listened to her every word with more than attention. 
               She again addressed my aunt, who listened with an air of the deepest sympathy. 
               "You have, no doubt, my dear friend, long anticipated this. I need not try to deceive myself. I cannot evade the stern truth. The fiat has, too truly, gone forth. A few weeks at most, and I must close my eyes on all things here. Would that it were otherwise, for the sake of the dear ones who are left in my care, and are more to me than life! My poor afflicted husband, so far as pecuniary support is needed, has enough-he will only miss the tenderness that I alone can give. And I am almost glad, Martha, that he will be so little conscious of the change, and that he will in all probability so soon join me. But with my own sweet Mary how different it will all be. All will be gone from her!" 
               "Be calm, Sara," interposed my aunt, "You have enough to leave them both well provided for." 
               "Why, my dear, I have no right to leave anything to anybody! It is true. And those that are nearest of kin to my husband are well aware that my relatives have no claims here; and my sweet Mary, who has devoted the last and best years of her life to my interests, must seek from strangers that which in all justice I should be able to give. I feel this very deeply." 
               "And I with you;" said my aunt with much warmth, "I feel that whatever deprives you of the power to leave that girl a proper support during her life, is a cruel wrong." 
               Mrs. Ward bowed her head, at the same time raising my aunt's hand to her lips as an expression of thanks for her sympathy, and continued to speak in her own quiet but forcible way. 
               "When men feel a wrong and are bowed under its oppression, they can band together, and with the mighty effort of a combined physical force, throw off the degrading yoke. But we must wait-wait till, the moral perceptions of those who rule are disrobed of the prejudices of education, custom and class: and content ourselves with suffering until an advanced public sentiment calls for a change. This has been our history. One after another of our burdens have been lifted; but what, has happened during this long waiting? That is lost sight of. Centuries roll on; and every wrong must beat its accumulation of unrighteous consequences. There are certainly terrible hardships and many crying evils in the world-vice, poverty and all the numberless wrongs that grow out of ignorance. The heart is sickened, and the soul shrinks back appalled. But the causes lie deep; and if they are ever reached it must be by a waking up of self-consciousness in the great heart of the common people.-But come up and see Mary," she said suddenly, "I will not detain you any longer;" and she rose to lead us to her room; but the doctor just then entering, we resolved to wait until his visit was over. 
               Mrs. Ward left with him, promising to return very soon. 
               I had noticed ever since we entered, a peculiar, measured tread, as if some one was slowly walking backward and forward over the floor of the room immediately above us, and I had noticed that Mrs. Ward stopped speaking, and listened anxiously when these sounds ceased for a moment. I had thought, too, that I heard the voice of one as if in distress; but so faint-a sort of stifled moaning, or a succession of deeply drawn sighs, it might be fancy. There was nothing said at the time, but when Mrs. Ward left I mentioned it to my aunt. 
                
               "It is too true. My poor friend! Alas, hers has been a life of trial," she answered. "I will explain this to you when we return home. In the meantime do not make any remark about it." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               
                  WHEN Mrs. Ward returned, she brought an urgent request from Mary that we should visit her at once. We found her sitting up in bed, carefully pillowed. Her face was toward us on entering, and I felt at once that it was unusually attractive. The beauty of health was gone, but there was a grace, an innocence, a sweetness, that was altogether irresistible. She appeared much younger than I had supposed her to be. The simple lace cap she wore was placed on a head covered with short close curls, her long tresses having been cut off during her illness, to promote a more healthful circulation. The hair left had returned to its original state, as in childhood. This, with the extreme delicacy of the features, absence of pain, and confidence in the love of all around her, imparted to her naturally youthful countenance such an appearance of extreme childlikeness, that, had it not been for the depth of meaning in the large dark eyes, I might have supposed I was looking at a girl who had scarce numbered her dozen summers. To me she seemed inexpressibly beautiful. I wanted to gaze on her without interruption, so I took a seat a little at one side, that I might gratify my desire without embarrassing her. 
                
               How much of love may be displayed in the surroundings of the sick! how quickly we discern the want of it, in the absence of these many little nameless comforts! Here everything was delicate and beautiful, to gratify a pure and cultivated taste. The drapery of the windows cast a roseate hue on the light of the room; the walls were adorned with small but exquisite painting, the work of Mary's own skill; even the carpet on the floor contributed its share to the general brightness. Tulips, roses, the little heart's-ease, with its purple and yellow wings surrounding the gaudy tiger-flower, which in its rainbow colors seemed an imprisoned butterfly in the rich green encircling vine. It was a garden of itself. 
               The room was filled with a floating essence or breathing of flowers that was truly delicious. The sash of a small conservatory, opening from the apartment, was raised; and the plants were freely giving forth their offering of sweets. On a small stand by the bedside were a number of the books she fondly loved; while scattered over the coverlet of the bed were a few flowers and geranium leaves. They seemed to afford her a great deal of pleasure; the delicate white hands would assort and arrange and move among there with so much tenderness. 
               "I never weary of admiring or examining their wonders and beauty," she turned to me and smilingly remarked. 
               My aunt soon engaged her in conversation, while Mrs. Ward was busy looking over some directions the physician cian had left. Thus I was thrown on my own thoughts and I soon fell into a sort of dreamy meditation, while a sense of perfect happiness and quiet surrounded me, the associations were so unlike any thing I had ever met with before. There was Mary, the very embodiment of angelic purity and beauty; and Mrs. Ward, seated on her soft cushioned easy chair, placed at the foot of the bed,-with that spiritualized expression of countenance often seen in those who have passed through the purifying influence of deep grief. And directly opposite to Mary sat my own dear aunt, whose every lineament spoke the high purposes of her soul. It was a scene that spoke up my own soul. Young, and thoughtless as I then was, it conveyed to me a lesson of deep meaning, whose teachings were felt many years from that time. 
               It seemed that Mrs. Ward had almost forgotten her own wants and weakness in her constant attentions to this dearly prized last remnant of all her earthly loves; this young being, who would naturally crave for life and liberty, yet bearing her long confinement with heroic fortitude. She had not to feign contentment; she felt it. Seeing her aunt daily and hourly, and hearing no complaint, but always the same kind cheerfulness, she had ceased to be anxious about that dry, short cough, and the evident weakness she could not but notice. 
               She fondly and devotedly loved her aunt, and if at any time she suffered pain, or experienced that unconquerable weariness attendant on close confinement, not a murmur escaped her lips. Helpless and a burden as she was, she knew that her life was necessary to her aunt's happiness, and for her sake she desired to live a little longer. Little was she aware of the struggle that was going on in the heart of that good woman, or how jealously it was guarded from her. 
               Mary's was rather a peculiar temperament, I was afterward told. Silent and contemplative from childhood her spirit had roamed in her ideal world, and sought refuse in the creations of her own exuberant fancy; though as she grew older, her nice sense of duty would not permit her indulging in this exclusiveness her habits were forming. She must learn, she found, to enjoy life and its realities. Her pleasure must be in usefulness. She must employ her energies to assist her parents. Hard times had come for the little dreamer, and these aspirations and visions of beauty must only be permitted to occupy her mind as special indulgences. These particulars I gleaned when I heard her history. 
               Mrs. Ward and my aunt had some confidential matters to talk over; and when they had withdrawn, I drew my chair toward the bed, and began a conversation by making some observation about the flowers:- 
               "They are indeed beautiful,-these sweet little messengers of love that twine themselves around our holiest affections, and raise to a higher faith in divine creation the heart of the most stubborn unbeliever." 
               I too was a lover of flowers, but not enthusiastically so, and it was evident to me that Mary, in her isolated state, and in the lonely companionship of her own thoughts, had invested them with an interest I knew nothing about. They were to her as intelligences bringing her in communion with their Author. This I found, as we 
                     contiued
                     continued
                   our conversation. 
               I took a sprig of Mignonette from a vase on the table by my side, and as I was conning over a suitable remark, Mary drew it gently from my hand, and looking at it earnestly, said; 
               "Were this little flower the all of beauty discernible in this great world, insignificant as it may appear, it would be enough to convince me of a divine, a beneficent origin, for I would trace in its every minute fragment a thought, a creation of Infinite Wisdom, for in the light beneath the delicate tints of its little fringed petals, and in the sweet odors distilled in its mysterious cells, I perceive a power that the highest efforts of mind cannot attain. 
               "There is in it life breathing, glowing life. We may imitate the faultless form, and color, and even almost rival the beauty we cannot comprehend-but the work is dead, lifeless. It bears the stamp human, just as the original does the stamp divine. 
               "I once loved to cultivate flowers," she continued, "and my soul rose with them as a grateful incense to God; but my hand is now powerless. Still I am not less happy, other loves raise my soul to devotion, I am made sensible of a deep debt of gratitude; and my heart overflows with love to all, even to the sweet little flowers whose breathings whisper their names to me, in the lonely dark hours of midnight." 
               I was peculiarly pleased with this last beautiful idea, as it seemed to impart a new element, a sweet companionship in the flowers, with this sweetest flower of all, this lovely innocent, blighted, being. 
               I tried to answer; but my thoughts seemed so crude, I was suddenly abashed to silence. Mary's language and ideas were so etherealized, and ranged so far above mine, that I felt any thing I might say would be out of place. 
               Yet there was no affectation, nothing forced in this. It was all in such harmony with her being, her words were like the spontaneous gushings of a richly laden soul, uttered with such childish simplicity, it created no wonder, it was so perfectly natural. 
               When I was about to leave; for my aunt soon returned and said we must go-I stooped down to kiss her forehead, she put her arm round my neck, as she affectionately said, "you will come again and sit with me, and talk with me, won't you?" 
               I left the house, I must think wiser, or at least more reflective than on entering it;-my thoughts were full of Mary. I felt assured that my dear aunt would at once adopt her if anything should happen to Mr. Ward. And so pleased was I with these reflections, and so earnest, that as our carriage was quietly jogging along, I involuntarily exclaimed half aloud, "I know she will!" 
                
               "What my dear?" 
               "That you will take sweet Mary home, if her aunt dies." 
               My aunt hesitated. 
               "Oh you must! If you do not I will speak to my father, and take her home with me." 
               My aunt smiled at my earnestness, as she said, "My dear you know little of the world." 
               This was enigmatical. I was puzzled. Does not my aunt love Mary? why then should she hesitate? I raised my head to question again, when an open carriage just passed, and what I saw there banished for a time all else from my agitated mind. In the carriage were a young gentleman and lady. I knew them both-Alas, too well! The lady was beautiful-oh how beautiful! The very air radiated her presence. The gentleman bowed to me, and I commanded myself sufficiently to return it with proper dignity; but when my aunt said, "An old acquaintance from your town, I suppose?" I then lost all power of self-control, and could only answer by a quick succession of passionate sobs. I was deeply mortified at this, yet I could not cease for a moment. "What will my aunt think of me?" I said to myself bitterly in my distress. "Would that I could die!" I covered my face with my handkerchief, but my emotions shook my whole frame. My dear aunt considerately took no notice, but allowed my feelings to expend themselves; her attention seeming to be occupied with a book she held in her hand. When we reached the house her only remark was, when she saw me hastening to my room, "Remember, Lucy, to be down soon. You know I have a long story to tell you yet, to-night, about the friends we have just left." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               
                  WHEN I appeared at the tea-table a short hour after the conversation repeated in the last chapter, I felt that all traces of my emotion had passed away. 
               We were seated in the same little room so agreeably occupied by us in the morning, with open windows, enjoying the soft balmy atmosphere. But, one of those sudden changes had come, so common to our climate in the early spring. Now it was raw and chilly outside; the windows and doors were closed, and a bright fire glowing cheerfully in the grate, gave a feeling of comfort that was truly acceptable. 
               "We were quite fortunate," I remarked to my aunt, "to get home as we did, for I think we are going to have a heavy storm." 
               Even while I spoke the wind began to rattle the windows, and the drops of rain to patter on the glass. 
               "Ah, our poor sick friends!" said my aunt, "they will feel this change painfully." 
               We drew our little table with all its bright appendages nearer the fire, and sipped our hot tea, and eat our nice buttered toast with an exquisite sense of all the good by which we were surrounded. When the tea-service was removed, and we were left to ourselves, I requested my dear aunt to begin her story. I was all impatience to hear about Mrs. Ward. 
               "My dear Lucy, you must not expect anything of romantic interest in this sketch of the life of my earliest dearest friend. Her history is that of thousands of our sex. Our duties are stereotyped passages in the code of family relations, and seem but as links to bind the various concerns of the household together in compactness and harmony. I think it would have been better if ambition had not entered into the female composition-it is only a trouble and in the way. It not only disturbs the equilibrium of the mind, but often brings upon its victim hostility at home and criticism from abroad. Men must have ambition, for the desire to be honored quickens the energies to greater activity; but as distinction comes to us mostly through the merits of others, then we had better be without such a troublesome guest. She is the most honored, it is said, who moves on in her circumscribed sphere, never working outside the boundaries of these home associations; reversing the order of greatness, to be remembered for the little we do, and not for the much. But Lucy, these uniform duties, when not in unison with her nature-these daily demands upon her spirit of forbearance-may require more true heroism than do the acts of those whom fame will cover with proudest renown. 'Woman is the genius of her home;' I do not quarrel with her position, for the duties that fall to her lot need bring no corruption to her higher nature. She has it in her power to soften down asperities and create an atmosphere of love wherever she is. This indeed is much to live for, but it is a pity all were not made to be satisfied with it. 
               "My dear friend and Mr. Ward married young. Their position and prospects were about the same. They were educated, and accustomed to the refinements of a handsome well-ordered home, yet they had no fortunes. They understood this, but determined to make a fortune for themselves. Their friends objected for a time to their marriage, on account of their extreme youth, thinking it would be difficult for them, while so young, to resign the pleasures and gayeties of youth, and retire to the quiet, and assume the cares and responsibilities of married life. But they would not be dissuaded. Like all young people, they felt strong in themselves. They were not going to be taught by experiences that were not their own. No foreshadowings of the future could daunt them. They loved each other, and that was enough. And so they married. Many smiled on them, and loving hearts prayed for blessings on their young inexperienced heads; for their worth was acknowledged, and they were much beloved by a large circle of friends. 
               "The pale, delicate woman, you saw to-day, Lucy, can hardly give you the faintest conception of the sweet, joyous girl of those times. Young Ward was proud of his wife, and ambitious to place her in the position he knew she would adorn. Housekeeping, with such ideas, and his means, was out of the question: but boarding for the first year or two was quite fashionable, and that they could do in first-rate style. 
               "Thus my friend was at once handsomely domiciled; with accommodations and leisure to receive her friends in the best manner; there seemed to be nothing wanting to her enjoyment. But I soon knew that she was not happy. All persons cannot be happy in the same way; she was of a particularly energetic nature, and this life of listless inactivity did not suit her. She would compare her manner of spending her time with that of her husband, and how tame and unprofitable it seemed. Before marriage if she wanted change, she could run about among her young friends, and talk and gossip, and sport away the idle hours; but now that would be undignified-she had a character to uphold. Besides these things had somewhat lost their interest, and she felt, too, that it was her duty to consult another's wishes about what she did. But more than all was this innovation on her cherished ideas of what she was to be, and do as a wife. 
               "Marriage had been to her, in her early musings, as a sacred law of God; imposing the conditions of mutual effort in supporting and sustaining two individuals through life, in all its changes. Her visions had not been of ease and indulgence, but of active duties, increasing happiness, doing something for somebody. She had noticed her young husband's weariness and exhaustion when he returned from the labors of the day, and her heart sickened at the sight. What could she do to relieve him? He brought her home costly presents, which she received with the conviction, that she was taking his very life's blood. She did not speak her thoughts, they were all locked within her own breast. It might seem ungrateful not to be more than happy. 
               But her husband's watchful affection soon discovered there was something wrong, and the thought suggested to his mind was that she wanted amusement. "You are too much alone;" he said, "you must go out and walk and ride, and mingle more with the inmates of the house. Why, all this long evening you have been alone. Why are you not in the parlor? I heard music and dancing, as I passed through the hall." 
               Poor Sara could not say that her sense of right would not allow her to be there enjoying herself, while he was away hard at work. She would rather seem capricious; so she turned his remark aside, by observing, she thought he looked unusually pale this evening. 
               "I feel so, I can assure you," he returned. "The fact is, I am not well. You will have to nurse me a little. I suppose I am getting dyspeptic. I am so driven at times, that my meals have to be hurried and irregular, and that may cause it." 
               "I wish you had not so much anxiety, and were not so much confined and overworked," said Sara, with a sigh. "I feel and know it is injuring you." 
                
               "Perhaps so; but it cannot be helped. I get a fine salary, and it is expected I will work for it. That reminds me of an offer I had to-day of another situation, which I was much disposed to think of, because there was less labor, and more regular hours. I could have my evenings to myself, and there was a fair prospect if the business should prove successful, of a good opening for the future: but when I heard the present terms I dismissed the matter at once from may mind." 
               Sara's heart beat high; "What were the terms?" she asked. 
               He named them. 
               She could not refrain from throwing her arms around his neck in her excess of joy. "O! Alein, this is just what I want. Do accept, this situation, I pray! ah, do." 
               "Accept it! why, my dear, what are you talking about? You are a child in these matters: it takes all I make now to support us, and how do you suppose we are going to live on not much more than one half?" 
               "I am not such a child, either," she answered, rather offended: "l can calculate a little, too. My mind has been full of calculation the last six months. I know just what we could live on, and this sum would do it. Half it costs us now for living, is for superfluities that add not one jot to our comfort or happiness." 
               "But, Sara, appearances must be considered; society has its claims; friends must not be disgraced by our lowering the position they have taught us to occupy." 
                
               "Certainly; and you misunderstand me, if you suppose I do not respect such claims, but there is no reason in our beginning life, by starting from where our friends leave off. We do owe it to those who have done so much for us, that we make every effort to maintain a respectability that will gratify their fullest hopes; and we owe to society our endeavors to attain such an excellence and worldly importance, that our example may be a stimulus to others. But we have begun, I fear, in the wrong way to do this. Instead of working upwards, the changes may be downwards. When our fortune is made then we may begin to enjoy luxuries. It is not honorable, it is not right, while we have youth and health, to spend all you make. You are now tasked to the uttermost. Should sickness come, what have we to help ourselves with? Must we return to our friends, as miserable burdens on their charity? Now is the time, dear Alein, for us to practice self-denial and economy, and lay the foundation for that superiority which only comes through the true independence of being able to take care of ourselves. I do indeed shudder," she continued, "when I think of the many who have set out in life, with views quite as high-minded and honorable as our own, who became so habituated to this extravagant, luxurious mode of living, that it seems to their enervated, weak self-indulgence, as an absolute necessity, for which they will gradually come to sacrifice all rectitude of principle." 
               Her husband had risen during her remarks to an upright right position on the sofa, on which he had been reclining, and was listening with considerable interest. 
               "I admit," he seriously answered, "that these things do deserve deep attention. For myself, I could retrench without the least sacrifice of personal enjoyment. But you have been delicately reared, and are but slender. A change in our mode of life, would involve a need of exertion on your part, to which I fear you are not equal; and it cannot be you are altogether serious when you express a desire to sink from your present bright and joyous life, to one of comparative insignificance." 
               "I assure you, I am sincere;" she uttered most earnestly. "Do not think me whimsical or desirous of change. This subject has long occupied my mind. Alone, and in the silence of my own thoughts it has been my constant theme, and I am so glad to have an opportunity to express in words all I feel. Do, dear Alein, let me urge you to make this change, Your health, our happiness, every consideration calls for it." 
               "But, really," he said, after a few moments of thoughtful silence, "I cannot comprehend how we could subsist on the small salary I would get for the first year or two, if I do make the change." 
               "Leave that to me, I will be the managing partner for this branch of the concern. I will guarantee to live on your salary and even save money from it." 
               "Well, what do you propose to do?" 
               "We must retire to where we will be less conspicuous. I confess to so much pride that I do not wish my efforts to be known. We must keep house. I cannot go out to earn money, but I can save your earnings in the sweet little home of my fancy. You need not then be irregular in your diet-we will live alone; and in so many ways I know I can make you a thousand times more comfortable than you are at present." 
               He pressed her hand with true husbandly good nature. The picture was so invitingly domestic. "You are very persuasive, but how could I endure to see my sweet pretty lady transformed into a mere household drudge, her wise head filled with the important questions of the kitchen and store room." 
               Sara tried to be quite dignified as she answered, that she did not feel much complimented at the insinuation she could be but one thing at a time, that her capacities must all be absorbed with these-"you may smile," she continued, "but they are important details. I shall show you, I think, that there is such a thing as combining labor with intelligence, and refinement with industry. I may be an imperfect housekeeper at first; you will bear with me, I know: I will try hard to improve." 
               Thus she prevailed: and the consequence was they were soon settled in a small but pleasant home, such a one as the most fastidious might have envied. For, where true taste guides in the handiwork, a degree of elegance may be displayed in the most limited arrangements. They had not located themselves in a fine neighborhood, or near a fashionable ionable 
                     promanade
                     promenade
                  , where gay friends could tarry a moment in their usual routine walk; but it was in a most respectable, though remote section of the city, where those who loved them for their own excellence were not afraid to be seen. 
               My dear friend was herself the sole operator and director; and with untiring zeal she devoted herself to her husband's happiness. Never did I see a more attractive home. It was one of my dearest pleasures, before I was married, to spend a day with them. The pleasantness of the morning hours, and then the cheerfulness of the bright evening when we encircled the little table spread so invitingly, with its many little dainties. Then in the later hours of evening Mr. Ward would read aloud, while we would comment and approve, and ply our needles diligently. Oh! those were happy times, and their pleasant memories I do so love to recall. No one but myself knew the many personal sacrifices my dear friend made in this effort. The economy that had to be used was of the most rigid kind, though none but herself was made to feel this. No diplomatist could use more skill in keeping his purposes from others, than she to keep this from every eye, and as might be supposed, they were unusually prosperous and happy even beyond their most sanguine, expectations. 
               But prosperity did not lighten my friend's cares-a large family came rapidly. My friend knew that every new comer made a still additional necessity for continued exertion but she maintained a resolute heart; and we all know that before such, the most complicated difficulties vanish. There was no complaining, no murmuring, and the bright smile still adorned her lovely face. 
               "But severe trials, as years passed, came to her tenderest feelings; her children were of frail constitution, and one after another were taken from them, till but the eldest, an only son, was left. He was a fine youth, and their former bereavements seemed to knit him more closely to their hearts; they were painfully anxious about him. He was not by any means robust, but as he advanced in age became more vigorous; and they gave themselves up to the pleasing assurance that he would be spared to comfort their deciding years. But, alas! how little we can foresee. Poor unhappy parents! they were doomed to pass through still another of these terrible heart struggles. He went on a fishing excursion with some young friends, on a bright summer morning, but in the afternoon an August squall placed them in imminent danger. The severe exertions necessary to save themselves, were more than young Ward could bear. He ruptured a small blood-vessel, and was never well again; so he, too, was the occupant of an early grave. 
               "Between Mary and this son there had been since childhood a strong attachment; and this no doubt binds my poor friend still more closely to her. His last words were earnest entreaties to his father and mother, to transfer all their love for him to this beloved cousin, this idol of his heart. 
                
               "Mary was the child of a sister of Mrs. Ward. This sister had married a young man of high promise, a student of law. He had talents, education and industry, and for a few years after his marriage was popular and prosperous. 
               "Unfortunately he then began to acquire some habits that made people distrust him; this touched his pride, but instead of causing him to abstain and endeavor to retrieve the past, it merely excited a more thorough defiance of public opinion. He withdrew himself from old associations and lived but in the indulgence of his depraved appetites; so the wife and child, removed from sympathy and assistance, had to suffer alone. 
               "Mary was the only child, and but for her the poor another's life would have been but as one long day of darkness and sorrow. The approach of the too often infuriated father was the signal for the little creature to cling in affright to her mother-not to be protected, but to protect; for often when the strong arm was raised in passion to strike the feeble woman to the earth, it was quickly arrested by the appealing look of the little trembler at her side. 
               "The child had an uncommon power over her father. It would seem as if the blossom had come forth on earth to arrest the strong man in his insane acts of cruel wrong, and to keep the feelings of humanity alive in his breast; for often after these bursts of uncontrollable rage he would take the sweet innocent in his arms, and weep over her, thanking the Almighty who had given him such a blessing. 
               "Poor Mary! she was a little forced plant, reared in those circumstances which bring to youth the ripening of maturer years. In another nature, one less purely gifted, this life might have created hardness and selfishness, but in her it only fostered an unusual sympathy and delicacy of feeling. While most children of her age were enjoying their wild sports with little thought of the moment, before them, she was lost in anxious reflection; tremblingly sensitive, dreading something, watching her mother's countenance, weeping if she wept, seldom smiling, for the mother who was all the world to her never smiled. 
               "Yet with all these discouragements, which perhaps may after all, have nourished in her the finer qualities, she early evinced talents of a very superior order. Her mother knowing that in the future she must trust altogether to her own exertions for support, determined at all personal sacrifice to have these talents properly cultivated. 
               The love of nature in the child was early manifested, and this with her quick appreciation of all that was lovely to the sight, and the untiring satisfaction she took in her little sketches and drawings, led her mother to hope she might excel as an artist in this delineation of the beautiful. The eagerness and industry with which she took advantage of all the instruction she could command, showed that her mother had not made a wrong estimate of her character, and richly was that mother paid for her extraordinary efforts to accomplish this, by the growing happiness of her child. These congenial employments were quickly developing Mary into beauty and vigor; and bright and hopeful anticipations began to be felt. 
               But these hopeful dreams were not all to be realized. Her mother's health began to fail. Those long used eyes refused to fulfil their office any longer. Was it the scalding tear that had so often filled them to overflowing, or was it the incessant application of the sight-destroying needle, even into the cheerless hours of midnight, or was it from both these causes that the terrible affliction came? For after much suffering the devoted woman became totally blind; and the poor reprobate father was now come home helpless and worn out;-his physical system a complete wreck, a miserable remnant of his once noble self. 
               "Mary must now leave these studies which had been unremitting, and commence the real struggle for life. Her parents must be supported; and though still but a child in years, she must do it. She began her work with zeal, and a judgment worthy an older head. But her years were not to be numbered as others of her age. Hers had been a life crowded with experiences; and it is by them, my dear Lucy, we are quickest matured. Every joy, every grief is a silent monitor; and the more intensely we feel, the more instructive they are to us. 
                
               "Mary was so fortunate as to meet with a benevolent and just man, in whose establishment her paintings were disposed of as soon as completed. Few imagined they were the production of such youthful skill. Her kind judicious friend criticised with a thoughtful judgment, and made many useful suggestions. Her improvement was rapid and she made many very beautiful pictures; their sale enabling her to provide for every want of those dear cherished ones. She worked constantly and unremittingly by the side of her parents, cheering them by her sprightliness; for she was as merry as she was wise. Their truest happiness was in these times in that little household; such happiness as they had never known before. 
               "But the poor father was sinking fast; no effort of love could keep him with them much longer. Poor man! his own self-upbraidings were bitter indeed;-no sustaining record of one grand self-denial to mark his course, but a dark train of selfish indulgences to depraved appetites to haunt him to agony. Sad and despairing was, the retrospect. "Oh! dearest," he would groan and sob out as a little child, on that loving breast that now supported the aching, throbbing temples, "oh dearest, my poor sightless wife, what have I done to you,-madly trampled on all these fond affections that still live for me!" 
               "His last few days were more quiet, and his closing breath was spent in blessing those two devoted beings, who were to him the same, and had never deserted him even in his day of deepest degradation. 
               A cold shudder crept over me, and I could not restrain my emotions. My aunt hastily closed the narrative by saying, "The wife soon followed him to the grave, when Mary, now an orphan, became as a daughter to her aunt, Mrs Ward." 
               "Lucy," said my aunt after a few minutes silence, "let us have a little music. It will cheer us. This has been indeed a melancholy narrative." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               
                  AFTER a short relaxation my aunt resumed; 
               "But the greatest of all my dear friend's trials was yet to come. The death of this cherished son so deeply affected his father that he never recovered from the shock. A profound melancholy seized him which finally resulted in the total loss of reason. 
               "When the young man was first attacked with serious illness his father determinedly refused to admit that there was danger. His agony of mind was extreme; his very despair fortified his will; physicians were dismissed if they intimated danger. So, when the blow did come he was wholly unprepared. 
               "Poor man! most violent and unmanageable was his grief,-a grief which after the first paroxysm subsided, was followed by a depression of spirits altogether insupportable; and which no endearments of his heart-broken wife could alleviate in the slightest degree. 
               "Thus have two years passed with her, in unremitting efforts to soothe the distracted mind of the unfortunate man. Sighs and moans, as you heard him to-day, taking no rest but at long intervals; and even then his poor wife sits anxiously by the bed side, as the slightest motion rouses him, and he is on his feet in an instant. Is it not a dreadful task to spend our hours and days in such close proximity to the benighted mind? Need you wonder that my dear friend has nearly exhausted every power of life?" 
               I sighed a mournful assent. 
               "But Mary, that delicate young creature you saw today, strange as it may seem, has been her great support through it all, till she, too, has shrunk under it. She came to live with her aunt immediately after her mother's death, and by her cheerful sweetness and untiring devotion, has been a joy where all else would have been gloom. Nor is this all. She has shared the labors, that without her, would have been but too hard to endure. 
               "And stranger still, these two noble women, unlike many who nurse their griefs, and selfishly burden others with their load of sorrow, have found time to alleviate and minister to the sufferings of many. In Mary her aunt found a wise coadjutor. In fact, it was she that stirred my poor friend, then in the very torpor of despair, to active effort. 'Do,' she would say, 'do, dear aunt, hear me! We have innumerable blessings yet. Look around at the many who, added to our griefs, may have poverty, and perhaps shame to contend with. You can mourn a loved son, a stricken husband, and have the tear of sympathy joined with your own; but who can feel with the felon's mother, the doomed man's wife? She must weep alone over all the agonies of blighted hopes. We now can feel for such. Our hearts have been moulded to universal pity by affliction. Take me with you, dear aunt; let us devote our lives to their good-to all good; and while we ask light from heaven to illuminate their way, perhaps, in mercy, some stray beam may rest on our own.' 
               "Thus my poor friend, in this work of love, found there was a blessing still for her. She could make others happy. The spirit of purity emanating from her own soul, woke to fruition in other souls the germ of the divine principle, that is the birth-right of all; and although she often found it darkened and deeply embedded in the growth of many sins; yet it could be reached by the earnest sympathy of human affections. It is astonishing to see the power her influence has had. Crowds have blessed her in the light of their awakened lives; and she has risen above her ever present sorrow to find a calm and sunshine in the exercise of warm love." 
               "Would that she could live on," continued my aunt with a deep sigh, "for she is truly imbued with the full genius of benevolence. She has the head, as well as the heart, to work in its cause. As may be supposed, with a person of her intelligence, she has endeavored to find the beginnings of some of this misery and degradation, that she has come in contact with; and to deep, unmitigated poverty she ascribes most of the evils of life. In a note to me at one time, when her feelings were more than usually aroused, she concluded with the following apostrophe. Let me read it to you. 
               "'Poverty, oh, poverty! I would deal gently with one in your deadly grasp, and hold him as more than great, who would rise superior to your downward tendencies. They say that it is riches hardens the heart, but to me it seems that poverty does far more. I would fear the rich bad man, as the heartless villain, the selfish destroyer of every holy right. But place him in poverty, and we would have the monster in every form, the stealthy plunderer, the midnight assassin. Do not think when you see the rich close their hearts, and look with indifference on the miseries of their fellow creatures, that it is their riches have made them thus cold. No; I would look deeper for the cause, and say, save them from want and temptation; for were they in poverty, then we might fear them indeed.' 
               "But my poor friend is doomed, alas! to leave her work, without even the little satisfaction of making some provision for its continuance, and must even leave the child that is dear to her as her own, to taste of that penury of which she has such a just dread." 
               "But why, aunt," said I, quite mystified, "why cannot she leave Mary enough to live upon? Are they so very poor?" 
               "No my dear, not at all. Mr. Ward is a rich man. It is not likely you have thought much about these things, and you may not be aware that Mrs. Ward, as his wife, has no right to dispose by will of any of his property. When Mr. Ward dies, if he should not recover his reason, so as to make other appropriations, then his wealth goes to relatives of his." 
               "But I would suppose," said I, still in my ignorance, "that if Mrs. Ward would mention to those relatives all she wished done for Mary, that they would cheerfully comply." 
               "They will only comply just so far as they are obliged; and they are well aware that my poor friend has no power to compel them." 
               "Dear me," said I, much puzzled, "this is strange. Did you not say, aunt, that Mr. and Mrs. Ward were poor when they married, and that Mrs. Ward had done so much, and was so active and so much employed about her family as to be entitled to the claims of an equal ownership? How can it be that these relatives should have everything, and she nothing? It does not seem just." 
               "Just!" repeated my aunt; and for the first time I noticed the quick flush of anger pass over her countenance. "Just! that is not the word to use here. Justice we are told, 'is the virtue which consists in giving to all their due, and taking nothing from any without an equivalent.' My old friend has given the long services of a devoted life to the interests of all around her; but the law does not give her, as a wife, any peculiar claims. We will call it expedient or politic to have it so; but we will not profane the sacred name of justice in such a connection." 
               I was silent for some time. I very much feared that I might have given offence; at any rate I had inadvertently touched on a subject that gave much pain. She noticed my confusion and with her usual kindness hastened to 
                     disembarass
                     disembarrass
                   me. 
               "My dear Lucy, will you excuse my warmth? This is a subject of deep interest to me; and coming, as it does just now, in connection with my best friend, makes its injustice peculiarly vivid. 
               "You are young, my dear, and unpleasant knowledge will come to you fast enough. You have always had plenty, and probably attach very little importance to money, but as a means of giving you some luxury of dress or equipage; but older eyes, that follow it through, all the windings of our social organization, cannot but see what a vitalizing element it is, and how much necessity there is for its proper distribution. Even some of the best minds have thought it of sufficient importance to devote to it. the study of their lives; and juster enactments and wiser legislation have rewarded their endeavors. 
               "But it requires one with still broader views of humanity to look at it in all its bearings-to take in every element of society, female as well as males, and judge not as for one or the other, but for society as a whole. 
               "But here I am," she added, with a smile, "talking to you as if you cared for these things, or had a head as old as my own. I, suppose you will think me a precious grumbler, and finding fault with the world, because I cannot have things my own way. But it is not so, Lucy. I do not blame any, and am ready to give all credit for meaning to do right. There have been mistakes made; but in the progress of events the human mind will rise to a truer perception of justice and the common good. I watch and wait for better things. In the mean time, bear with my garrulousness; though it is so pleasant to have some one to speak to I may be tempted to abuse the privilege." 
               I assured her I was but too happy to hear all she had to say, and indeed I had received much information. Her remarks were suggestive, and I found my mind taking pleasure in the thoughts that were beginning to spring to life. Thus we continued talking, I imbibing every word of my dear aunt, while she seemed to take pleasure in listening to the crude ideas they elicited. 
               And still we lingered, the hours passed so quickly. 
               It was now late; all in the house had gone to rest. My aunt's husband was from home on business; so we felt that we were not interfering with any one's rest, and this quiet confidential intercourse was truly delightful. 
               My own heart was subdued. The pride and mortification which I had experienced in the afternoon, after so suddenly exposing my most sacred feelings, had now passed away; and I felt an uncontrollable desire to pour out every thought of my heart to my dear and loving friend. 
               "I will tell you all, dear aunt!" I said, with a sudden impetuosity of feeling; "You must not blame him; it was my own infatuated folly that deceived me! I vainly thought because he preferred my society to that of all others, that he must love me above all others. But I have been bitterly taught otherwise. I was with him the day he first met that beautiful creature-Is she not beautiful, dear aunt?-Oh, what a gift beauty is! It was then I saw its power. Strange as it may seem, dear aunt, I really felt deeply for him when I saw his vain efforts to conceal his emotions; but I soon rushed from the place to stifle the agony of my wounded vanity. Since then I have struggled hard to overcome those rudely crushed hopes. I thought I had succeeded; that I could even bear to witness their happiness; but to-day has undeceived me-I again must own my weakness. I am mortified-painfully, deeply mortified! How shall I ever remain my own self-respect?" 
               "Time, my sweet child," replied my aunt, as she affectionately embraced me, "is the great restorative. You have the beauty of the soul, my dear, which shines when all other beauty lies dead. I feel for you, tenderly and truly, but I honor you for these heroic struggles that have been working in your own silent breast. I find you are not a weak, purposeless girl, overwhelmed in the one great sorrow. I can assure you of ultimate success. Sorrow deepens the affections when it is not nursed as a selfish idol, while it exalts the spirit and enlarges the sphere of our better sympathies. You, Lucy, will yet learn to look back upon this dark dream and see it as a season from which to date a strength of character, a firmness of purpose for which you will be grateful all the days of your life." 
               These words were most soothing and gratifying to my bitter self-condemnings. I embraced my aunt with fervor, and resolutely wiped away the last tear from my eyes, as I said, "now, aunt, I am myself again." 
               We were about preparing to retire, when we were suddenly startled by a loud knocking at the outside door. What could it mean. My uncle, Mr. Erwin, was not expected home for some days. We were quite alarmed, and were about waking up the servants for help, when it occurred to my aunt, that Mrs. Ward or Mary might be worse, and this was a messenger from them. We at once opened the door and found it was indeed so. A violent hemorrhage of the lungs had supervened, and it was feared that Mrs. Ward was dying. 
               My aunt was ready in a moment. I felt that I must accompany her. I could not be left behind. We set out on foot, both for safety and expedition, over the ground we had ridden in the morning. The way was long and dismal. The rain had ceased, but the wind swept drearily through the deserted roads and, streets, and the lamps waving with the gale and struggling through the mist, made the gathering gloom still more oppressive. My aunt was much affected, and her tears flowed fast as we hurried on. A long two hours' travel brought us to Mrs. Ward's. When we reached the house, we found that lady, much to my aunt's relief, still living, and able to express by looks, her gratitude for the presence of her friend. There was an anxious expression in the death-like countenance, which did not escape the notice of the true-hearted friend; but she well understood its cause. It was not the fear of death that disturbed the last hours of the fast failing woman. She had too long contemplated its certain approach, to be unnecessarily alarmed when its messenger really came. No; it was the remembrance of those she must leave that thus embittered the good woman's last thoughts-her poor husband and Mary. 
               "Do not grieve," whispered my dear aunt; "your husband shall be tenderly watched, and Mary henceforth will be my care. I will guard her from every harm. She shall be to me as my own dear child." 
               A convulsive sob which she could not restrain, here choked her further utterance; but the gentle pressure of the cold, damp hand, and the look of love from the still meaning eyes, told how deeply the soothing words had been appreciated. 
               With an appearance of great relief, the silent sufferer soon sank into a quiet slumber. My aunt still held the cold hand and watched the labored breathings of the sleeper. Her own heart was sad and heavy. She could not yet endure the thought of parting from this long tried friend. Here was one to whom she could unbosom every thought of her soul, and knew it was sacred in her keeping, while she was cheered and supported by her judicious counsels and ready sympathy. How then could she live without her? 
               There are friendships, where mutual sympathies and communion of sentiment bind the loves and warm affections more closely than do the nearest ties of consanguinity. 
               I felt for my poor aunt, as she sat by that departing friend who had been the dear companion of her childhood, youth and maturer years. "Oh, must I lose her," she whispered in my ear, "my dear, dear loved one!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               
                  THE day was just dawning, as Mrs. Ward once more opened her eyes, to smile upon, and thank her faithful friend. Her voice was feeble, and her breathings were short and interrupted. She asked to have her bed drawn to the open window, that she might once more look upon the rising day. My aunt put back the curtains, and lowered the window, for the admission of air. She raised the dying woman gently on her pillows, and wiped the dripping hair from the now clammy temples. 
               "How refreshing, dear," were the whispered words; "I live again! The sweet air fans me to rest, rest, rest. It is all that I need. The falling shadows pass gently. Can it be death, this calm, this painless exhaustion, Martha?" 
               Her friend could only answer with her tears. "Weep not for me, dearest." The words seemed to exhaust her, and she again, passed into a momentary slumber. When she roused, a sweet smile was on her face. "A moment since," she said, "and I was resting on the thin vapor of yon bright cloud; but I am now so weary," she murmured as if unconsciously, "so weary." Her eyes closed heavily for a few minutes, when again she roused, but this time to a fuller consciousness. "Where is Mary? Let me see her-oh, do, dear child!" 
               My aunt endeavored to soothe her, and said, 
               "I will bring her soon; but at present you had better remain composed. You seem a little stronger-only be careful and this danger may pass off, and you will recover." 
               "Ah, no, dear Martha; I never felt thus before!" and she laid her hand across her breast. "Let me see her once more, do, I pray, I entreat. And my poor husband, oh, keep him away-do not alarm him!" 
               My aunt could not resist this appeal for Mary's presence, and hastened to prepare her for the interview. She found the poor girl in a state of the utmost anxiety and suspense, but ready to control her feelings when told the necessity of composure in the presence of her aunt, at the least excitement in that perilous moment might prove fatal. 
               "Must she die?" she asked piteously. 
               "We will still hope, my dear," was the calm reply of my aunt, "but the most perfect quiet must be maintained." 
               There was no danger of Mary's trespassing where another's welfare was concerned. A loose wrapper was thrown around her, and my aunt wheeled her easy chair into the next room by the bedside of the invalid. 
               Seeing her thus, in all her helplessness, was too much for the dying saint. She partly raised her head, as if to speak, but fell back instantly. A slight struggle followed. Aunt Martha quickly raised her, but to no purpose. All was still. 
               Poor Mary! how hard your fate! to be even denied that greatest of all consolations, the last spoken words of the dying loved one. 
               "Not one word, dear aunt-not one word, even to bless me!" cried the desolate girl. 
               She kissed again and again the cold hands and face, and clung convulsively to the lifeless body. Poor girl, her grief was beyond relief. We tried to comfort her, but our words fell powerless on her frenzied ear. This, however, could not last; her poor weak frame could not long battle with such intense emotion, and it was almost with a feeling of relief that we observed her sinking back, faint and exhausted. 
               We bore her to her room, and as we laid her upon the bed, nearly as lifeless as the body of the departed we had just left, we almost prayed that she, too, might be taken, and spared the anguish of returning consciousness. My heart sickened when I thought of her coming back to the dreariness and agony of this utter loneliness. But her trials were not yet over; her work of suffering was not yet done. Life came as an unwelcome boon; and yet when our efforts to restore her were crowned with success it gave us joy. My aunt confided her to my care, and left the room to attend to the last sad offices for her departed friend. 
                
               The presence of a great power is felt when death is in the house. The shaft is invisible; we know not where it may again be felt; and we cannot but think the dissolution exhibited before us may be the prelude to our own-there must be a next one-and who is it? The lifeless body shows us ourselves as we shall be. From that doom there is no escape. Thus death must humanize; it levels us into a general brotherhood. We all expect the same fate, and no earthly power can dissolve the fraternal tie. There was a melancholy expression upon the face of the dead; a look which in sleep would have denoted the passing of some painful thought; and as I still gazed, it seemed to my dreamy imagination as though it might speak of a continuance of sorrow to the living. Did it mean Mary? Did the spirit depart in such a realization of sorrow as to leave this deep impression on the usually serene countenance. I feared it was so. The last moment was convulsed with apprehension for the future of that beloved one; and to the far-seeing vision of the dying her fate was, perhaps, unveiled. 
               The lifeless form was cased in its last narrow bounds. Flowers pure and lovely were wreathed around that fading brow; but it did not please me. I do not like to see flowers around the dead. It seems as a mockery, as bloom and, brightness contrasted with decay, as would a gladness in the midst of deepest sorrow; it jars my sense of fitness, and takes from that solemn dignity which death always reveals. 
                
               But at length these ceremonies were over. Dust was returned to dust. The mourning throng returned to their homes; my aunt and myself were left alone with the sole surviving relatives, the husband and niece of the departed. We both remained through the night, when we were most unexpectedly awakened from the sound slumber of fatigue by the nurse, who told us that Mr. Ward had just been attacked by a severe fit. We were up immediately, and had assistance called at once; but nothing could save him. He was not even restored to consciousness, and thus died without being aware that the long loved wife of his youth and maturity was gone before, to meet him on the borders of that eternity they had always hoped to pass together. 
               There were reasons why my aunt did not at once remove Mary to her home. Her husband was still absent, and she felt some hesitation in taking such a step without first acquainting him; indeed, Mary had seriously objected to doing so until he was first consulted. Mary's intuitive knowledge of human thoughts had made her fear that my dear aunt's warm impulses had led her into doing that which might not be altogether agreeable to her husband; so she resolved in her own self-sacrificing nature that no trouble should come to her best friend through her. Throwing her arms fondly around my aunt's neck, she said on the day after the funeral, "Do, dear Mrs. Erwin, forgive me if I prefer, staying here till Mr. Erwin's return, and if I do not rest on a certainty that your house will be my future home till I receive his invitation, also." 
               My aunt's looks showed that Mary's words had chimed in painfully with her own reflections. 
               "I fear I have given offence;" said poor Mary, much stressed. 
               "No, my dear child, don't think so for a moment. I was only dwelling on your words. Perhaps it is best to have it as you desire; we will wait." 
               Mary afterward, when we were alone, said in a low, but decided tone; "Lucy, your dear aunt shall never have a moment's uneasiness in her family through me, if I can help it. I would sooner, and I will, go to that home, to which as being poor and dependent I am entitled." 
               "The home to which, being poor, you are entitled!" I repeated, "I do not understand what you mean, Mary." 
               "It is no matter;" said she. "I will do very well for a while. They say it is humble, but I do not care. I shall leave it soon, for one so beautiful; indeed, and one that will be permanent too; where I shall meet my father and my mother, and my dear aunt; and I shall be there to welcome you with so much love, and your dear aunt, too, when you are ready to come." 
               I now understood that the temporary home she meant was the poor house; and I laid my head down on the pillow, where we literally mingled our tears. 
               In comparing this girl's trials with mine, how truly insignificant did my own appear. How much my contracted views of life had expanded with this new experience. I seemed to have lived years within the last few weeks. With Mary's real sorrows, I earnestly sympathised, and they had taken the place of my own imaginary ones. I realized fully that which my dear aunt had truly said to me, "there is no better cure for a pained heart than to crowd in the burdens and cares of another." Mine had been comparatively a painless existence. With health, indulgent parents, plenty of friends, an abundant home, and a cheerful, unreflecting temperament, how could I know but by report that actual suffering existed? Neither is it strange that when a trial did come I thought it was the greatest ever known, or that when I felt myself slighted for a fairer one, I should think that nature had been unkind to me, in not forming me as beautiful as she. But I was cured. I no longer thought my first sorrow the greatest the human heart could endure. I could now by its purifying effects, feel as I had never done before; and the stirrings of my own heart told me we might find pleasures elsewhere than in joy and gladness. 
               After the first paroxysm of despair, Mary again resumed her usual placid manner. She did not complain, and even avoided speaking of her griefs, from the delicate fear of obtruding them to our discomfort. But we knew each night, that her heart rose in gratitude, for another day was passed; and she was still nearing that union for which, every hour of her life, her heart so ardently longed. 
               In a few days my uncle, Mr. Erwin, arrived safely at home; although much fatigued, and quite unwell from the effects of a severe cold. My aunt was, of course, fully occupied for some time in taking care of him. She had avoided mentioning the affair to him until he had fully recovered his health and spirits. I had left Mary for an hour one evening, and on returning home my aunt informed me that she had communicated to her husband the painful occurrence which had transpired during his absence. She did not tell me his reply, but her countenance betrayed disappointment and anxiety. 
               "Surely," said I, "my uncle has not refused a shelter to sweet Mary." 
               A sigh, a deep drawn sigh seemed to relieve her oppressed heart. "No, my dear; I cannot say that. Still, I think it will not answer at present to bring her here." 
               "Not answer to bring her here!" I exclaimed overwhelmed with indignation. "I could not have believed my uncle would be so insensible. Has he a heart of stone, cruel man?" Thus I continued to pour out my invectives, till I was suddenly checked as I looked at my aunt. Her grave, but sad countenance at once rebuked me. 
               "Thank you, Lucy; thank you, my dear, for your ready sympathy. Your uncle does not intend to be cruel; but his feelings are not interested as ours are. It is an unspeakable comfort to me, Lucy, to have your companionship at this time; and I think I may rest assured of your ready cooperation in any plan I may adopt for Mary's welfare." To which I smiled a warm assent. 
               "I cannot blame myself," she continued, "for what I have done in offering Mary my protection; and I am sure your uncle, had he been in the same circumstances, would have done this too; and perhaps a great deal more, but his indifference does not exonerate me. I cannot press the subject any more on him at present, but something must be done immediately. I have been pondering over, and agitating in every possible manner for the last few hours, the best way to come at the means to at once make the poor girl comfortable. 
               "I have thought of one plan, but it mortifies my pride very much to adopt it. I will mention it, and hear what you think. 
               "There was a class of us school girls very intimate in early life; Mary's aunt and mother were among us. A few are still living and married; most of them in affluent circumstances. I thought perhaps their early remembrances might dispose them to an interest in the offspring of one of their number, and to them it might not be indelicate to apply for assistance which, added to my own would enable me to do all that is requisite at once. I confess, Lucy, I do feel humbled to the dust at the thought of doing this thing. It seems almost like asking for myself, or as if it was, a wrong to Mary;-loading the poor girl with obligations to persons who may not feel the delicacy they ought in their intercourse with her. But what else can I do? Can you suggest any thing, Lucy?" 
               I declared my total inability to do so; but thought that this plan might be made available,-there need be no publicity about it; I was sure a hint to the ladies would be sufficient to prevent anything of the kind. "Let us try it, then, my dear aunt," I urged, "I am ready to do anything I can." 
               "Well, my dear, this evening I will write a few notes, requesting those ladies to meet here; none of them live very far distant You can have the carriage in the morning, and while you are delivering them I will go and sit with Mary." 
               When Mrs. Erwin sat down by Mary's bedside the next day, she tried to assume an air of cheerfulness that was quite foreign to her heart; but the quick eye of the intelligent girl at once detected the counterfeit, and as quickly conjectured its cause. How deeply painful this was to her nobly independent nature! but she concealed her feelings, and with a pleasant smile said she had something to tell her dear adopted mother; a request to make. 
               "Ah! what is it, my dear?" was the kind response. 
               "Rachel has been here-you know Rachel? She says I must go to her home and make her a visit. She will not hear to an objection. She will make me a bed in her own little room-the room we have so often admired for its neatness. She now takes home her sewing, and will be with me all day. She complains of being lonely, and promises that if I will read to her, she will sing to me. She has it all arranged; and I said if you were not unwilling, I would go to her for a short time-and-had I not better go? will it not be best, dear Mrs. Erwin?" 
               Mary was about as unskillful in the practice of deception as was Mrs. Erwin herself, and the "Is it not best, dear Mrs. Erwin?" though it began with a smile almost ended with a scarcely suppressed sob. 
               There is nothing more deeply painful to the really sensitive mind, than to be obliged to receive favors when it has not the means to make a return; and still more when we must receive from those who cannot well afford to give. Mary always forgot her own acts of goodness, and never considered them as entitled to a return, or else she would have remembered that this Rachel owed her present comfortable home to herself and her Aunt Ward; that it was through their efforts she had been raised from sickness and neglect, to health, industry and respectability. But she could only think of the burden and expense to the poor woman, and the painful humility of taking from those little comforts that were so hardly earned. 
               Mrs. Erwin read on her speaking countenance all that was passing in her mind, and endeavored to turn aside her own answering thoughts, by saying, 
               "I have no objection to this visit, Mary, provided it be only for a few days, as it will be but a short time before arrangements will be made for your permanent settlement. To-morrow, then, I will come with the 
                     carraige
                     carriage
                  , and take you to Rachel's." 
               "Mrs. Erwin did not tell her that she had that morning received a notice from the present owner of the premises, Mr. Ward's nephew, desiring Mary's removal at once. 
               When I had delivered the several notes, I called at Mary's. She was conversing quietly with my aunt when I entered; but the countenances of both were shaded by a profound melancholy. At parting Mary attempted to express a regret that she was the cause of so much anxiety. But my aunt soothed her tenderly, 
               "Mary," she said, "If you had not become thus dependent on my care, perhaps I would not have had this great pleasure of loving you as I do now." 
               On our way home I informed my aunt that I had delivered her messages, and had a personal interview with all the ladies except one, Mrs. Vernon, who was with her family at their country-seat a few miles from the city; but a servant promised to forward the note immediately. They had all promised to be present but Mrs. Talbot, whose delicate health does not permit her to leave the house. "She made many kind inquiries about you, and at her request I related the particulars of the matter you hinted at in the note. She appeared deeply interested, and said she would do all in her power, and communicate with you as soon as possible." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               
                  AT an early hour the following morning, after my message to the ladies, we were sitting in the parlor, my aunt and myself, momentarily expecting their promised visit. Before they arrived, and while we were waiting, a friend of my aunt's made a hurried call. 
               She said, as she entered; "do not ask me to sit down, I pray;" and with a sort of entreating, apologetic manner, she still continued to speak quickly. Her little Augustus, she said, was very unwell. She had no idea, until she came out, that the air was so damp and chilly; she must hasten to his school, and beg the teacher not to allow him to go out that day. 
               "Dear me," she continued, "I must be off; I am afraid they will be negligent; he will have his sore throat again. And there is our Lillie. I noticed that her face was exceedingly flushed this morning. There are so many fevers and diseases about, I am kept in a continual nervous dread. Dear children! when will my cares cease? Our physician, a most excellent one, says that my little ones are peculiarly organized. Their constitutions, he assures me, he has made a particular study. He is invaluable in such a family as ours; but I must be off!" 
                
               She was going, but returned. 
               "Oh, can you tell me where I can find a first-rate seamstress-one that is very quick and neat? She must be healthy, also, and willing to apply herself continually. I am about to dismiss the one I have. She refuses to sew in the evening; and my dear children must be prepared at once for the country. I fear smallpox, or these spring fevers, and cholera may come." 
               Again she turned to go, but came back a second time. 
               "And can you help me, also, to a dress-maker? I spent nearly all the mornings of the past week looking for one; but they are so busy; and Kitty's and Amelia's dresses must be made up immediately. I could not sleep last night, thinking what I should do. Help me if you can; do." 
               But my aunt could not enlighten her in the least. My own feelings were so much interested, that I almost felt disposed to offer my own services to assist her all I possibly could; and I was a little astonished at my aunt's want of interest in the poor lady's perplexities; she was always so full of kindness and sympathy; but before I could come to any definite conclusion, Mrs. Arnott, for the third time was on her way to the door. 
               As she was passing out, she turned quickly back. "Oh how is Mary, the sweet niece of our old friend? Would that I had time to see the dear girl! Good bye!" and she was gone before my aunt could even answer her. 
               I turned rather impatiently, as she left, and said, "why, dear aunt, did you not mention to Mrs. Arnott the expected visit of these ladies? she might have been induced to stay; and then she could not help being interested in Mary. She appears to be all feeling." 
               "She is, indeed, my dear, as you say, all feeling, and conscientiously sensitive in all things. She would not, knowingly, harm the smallest creature. She strives to do her duty and live beyond reproach; but unfortunately her world is comprised in a very limited space; and what we all consider among our highest and most sacred duties, the care and culture of our families, she considers about the only one. Her strong parental affection, combined with rather a weak mind, blinds her judgment and warps her sympathies; and thus these finer emotions, with all their powers, that ought to flow understandingly wherever human life is, are closed within the mere surroundings of self, or next to self, her children; their energies expended on useless alarms and insignificant details. Do not think, Lucy, that I fail to appreciate the value of a nice attention to details in every thing we do. I am aware that we cannot accomplish anything truly great without the filling up being complete, and finished in all its parts. Many a grand idea has been lost, because it was presented in a crude and slovenly way. I only take exceptions to this frittering away our lives on them alone. Mrs. Arnott could not assist us. We should have her sympathy; but it would be mixed up with so many fears; she might be neglecting something; or she might be running ning against the interests of her family in some unimaginable way. It would only confuse her; and I know it would 
                     embarass
                     embarrass
                   me." 
               As we were speaking, the ladies began to assemble, Mrs. Blakely, Mrs. Hartly and Mrs. Ward. 
               Mrs. Blakely, who entered first, was a most lovely woman. Her complexion was rather pale, and her soft brown eyes were full of melancholy tenderness. Her age might have been forty or forty five; but her slender, upright figure; fair skin, and abundance of glossy hair, gave her a much more youthful appearance. Her dress was unusually simple, but very becoming. A muslin morning robe, with lace frills, a light scarf, and the straw bonnet filled with lilac blossoms, completed her attire. Altogether, her appearance was very attractive. I was unusually prepossessed by her appearance, much more so than by the ladies who immediately followed. Mrs. Hartly and Mrs. Ward came together. They appeared to be on intimate terms, if I might judge by the familiarity of their tone and smiles as they entered. 
               Mrs. Ward had been a personal acquaintance of Mary's aunt and mother in their youth; and, strange coincidence! she was now the wife of one of the nephews that inherited all Mr. Ward's property. These nephews had even shown a perfect indifference to their uncle's welfare; and through his long depression and their aunt's incessant, anxious cares, they had never offered even one word of cheerful sympathy. But Mrs. Erwin thought she had a right to hope something better from their wives. As women, they must feel with their own sex; and this one, in particular, as might be supposed, would be more than usually interested, from early friendship. 
               Mrs. Hartly was an unusually fine looking woman, full of healthful life, with a commanding exterior, that carried such a power with it that it made one feel as if nature is sometimes too partial. On her smooth, white brow, not a line of care was perceptible. She must either, I thought, be without feeling, or else her life has been one of smiles and sunshine. Still, her countenance was far from pleasing. There was an easy assurance in its glare, that expressed full confidence in herself; and yet there was a watchful suspicion in the eye, that implied distrust of others. The off-hand style that was natural to her, seemed to be tinctured somewhat with a defiant feeling, as if she would say, "don't attempt to entrap me. I am fully armed at all points." 
               Her dress was sumptuous, rich and elegant, and in the fullest extreme of the mode. Both the ladies had all the air of fashionable life, although Mrs. Ward was of very different personal appearance, being rather plain, and her manners more artificial. There was studied effort in all her movements, formal and yet dignified. Her dress was hardly so elaborate as her friend's; but it was quite as expensive-less showy, but more perfect in taste. I looked at her eyes, so cold and calm; and yet it seemed as if they perceived more than did Mrs. Hartly's with all their restlessness. Altogether, my feelings were mixed, and rather unpleasant. I was more repulsed than attracted by these ladies; and yet I hardly knew why. 
               After the usual compliments of the morning, my aunt introduced the subject nearest her heart, and the one that had induced her to call them together. She spoke of their early acquaintance, and of the length of time since so many of them had met together. She also named those that were gone, and in the most feeling manner expressed her desire to enlist their sympathies for a descendant of one of that number, a daughter of Mrs. Leonard, their once pleasant companion, known to them as the lively, cheerful Mary Upton. They all remembered her with the most pleasant impressions. My aunt then described the situation of her daughter, our sweet Mary, and dwelt on her many virtues, her noble efforts for the support of her parents, her talents, her estimable goodness, patience and resignation. 
               "Not that I think it necessary," she added "to enumerate these admirable qualities in order to enlist your sympathies in the sufferings of a fellow being, and one, too, of your own sex; but that I may pay a just tribute to the dear girl's many virtues, and also interest your affections, as well as your sense of right." 
               There was silence for some moments after my aunt had ceased speaking. 
               Mrs. Hartly was the first to break its repose, by asking what was expected of them. 
                
               "We are seeking means to provide a suitable support for this young person. It may not be long;" continued my aunt, "that we will be called upon to do so. Her life is very precarious; and her present situation would indicate a sudden close. Still, the physicians say she may live many years; and we would be obliged to make our arrangements accordingly." 
               Silence again followed these words. No one seemed at all disposed to speak, till Mrs. Hartly with her usual impatience, rather abruptly said; "You had better have invited our husbands to accompany us. They hold the purse, you know." 
               "I am aware of that," said my aunt, without hesitation; "but we wives, though much restricted, can sometimes manage to save a little. There is something we can personally do. Sacrifices we can make; and for such an object they will become pleasant; and these many littles, saved by a number of us, may make enough." 
               "Do not include me among the number," said Mrs. Hartly, who always seemed to have words at command. "I can assure you, I never have anything to spare. I need all I can get, myself. This manage, manage, manage, forever manage! I am sick of it! I long ago made up my mind that I would not be cheated out of my proper enjoyments. The world owes me a living. My husband need not have married me, if he did not expect to support me; and as long as he has a shilling, I shall spend it. I have no ambition to be known as one of your benevolent philanthropists. My philosophy is, that if we want happiness, we must keep out of the way of misery. It is enough for me to take care of myself. We, who have families, have sufficient to occupy all our superfluous sympathies." 
               "Such reasoning may do," answered my aunt, "when the world goes well with us; but when it does not, I think we would hardly like these sentiments to prevail." 
               Mrs. Hartly's countenance showed that she was considerably irritated by this answer. She was evidently one that could not bear to have her sentiments criticised in the slightest degree. She could be exceedingly rude, too; for she at once replied, with considerable asperity; "Since you compel me, I will speak plainly. I must say you have no right to call on us in this way. Mrs. Erwin has a large establishment, and abundance around her. The little that this girl would need, would hardly be missed where there is so much. It might not come so prominently before the world, but it would be just as good a deed;" she added after a moment, with a peculiarly bitter look and sneer. Oh, how indignant I felt! I could scarcely restrain my voice on hearing my dear good aunt thus insulted. But she only showed by the sudden flush that passed over her face, that she had noticed this unfeeling speech, while she answered that the case of Mary involved the expense of a proper nurse, and skilful medical attendance also. 
               "There are public hospitals for such cases," retorted Mrs. Hartly. "We who have wealth are taxed sufficiently to sustain them. This is the only way I can help her." On perceiving the answer that was about to be made, she said, "Those that are to be the recipients of our bounties must not be over nice. It is but our commonest duty to fit ourselves for the position that Providence has been pleased to place us in." 
               "What a blasphemy! I muttered to myself. "Why," I thought with bitterness, "are these stereotyped expressions and weak judgings of the pleasures or displeasures of an Infinite Wisdom thus tolerated? Could I but speak!" I whispered to my own excited fancy. 
               But my dear aunt was wiser than I. She but turned to Mrs. Ward, who sat next her; when that lady, with one of her blandest motions, signified that it would be altogether impossible for her to do anything. 
               "It certainly would give me great pleasure to assist in the support of this young person, in whom you take so commendable an interest; but you, my dear friend, know we have other calls on our feelings. Our highest efforts point to the well-being of the loved ones at home. You know the wise saying, that 'he who neglects his own household'-But I see I need not finish the quotation. For their interests, I am obliged to sacrifice my own personal feelings and sympathy in such matters." 
               "I cannot see," said my aunt, "why the spreading out of our sympathies a little, need interfere with our devotion to our families. Indeed, I think the spirit of love is such a positive element, that the more we draw upon it, the more is revealed of its interminable resources." 
               "Ah, my dear Mrs. Erwin, I fear you do not understand the mother's heart-an undivided love! The sacrifices of a life!" 
               "Humph!" said Mrs. Hartly, in her abrupt way, with an incredulous shrug; then directly added; "Your husband, though, has acquired considerable property by the death of this girl's natural protectors." 
               "Pray do not mention that again," interrupted Mrs. Ward, with a haste rather unusual in her. "I suppose you allude to those houses, that are my husband's, by the death of his uncle, Mr. Ward. It is with us a sensitive subject. My husband feels that his interests have been so entirely neglected since his uncle was unable to attend to his property, that he feels it is unjust. Repairs have been neglected. Everything has been going to ruin, so that now, when it comes into the hands of the proper heirs, it is hardly worth accepting. So you perceive, my dear madam, we are already heavily taxed by this inheritance." 
               "Hoity, toity!" exclaimed Mrs. Hartly, with a natural burst of real indignation. She had a heart although it was too much imbedded in the crust of worldly selfishness. "Ha! ha! This is indeed a new idea! Heavily taxed! Oh, if Mary's case were mine, I would apply a match, and level these houses one after another with the earth, and let the angry winds drive their ashes to every quarter of the globe. Yes; if I were that young girl, I would fill their grounds with mines and pitfalls, that would explode, with every step, beneath your feet! No rest or peace should you have, night or day, beneath the shelter of their walls." 
               "Fie, fie! you incendiary-you wicked woman!" said Mrs. Ward, with a playful smile. "But wait till I see my husband, I will tell him of this." 
               "Do, do! If you do not I will. He shall hear a piece of my mind. That I am determined." 
               I had feared there was going to be an open rupture between these two ladies; but my aunt told me afterward; when I spoke to her about it, that these little outbreaks were not at all unfrequent. It was not Mrs. Ward's policy to break with her friend; so she parried these home thrusts, as the mere jests of an eccentric genius; and, indeed, she was hardly as susceptible to such repartee as some with more moderate pretensions. She had just that extreme of self-laudation that makes us insensible to insult. It is only these half-assured people that are forever fretting and fuming about want of attention and implied inuendoes. 
               With Mrs. Hartly, my aunt said, these shewings up as a general thing only served to gratify her mischievous propensities. But this morning she appeared to be truly in earnest, although she seldom allowed these good impulses to remain long. She was a woman fond of pleasure; void of strong principles; with a careless unreasoning reasoning mind; not much prone to either good or evil, but taking things as they were, provided they did not interfere with her present enjoyment. Even for Mrs. Ward my aunt had not utter condemnation. She considered her constitutionally insensible, and hardly responsible in matters of feeling. Her sympathies were so defective that she had but little in common with her fellow beings; she could be indifferent, and even cruel, without being aware of it. 
               But they were preparing to go: 
               "Come, you incorrigible creature!" said Mrs. Ward, after another of her friend's sallies; "We must not trouble Mrs. Erwin with our nonsense; and you know we have a number of calls to make, and some shopping yet to do before dinner. So we must be off." 
               And with many professions of regard, and hopes they would soon meet again, the ladies retired. 
               It was now so pleasant to listen to the sweet tones of Mrs. Blakely's voice, as she said, 
               "I loved this dear girl's mother sincerely. It was a long and true friendship for such young people. It almost seems a pity that our older associations and later ties should obliterate these warm first impulses of early youth. Even now they come as a dream, and bring a freshness to the soul that fills it with the hopes of better things. It is like a vivid flash of light through the somber hues of night. Does this girl resemble her mother? Poor child! what can I do for her? I almost feel to complain when I find myself thus straitened and powerless, I mean pecuniarily, when I desire to help the needy, and when my judgment presents so many ways in which I could so well advance and ameliorate some of the interests of humanity. You understand me. I allude to the position of my sex in these matters generally, and to the opinion and sentiment that conceives it best to close us in. We are somewhat misunderstood. A more generous and trusting policy would develop our higher and better qualities; we should be all the better wives and mothers for the larger liberty we should then enjoy." 
               "I agree with you fully," said my aunt; "a juster and wider diffusion of the wealth there is in the world would bring greater prosperity to all. We have good authority for saying this; some of our best political economists assert the same thing. But I rather think," she added, with a smile, "that they have hardly extended their ideas so far as to bring us, as wives and mothers, within their lofty range, and give us aa interest, as independent beings, in all that they believe to be of so much importance. But you must not, my dear Mrs. Blakely, trouble yourself if you have it not in your power to help me with Mary. I have your best wishes, I know. I am strengthened and encouraged by your kindness to renewed effort. I thank you, with all my heart, for again giving me faith in the true nature of a true woman." 
                
               "Indeed," said Mrs. Blakely, "I shall not rest until I have devised some plan to materially aid you. I would rather do it nobly and at once, as my heart would prompt; but as I cannot, I will then do the next best I can." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               
                  THE receptions of the morning ended, we prepared to visit our sweet Mary, and remove her from the home endeared to her by so many fond and cherished associations. We called on Rachel first, and found her ready and anxious to receive her honored guest. We had placed soft pillows and a gay boquet of flowers in the carriage, to make it seem as though it were but a pleasant visit we were about to pay; but it was hard to deceive ourselves. I could hardly restrain my tears, and I saw that my dear aunt was struggling with constant emotion. Mary, when we met her, appeared, outwardly, much more composed than either of us. 
               Before her final departure, she earnestly requested to be carried to the little sitting room that had been the morning resort of the family ever since her earliest recollection, so that while there, within its sacred precincts, she might live again for a few moments in the never-forgotten remembrances of the past. My aunt at once acceded to her desire, and with my assistance, gently placed her on a sofa or couch, in the center of the room. It was a neat, tastefully arranged little retreat, that room, full of many home elegances and comforts; its one large French window opened on a garden filled with flowers and vines. Oh, I thought to myself, how hard! Must the dear girl give up everything? But it was with other things than the decorations or beauty of the room that she was absorbed. Her eyes wandered round, then looked, with meaning, far off in the distance. "The spirit of my dear aunt is with me," she whispered in a scarcely audible breath. "The pure, heavenly influence of the sainted soul lives in this very room. Oh, come to me." She stretched forth her arms as if to catch at the loved embodiment, and then the head dropped on the nearly unconscious breast, as if in dreamy repose. 
               Back, back went memory and relighted those avenues of hope, and joy, that had seemed almost dimmed forever. 
               How sweet and peaceful had been the hours spent in that little room. Friends had met there, whose quick, intelligent fancies had added swift wings to time. Where were they now? Where the fond parents? where the children joyous and full of love? where?-echo answers where. It was here she had first learned that sweet word cousin, from rosy lips now silent and cold. She saw herself again a little tattling thing, led there, and the joyful shout of recognition, "our little cousin" still sounded in her ear, and an involuntary start brought her back to consciousness. There was that room before her still, with all its quiet arrangements, much as it always had been; there was no decay perceptible anywhere; while the living, breathing forms of intelligence that had been its ornament and pride, were now mouldering far away in the silent tomb. "Strange mystery!" murmured Mary, "and I am here alone! Oh, come back to me, I cannot bear this any longer!" 
               To divert her attention, I began to remark on the different articles of furniture in the room. She at once roused to an interest, and gave me some account of every little minute article. That richly carved escritoire, with its scarlet stuffed chair, looking so cosy in front of it,-it too, had its story. Her aunt had told her it was the first piece of expensive furniture they had indulged in. Her husband had seen it, and was so fascinated by its beauty that he purchased it when he was well aware that their means would hardly admit of such an extravagant luxury. "But then," said Mary, brightly, "the many personal sacrifices they were obliged to make to get matters right again, but endeared it to them; it became an object of affection, as my dear aunt and uncle always connected it with their early loves and struggles, and my aunt during her husband's long illness, would never allow any one but herself to touch it. She reverenced it as something peculiarly her own, as if it was yet a fond link between the past and the present." 
               I asked whose was that portrait, hanging upon the wall, pointing to the head of a fine youth, which seemed to look eagerly out of, the canvass upon the little group in the room. Mary could not answer me. The tears now flowed fast. I said nothing to check them, I knew they were salutary to one whose heart was indeed nearly full to bursting. 
               Under the picture, on a small stand, lay a flute and some music. I felt that they had belonged to the original of the portrait. I took up and examined a beautiful work-box inlaid with silver, with the letters E. W. to S. W., marked on the lid. This no doubt was a gift from Mr. Ward to his wife. Then there were cases of carefully selected minerals and shells, and stuffed birds. There were the toys of young children, and the works of more advanced youth; a painted screen, and samplers and embroidery in narrow gilt frames. I tried to trace the hand that had wrought them, but alas! that was vain. 
               I felt relieved when my dear aunt entered and said tenderly to Mary that all was now ready. She had been busy putting up some linen and other things for her comfort. 
               I had dreaded this last moment with a trembling fear; but much as I knew of the dear girl, I was hardly prepared for the firmness with which she took my aunt's hand, and said, "I am ready." She was truly a brave girl, and had a strong, resolute heart, that was strangely in contrast with the delicate, shadowy form that enshrined it. She was lifted into the carriage. We travelled slowly, for the slightest motion was painful to her. Our way was through dingy streets and by-ways before we arrived at the court, or narrow lane where Rachel dwelt on each side of this court-way were high buildings. Rachel lived at the extreme end. Her humble abode was a small, neat room on the second floor. She came out at once to meet us, with her most cordial kindness; indeed, if a warm and sincere welcome could have covered the wants of her simple home, hers would surely have done so. 
               Mary was carried back, and up the stairs, and laid on the narrow cot in the room. As she lay completely exhausted on the white sheet and pillow, she seemed almost as dead, so breathless and 
                     statute-like
                     statue-like
                   she was. My dear aunt sat down by her, and gently fanned her, and with her soft handkerchief wiped the moisture from her sweet face. I could scarcely keep from sobbing aloud. It was long before she recovered so as to open her eyes. 
               "Courage, courage, sweet love," whispered my kind aunt, "but a few days and you will rest in my own home, and I will take you to my heart as a dear lost child. Cheer up, my own Mary, you are not apt to be so despondent; you must live to pay me for all these heartaches you give me." 
               Mary's eyes brightened into her sweet smile, as she said, "Could I but live, oh could I but live! with what earnest devotion, my more than mother, I would repay your kindness." 
               "And you shall live, my dear child. Believe me, there is yet joy for us." Still we wept; it seemed as if we could not part. With all my endeavors I could not be composed; even the carriage as we returned home, I felt as though my heart must break. I continued to sob most bitterly. Was it a premonition? Ah little did I then know I had beheld that lovely face, and kissed those sweet lips for the last time. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               "I WISH," said Mrs. Talbot to Bridget, her housemaid, "that you would come up stairs when you have leisure; I want to pay you quite a sum of money." 
               When Bridget came up, Mrs. Talbot counted to her nearly two hundred dollars. After she had done so, she said, "How is it, Bridget, that during the past two years you have drawn no money? Mr. Talbot handed me this, this morning, and insisted on its being paid to-day, that it might be off his mind." 
               "Why, bless you, mistress dear, you forgot the interest I have for that big sum of mine in the bank, that I have laid in these long years I have been with you. The interest of that puts more than all the clothes I want on my back. But," she added, "I am not going to use any of this myself, and had almost a mind to ask ye for it before. There is the widow Looney, who lives forninst the great gate of the Cathedral, whose husband died this winter, she says if she had money to buy some bits of furniture with, she could do well for the children by keeping boarders. And there is my brother Matthew, who has been so long bad with the fever, he wants a little tle to start something in trade with; so I will divide this between them, and the Lord's blessing go with it." 
               "Well, Bridget, you do indeed deserve to have money, for you make a right use of it. But pray tell me how much have you? you talk so very rich." 
               Bridget laughed and said, "I have enough, anyway to save my old bones, and let them rest the remainder of my days." 
               "I am glad to hear this. How long is it since you came to live with us, Bridget?" 
               "Just twenty-one years coming next Michaelmas. Master Edward, that is now dead and gone, was then a sweet baby, three months old." 
               "Aye, even so. How time passes. Can it possibly be so long," she added with a sigh. "But, Bridget, it gives me pleasure to look back upon the harmony that has existed between us, and I give you my warmest thanks for your constant, faithful services." 
               Bridget was quite overcome. The door bell just then rang and some one wishing to see Mrs. Talbot, was shown into the parlor. On going down, that lady at once recognized an old friend, one, though, whom she had not met for many years. Their path through life, of late, had been very different. Mrs. Field's fate was that of too many in this ambitious world. Married early in life, a short prosperity, followed by misfortune, then sickness then widowhood and penury, with a large, dependent family, was the losing of her married career. She had come at that time, she said, presuming on their former friendship, to ask a favor, a very great favor. Her eldest daughter was intelligent, and had both activity and taste. She had been advised to have her taught a particular kind of embroidery, which was very much in use, and is likely to remain long fashionable. It commands, she said, an excellent price; and her work alone, would bring more than we all can earn at present, by working all day, and sometimes all night. Besides, she could teach her sisters, and then they could work together to great advantage. But to do this, we must either give my daughter's time of six months, which we cannot spare, or else pay twenty-five dollars for the privilege of learning; in which case she receives wages from the commencement, and you, my dear Mrs. Talbot, are the only one on earth to whom I dare apply for such a sum. 
               This was a case that applied at once to Mrs. Talbot's warm, benevolent feelings. To assist and encourage her fellow beings through their hard struggles in life was her dearest pleasure. Could there be a more fitting object than the present? But the difficulty was she had not twenty-five dollars that she could at once say was her own. The generous spirit within would with pleasure have advanced the sum, and felt obliged to Mrs. Field for giving her the opportunity to do a right action, was forced to pause and study the most plausible phrase in which to form a refusal. 
               But still, how could she do then this? and how could she whose eyes were now wandering over the carpets, and cushions and curtains of those richly decorated, sumptuous apartments, and viewing her own careworn aspect, and faded scanty garments in mirrors reaching from floor to ceiling, believe that the mistress of all these luxuries had not twenty-five dollars at command at any moment? 
               Neither had Mrs. Talbot the heart to make her understand it. She felt that she must get this amount for her at all hazards. So with kind and encouraging words she said she would mention it to her husband in the evening, and hoped by morning to be able to hand it to her. 
               This took place on the same day in which Mrs. Erwin had sent her the note concerning Mary. What destiny was it that brought all these demands together? for that afternoon she had still another call for aid. 
               This time it was her brother-her poor, unfortunate brother. 
               "Margaret, my sister, I am come to ask the first great favor of you." 
               "Oh, Richard, what is it?" she asked, with dread; What can I do for you?" 
               "Much, Margaret," replied, the deeply repentant man, "I know I have been a disgrace and a heart-break to all my family; but I am resolved to change. I will leave these corrupting associations, and far away among strangers begin life anew. I will yet make myself a name that you will not be ashamed of. Yes, I will. But to do this I must have a few hundred dollars. I have entreated the different members of the family to loan me the necessary sum; but they have refused and spurned me from them. They will give no heed to my promises. Oh, God! how cruel they are! But, Margaret, you are not like the rest-you never were like the rest! You will help me. I know you will." 
               "Richard-my dear brother Richard! indeed I should never weary of helping you. I know you well; you are but weak-not wicked. I would pray for you; I would help you to strength, I would never despair, I would ever hope for you, but where can I get money? that is an utter impossibility." 
               "Your husband is rich, and none belonging to you have ever before asked anything from him. I want but a loan, he cannot refuse you such a slight request. Do not shrink from the task," he still urged, as he saw her hesitate, "for I think it will save me. It is the only thing that will." 
               "Say no more, Richard, say no more; you shall have it, if it is possible for me to obtain it." 
               Poor Mrs. Talbot, she did indeed shrink from this task with a painful horror. Nervous and restless, she wandered about, the remainder of the day, hardly knowing what to do. She thought of many expedients to get this money, but none seemed feasible. Sometimes she resolved to borrow it, but then the thought, she had a husband reputed rich, how strange it would seem to others; it certainly would injure his reputation. Thus she fretted, and struggled, and tried to fortify hope, till she was thoroughly sick. Mrs. Talbot's health was in a very precarious state; many outside of her family knew this, and conjectured that her life would not be much prolonged; but her own immediate family did not perceive it; she was so uniformly cheerful and uncomplaining that they never for a moment apprehended danger. 
               It was late when Mr. Talbot came home that evening. He had been detained by the transaction of some important business. The family were all retired to rest, so they partook of their social evening meal by themselves. Mr. Talbot was one who had a keen appreciation of these home enjoyments, and this evening he seemed possessed of an unusual degree of satisfaction. 
               "I have been very busy to-day," he remarked after saluting his wife, and telling her they were about the happiest couple in the world. "I have been unusually busy to-day, my good wife, in bringing some difficult matters to a close. You remember my connection with that western affair, which you rather urged; not exactly urged, but encouraged me to engage in? Well, it is through with; and most unexpectedly. I am some thousands richer for it. I have to-day been making an estimate of all I am really worth, and would you believe, it counts up the nice little sum of--thousand, in round numbers. But, Margaret, I will not say I am worth this; but we are worth it. You have had your full share in the hard grubbings, and it is but right that you should have your share of the pickings." 
               Mrs. Talbot was more than happy. "Dear husband," she said, "there is a great pleasure in the possession of riches, if we but make the right use of them. Indeed, I think the pleasure they may bring in using them as we ought far more than compensates for all the sacrifices we make in acquiring them." 
               "Certainly, certainly my dear, very true; I experienced this to-day when our poor friend, Wilson, came to me looking haggard and pale with terrible anxiety, and begged my assistance, and when I gave him my check, and bade him fill in the amount he required, I can assure you the pleasure that then warmed my heart far more than repaid me for many, many anxious hours." 
               "I can believe it;" answered the good wife, with true exultation, for her heart beat responsive to all he said, "I can believe it, and I am so happy to hear you express such sentiments; they are my own truly. Wealth as a means of usefulness is indeed a great blessing." 
               "Well from this time forward I am determined to work less, and live more, and enjoy what I have." 
               "Your remarks my dear husband, prepare the way for some urgent requests that I have to make." 
               "Ah! what may they be? anything in reason I am always ready to grant." In reply Mrs. Talbot detailed with much feeling the occurrences of the morning Mrs. Field's visit, and the note she had received from Mrs. Erwin, she still hesitated in naming her brother, she hardly knew how to bring it about. 
               Mr. Talbot admitted that these were cases of great interest, "but really I have done as much as I properly can afford at this time, in assisting our friend Wilson today, we must remember to be just to all, and not let our sympathies run away with our judgment, I say this my dear, in all kindness, because I notice in you, sometimes, a weakness that way." 
               "But think of these girls! See how much a little encouragement may do for them at this time. It is hard, this life of unceasing drudgery-my whole soul perceives its dangerous effects; and in the young, health, mental activity, and even morals may be injured by it. Think of this-and then think of the trifle that may avert all this for them-and let you prosperity flow where now depression chokes up every avenue of life." 
               "True, true: we may reason thus forever, till every penny we have on earth is gone, and what better off will the world be for it? We must have a limit, and whereever that limit ceases, let us extend it as we may, we will always come upon some such urgent case to tempt us still on; so I must take this matter in my hands, and stop where prudence tells me to submit." 
               But this would not satisfy Mrs. Talbot; she still urged her request; repeated his own proposition, that she was in justice entitled to some ownership in what they had so long struggled for, and had been so favored in attaining. 
                
               "I have no doubt," she said, "indeed I am well aware of your generosity in kindly assisting all who come within your reach. Let me have the same sacred privilege; let these charities come from my own liberality. I will use discretion, I can assure you, and you will find that I do not always let my feelings carry away my judgment." 
               "Oh! wait till I am gone, and you will have plenty-I will leave you a rich widow, and you can then do as you please." 
               "Do not jest. I can have no anticipations of pleasure if you are not with me to share them; there is no probability, hardly the shade of a possibility that I will outlive you; let me do now what I ought. I have the most intense desire at present to relieve these people,-how shall I speak of still another case that harrows my very heart? There is my poor brother-I do so want to help him!" 
               "Do not name him!" he replied, impatiently; but the faithful sister entreated him to listen to her hopeful tale of the erring brother's solemn resolutions-his promises-his penitence. 
               "Pshaw! for these promises. I have no confidence in them. Excuse me, but I must say he is one of the most worthless, good for nothing scamps I ever met with. I certainly shall not throw away my money on him." 
               "Try and be patient, and hear me," said Mrs. Talbot, entreatingly; "I do believe: that this will make a turning ing point in his life, and that a little kindness and trust may save him now he thinks so himself." 
               "Nonsense, nonsense! I don't believe a word of it! He is trying to make a fool of you he would not talk so to me-he knows better." 
               "But I dare not refuse him-his look and actions are so despairing." 
               "You need not fear-I know him better than you. There is no danger; he will not hurt himself; he only wants to frighten you. I know him well." 
               Still she pleaded: her feelings were too much interested to be silenced. 
               "Indeed," she said, sadly, "I shall feel as if I am too ill used if I cannot help him." 
               Mr. Talbot's patience was becoming exhausted, and the last expression of his wife irritated him. 
               "Ill used!" he repeated, "I believe it is somewhat as they say-there is no such thing as satisfying a woman! I can discern but little of ill usage here-nothing to do but enjoy such a home as this!" and he looked around at all the rich display of elegance and taste about him. 
               "Oh no, no! I entreat that you will not think I am complaining-that I mean any thing of that kind." 
               "It was but to-day, he continued, without heeding her interruption, "that I paid the bill-fifteen hundred dollars-for that group of statuary I bought for you." 
               "For me, did you say?" 
               "For you, to be sure; I did not want it. You appreciated ciated its exquisite workmanship and beauty so much that I was induced to purchase it for you." 
               "And it is mine-mine alone?" 
               "Certainly." 
               "Is it possible! Then, my dear husband, this relieves me from all difficulty." 
               "What do you mean?" inquired Mr. Talbot, much mystified. 
               "I mean," she replied, so absorbed in her own pleasing reflections that she did not notice the darkening gloom on her husband's countenance, "I mean that I can dispose of that group of statuary, and I will relinquish it most cheerfully, I can assure you. Its price will do all that I want. Our neighbor, Mr. R.- you know, was exceedingly chagrined when he found that he could not get it. He will purchase it gladly, and give all we paid for it, at once." 
               The clenched hand brought down upon the table with such a force that every thing rang again, first awakened Mrs. Talbot's attention to the true state of her husband's feelings, 
               "Are you mad?" he exclaimed, "What is the meaning of this? Sell that group of statuary! here, in my own house! I dare any one to do it! Know you not that this is mine-everything is mine-and only mine! even to this"-picking up some small articles lying about, "and let any one at their peril lay a finger on them without my authority." 
                
               The time for reasoning was now past; all else that was said in the heat of angry passion only complicated matters. 
               Poor Mrs. Talbot lay weary and restless, all through the hours of that long dreary night, her heart throbbing and aching,-aching, aching on. What should she do? Oh, could she but labor and toil, how glad she would be! Could she even, like her own Bridget, get the wages of her work to save those she loved, nothing else would she ask! But she was helpless and powerless; hemmed in on every side. She tried to sleep and banish these thoughts from her mind, to be grateful in her heart for her many blessings; but she could not. The pale face of the widow would rise so beseechingly before her; and that youthful companion, whose helpless child she must slight; she even remembered the very words with which in their girlish confidence they had vowed everlasting friendship; foolish dream! And her brother-oh, that hardest pang! that brother once so beloved-how proud she was of him then! how handsome he was, so full of boyish life and joy. But now the dark present! See his pitiful, degraded aspect-he looks distrustfully upon her. The excitement,of her spirit became too distressing. She could not bear the sight of the luxury about her, which the pale light of the shaded night lamp revealed. 
               "Rather let me share your misery, my brother!" she almost groaned aloud. 
                
               The morning found her much exhausted, but she arose, and during the early part of it endeavored to dictate a few notes. One she succeeded in finishing for Mrs. Erwin, and directed Bridget to send it immediately-but that was all she could do. A faintness and dizziness seized her, and when Bridget returned she found her lying on the bed, nearly insensible. A moment more, and her brother came; he would go to the bedside. 
               "Margaret, what is the cause of this? Speak to me sister! Don't you know me?" 
               She looked at him languidly, "Know you?" she repeated faintly. 
               "Margaret, Margaret, this will drive me mad! Speak to me, for God's sake speak to me!" 
               But the wandering mind could only hear the last word, "Speak to me-speak to me;" she said. 
               "Oh God!" cried the unhappy man, "I am the cause of all this! I feared it would be so," he rushed wildly from the house, all Bridget's entreaties could not hold him back. 
               Mr. Talbot was at once summoned home. Physicians were sent for, and everything that skill, tenderness and love could suggest was promptly done. Mr. Talbot and the doctor never for one moment left the bedside of the sufferer. Their anxiety was at last relieved by seeing her sleep profoundly. Anxiously did her husband wait the result, counting each moment of rest a favorable omen; watch in handle he hailed each pulsation as a precious boon. An hour passed, and another was waning; he held up his watch exultant to the physician- 
               "Two good hours of sleep!" he whispered. 
               But he had scarcely finished the words when his wife stirred uneasily, and raised herself quickly, shrieking, 
               "It is he! Help! help!" 
               "Who?" 
               "Richard, dear Richard! Oh, help him!" she shuddered, "How pale he is-his long hair is dripping wet-his eyes are wild. Oh, in mercy help him! He is gone; he is dead!" and she sank back faintly on the pillow. 
               In a few days Mr. Talbot followed his wife from their pleasant home, but returned without her. Weary and heart-sick he reached his dwelling, no longer a joy to him. He had left her who was its light asleep by her brother, amid the silent stones and fragrant flowers. Alas! what was his home to him now? Sorrow was everywhere his companion, and desolation sat throned in his heart. His only consolation was the remembrance of the gratified wishes of the dear lost one; his bitterest pang the recollection of those which were left unfulfilled. 
               Thus, as his hours were spent in lonely communings many and strange thoughts came to his mind. The strong sympathies and warm affections of his wife were well remembered; and it seemed to him, alas, too late, that if they had been more fully gratified, she might have been still healthful and physically strong. But these active principles of her nature were thrust back on her own soul, and their cravings destroyed the elasticity of her being; so that, heart-sick and sore, she could only languish and die. "Oh could I but live my life over again!" he would bitterly exclaim; "I held her in gilded chains. I thought their brightness would satisfy her every desire. But she is gone; I know her better now than I did then. Would that I could live my life again!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               
                  WHEN we returned home, after leaving Mary at Rachel's, my aunt found two notes on her table. One was from Mrs. Talbot, written that morning; filled with regret that she could not join her in assisting the daughter of her old schoolmate and closing with a wish to see my aunt, adding this clause, "for I am ill, very ill indeed." 
               The other note was from Mrs. Vernon, requesting my aunt to call on her next morning. 
               "It is but a pleasant drive;" said my aunt, but I feel discouraged, sadly discouraged. "I hardly know whether to go or not. What do you say, Lucy?" 
               I thought she had certainly better go. "Do try every way, dear aunt," I urged, "you will feel better satisfied, I am sure." 
               "Perhaps so, my dear," she answered rather despondingly, "so, if you will accompany me, we will be off immediately after an early breakfast to-morrow morning. But I assure you I do not feel over sanguine." 
               "I have heard a great deal of Mrs. Vernon," I replied, "from one who formerly knew her,-but I believe, aunt, that you were at one time very intimate. I hear she is rather eccentric." 
                
               "I think not; if she is eccentric it is the eccentricity of an ill-regulated mind. She was always peculiar, I must confess, and followed her own caprices without much regard to the feelings of others; but it will hardly do to judge our maturer years by the folly and waywardness of our youth. She may have changed, and I think she has. Report does say, though, that since her present elevation-for her husband is now immensely rich-she is still more haughty and overbearing; but I do not believe this. She is one, I think, who would he more subdued by prosperity than adversity. Her indomitable spirit would hardly bend under adverse circumstances, but it might yield where all admitted her superiority. She was ever variable and inconsistent, I admit; but there was a rich store of numerous good qualities left, and her tenderness and compassion might well redeem many other failings. 
               "Harriet Inslee,-her name when I knew her best-was a truly noble girl; her many traits of character were strong-even strong, if I may use the expression, in their weakness. She ever chose extremes-there was no middle way for her. She loved or she hated, she approved. or she condemned. Her talents were of a very high order, but she trained them for no good practical purpose. She lived in a sphere of her own creation, and all who did not reach this ideal she regarded as legitimate objects of contempt. With a kindness of heart which made her lend a willing ear to a tale of sorrow, and even urged to self-sacrificing efforts to give relief, she was yet wanting in that full benevolence which is the fruit of the highest love, teaching us to reverence the human being in whatever circumstances he may be placed, because we look upon him as God's own, and would not dare to despise any of his works. Justice, with her, like love, was limited, but where felt she was unyielding in its exactions; high minded in her honorable feelings, she would turn with abhorrence from a known wrong, but she had not that nice, discriminating sense of right which would make her just everywhere. Her personal feelings might too much influence her judgment sometimes. 
               "Frank and impetuous, yet was my young friend suspicious and wary. She had not that knowledge of herself which would have served as a key to unlock the intricacies of other minds. If deceived in one she trusted, she was then doubting and unbelieving in all. Few of her age had so many enemies. Incautious in her remarks-uttering crude thoughts just as they originated in her ill-disciplined mind-she was forever giving 
                     ofence
                     offence
                  : even her best efforts to conciliate were often miserable failures from this cause. 
               "Still, we, her companions, admired her, and were gratified by her notice, although we came to know that such notice bore its cost. In our first acquaintance, unfortunately for me, I became one of her favorites; and, as usual where she preferred, I was placed on her highest pedestal. As maybe supposed, my elevation was comfortless fortless, and my fall certain. At first I was exceedingly flattered by the partiality shown me, and submitted with an excellent grace to all its exaction-it is so pleasant to suppose we are the object of an unusual, attachment-but I soon found it was not to be all pleasure; she made me feel that her friendship was a gift which the devotion of my every faculty would scarcely repay. I must be her slave; give up all right of free thought, expression or action; I must think with her, feel with her, love those she loved, and hate those she despised. Before my intimacy with her, life had glided on smoothly enough. I had loved all, and all had loved me; so that these distinctions I was obliged constantly to make, were made with a very ill grace, while she was constantly checking me, and, with a patronising graciousness, endeavoring to overlook my many delinquencies. 
               "Thus we maintained for a time a highly dignified exclusiveness; we mixed with no others; still I was erring, and she forgiving. But I was losing much of my fear for her, though she had great sway over me; and when she would point out my many deficiencies, and speak of the pain I was constantly giving her, my tears would flow without reserve, although I could hardly tell why, and I was but too happy to make any reparation, and ask forgiveness most humbly. Thus, my chains were forever being tightened, till I at last only lived in an oppressive sense of obligation to one so sacrificing and forgiving in her love for me. 
                
               "But this could not last long at my age. It became as a nightmare to my soul; everything was distasteful to me; I had but one longing desire, and that was for freedom; to be myself again-to love those that I loved, to sport and laugh and romp as I pleased. This silent assumption of authority, too, was becoming very galling. And yet I had nothing tangible to complain of; it was but a manner that irritated me; I felt as if I was fretted and harrassed under a constant insult. 
               "One day, being exasperated beyond endurance, I broke through all restraint, and upbraided her without stint. 
               "She called me ungrateful. I replied that she mistook herself as much as she did me; she could be the gracious patroness, but never the sympathising friend. She had made me to know that it was not gratitude I owed; that it was not the love of me, but the love of power that influenced her actions. "Yes! I added, I can now see that you have used every means to break my spirit to your own proud will, but henceforth I scorn such restraint. I will be my own mistress!" 
               "She was very angry: and when my own ebullition of passion was gone, I was ashamed of myself, and felt that I still loved her. I could only, now, think of her manly kindnesses, and, truly distressed, would fain have entreated that all might be buried in oblivion. 
               "But the air of cold civility which she so constantly paraded before me forbade any concessions from my pride, and we parted. I have met her since a few times in public. She has always recognised me with much kindness. Mary's mother told me-for their acquaintance continued for some years longer-that she improved in every respect as she became older. Their intimacy extended into their married life, and this makes me the more desirous to see her, on Mary's account. So to-morrow morning, we will leave early." 
               The next morning proved to be a delightful one; one of those so common in the early days of June. The air was pure and exhilarating. The plants and shrubs were wet with dew, and the tall trees, robed in the bright green of their first spring attire, were swaying to and fro in the lazy breeze, scattering their glittering moisture and diamond showers on the rich sward below. When we had crossed the noble stream, part of our way lay near the river side. The blue waters were covered with small craft, whose whitened sails glistened in the early sunbeams as they scudded swiftly before the light gale. Soon we came in view of magnificent dwellings, many but just discernible through the luxuriant foliage of immense trees; a pointed roof, a turreted tower rising here and there; just enough visible to excite the fancy and carry away the imagination in delightful revery. 
               "What a beautiful world we have!" I exclaimed with enthusiasm. 
               "Yes, my dear," replied my aunt; "and were we but as free to enjoy, as it is to impart enjoyment, then we should be happy indeed; but to be able, Lucy, to accept the highest happiness, we must elevate ourselves to its best conception. 
               "It is evident that the untutored savage and the cultivated member of a civilized community have very different ideas of what constitutes happiness; so we might suppose, as the intelligences still march, advancing on it we would still continue to have our different perceptions of what true happiness is. We look out on the physical world, and behold its wonders in air, earth and sky, in its lightnings and its storms, and only glory in power that brought forth so stupendous a creation, and governs its magnitude by such uniform laws; but there was a time when men, wise men of their day, even sages and philosophers, looked out with the same eyes, and only viewed these elements in their workings as relating perhaps to individual events, or as harbingers of a great success, or direful calamity; or they might, as they were often supposed, be the avengers, carrying ruin and instruction in their path. But wisdom, guided by truth, has lifted us out of this selfish application of such momentous power, and the intellectual mind has gained a corresponding dignity from such elevation. 
               "In the understanding of the emotional, the affectional, a moral laws of being, there has not been as broadly marked an advance as in the intellectual. There are my reasons for this-the fetters are not so tangible-besides the moral teachings begin earlier in life, till they are interwoven with every thought: and thus we so reverence, with filial regard, these early precepts that we dare not question their genuineness; and thus we live. But earlier or later the truth must come: and when the mind is lifted from this mere personal idea of happiness, and able to look out on the broad, beneficent laws which govern it, then we may find that happiness is not at all what we supposed it to be-that it is not a mere sensational thing, but has its foundation in a more universal principle of right,-But here I am, my dear child, moralizing, while you ought, to be enjoying the attractive sights and sounds about us." 
               I assured my aunt that it was my greatest pleasure to converse with her. And it was truly so: I loved to listen to her words, and the sweet tones of her low, rich voice. 
               As we neared Vernon Place, the ground became much elevated, and a magnificent prospect spread itself whereever the eye turned. 
               The mansion itself was of elegant exterior, and was placed in the center of extensive grounds. The carriage gateway opened, and we drove up to the house on a broad, gravelled way. Leaving the carriage we ascended the high stone steps, and entered a vestibule lighted from above by a dome of richly stained glass, whose bright colors in the trembling rays of the noonday sun, were dancing on the pure white marble floor beneath. 
               A servant approached, and in answer to our inquiries for Mrs. Vernon, guided us through a wide hall, and opening a glass door stepped aside, ushering us at once into the presence of the family. 
               There had evidently been some mistake, as Mrs. Vernon came forward, and apologised for this unceremonious reception, and desired the servant to take us into the drawing room. There were strangers present, and the large table in the center of the room was piled high with various kinds of rich stuffs. The explanation of this was that they had just been brought from the city for the family to make selections. 
               My aunt requested that they would continue their purchases, and that we might be allowed to remain in the room, as it would be a pleasure to look at so attractive a display. Mrs. Vernon assented, and introduced us to her daughters, but not to her husband, who was also present. 
               For myself, I felt more disposed when they were all fully engaged to study the countenances of those present than to dwell on the texture of the silks and laces before me. Mrs. Vernon first engaged my attention, being the most conspicuous-looking person in the room. Her bearing was particularly dignified, and her style of rich morning dress peculiarly becoming. I gazed perfectly charmed. But as I gazed the charm seemed to vanish, and I saw only features-beautiful they were indeed-but filled with scorn and passion, cold and supercilious, as if no thought of love or tenderness had ever trembled there. There was indeed the beauty of a dazzling glare, but not the beauty that captivates the soul and wins us unconsciously to on admiration blended with the deepest respect. 
               Mr. Vernon next fixed my thoughts, and here I was more puzzled than ever. There was not so marked an individuality about him. He was very gentlemanly in appearance, and his whole manner, at first glance, gave rather the impression of quiet mildness than anything else. But a closer observation dispelled that feeling, and soon my whole system involuntarily recoiled as I still continued my examination. There was a fixedness of the eye, and a deep drawn furrow of the brow, that gave the impression of dark purpose and intense malevolence. Even when he turned to me and with much courtesy made a few remarks, I still shrank from him. Those eyes what could there, be in them? Was it fancy? There was doubt and suspicion around me; I longed for a breath of fresh air. Yet I was interested. I soon began to find myself experiencing a feeling of pity for him, and quite wondered at his continued blandness of demeanor. His wife's manner towards him was almost rudely sharp and cutting. If he handed her a piece of goods, or offered an approval, she would toss the articles from her, and turn from his remarks with the most chilling indifference; and I felt the more, as I saw that he was sensible of this. While she was perfectly self possessed, he was evidently ill at ease, and quailed under her every action. I could not understand these things. 
                
               His daughters he treated with consideration, sometimes approving a choice, but seldom dictating. In this whole family there was a want of naturalness that was truly embarrassing. There was much of what may be termed high breeding, but hardly that finish of manner which consists in a delicacy of perception which makes us intuitively know what is due to others. It was more the formality which marks a circle round its pretensions than the genuine good breeding which is but an improvement on the principles of nature, constraining our ruder impulses, and refining and cultivating the good. 
               The young ladies were handsome, but not so fine-looking as their mother. As to their characters, there was no possibility of getting the slightest clue, every feeling was so concealed beneath an utter impassibility of countenance that the keenest, I think, must have been foiled; and with me, it was quite a new phase in my habits, taking notice of these things at all. 
               The purchases being completed, and the young men gone, Mrs. Vernon rose and seated herself by my aunt, desiring, with marked emphasis, to be made acquainted with the business to which she owed the pleasure of this visit. 
               My aunt's manner showed hesitation; she felt delicacy in bringing Mary's name, and her wants, before so many. Mr. Vernon and the young ladies, with great consideration, at once rose to retire, but Mrs. Vernon would not have it so; she waved her hand to her husband to remain main; she would rather he would hear what her friend had to say, "So at once if you please, Mrs. Erwin." 
               The manner was exceedingly abrupt, and my dear aunt's heightened color showed that she felt it keenly, but she did not hesitate any longer, and with very few words expressed all she wished to say. There seemed a blank thrown over her feelings, as if she anticipated the reply, and had not the energy to throw any persuasion into her statement. 
               Mrs. Vernon, with scarcely restrained impatience, heard her through, and then remarked rather hastily that it would be utterly impossible for her to take any interest in this young girl; indeed, she would prefer not to hear another word about her. My aunt at once rose to leave, when Mrs. Vernon expressed her thanks for this visit, and with chilling courtesy handed us over to a servant to show us out. 
               Mr. Vernon had engaged me in conversation while the ladies were talking, evidently not wishing to appear to hear what was said. He followed us to the door, with much deference, and helped us into the carriage, still I could scarcely refrain from an exclamation of relief when he was out of hearing, and my poor aunt relieved her feelings by bursting into tears. 
               "Oh," said I, "How can any one living in such a beautiful home and such surroundings be so hard-hearted? I could not help feeling tender and loving to every thing! Indeed she is the most cruel woman I ever saw!" 
                
               I found it difficult to find language to express the anger I felt, so I went on, not much caring what I said. 
               "I am sure, aunt, it is not because she cannot afford it that she did not help poor Mary, for I never saw such extravagance! Such quantities of goods she bought, and such expensive things! it was really incredible." 
               "Lucy," my dear aunt at last replied, "I am truly sick at heart: I cannot even think what it means; it is all a painful disappointment. Can this Mrs. Vernon be really my former associate? Whatever else she may have been I never expected to see her in the character in which I saw her to-day. I had thought from the qualities she once possessed that when tempered by experience, and under the softening influence of home loves and duties she might perhaps have developed into a character which would have been an honor to her sex. But there must be some inexplicable cause for this change, to make her seem, as it were, a stranger to herself. I will not judge her yet; so let us drop the subject, and store it away among the memories we wish to be forgotten." 
               My aunt from this time until we reached home remained in silent meditation. 
               At the door of the house, as we drove up, I perceived a carriage and horses standing, but it did not attract my particular attention, although it had the appearance of having come from a distance, as the horses looked jaded, and the wheels of the vehicle were covered with mud. My aunt also noticed it, and wondered what it could mean. Still I had not curiosity to stop and make inquiries, but passed immediately up to my room. 
               My aunt, however, entered the parlor, as she was told a stranger was there who wished to see her. In this person, as he approached, she at once recognized, as she afterwards told me, the young man whose unexpected appearance had filled me with so much agitation, on the day we were returning from our first visit to Mrs. Ward. 
               He presumed, he said, that he was addressing Mrs. Erwin, and was truly sorry to inform her that her brother, my father, was seriously ill, being suddenly prostrated by a severe paralytic attack, and that his wife, my mother, who had been rather unwell for some time, was so much alarmed by it, that it had caused dangerous symptoms to appear, and it was thought best that Miss Lucy should be summoned home. It would be better, he said, for her to leave immediately, as the case was very urgent. 
               My aunt desired that he should first take some rest and refreshment, but he declined, saying that they had better leave at once, as they would travel all night. He had left orders for horses at the different stations, so as to push on as rapidly as possible, it was so necessary that Miss Lucy should be home without any delay. 
               As might be supposed, I was completely stunned when my dear aunt told me all this, and but for her efforts, I could not have made the exertion even necessary to throw on some outside garments, it was so sudden, so unexpected. I was bewildered; I could hardly comprehend the full extent of the painful news I had heard, and then to leave my sweet aunt that I had learned to love so well, it was like an anxious dream, and it was long before my poor troubled heart could cease its painful throbbings. I had sobbed on her neck, and held to her garments till my companion with kindest tenderness entreated me to remember the necessity of haste. I felt his consideration and tried to master my feelings, and it did require an effort. There was a more than common sympathy between my aunt and myself. She had strong womanly affections, and unusual vigor of mind; her influence over me was unbounded. Happy for me that I did not then know that many, many years must intervene before I would again listen to those loved counsels, feel the pressure of that gentle hand, or look into the purity of those clear bright eyes. Well, indeed, that I did not know it, or I could not, surely, have borne the burden of the changed life that was now to open up before me. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               
                  SO, dear reader, Lucy has gone from us, and I as a faithful chronicler, will endeavor to take her place. Many strange and unlooked-for events will occur, and much time elapse before we shall hear from the earnest, warm hearted girl again, but we shall hear from her again. Her life could not be dropped without the ripe lessons it was to yield. Her aunt felt deeply the loss of her companionship at this time; her warm sympathy in the difficulty in which she at present found herself involved, had endeared her exceedingly; it was as a common bond of union by which they came to know each other better than they ever could under any other circumstances, and they found much to love, one in the other, very much indeed. 
               In Lucy, her aunt had discovered the valuable endowments of a mind that had been partially concealed by the volatility of thoughtless, indulged inexperience. The little trial of the heart she had so lately passed through, had brought out her true character, and given a breadth, and more thoughtful direction to all her worldly aims, and she was now the sedate adviser, as well as the bright young companion. Even those quick resentments so natural to her temperament and common to youth, had been to her aunt a pleasing charm, momentarily diverting her mind from painful thoughts, and giving fresh impulse to sometimes disappointed drooping efforts. Now that she was alone, she felt this keenly; she seemed to have lost half the inspiration that had urged her on, and made her ready to bravely meet all the difficulties that came in her way. 
               But this would not do; she was not one to succumb to mere feeling, duty urged her to immediate action. Mary must be at once placed in proper circumstances, and she must make such provision for these circumstances, that they might continue as long as they were needed. The idea of bringing the poor girl to her home and taking care of her there, she abandoned, for reasons that in justice to all, she felt she was not at liberty to transgress. So, what was next best to be done? 
               A remembrance quick as thought suddenly revivified her mind. It was but a few days previous that a former acquaintance, one who had gained considerable literary 
                     noteriety
                     notoriety
                  , and was in the successful operation of her plans had called on her and made some very flattering offers for the purpose of inducing her to join in an enterprise that promised immediate profitable results if the necessary means could be at once raised to make a beginning. This lady had a handsome sum at her command, the fruit of her own exertions, but it was not quite enough; and besides she required the assistance of some one of marked ability and character, and to Mrs. Erwin's many objections tions, among which was her protest against publicity, and scruples as to its propriety without the full and free consent of her husband, and whether, in justice, her time was really her own to do with as she pleased, she made answer that her name might remain in perfect silence, and never appear before the world; that her time would not be required only in the occasional production of an article in her own happy style, which would be but pleasant occupation for her leisure moments; and, added her friend, emphatically, "I must have you with me, so do not say another word. I will leave the matter for your consideration and call again;" naming a time that Mrs. Erwin now remembered, but in the multiplicity of her cares had till this moment forgotten was to be the very next day. 
               But this proposition that she had so freely laid aside, feeling that it was, impossible to meet its requirements, now came vividly before her with vastly increased interest, and the many ways it would answer her purpose at this time were discussed in her silent thoughts with sanguine hope. A cultivated employment of every leisure hour had always seemed to her peculiar tastes as comprehending a source of supremest enjoyment. And then the presumption that this might yield her a sufficiency to meet all these calls on her benevolent principles, was, of itself a sufficient 
                     stimulous
                     stimulus
                   to any effort. All that was now to do, was to ask her husband for the aid which he alone could give, yet she shrank from the task, although the sum of money she needed was no more than he would freely have expended at any time to give her a permanent gratification. But the well known habits of thought so common to all that shrink from giving our sex trusts of this kind, she felt would have to be combatted within him, as it would be with most others, so her heart indeed failed her when she contemplated these almost insurmountable barriers that would be in the way of any arguments she might advance. 
               Little did Mr. Erwin dream of the perturbation of his wife's mind, as he sat opposite her at the breakfast table, sipping his coffee and buttering his roll, while he occasionally snatched a paragraph and read it aloud from the morning paper beside him. 
               This is life-together and yet alone. No one can suffer for us. We may have the sweets of sympathy, that is as nourishing food to the famishing soul; but the individual pang, or the deep throb of pleasure, each one must feel for themselves. As two streams we course along, in close proximity but never mingling, each being a distinct creation, governed by the ebb and flow of is own current of thought. 
               So reflected Mrs. Erwin, as she sat there trying to fortify herself to the charge. When she did muster resolution to make the trial, it was to find that her fears of defeat were but too well founded. 
               Mr. Erwin could see no sense or reason in such a proposition. It was preposterous, nonsensical, and might be attended with the most disastrous results. 
                
               As for Mrs. Erwin, harassed and disappointed in every way, she was fast losing her usual equanimity, while she questioned with some asperity his right to make such remarks. 
               He was truly astonished, but only observed that she had her answer in her present unwarrantable state of mind. 
               Ah, why did not some good angel whisper peace? Unlike herself, she now became truly excited and with sweeping energy poured forth every thought of her soul. She was conscious of this, and yet she could not control the mastery of passion that was upon her. She was well aware that she was invading the mind's inmost sanctuary, and laying bare that which should forever have been buried within its sacred depths, still she went on; the chafed spirit would heed no kindly monitions of prudence, until at last she ceased as if from real exhaustion, and then she said, "What have I been doing!-but it is so hard to be forever frustrated in our dearest wishes! Cannot I even work for this dear girl I must protect?" 
               Mr. Erwin rose to leave; he felt himself too deeply aggrieved to make any lengthened reply. He merely said that he had now discovered the root of the evil. It was this girl who was the moving cause of all these visionary schemes. Ah! poor Mary, your unfortunate star was ever in the ascendant. He had noticed for some time, ever since he heard her name, a want of interest in usual duties, and a strange preoccupation of mind on the part of his wife, and that now an imperative necessity obliged him to insist on his wife's at once returning to her allegiance, and giving up this girl altogether. To a startled exclamation from his wife, on hearing this stern requisition, he coldly replied that he would sustain her honor by fulfilling her promises; that Mary should be supported as long as she lived-he would attend to that himself. But his wife must give her up, he would allow no intercourse whatever. 
               "I cannot though, I cannot!" said Mrs. Erwin resolutely, "Indeed if you have any pity, any love for me, you will not talk thus." 
               "This is mockery," he said with bitter emphasis, "to talk of love or pity after the involuntary expression of these long concealed sentiments of abhorrence." 
               "Do not misunderstand me thus," she beseechingly asked. 
               "I must be heard!" he said with impressive severity, not heeding her interruption. "I must be heard. This girl must be given up." 
               "I cannot do it." 
               "Then choose between us. For I here most solemnly and deliberately declare, that if you ever have any communication with her, ever leave this house to go to her, you must never return; from that moment we are strangers to each other, now mark my words. There is no passion, but a calm, fixed determination." And before Mrs. Erwin could recover from her consternation he left. 
                
               As the door closed, it seemed that every emotion in the breast of poor Mrs. Erwin was stifled within her. 
               She was stunned and stupefied. Her reason seemed deserting her. She could not think, everything seemed moving in a whirlwind of terror. It was merciful, perhaps that something came to lift her thoughts for a time from herself, or there might have been serious results. 
               A servant brought in a letter. To her great surprise it was from Mrs. Vernon, and its contents surprised her even more. It began thus: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "Dear Friend of my Youth: May I thus address you with any words of endearment? Our recent interview must indeed have grieved and pained you. Methinks I hear you say, in the bitterness of your soul, 'Would that I had never known her!' 
                           "But do not judge me hastily. I have sorrows-deep sorrows. Oh, in these times of softening I could weep my heart out! I have many faults; I have had many more; but had I not also some virtues? You my kind little mentor, in the justness of your indignation told me of these faults. You held the mirror of truth up before me, and I saw myself in it. And though I would not confess, yet your words sank deep into my soul, and I was benefitted by them. I began to study myself, to look at my motives, to think less of what was due to me, and more of what I owed to others, and I changed so that every one observed it. I then began to be happy. 
                           "I cannot bear that you, whom I have loved so well, and whose favorable opinion I have so ardently coveted, should think of me as heartless and destitute of every principle of humanity-still how shall I proceed? They say it is unwomanly to tell our griefs; it is more like us to caress the hand that holds us writhing to the dust. But if such be woman, then am I not one. To you I will speak. To your sacred friendship I will entrust the story of my wrongs, knowing I have your sympathy. Yes, I already feel comforted. 
                           "I married early, against the wishes of my poor mother, who told me that I was mistaken in the man I loved; but, ardent and impetuous, I saw no fault in him. To me he was the embodiment of all that was lofty and exalted, and marry him I would. I even thought myself unworthy to be the object of so much adoration as he then expressed for me. Oh, how I tried to be worthy of his admiration! But a change came; I will not trouble you with the details of its gradual approach; the scenes of strife and violence which led me at last to see, in all its bareness the littleness, the contemptibility of a soul that could thus take advantage of such devotion as mine to scourge its victim. But I hasten to reveal results as they now exist. 
                           "You have seen me surrounded by magnificence; but the poorest wretch that earns her mite, is richer, far richer than I. I am dressed, but it is as the furniture, to maintain the dignity of the establishment. My husband takes full charge of everything, and employs and directs whom he pleases. Even my children I am not permitted to control. I am but the necessary appendage to a complete household. 
                           "Sometimes in my despairing helplessness I become madly frantic, and threaten to break my chains, and expose such injustice. He tells me to do so, it will but injure myself, as nobody would believe me. 'Speak of your wrongs to the world,' he will tauntingly say, 'and they will hiss, they will jeer at you. They will tell you to look from your home of elegance, of beauty, of plenty, to the sinks of poverty and vice, and there seek for suffering and wrongs!' 
                           "Ah truly, the world knows of but one kind of poverty; it sees not the hungering, famishing soul, suffering for its nourishment of love, sympathy and kindness. Then again, when I say I will fly off, and in some retired spot strive to pass my days in peace, he will advise me not to do so; for if I go in that way I cannot claim anything from him, because I can prove no just grounds of complaint, 'and then you may starve,' he adds. 'What could you do? people would be afraid of you; they would shun you; they would say something must be wrong with the woman who would thus throw off all restraint, and desert the husband of her youth, and the children of her love. Husbands would caution their wives, and mothers would shield their daughters; even little children would be kept from you, lest you should contaminate their pure young souls. Need you wonder now that I hate?' 
                            
                           He will ask, "And how will it be with your daughters, your own lovely daughters, when their natural protector is gone? The voice of calumny may reach them; people would fear them too, as they might partake of their mother's weakness." 
                           "But this is not all. There is my mother, my poor old mother, that loved me but too well, and sacrificed all to educate and give me a position in the world. She is now dependent on the charity of strangers for a home, and I, her daughter, her only child, could not give her a shelter, not even a night's lodging were she lying at my door. Again I ask, need you wonder that I hate, that hatred is my element, the atmosphere I breathe? Marriage is called a holy institution, but this is its perfection as it is known to me. You may tell me my case is an exceptional one: it may be; but where is the justice that admits of an exception like this?" 
                           "But to return, I long ago resolved to remain with my daughters. No act of mine shall sully their fame, or ever bring a blush to their fair cheeks, or a pang to their young hearts." 
                           "Revenge is sweet; I sometimes have it. The scene of this morning was one of my triumphs. You cannot despise me more than I do myself when I think of these things; but I am degraded, lost-lost I fear forever, both body and soul. 
                           "I offer no apology for my rudeness to you, when on your errand of mercy. All I can say is, that my old selfish fish habit of acting the feelings of the moment, again possessed me-forgive me if you can. The poor have my sympathy; but that seems as mockery to offer, when I ought to give more. So, when they press their claims, I drive them from me; the sight of their misery does indeed make me mad. And thus, my dear friend, as I listened to your painful recital, I was stung to the soul. I wished to fly from your presence, and alone give full flow to my feelings. When you were gone I did so, I hastened to my room, and, in a paroxysm of terrible rage I paced the floor, I tore my hair, I called aloud for help. Help I pray! Was there none to pity, none to comfort me? I sank down exhausted; a dreamy unconsciousness passed over me; soft arms seemed to hold me up; and as I sobbed as a little child, the gentle soothings would again come, infusing love and peace into my stormy soul. Tender thoughts stole over me; an atmosphere of joy pervaded around, and as I revived to entire consciousness, I tried to remember the cause of my agony; but strange to say, as memory came, all sense of its bitterness was past. I wondered why I had felt as I did; my mind seemed elevated above the wrathful, mean, contemptible bickerings of life. Why did I attach so much importance to them? I resolved-but what will my resolves be worth when I return to these scenes of temptation? They ever drag me down to their own level. Pity me, pray for me! I would be good; I would desire to live up to higher conceptions of right, but I am weak, I fear myself. Oh, judge me mercifully, my friend! To you I have unburdened my heart, and the secret griefs of many years have freely made known. Your friendship would be a well-spring of joy to my soul, but I do not ask it; it would bring but sorrow to your loving soul, and could not help me. I must live on alone, yes alone. 
                           
                              Yours truly."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               A flood of tears in some measure relieved Mrs. Erwin's overwrought feelings. What a mournful retrospect, to dwell on this total wreck of human usefulness and human happiness! Here it was not mental power that was triumphant, but the mere material power which comes from without. 
               The law of wrong works both ways; it injures the character of the successful aggressor just as much as it does the helpless aggrieved. Mr. Vernon had determined to use his power to bend his wife to submission, but in doing this he basely destroyed all elements of manliness, and lost to himself and the great duty we owe to the world, he became the mere pursuer of a weak and helpless foe, dishonored and despised even at the bar of his own conscience. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               
                  BOB RUTHERFORD, a fine, sturdy lad of about ten or eleven years, was busily engaged in kindling to a flame some chips and shavings he had piled on a furnace, over which was hanging a small tea-kettle. This boiling the tea-kettle was usually the labor of the whole after noon; for with the usual improvidence of his age, Bob hung his kettle so high that it required a great deal of time and a wonderful expenditure of his light materials to bring about the desired result. 
               Bob was daily left at home in charge of his little sister Nelly, a child between two and three years of age, while their mother went out to earn their bread by day's work. The boy must have been something of a philosopher in his way, or he never could have endured the restraint of being confined within doors, looking after a little child, while others of his age were free to rove about and enjoy the wild sports of boyhood. 
               But Bob was used to hardships and sore privations, and had acquired the desirable faculty of gathering something of pleasure from even the most unpropitious circumstances. Bob was not one of these shrewd, doubting, wide-awake boys, who seem to have their finger ever mentally at their nose, as if to say, "Don't think to gull this youth." He had faith in every one. The very soul of truth himself, he never thought of suspecting other's truth. You might even have ventured to tell him, as the large snow-flakes were falling on a warm wintry day, that ancient legend, that in some remote region the old ladies were picking their geese and filling their beds, and in their hurry letting off a shower of downy superfluous matter, and still he would not have doubted you. Yet he was an unusually bright, intelligent boy. It might have set his earnest, innocent thoughts off in a maze, at the utter strangeness of the thing; but that would not impeach his faith in the narrator. But the great event of the day, for which every thing was shaped, was the expected return of his mother after her day's work. He was ever anticipating her pleasant exclamation, when she would come in wearied and tired, and find the hearth brushed up, the table set for supper and the tea-kettle singing merrily, just ready to bubble and dance. How eagerly he watched every sound as the expected hour came round. She was always sure, too, to bring something nice for this evening meal, which was enlivened by merry reports of the wonderful sayings and doings of little Nelly through the day. She, dear little creature, was never ceasing source of amusement to her brother, and all that he did was right in her eyes also. From morning till night, her little busy feet and hands were ever at work. She loved to have her brother whittle sticks and build houses with them for her to knock down; and when to vary the amusement, he would dress her head with shavings, and arrange them like ringlets around the merry, rosy face, it was indeed joy to hear the little one's scream of laughter as she viewed herself in the bit of looking-glass that stood in the window sill. And thus, to his warm affections, Nelly became a never ending feast of love. 
               The life of Bob would have been barren indeed without her. It would have been hard to know which endeared her to him most, her dependence, or her childish loveliness. It was touching to see his care of her, as he would patiently hush her to sleep if tired, and how he would close the windows to keep her from the draught, and watch her till she woke again. The poor mother, as she left every morning, gave such solemn charges concerning her, that he felt such a responsibility. "For you know, Bob dear," she would say, "that I should have no heart to work, were anything to happen to you or her." 
               On the evening to which we alluded at the beginning of this chapter, the sun was fast disappearing; even its reflected glare was fading from the whitewashed wall; it was dusk-then coming dark. The last pile of shavings was ready to be thrown on; still his mother came not, and Nelly was nodding wearied in her little arm chair. 
               "Nelly, Nelly! you must not go to sleep!" Bob would cry every few minutes, "Mother's coming!" The eyes would for a moment open wide at the welcome sound, but only to close more profoundly when it ceased; and the little chin, resting on the soft breast, would droop, till the anxious boy again strove to rouse her by his voice. 
               Bob was now becoming unhappy and apprehensive. It was very dark; there was no candle about; now and then he lighted one of his shavings, but the flickering light only made the loneliness more apparent; the tears were in his great eyes. "Oh, that mother would come home!" he whispered again and again, shuddering with an undefined terror. But hark! he knows that sound; she is at the gate, he knows just how she opens it; her footsteps are as familiar as his breath. He springs to his feet. He resolutely shakes Nelly to wake her up, with the joyful shout, "Mother is come, hurrah!" The few remaining shavings are thrown on the fire, and burst into a flame as she enters. Baby, refreshed by her short nap, runs to meet her, while Bob dances about in perfect ecstacy. 
               "Bless you, dears," said the loving mother, taking them both in her arms, "You are surely God's blessing, the comfort of my lone heart!" 
               Though poor, absolutely so, sometimes to the nearest verge of starvation, yet this humble household were rich, rich in the undying resources of warm, loving, abundant souls. 
               "Mother," said Bob, after they were a little quieted, "what was it kept you so long? I thought you never would come." 
                
               "Why dear, as I was coming by Rachel's, I thought I would stop in a minute, and I found the poor creature very bad. I'm afraid the fever's coming on her; she has terrible pains in her head, and all through her. So I waited to make her a cup of tea, and the sweet young lady who was taken there yesterday, you know." Bob nodded his head in assent. "So now let us hurry and have our own supper, for I must to bed early, and be up at day-break, to be in there and see what I can do for them before I go to work." 
               "But see," she continued, "what I have got for Nelly!" A candle she had brought home was lighted, when the good mother took from her pocket a rattle, which the thoughtful lady she had been working for gave her. It was one of which her own children had become tired; yet she kindly thought another might still enjoy it. She had brought something more, also from the same kind hand; for when her bundle was opened, she took from it the end of a boiled ham, a piece of butter, and a nice lump of cake. This, with their loaf of bread, and pot of hot tea, made them a sumptuous meal. "Mother," said Bob with hearty emphasis, as he begged for his third bit of ham; "I don't wonder that rich people eat too much and get sick-only think of having such good things every day! Make Nelly, won't you, stop that noise, and have her come and eat." 
               The child had not ceased, in her wild delight, shaking the rattle, ever since it was put in her hands. 
                
               "Let her alone, dear; it does my heart good to see her," said the happy woman. 
               Mrs. Rutherford had gone through a hard struggle to bring these children on so far. Her husband was in the State's Prison, sent there some weeks before Nelly was born, for an aggravated case of manslaughter. He was not usually a cruel man; but when he drank, which was far too often, was sometimes quarrelsome and vicious. With the assistance of his faithful, industrious wife, they had always managed to live respectably; for he was a good workman, and had employment when he would work. One evening, when out with his boon companions, a quarrel began among them, and he was beaten severely by one of them. This exasperated him very much, and he brooded over it continually. Many a watchful hour it caused his poor wife, when the poisoned cup had still more inflamed his bitter animosity: on one of these occasions he again met the man who had beaten him. A renewal of the quarrel was the consequence, when Rutherford, watching his opportunity, as he was passing from the house, drew a dirk knife which he kept concealed, and gave the unfortunate man a death wound. He was at once arrested, and the terrible consequences alluded to above soon followed; he was consigned, after trial and conviction, to ten years imprisonment. 
               Thus the poor family were left totally destitute; for the little savings of Mrs. Rutherford all went to try and avert this pitiable, disgraceful fate. So, little Nelly was ushered into the world; but there was no smile to greet her, no fond protector to welcome her here. Still she brought a love with her, thank God! and the little creature soon came to be a treasure in that pinching home. But how to get their bread was a hard, bitter struggle through the first lonely months, for the poor woman, worse than widow. 
               "Go to the poor-house," said a sympathising neighbor after expressing her indignation at the cruel state the helpless family were left in, "Go to the poor-house. They have taken your husband from you; he is a strong, healthy man; they take his labor that would have supported you, now let them support you." But this did not suit Mrs. Rutherford, who asked, 
               "Did you know they could take my children from me, if I went there?" 
               "No, certainly not; that cannot be." 
               "Yes they may if they choose. No, no, I will not go to the poor-house; I will starve and die with my children if it must be; they are my only hope on earth; where they are I must be also, and I will never part with them." 
               But they nearly starved, and life was but just kept in them. As Nelly merged from babyhood it lifted a great load from her mother, who could then go out and earn money; and now, they were comparatively independent. 
               Mrs. Rutherford had been particularly careful to keep Bob from all other associations, she so feared her children might be taunted with their father's misfortune; that Bob might be sneered at and called the "convict child." The boy was ignorant of where his father was, and she hoped he might never know; she taught him nightly on his bended knee to pray for that father's return, and to look for his return as the greatest joy and blessing; even Nelly would raise her little hands, and ask God to bless her father and bring him home soon. 
               Thus, in her deep humiliation, did she progress in the paths of industry and virtue, and the reward was the peace and comfort, the love and harmony, arising from rectitude of intention and 
                     perseverence
                     perseverance
                   in well doing. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               
                  ON the morning after Mary came to her house, Rachel rose with a most intense headache. Indeed, she hardly knew where she did not ache. 
               She hoped it would pass off, and did not speak to Mary of her sufferings, as she feared the sweet girl might attribute it to cold, from sleeping on the floor the night before. But as the day advanced, her illness still increased; severe chills crept over her, and sharp pains were darting through her whole system, so that when Mrs. Rutherford came in the evening, she could only beg this kind neighbor to spread her pallet on the floor, that she might press her throbbing temples to the grateful pillow. She had been making ineffectual efforts for the last half hour to do this herself; but how momentous seems the smallest trifle at such times; to cross the room, to even think we have it to do, is a weariness more than we can bear. She was chained by heaviness to her chair; even if relief had been by, she could not have roused resolution to take hold of it. 
               Mary had been entreating her to take her own bed for that one night, and let her sleep on the floor, but the generous woman would not listen to it. "It is but a bad headache," she would persist, "I'll be well enough in the morning, after a good night's rest." 
               Alas, poor woman! she did not know that a good night's rest, or a well morning, were no more for her on this earth. She knew not that the hot blood, which was coursing madly through her veins, was even then sapping the foundations of life, and that in a few days at most, her burdens of care would be laid aside forever. 
               Poor Mary! what a night of more than horror closed in upon her! Rachel became wildly delirious, and during part of the night her ravings were frightful. The compassionate heart of Mary was deeply moved; she had never before been made so painfully conscious of her own helplessness. Oh! could she but move those palsied limbs, and reach the bedside of the poor sufferer, and moisten her parched lips, and by soothing endearments rouse her from this nightmare of feverish terror. Must she lie there and hear the low moan and suppressed agony, as if struggling with some fearful tormentor? In the early part of the night she found her voice would rouse her from these spasms, and she would answer the anxious inquiries as to how she was, by saying she felt much better; she knew she would soon be well. But these lucid moments became less frequent, and as the night advanced, Mary found that her voice was unrecognized and only added to the poor woman's tortures. So, she had but to listen to these appalling outcries; she could not even make an effort to avert them. 
                
               Thus the slow hours dragged wearily on. It was past midnight, all was silent as the grave without, or beyond that little room. The many occupants of the tenements around, were sunk in the deep sleep which labor brings. Not a sound was heard but the heavy breathings of the now exhausted woman. Mary turned her face to the one window; all without was deepest darkness, and all within was pitchy gloom. Not even the glimmer of a street lamp was there, in that far back place, nor a gleam of starlight from the heavens to cheer her aching sight. Then came an agony of fear, an intensity of terror, she had never known before. She tried to reason it from her, but she could not. Her heart was as of stone; every drop of blood seemed to congeal, and stand still, and yet every sense of feeling had increased a thousand fold. She was all feeling, every fibre, every nerve was held to its utmost tension; moments were as hours; the consciousness of every suffering was as acute as though it was experienced, What if some stealthy villain should come-even now he might be prowling about. There were no fastenings to keep him out. Or, oh! horrible, fire might come; who would know she was there? she could not move nor stir, the flames might gather around her. "Oh, my God! my God!" she exclaimed, "have pity." Even the poor woman on the floor became an object of unspeakable terror, her low muttering seemed to approach. She could even feel the hot breath, and see the burning eyes as they peered through the dense darkness. "Mercy, mercy," she cried, covering her eyes from the horrible images, "is there no help for me?" 
               But help did come. The morning dawned; and the trembling heart throbbed forth its anthem of joy. There is an adoration fresh from the soul, a spontaneous burst of gratitude which no form of thought can shape into words; that is worship indeed. So Mary worshipped, and her countenance radiated with love for this great gift, this blessing of light. On it came, spreading and cheering, as a beam from a God-like countenance, and paused lovingly and gently in that little room of suffering; brightening up Mary's pale features, and even to Rachel it was as a restorative to reason. She raved less, and became more quiet, and at last fell into a sweet, peaceful slumber. Only ye who have known the long night of dread, or the weary hours of restless disease, can appreciate the full value, the inspiring influence of the early morning twilight! 
               When Mrs. Rutherford came in soon after, she was inexpressibly shocked to see the change that one night had made in Mary. She found her livid and death like, though tranquil, indeed it might be said happy. There was such a sense of relief, and the spirit of prayer that still pervaded her soul, brought a joy, a gladness, that few can know. Mrs. Rutherford was much perplexed as to what to do; but she made no remark, but busied herself in making things more comfortable. A little fresh water to bathe the hands and face in, a cup of warm drink, quite restored Mary. Rachel still slept. 
                
               "Sit down by me, dear Mrs. Rutherford," said Mary, as she took the hard, honest hand between her own thin, wasted ones, and raised it affectionately to her lips. "Will you," she hesitatingly asked, "grant me one request? I know your time is precious, and I feel it is too great a sacrifice for you to make; but you are so kind." 
               "What is it, dear heart? I will do anything you wish, whatever it may be;" said Mrs Rutherford in her warm, cheery way. 
               "Then get me at once if you please, this very morning if you can, in the poor house." 
               "God bless ye, child," said the sympathising listener, looking at her with wondering pity, "you are not the kind to go there." 
               "Never mind that, dear Mrs. Rutherford, I want to go; do get me there. Rachel must have her own bed; she cannot lie there any longer; don't hesitate, I pray." 
               "But have you no friends? I will go anywhere to find them." 
               "I have friends. There is a dear good one that would do for me as a mother, that I love as a mother; but do not ask me to trouble her any more. Oh! I have been such a trouble already. Let me but go where I shall be free from obligation. Do help me, dear Mrs. Rutherford," she urged most beseechingly, "and the blessing of Him who is the orphan's friend, will be your reward." 
               Mrs. Rutherford made no farther objection, but she could not withhold a pitying tear as she said she would do all she could; "But my dear young lady, it will go to my heart to see you there." 
               With the most strenuous efforts on the part of Mrs. Rutherford, still it was late before she could make all the necessary arrangements for the removal of Mary. Night was fast closing in, and in the imperfect light, and the confusion consequent on preparing her to go, Mrs. Rutherford did not apprehend the great change that had taken place in the poor girl during the day. But she had noticed that she appeared to possess unusual strength. This was so unexpected, too, as Mary had been so much prostrated that the thought had often occurred to her, in her absence, making her feel a sickening anxiety to get back; that she might, on her return, find her dead or dying; and it was not until they were seated in the dark, close conveyance, that Mrs. Rutherford perceived the full extent of her feverish excitement. 
               The great prostration of the morning, in its reaction brought on a quickened nervous action, which resulted in delirium, or fever of the brain. The kind neighbors, who had been in and out through the day, did not particularly notice this; for the invalid had been in a measure quiet until the motion and movement caused by taking her away, created a kind of phrensy. The darkened sides, and oppressive atmosphere of the miserable jolting vehicle increased her fear: It was stifling to her. "Let me out," she would entreat, "Oh, do, dear Mrs. Erwin; they are killing me!" And that name was her constant cry. Mrs. Rutherford's efforts were vain, but unremitting to soothe her; it was that dear known friend she wanted, whose voice would have calmed this wild tumult. 
               When strange arms lifted her from that dreary carriage and carried her through the dimly lighted halls and long passages of that last receptacle of poverty, the shriek of mortal agony she uttered was terrible to hear. Mrs. Rutherford could not forget it: it followed her home; it waked her in the night; and its echoes sounded through the deep slumbers of the little ones by her side. At last she rose: she must do something; she must find that friend, for whom the poor deserted called so piteously, and take her to the young sufferer, whose misery had so touched her own sympathising heart. She awakened Bob; for he was her counsellor in everything. It was then scarcely light; but he was in a moment alive to what she had to say. She related to him all the circumstances, and all the difficulties. "I will lose another day, and our money's nearly gone, only what must go for the rent; and Mr. Dalton will be here for it to-day. Now what shall I do?" 
               "Go, mother, go to be sure," said Bob heroically. "Do all you can for the sweet young lady," and his voice trembled a little; "never mind me and Nelly, we'll get along right well. If we want a bit, Mrs. Riley, down stairs, will give it to us; so do go, mother, don't wait." 
               Mrs. Rutherford at once went to Rachel, hoping that she could give her some information about this Mrs. Erwin; but poor Rachel was unconscious of every thing, and it was difficult to know what could next be done; but she resolved to persevere. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               
                  MRS. RUTHERFORD was well aware of the many difficulties there were in the way of any endeavors she might make to find a person in a large city of whom she merely knew the last name, but she was not at all daunted; her mind was full of resources. In the first place she intended to call on Mrs. Lee, the lady for whom she had been cleaning house, and apologise for non-attendance that day, and also to ask her advice, and tell her the story of poor Mary's privations and sufferings. 
               Mrs. Lee listened with absorbing interest to the recital given in the tones of genuine pity by the warm hearted woman. It awakened a chord of tenderest sympathy in her true heart, while it strangely stirred many long dormant memories for there were names and circumstances mentioned that reminded her vividly of times long gone by. 
               Could it be possible that this was the sweet, happy Mary Leonard she once knew-the little fairy of infantile beauty that was her girlish pet and plaything? Alas alas, it was many years since; but she was still a young woman, though several years a wife, and her little playmate mate was a great deal younger than herself. It might be the same. 
               Mrs. Rutherford still continued her narration. She was going, she said, to find a Mrs. Erwin, who must be a relative, or very dear friend, for the young girl raved her name continually in piteous accents of entreaty. 
               Mrs. Lee started as if from an electric shock, 
               "Ah!" she exclaimed, "the same name! I remember it well; I have seen the lady at the little girl's home. She was not a relative, but an intimate friend of the mother, and the aunt of whom you speak as having just died." 
               "This is wonderful indeed!" and her revery continued unbroken, even after Mrs. Rutherford had departed on her errand of mercy. 
               "Is it possible!" she repeated unconsciously "-really possible that that child, seemingly so favored by fortune, should now be destitute, alone and dying-the pauper inmate of a poor-house? Strange destiny! Ah, how little we know of the mysterious future! Who would have dreamed of this?" and she sighed as she thought of her own little ones. Could it be that they would ever be thus deserted, sick and friendless? No one seemed less likely to meet such a hard fate than her childish favorite in the days when she knew her, long ago. 
               "But it must not be!" she at last exclaimed, resolutely, "She must leave that horrid place. I will bring her here, and she shall have a home, and a happy heart, the dear little creature! My husband I am sure, will join me in this, he is so good and so feeling-and he does so love to indulge me, I know!" 
               Thus she, reasoned, with her own warm heart, and fixed and planned in her sanguine way, until every obstacle vanished from before her, and she waited impatiently for her husband's return. 
               But, unfortunately, when he did come home he was not in the mood to listen responsively to anything she had to say. He was disposed for silence, and did not even answer a few simple questions she put. 
               Still, she was not discouraged; she would wait a few hours; perhaps something in his business had troubled him during the day,-and again her heart was moved with pity. Oh, that she could lift every burden from him! But she did not speak, though the early hours of the evening seemed long to her excited feelings, as she sat in that bright little room, plying her needle with wonderful assiduity, while pressing back the busy thoughts that would intrude themselves. 
               One, two, three hours went by, and still silence reigned. Her husband sat near the little work-table beside her, almost buried in the rich cushions of a delightful easy chair, not appearing to heed or care for anything, but occupied in watching the wreathing clouds of perfumed vapor that rose from the choice havanah he was smoking. 
               "Oh, that he would speak but one word!" she silently breathed, "Then I would have some apology for beginning." 
               But he did not, and it was getting so late! She must speak; this thing could not be put off; if she intended to help the poor girl it must be done at once. So she forced herself to give utterance to her thoughts, and gathering courage as she proceeded, she told the whole story, and all her wishes and desires to serve her young friend. 
               Still he answered not. It seemed cruel; a rough denial would have been almost better, as it would somewhat have changed the current of her thoughts. She could have sobbed and cried with right good will, but fortunately she was not one to violently express her feelings. In the effort to control all signs of them she became interested in the events which brought them forth. The strange circumstances of the day revived old and pleasant thoughts, and in the dreamy recollection of her past innocent and happy life, she forgot the present until startled to recollection by the loud tones of her husband's voice, exclaiming rather authoritatively, 
               "I do declare, Ellen, I will not bear this any longer-no, I will not!" 
               "Bear what?" his wife repeated in great astonishment. 
               "Your head being filled with every body's business but your own. I am tired of it. Here is your first duty, and if I find your thoughts running off with every thing else, and matters neglected, as they must be at home, I will soon find some one to attend to my family properly, or else I will close up the house at once; yes, that I will!" And with, this threat he fixed himself doggedly to listen to her answer. 
               It was indeed a delicate theme. Perhaps, with his kindly enduring wife, he could scarcely have touched on a more sensitive subject and one that raised such a stormy struggle of resentment within her. Because she had often heard this before, and she could not bear its style, as of a master to a dependent that he could dismiss or retain at pleasure. It had such a peculiarly irritating effect that she had often been on the very verge of open rebellion. Thus far, however, she had managed to restrain all expression of her feelings; but the continued enumeration of his grievances and the reiteration of his threats, at last aroused the sleeping lion; and when he summed up by saying with an air of injured suffering, "Is not enough that I labor for the support of you all-must I be master and mistress both?" and warming with the subject as he proceeded, added with severe emphasis, "What is a wife for?-What I say, is a wife for? Answer me that!" then she could not restrain the outburst any longer; and she did answer him with considerable asperity, that she was pleased indeed, to hear him ask such a question. Perhaps he could analyse it. She would be most happy to have her position defined; it would save her a world of trouble. 
               "My plans," she continued, "are forever being frustrated; my judgments, I find, may at any moment be set aside, I am told to use the faculties which nature has so bountifully bestowed on my sex to guide and govern the domestic loves and duties, and yet I am reminded we are but auxiliaries, and must be subject to those who profess to be ignorant of all those duties. We have no distinctive rights in our homes, and yet we must be answerable for every consequence. So, I say with you, there must be a change, as neither will I bear this any longer!" 
               "Whew!" whistled the now cool husband, with a long drawn breath. "Here is an overturn with a vengeance." 
               To look around on that tasteful home, with its many comforts and cheerful aspect, one would wonder to listen to this little under current of strife that was now disturbing its peaceful atmosphere, and think, truly, it is from within ourselves we draw much of this unhappiness we strive so ingeniously to attribute to outside causes. 
               But, to do Mr. Lee justice, these outbreaks were not as frequent as might be supposed; indeed they seemed more as a sort of safety-valve, to let off the accumulations of a rather exacting temperament, than any thing else. He would not have owned this though, because he meant to be, and was, a perfectly just man, and loved his wife with the utmost devotion, and held her in the highest esteem; but he had rather lofty notions of husbandly authority, and was very tenacious of his rights. 
               Besides, it was sometimes pleasant, after the buffetings and contentions of active life, to feel there was a place where he was the center of power; where his smile or frown was the sunshine or storm to the sensitive barometer, raising or depressing the domestic elements at will. 
               So, we must not be too hard on him, if he was sometimes tempted, in moody moments, to rather overstep the bounds of strict justice. 
               But these assumptions, and bickerings, and unreasonable fault findings, are not well in married life, even though, in their reaction, they may be followed by unusual demonstrations of love; for they top often leave a rankling sore, most difficult to heal. Something has been said that cannot be forgotten. It may be by a well directed thrust, or a bitter, taunting sneer, the mischief is done; at any rate the poison enters, and does its deadly work, leaving its traces in the morbid, unhappy memories which destroy the vitality of these lasting affections that ought to be the great strengtheners of our maturity, and the support and solace of our declining years. 
               But, Mr. Lee felt so decidedly relieved after his little explosion of temper, that he was rather disposed to be merry than otherwise. The style of argument his wife had adopted seemed to him so funny, and her sending back his own words with such an air of defiance, struck him as so inconceivably droll, that he could not refrain from showing his mirth, and at last without further reserve, burst into an uncontrolable fit of laughter. 
               When this had somewhat subsided, he put himself in an attitude of mock heroics, and begged to know if he might presume to address her offended ladyship. 
                
               "And so you too, madam, have resolved on a change. Pray, what may it be? But I crave your pardon-perhaps I ask too much; and yet, being a party interested, I naturally am anxious to arrive at your conclusions. Still I will be patient, and abide you will. Behold me, then, your humble servant, waiting your commands." 
               "You are disposed to be facetious," said his wife, with a smile, "but I am in earnest. Do let us pleasantly discuss the matter." 
               "Discuss with a lady!" he continued, in the same ironical vein. "Pardon me; that would be impossible! Wiser heads than mine have been confounded in the vain attempt. My poor abilities would be sadly at fault in the profound questions your wisdom might advance in these domestic revolutions." 
               "But, Ellen," he suddenly exclaimed, changing his 
                     one
                     tone
                  , "what is the matter?" for he had perceived first one tear and then another on the white work in her lap. "Surely you are not hurt by my idle words. I was but in jest. I would not give you pain, dearest, you know for all the world." 
               "I know you would not," she answered, with renewed composure, "But it is not your words that grieve me; I only realize more vividly what I have often felt before, that it 
                     is is
                     is
                   utterly impossible for a woman to present a wrong, be it either fancied or real, and have it, met in the right way. They say it is not from the head but the heart we reason-that feeling, not judgment governs our action-but these generalities will not do. Let them try us. But they will not. We are either met with deference that does not contradict, which is anything but flattering to our capacity, or there is force, or the still more potent weapon of ridicule to silence us; we are never met on equal ground." 
               "There is too much truth in this, my dear, but henceforth," and her husband said it with genuine warmth, "you shall not have this to complain of, as far as I am concerned. So now love," and he drew nearer, "what have you to say. I will listen as if it were the most astute male philosopher on earth." And as she did not answer immediately, he continued, 
               "I have, indeed, had some misgivings myself lately-although I will confess, they had not assumed any very definite form, that it was possible I might sometimes push matters a little too far, at any rate I have rather vague ideas of what are my duties and obligations here at home; so, I think it would be better for all parties that we should have some explanations. Let us both express our opinions freely. Now, love, begin." 
               She looked up earnestly in his face, as she said, "I would, indeed truly like to have a better understanding of what is expected from me, what are really my duties, and how far my power extends to control them. Now I would ask you, as being the assailant, to place wives-I speak now in general terms, and designate our work." 
               "Most emphatically, I would answer, then, that it is in your homes, in the organization of those homes, as to their moral, mental and physical welfare; for I hold that the happiness, success and usefulness of all within their sphere, depends in a great measure on the proper management of the wife, as the presiding genius of the household." 
               "These are grave and heavy responsibilities," she said thoughtfully. 
               "But they are what every woman must accept," he added, "when she becomes the mistress of a family and the partner of one who commits his all to her keeping." 
               "If then, my dear Herman," she again said with serious earnestness, "these are the sacred and solemn obligations to which we are bound, surely the God of all wisdom, in the uniform adaptations of his works, has not failed to endow us with the proper attributes to fulfill them; and if so endowed, we ought to have all the privilege of responsible agents, the right to guide in its fairest sense that over which we are placed to govern." 
               "And have you not that right?" 
               "Hardly. Who can put a veto over our proceedings? Who decides when there is difference of opinion? It is the husband. But there is no use enumerating all that may be done by those who are disposed for extremes. You intend to be just, and what is justice?" 
               "But there must he a head, and all time and custom vests in the husband that right." 
               "Precedent will not always do; the progress of events calls for change; we women hope to show you yet that we may be trusted in all things. We have risen through many gradations, beginning, as you know, very low in the estimation of our stronger companions; but we hope to rise yet higher, and have it proved that through our elevation all will be better, more prosperous, and more happy." 
               "Were all women like you, my good Ellen, I would believe it might be so, but as they are not, we must keep the power in our own hands. We have it through the pocket. Money gives us distinctive rights, and it is just such a thing that it reaches through every vein and artery of the domestic constitution, which could not exist without it. And I think you will allow, too, that it would not answer to let the mass of women, with their weakness, extravagance and folly have it as their own. This holding it but in trust, is considerable of a check. Besides, we make the money, and I think it only fair that we should be able to say where it is to go." 
               "Now I must prepare for battle. Remember when we began, we were to speak our minds freely, therefore I will crave your indulgence and take exception to most you have said. 
               "In the first place, I thank you truly for the high compliment you pay me personally, but I must say, if I deserve it, then the great body of women deserve it with me. Those you speak of are the exceptions, not the rule; where you will show me one woman that has ruined her husband by her thoughtless extravagance, I will show you five hundred who have saved their husbands by their prudence, affectionate sympathy and judicious encouragement. There are a great many fallacies rife in the world, and we are particularly the victims of them. That of having the full control of what you have earned, because you have earned it, seems to me not altogether just, when we look at all its bearings. In this life union, where we join together for mutual benefit we are expected to use our time and talents for the general good, and why you should have that you work for, any more exclusively than I should have that I work for, I cannot see; that is if we are going to act on the strict principles of justice. Remember that neither has a voluntary choice in the part they take. Nature and the customs of society arrange that for them. If I should say you had no right to your children or your home, but to just such an extent as I please, we would be about equal. You know, too, Herman, that if by misfortune or inability the husband cannot provide for the family, the wife is expected to take his place; and we have too many noble examples of its being done, to doubt her ability in such an emergency. Why then, be so timid about trusting us with money? You are not afraid of us where life, honor and every principle of right is at stake. Why fear us in this?" 
               "Ah, it would not do;" he said, shaking his head doubtfully, "There are some women that such a trust. would destroy." 
                
               "But why sacrifice the many to the few? There are men, we all know, who are weak, and incapable of the same trust, but you would not think of making laws to govern all by their incapacity." 
               "My dear Ellen, I do not doubt the sincerity of your advocacy. It is a beautiful theory this, of the equality of the sexes, and the happy results that might follow from a just recognition of their rights, but it will not do as long as we have facts before us. Look around on the great body of women, and see how fully occupied and satisfied they are in their numerous frivolous, trifling pursuits." 
               "What is it you call frivolous, trifling pursuits?" 
               "Well, I mean their dressing, visiting, entertaining company, and the thousand little occupations that compass their time." 
               "But may not these thousand little occupations assume a more dignified aspect if we look at them from another point? Let us accept them as her business." 
               "Business! Ha, ha, ha! that is rich." 
               "Yes, business; would you be willing to take it as your part of the working compact?" 
               "Defend me, ye powers!" 
               "But if it is so very easy and pleasant." 
               "Well, not exactly that, for the whole routine of your occupations would drive me mad in less than a month. But it is different with you. You are made for them; you can easily adapt yourselves to such incongruities." 
                
               "Not always, I assure you; for in many instances we work in our own calling; with efforts just as determined as though we were laboring for our daily bread. It would be about as consistent to assert that all men must love their work, as to say that all women relish theirs. We accept our various occupations as you do yours, as the stern obligations of duty. Indeed I consider the woman who can enter into all these details of domestic and social life with energy and avidity, about as favorably constituted as the man who can make his business the great purpose of all his thoughts. And I am sure you would not call him weakly frivolous, or occupied with trifling nothings, even though his business were but to tie and untie bundles all day long. No, we should with her, as with him, look beyond these insignificant details, and let the occupation receive importance by its results. 
               "Would not the many aspirants for wealth present but a humiliating aspect of humanity, if to clutch at the glittering treasure were the only aim? Follow them through their daily course of thought and action, and how contemptible it would seem, if to chinkle a little gold was the end of it all. But it is its necessity as a means that ennobles the pursuit. Let it be thus with my sex; let what seems to you our insignificant proceedings gain dignity by their need. We have something, also, to do in pushing on the progress of events in this great net-work of social interests. There is some thing besides building ships, making roads, or gaining commercial prosperity, necessary to its elevation, refinement and full development. What say you to this?" 
               "My dear, I am silenced. I have not a word to say. Would that I had remembered the wise old proverb, 'not to disturb the hornet's nest till prepared for defence.' I have brought a terrible buzzing about my ears, and I tremble every moment, expecting the sting." 
               "Well, I will not spare you," she said, as her eyes glistened with provoking mirth. "You brought on the assault, and you must abide its consequences. 
               "So, I will begin by saying that I think your sex as a whole, not even excepting yourself, are the most unreasonable and inconsistent of all flesh, and you may blame yourselves, alone, for most of this extravagance and display in dress that you make such a fuss about. 
               "You are forever talking about the weakness and folly of our fashions, and yet you are constantly offering a premium for a full persistence in them. A lady dressed in all the paraphernalia of the extremes mode, with garments of expensive richness, and an air of confident elegance, commands undisguised admiration, while the one robed with reference only to convenience, comfort and health, finds no favor in your sight. Indeed, I am almost afraid, that alongside her more showy companion, she might be looked upon with something even like contempt. And this is not enough; you carry the same inconsistency into our domestic relations; you raise a hue and cry if we cultivate a taste, or attempt to become interested in any other than domestic enjoyments; and yet you will not give us any encouragement or raise those occupations to the ordinary level of intelligence. ''Tis only women's work,' we hear echoed by every flippant voice, with the slightly contemptuous sneer, till even woman herself, in this universal condemnation has become ashamed of her work. She judges it best to keep silent about her interest or knowledge in these duties, these every day recurrences of home life, if she has any ambition to preserve anything like a character for intellectual capacity. An interest sufficient and constant to create an unusual excellence in all these matters, would totally destroy her reputation for capacity, while ignorance and distaste would fill up the measure of her lady-like qualities. Thus your own acts move public opinion." 
               "Ah me! you ladies, are moving very fast. We unfortunate husbands, I am afraid, will soon have no hold on you whatever." 
               "No hold on us!" she repeated, with a voice of sudden tenderness, "Ah, my own Herman, do you forget these affections that are as lasting as our lives, as lasting as the futurity we hope to pass beyond time? No hold on us! Does freedom, or a just appreciation of your rights, make you traitor to the dearest ties of your being? And remember how peculiarly we are trained to a more than ordinary tenacity of these home loves. Our lives, our calling, our every pursuit, cultivate and fosters the tender emotions, till like the strong man who becomes all muscle cle by their constant exerciser so we become all pity, all sympathy, all tenderness, by this constant use of our affectional nature. So, Herman, do not say that again; do not violate these inner sanctities by such a doubt. The stronger you make us as women, the stronger will our natures cling to you. There is a shrine within the soul in the very depths of our being, on which we place the husband of our love; and though he may change, and to the outward seeming be altered and strange, yet there he is the same as when the first sacred consecration made its 
                     indellible
                     indelible
                   impression; and the heart-sore woman, and the down-trodden spirit will still drop her tear, and breathe her sigh on this cherished altar of her once bright hopes. No, we cannot forget; and on this stronghold of enduring love you keep us captive forever." 
               "I know this, love, I know it;" and he gently stroked the soft hand that lay within his own, "and it is this consciousness of her constant devotion that may tempt us sometimes to use our power. But since you have been speaking I have noticed how very thin and pale you are. I am afraid you are sick and have kept it from me, fearing I might be uneasy." 
               "No, I am not sick, only fatigued," replied his wife, "This has been rather an exciting day for me. In the midst of house-cleaning and company from the country,-those friends were so kind to you in your sickness last summer I felt called upon to pay them particular attention-and Charley with the whooping cough-altogether I am very tired." 
                
               "But Ellen, being tired would not make you thin. You must be very ill. Why was I not told of this? We must have a physician immediately." 
               "Do not be alarmed; I assure you there is nothing serious the matter. You forget I am not altogether recovered from my last illness." 
               "Ah, true, thoughtless fellow that I am! I had forgotten it. I supposed then that I never could forget it, and I thanked my stars that nature had not cast me in woman's mould. Yes, it makes me shudder. This burden of sickness and pain that is cast upon your sex makes a great balance in our favor, I can assure you. But what was that you were saying, Ellen, in the early part of the evening, about a cousin or friend, or something-let me hear all about it." 
               And a pleasant, delightful little chat they had together. Old times were gone over, and the husband soon became as much interested as the wife in Mary's fate. 
               "Yes, we must go to her," he said, "and bring her here, and you can nurse her to life in your own sweet kindness. We will have a carriage in the morning; a drive in the fresh air will brace you up. Dear me! I should die if I were shut up as you are, always in the same place. If I could not leave my cares sometimes behind me, I would leave the world at once. Why don't you women try to be out every day? These dragging indoor employments are enough to kill any one!" 
               "But, my dear, you would pronounce us gossips, unfit for any settled occupation." 
                
               "Never mind," he said, laughing. "we will have it all right by and by." 
               "Yes, 'hope on, hope ever,' is my motto; and only think! we may have sweet Mary with us to-morrow!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               
                  WE will now return to Mrs. Rutherford, whom we left about resuming her search for Mrs. Erwin. 
               This time she had the good fortune to be successful. She arrived at that lady's house a short time after she had finished reading Mrs. Vernon's exciting letter. 
               It may be imagined how inexpressibly shocked Mrs. Erwin was to hear that Mary was an inmate of the almshouse, and in such an alarming condition. Indeed Mrs. Rutherford said that from the state she was in the morning before she went there, it was apparent Mary could live but a very short time. 
               The first impulse of Mrs. Erwin was at once to go to her; but then came the embarrassing remembrance of her husbands commands. What then was her best course to pursue? she scarcely doubted either; her love and the sacred responsibility she felt about the girl, would force her to go under all circumstances, and she would not think so ill of her husband as to suppose he would seriously blame her for thus braving his commands in such an extreme case as this. Yes, she must go, he could not be so unreasonable as to suppose she ought not. She sat down, however, and wrote him an explanatory note before she left giving her reasons, and the urgent necessity for her thus acting. So without further preparation, she at once left her home accompanied by Mrs. Rutherford. It was late in the day when they reached the almshouse, and later still before they gained admittance to the poor girl. 
               Poor Mary had been so violent on her first entrance that she had been consigned to the insane department of the establishment. It was now so late in the day that Mrs. Rutherford was obliged to return immediately to her family; and Mrs. Irwin went to Mary alone. One of the officials had made her acquainted with the fearful ravings of the unfortunate girl during the previous night; and her heart throbbed with intense anxiety. As she approached the room through a long dark passage made still more gloomy by the distant outcries of the poor unfortunates, her heart did indeed quail. Before entering she looked through a small grating in the door, and such a sight! such a pitiable sight as met her eyes she had hoped never to behold. Her head swam, she became deadly sick, and was obliged to hold on to the door frame to keep from falling. There was the sweet delicate young creature sitting upright on a small bed in the middle of the room, with her head, arms and shoulders entirely bare; every garment being torn off and scattered around her. Her eyes were wild and full of terror, as they moved slowly and fearfully around the low bare walls, now lighted up by the fiery beams of the setting sun, as if determined to know all the horrors of that frightful place, that, to her, living tomb. 
               Mrs. Erwin gently opened the door. The terrified eyes rested on her for a moment, and a cry of joy told they had recognised a friend. With outstretched arms she moved as if to spring from the bed. Mrs. Erwin caught her, and the white, bare arms closed tightly about the neck of that loved and longed for friend. 
               "Dear Mrs. Erwin! dear mother! Oh, mother, mother, you have come to me from heaven!" and she sobbed and gasped fearfully. 
               "May love, I am not your mother. Don't you know me?" 
               "I do, yes, I do know you, but mother came in with you, or an angel that seemed like her." 
               Mrs. Erwin endeavored carefully to remove Mary's grasp; but the poor girl began again to wander, 
               "Oh, do not leave me! you must not leave me!" she cried, "Who brought me? why am I here?" 
               "Lie down, sweet love;" said Mrs. Erwin, kissing her again and again, "I will never leave you more. I will sit beside you, and you shall rest your troubled head on my bosom, dear child!" 
               The influence of these soothing words of tenderness calmed the excited mind, and as a little child that has been grieved, the sweet girl submitted to her friend. 
               Mrs. Erwin soon made her comfortable, replaced her garments smoothed the bed, laid her head on the pillow and gently hushed her to rest. For the first time in two days and nights the exhausted girl slept. When she awoke it was to perfect consciousness; but so weak that she could scarcely raise her voice. The apartment and its meager surroundings seemed strange to her, and she whispered to know what it meant. 
               Mrs. Erwin explained, at the same telling her how much she herself was grieved to find her in such a place. 
               "Ah, do not let it trouble you!" said Mary, faintly, "do no, sweet mother, I pray." 
               By degrees she recovered to a faint recollection of recent events. She was becoming exceedingly weak, but still attempted to tell Mrs. Erwin, speaking a few words at a time, how strangely things had appeared to her on her entrance to this miserable abode, and how multiplied were all who came near her. 
               "They seemed as swarms of living things, exhausting the air and breathing pestilence around me. They almost suffocated me; and oh, I felt if my dear Mrs. Erwin would come she would drive them all away! And you have!" she said, looking up with her sweet, innocent smile. "Yes, you have!" she murmured, as her low voice rested in a pleasant dream. 
               It was soon apparent that she could not rally from this extreme exhaustion consequent on her late terrible excitement. It was evident that she was sinking rapidly and that her time on earth was now only to be counted by hours. 
                
               She would raise her eyes lovingly to the anxious face that bent fondly over her, and press the hand she still retained fondly in her grasp. 
               "Have you any thing to say my love?" inquired Mrs. Erwin. 
               "Only that I love you dearly, and I am so happy! oh so happy! how shall I tell it?" 
               The rich soul of love, so bountifully endowed, was now nearing the source from whence it came; fluttering in its prison house, waiting to be released. The pulse came and went; sometimes it almost ceased, and with a long, gasping sigh she would breathe again. 
               "Do you suffer Mary?" softly asked her friend. 
               The smile still illuminated her face. "Raise me;" she gasped, and her eyes so lately drooping, opened wide, as she fixedly looked afar off. Steadily they gazed and and brightened as the gathering mists cleared away. 
               "I see them, father, mother, aunt; I come, I come!" 
               The last brief struggle passed, and the soul was released. Mrs. Erwin sat motionless as if fearful of disturbing the sacred stillness. The body of the youthful dead was still raised in her arms. She pressed it more closely to her breast. She could not weep; her desires had followed the departed spirit, with a longing to participate in its release. She felt as if exiled from the living world, and still breathing, shut up with the dead. 
               Thus she sat, her eyes fixed on the form of her departed friend, until the dawn began to shed its light on the cold and tranquil lineaments once so lovely in their endearing expression. Then she gently laid down the the lifeless body and straightened the limbs and closed the half opened lids. 
               "Can this be death?" she thought, "There is nothing repulsive here-it is but the type of that purity which dwelt within." 
               Mrs. Erwin fondled over the cold remains as a mother fondles over her sleeping child. She smoothed down the glossy hair, placed the cap on the graceful head, crossed the white hands on the fair young breast, and then-all was done. Must she now go? She wept bitterly. The effort was made: she went, and she returned. There still lay the lifeless form. Could she desert it-leave the sweet young creature, even though unconscious of her utter loneliness? She thought of the joy that had greeted her entrance into the world and now the contrast in her departure from it. 
               The weeping friends, the social sympathies, the comfortable surroundings, rob death of its sternest aspect. Here it was made tangible in all its bareness-only death and its victim. 
               The poor women who were up at that early hour, entering the room looked on with pitying concern, 
               "Is it a sister's daughter?" they whispered, when they witnessed such bursts of grief. 
               Ah, poor creatures! their experience taught them but little of love away from thud natural affinities of closest relationship. 
               But the body of our Mary was not doomed to be deserted and consigned to a pauper's grave. Mrs. Erwin had scarcely gone when Mr. and Mrs. Lee arrived. Mrs. Lee at once recognized in the remains the resemblance of her former dear little associate. She was deeply moved. And even her husband, as he contemplated the serene beauty of the lifeless countenance, shed tears of pity and regret that he had not sooner known, and extended a brother's hand to her who was now beyond all earthly aid or sympathy. 
               Finding that it would be gratifying to his wife, he proposed to remove the body, and have the funeral solemnities take place at their own house. 
               Arrangements were at once made, and he returned in the evening to remove the precious dead to his home, where the sympathising heart of his wife received it tenderly, as a sweet sister of earth; and friends were bidden, and kind eyes shed the melting tear of pity over, the lonely grave of the fair orphan. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               
                  WHEN Mrs. Erwin returned to that home which was no longer to be a home to her, the door was cautiously opened by her faithful Susan, 
               "Oh, do not come in here-do not, mistress dear! for God's sake," she whispered, "my heart is like to break!" 
               "What is the matter, Susan?" 
               "I can't tell you now, not now! If you will go into the square I will follow you the first chance I get, and then I will tell you all. There is a note the master told me to give you, if you called;" and she handed a sealed paper to Mrs. Erwin. 
               The eyes of poor Susan bore testimony to all she said; they were swollen and red as if from much weeping. 
               The first feeling of Mrs. Erwin on hearing this was that of indignation, and the question, "Who has dared to turn me from my own home? Who has a right to do this?" rose in her mind; but wearied and dispirited she felt altogether unable to contend. And, indeed, her mind was not in the frame to do so. Solemn thoughts bound her soul in deepest humility, and the littleness of all human pretensions was never more fully realized. The scene she had just gone through made all passing ebullitions of will to seem as powerless and insignificant. In this great unfolding of the mystery of life and death there was too much sublimity to allow her mind at once to descend from its contemplation to the lesser details of existence. So she at once turned and silently passed from her own door. 
               The park which had been suggested by Susan was soon reached. Entering its gates she walked rapidly onward in deep revery for some time before attempting to open the note which she held mechanically in her hand. All the varying events of the last few hours were still as a dream to her, and it seemed difficult to awaken her thoughts to perfect consciousness; but the quiet of the morning and the fanning of the cool breeze began somewhat to allay her feverish excitement. She sat down at last on one of the rough seats by the pathside, and opened the note. Still, it was long before she could begin to distinguish its characters; a thick film was before her eyes; there was the well known writing, but she could not decipher its meaning. A fit of weeping rather soothed her feelings, and thus becoming more calm, she was at length able to comprehend the contents of the brief epistle. 
               Her husband said that he understood her as having made her choice, and that henceforth they were to be as strangers to each other. He spoke of his perfect calmness ness, and assured her that these words were written after mature deliberation. He concluded by saying that he should take it as a personal insult if she ever attempted to come into his presence again, and that all arrangements between them, (which he was ready to attend to at any time,) must be conducted by a third party. 
               The reading of this note had unexpectedly a strengthening effect; Mrs. Erwin quite rallied from her depression. Although disposed to yield in most things, yet there was a point beyond which she felt she ought not to go. She certainly could not then seek for a reconciliation. Had she done wrong? She did conscientiously take herself severely to task, and endeavored to review her conduct all through this matter with strictest justice; and her best judgment, her every feeling of right could not but acquit her fully. 
               Susan soon appeared, and began with much rancor to detail the circumstances of the previous night. 
               "Say no more, my good Susan, say no more; he is my husband, and although we may part forever yet I love him still." 
               "Now you know, mistress dear," said the affectionate girl, "it was not the fear of losing my place that made me shut the door of your own house against you at his bidding. Oh no! for gold showered on me would not make me sleep another night under the roof of that horrid man-that I can say!" 
                
               "I understood it Susan, I knew the reason perfectly well. And although I felt that I had a right to enter, yet I would not be so unreasonable as to brave any one's displeasure while under the influence of insane passion, and surely not my husband's. And though I may see him never again on earth, yet I feel a desire, oh! such a desire for his happiness. You say that gold would not tempt you to serve him-perhaps, then, love will. You love me Susan, I know you do, for I have had many proofs of it. Now, for my sake, you will still stay with him. He will need the earnest care of some one who knows his ways, who can administer to his every day comforts and little wants. Promise me that you will do this, and it will relieve me of a great, a very great burden; I can then go away a little content." 
               Susan answered as she best could between convulsive sobs and tears, that she would go to the world's end, she would die she would do anything for her dear mistress. 
               "And Susan," again urged the faithful wife, "be patient and kind. Never give him a sharp answer, and take no offence when he is not easily pleased; for although he may seem cold and stern, yet will his heart be lonely and sad." 
               She arose, preparing to go, but still lingering, as she said. 
               "And remember, Susan, you will be silent about this matter. We will try and keep it to ourselves, as much as possible." 
                
               She drew her veil quickly over her face to hide her agitation, and pressing the hand of Susan, who tried still to detain her, hurried from the park. 
               Where now was she to go? There was a painful delicacy in the position in which she was placed; she could not appeal even to her most intimate friends, for every feeling revolted, against the explanations that would be needed. Her relatives were at a distance, and even if they had been near it was doubtful whether she would have applied to them; it was so altogether repugnant to her independent spirit to ask the commiseration of any one. Had she really felt that she was wrong, her sense of justice might have made her accept, the alternative as a righteous punishment; but as she did not, or could not her desire was to go where she was unknown, where no one had ever heard of her name; for even though she might be an object of suspicion, yet that was less painful than to be an object of pity. 
               Thus she wandered from house to house, unable to make up her mind what to do; constantly in fear of being recognized or attracting attention. She was becoming quite faint and weary from excessive fatigue, having taken nothing during the day but a glass of water, and a few crackers which she purchased in a by street, eating them as she went along. She had but a few shillings in her purse; and to add to her alarm there was every appearance of a coming storm; dark clouds were gathering, and heavy thunder rolled fearfully in the distance. 
                
               During the day she had avoided the more compact parts of the city; but now she hastened toward the great thoroughfares. The sudden darkness, and the absence of every one from the streets but those who could not avoid it, oppressed her with an alarming sense of her utter loneliness; and she fancied she should feel more safe in the midst of bustle and excitement. So she hurried back, now anxious to gain some shelter, as the rain was beginning to fall in torrents. Thus she paced up and down, looking in the lighted shop windows, to see if there was a face she dared trust. 
               How quickly the sense of danger sharpens our perceptions. Mrs. Erwin would not have thought, twenty-four hours before, that she could have weighed so shrewdly the different expression of faces she saw; but now there was mercifully one presented which to her unspeakable joy she felt that she could trust fully. A middle aged woman with a most pleasing and benevolent aspect was seated cosily near the window of a small, neat fancy store, the door was open, and she felt encouraged to approach and ask permission to remain until the storm abated. 
               "Certainly, come in;" said the kind woman, heartily, at the same time handing a chair. As she looked into Mrs. Erwin's face, she was evidently startled by its deadly pallor, and said, "I am afraid you are sick, ma'am, won't you have a glass of water?" 
               "I would indeed be much obliged for it. I am very tired and somewhat faint." 
                
               "Come then into my little room and have a cup of tea, that will refresh you. I have just risen from the table." And with much kindness, she led, or supported Mrs. Erwin to a sofa, and soon had some warm and inviting refreshments before her. 
               Poor Mrs. Erwin was so overcome by this unexpected kindness that it was sometime before she could partake of the much needed hospitality. When she could do so she found herself strengthened, and was able to express her warm thanks and gratitude freely. 
               But her new found friend was not done yet, she insisted on removing her wet clothes, and that she should lie down on the sofa to rest; "For I perceive," she kindly added, "that you are very much exhausted." Mrs. Erwin gladly complied, and soon fell into a profound sleep, which lasted some length of time. 
               She was at last awakened by hearing earnest talking in the room; it appeared to be something of great importance. A woman was there, who had come in the drenching rain, and was speaking earnestly and rapidly. Mrs. Medway, the hostess, seemed to be deeply chagrined. 
               "What is to be done?" she said, "the vessel will positively sail in the morning. Could not Mrs. Burns be at all able to get on board? She may improve when they are out a while." 
               "Dear me, no;" answered the stranger, "she cannot even raise her head from the pillow." 
               "Why did you not let us know earlier?" 
                
               "It was but this afternoon, that she gave up completely, she had been complaining for some days, but still, hoping she would be better, she said but little about it. This afternoon though, the pain came on so severely she thought she would die, and when the doctor came he said it was a case of acute pleurisy." 
               Mrs. Erwin gathered from all this, there was something quite serious the matter. 
               Mrs. Medway, however, soon explained to her, that Miss Digby, a lady in the house, who had been boarding with her for some time, was advanced in life, and a confirmed invalid. She was about to return to her native, country, where some property had been lately bequeathed her; and she was anxious to reach there before she died; every thing was prepared to leave in the morning. "So you see the situation she is placed in," she said anxiously. "She cannot go alone, and it is now too late to find a person to accompany her." 
               How very strange this seemed to Mrs. Erwin! and she intuitively asked the question, "Can it be possible this is an opening for me?" a moment before the uneasy thought had been what should she do next; and now this strange alternative was presented to her, should she accept it, without more reflection, or had she better think of it?" she at once said: 
               "Perhaps I can supply this place. May I see Miss Digby?" 
               "You!" said Mrs. Midway in astonishment; "you look rather delicate, and" but she stopped suddenly and said, "I will speak with Miss Digby." 
               When she returned, she said, "Miss Digby wishes to see you; but let me prepare you a little; for although our acquaintance has been short, I feel an interest for you, and should be glad to help you. You will find Miss Digby rather eccentric; but at heart she is one of the best of women; and full of the kindliest feelings. So do not be hurt or discouraged if she should be a little abrupt at first." 
               When Mrs. Erwin was ushered into the presence of Miss Digby she was at once struck with the very commanding appearance of that lady; she was of unusual size for a female; her features were large and prominent, and the whole cast of her countenance was masculine and forbidding. Although considerably emaciated, yet her carriage was erect as though in vigorous health, and her eye was as keen and penetrating as if the full fire of life was in her still. 
               Miss Digby did not speak as she entered, but deliberately scanned her every feature with closest scrutiny. Mrs. Erwin much embarrassed, at length said, abruptly, "I learn that you want a person to travel with you; I think I can make myself useful." 
               "I do;" was the short rejoinder; "but you hardly seem the kind of person I want. It is a very unfortunate affair altogether," she continued, "very, unfortunate indeed. My short acquaintance with you would hardly warrant an engagement, and yet I must have some one immediately. I suppose you can give me references though." 
               Mrs. Erwin shook her head as she answered, "I cannot." 
               This would have been conclusive to any other; but it rather interested Miss Digby. 
               "I am aware," continued Mrs. Erwin "that this must seem unaccountable and strangely suspicious; but trust me without explanation. I can assure you, I have done no wrong. Let me serve you, and you will learn to believe me. There is mystery, there will still be mystery about me. I cannot explain; but trust me, I pray." 
               Miss Digby looked long and searchingly on that open, ingenuous, yet deeply sorrowful countenance, and saw nothing there to create a doubt. 
               "Yes, I will trust you," she nobly said, holding out her hand, "I have myself been an object of suspicion, as every woman will be who maintains her independence, and shall I be one to treat another so? No. You have, no doubt, your reasons for silence. I will respect, not judge them. You are a sister in need. That is all I am to know; and as such you shall have my truest, warmest sympathy." 
               Mrs. Erwin much affected, silently clasped the hand that was held out to her; and as she looked into that face now beaming with humanity, she wondered what could ever have made it seem so harsh and repulsive. From that moment they were closest friends, and no circumstance ever afterwards interrupted the harmony of their warm affection. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               
                  BUT how strangely eventful had been the last few hours to Mrs. Erwin. Miss Digby required rest, and so, sitting beside her as she slept, Mrs. Erwin's reflections in this quietude were painfully earnest. Was this indeed a reality or a dream? Was she going from home, and friends, and all that was so dear to her-to be far, far away, among strangers, and in a strange land? Surely it could not be all real! And the rush of feeling that came with the affirmative answer, seemed almost, as it were a literal rending of her heart asunder. Her resolution wavered fearfully in this struggle, but it eventually came out triumphant. She called to mind that she was then an outcast from home, that strangers had received her when her own had driven her from them, that she ought to regard this engagement with Miss Digby, so strangely presented in the very hour of her need, rather as a merciful dispensation, than otherwise. She had found a refuge from the storm when least expected; and she should be thankful and grateful to her heavenly guides rather than feel thus impatient in her grief. She tried to reason and strengthen these resolves, but the natural instincts could not be so easily appeased. She thought of her home, and her husband; and the supposition that she was parting from him, perhaps forever, brought a sting of agony she could not endure. Might she but see him once more, were it but a moment, then she felt that she could bear it, she could give him up. This thought still pursued her, as she paced the little room, adjoining where Miss Digby had laid down. Again and again the same desire-could she but see him again! she must see him, she would die if she did not! Oh! yes she would! 
               With unfaltering courage she approached Miss Digby, and asked permission to be gone but a short time. This permission was readily granted, for that lady in her strong resolution, had determined that no circumstance should for a moment elicit an unworthy doubt. She only remarked as Mrs. Erwin was leaving, that she need not trouble herself about any preparations, as she was amply provided with everything necessary for the journey, and would be most happy to freely share with her. 
               The rain had ceased, and the stars were shining out brightly when Mrs. Erwin again entered the street for the purpose of once more reaching home. On she hastened, regardless of the loneliness; for the one object, the hope of seeing her husband, filled her mind to the exclusion of all fear. Thus she still pursued her way for sometime with unusual expedition. As she neared her late home she 
                     percieved
                     perceived
                   to her great joy that lights were still burning in the house. She placed herself against a tree, the opposite side of the street, to watch for some signs of her husband. As she did so she saw a shadow, as of some one moving in the parlor, pass across the gleaming of the lamplight. The lower half of the inside blinds was closed, but she instinctively knew that the shape walking restlessly up and down the room was her husband, so she gazed with her whole soul on the shadow as it passed. In a moment, to her great surprise, the hall door was suddenly opened, and there he stood, almost within reach, on the outer porch. The bright rays of the hall lamp within, glared across the street nearly to where she stood. Had he really seen her? for, closing the door, he slowly descended the steps and began to cross the sidewalk and then the street, to where she was standing. Her heart stood still; nearer he approached; she could not utter a sound. He almost touched her garments; but the next moment he was gone-he had passed on, and was quickly lost to sight. 
               O, the terrible consciousness that he was indeed gone! But the dreary blank in her whole soul, told her that it was too true. 
               She turned and walked deliberately away. Still she felt better, she was conscious of that, than if she had not seen him. The fearful possession which had seized her, that she might never again behold him, would have driven her into madness. But now that she had been near him, almost within his reach, it unconsciously gave her an assurance that they should meet again. Hoping thus, she could bear the thought of present parting. 
               Most of the remaining hours of night were spent in writing to him. She tried to explain everything clearly. Motives she declared she had none for the step she was taking in going so far away, and acting so immediately on his decision. Circumstances had guided her, and a strong sense of duty; there was a principle involved that she was obliged to respect. She abjured all thought of being for a moment actuated by a spirit of defiance, and declined receiving a support, preferring to take care of herself, as occupation would strengthen her mind. She declared herself resigned to her fate, and bade him a most affectionate farewell. 
               She then threw herself on the bed, for a short repose. When she arose she gave the letter to Mrs. Medway, requesting her particularly to send it to the direction at once. From that time she was actively engaged with Miss Digby, for the morning was bright and the wind favorable for them to make an early start. 
               A strong breeze bore their noble ship gallantly from the shores of her native land. Picturesque and lovely beyond description, it was in thus looking back. The undulating roll of the soil, the rich and abundant verdure, the white houses with their red roofs ensconsed on the sloping hills, made a scene that was lovely in the extreme. 
                
               The heart of Mrs. Erwin yearned toward the vanishing glory of the hills and dales. 
               "Oh," she exclaimed; "I did not know that my home was so beautiful!" 
               "When we are leaving the place of our birth-the home of our lives," said Miss Digby, softly, "our affections begin to perceive charms unseen before; we only remember their beauties, and they haunt us as a dream in every succeeding hour of our existence. It is this that often proves the great stimulus of our lives, as all our efforts, are then to return to them; but alas, how few ever return to that paradise which their imagination had made so attractive! Time changes all things. We are changed, the scenes we revisit are changed; and if they were not, our capacity for that fresh appreciative relish for them is gone." 
               Mrs. Erwin sighed; this was a sad thought for her. 
               Miss Digby was touched by her evident depression, and feelingly said; "I hope you will find in my friendship, some substitute for those you have left behind. I feel that your wearied soul wants a resting place. Lay it on my affections and you will not be disappointed;" and they both wept in truest sympathy. All was bustle and confusion on the deck of the heaving ship, as she moved majestically on. Miss Digby soon became sick, and was obliged to go below and retire to one of the berths of her little stateroom, and from it she seldom moved except when obliged during the long voyage. The first few days she could converse and took pleasure in listening to Mrs. Erwin's reading. But eventually she became so much exhausted by continued sickness, that she mostly lay in a state of partial stupor from which she seldom, roused. 
               The solitude of that little, dimly lighted, cheerless apartment, was congenial to Mrs. Erwin's deeply depressed feelings: she indulged freely in her forebodings. She almost felt it a luxury to be thus at liberty to brood over and nourish the painful sentiments of grief that oppressed her. Her last interview with her husband was ever her thought, and it soon became to her nice sensibility as a morbid source of torment; her self reproaches were ever present. 
               "How deeply I am to blame," she would often murmur. I used no effort to sooth him; I gave him not one kind word; O, this is a dreadful retribution! what shall become of me? thus she soliloquized, thus she dwelt in her atmosphere of despair till her fine mind began to show symptom of dangerous disease; a deep and unreasoning melancholy was fastening on her. Had any one been near to notice this, it might with care have been averted, but they were the only females on board the vessel. Their meals were brought to them; a little soup or a nourishing drink was all they needed, and she was so calm and considerate at these times that no one thought of looking for any thing being the matter; no one thought her days and nights were spent in waking dreams; that she knew but little of what was moving around her; that she lived in the silent past, and that her world was peopled only with its by-gones and images. All this time she was conscious of her duty to Miss Digby. A word or a movement of her sick companion would at once arouse her from this deep abstraction, and she would awaken to the tenderest interest. But with the returning moments of quiet, there was the usual relapse into total deathlike stillness. Her husband was ever beside her, but he would not speak, he would not smile; he seemed as of stone-chilling her to the heart. Again, he would be to her as dead; beneath the cold waters her heavy eyes would see the shells and mosses far down in the depths of the ocean-and on them reposing silently, the well remembered form outstretched on the clear, gravelly bed of the deep. And as in fancy she gazed upon it, her bowed frame would dilate and become transfixed with mute horror at the sight. 
               Thus passed her time, attending to a mechanical routine of duty for her sick friend; but not moved by anything outside of it; living but in the dream of her own excited imagination. The changes of weather, the noises overhead, the persons she saw, were all unnoticed by her. Their ship progressed slowly, for her sailing capacities were very moderate, and it being the summer season, they had many calms, and not much of the wind that makes a rapid voyage. Indeed a great deal of the time they were pitching and rolling in those sluggish seas so disagreeable to the impatient traveller or the poor invalid suffering from sea sickness. But at length all felt they must be nearing the wished for haven, and every one was on the sharp look out. Who was going to be the fortunate one to have that first propitious sight, the little speck that first indicates land on the lifting of a heavy mist on a hazy morning. 
               The practiced eye from the mast-head first discerned the wished for haven, and then the exultation, the clear shout of Land! land ahead! Who can tell the joy that was there as its echoes were caught in triumph by every living voice; deepening, and swelling in one continuous "Hurrah! land, land ahead!" 
               It was indeed a jubilee of joy to many a heart. This going home, it makes the old young, and the young old. What stirring of feelings which we thought were gone forever! But no, they come again, quickened into life by the charms of old associations and loves. Even Miss Digby was roused from her lethargy and woke to life in the general wild enthusiasm. She begged that she too might have a first look on that "dear Isle" of her hopes Her desire was at once cheerfully acquiesced in, and gentle but coarse hands carried her tenderly and placed her on the deck. The fresh fine air soon infused renewed energy through her frame, and she felt, as she said, a new resurrection of life. Gay and lively, she talked to her companion without expecting an answer, and declared that she hardly felt her weakness; "My heart indeed leaps with sweetest pleasure. Oh this going home! to breathe its air, to again behold, and live among these realities whose memories have formed for so many years our chief delight! Can it be that we will look on the old smile and dear remembered voice, and cast our eyes on a familiar scene? Even you, my friend, will become another being when you find yourself surrounded by the comforts of home, and the smiles of friends." 
               As she spoke the last words, she looked pleasantly up at Mrs. Erwin, as if expecting a cheerful response. She had not looked upon the face of her companion in the full light for many days; and now she was truly amazed at its changed expression. No answering smile met hers. The features were fixed and rigid in their solemn expression, and the blanched face was pale, pale as the purest marble. 
               Miss Digby was inexpressibly shocked at this unexpected change, and could not refrain from weeping in her awakened surprise. 
               Mrs. Erwin was conscious of her tears, and put forth all her efforts to soothe her, but she did not appear to be aware that she herself was the cause of them. 
               The sympathies of Miss Digby's strong nature were deeply moved. She drew with affectionate earnestness this 
                     embodyment
                     embodiment
                   of sorrow into her arms, and caressed her with pitying love. "Are you unhappy? Oh! how unhappy you must be, to cause this terrible calamity. Tell me all of your griefs! They shall be mine. Do afflicted one, let me comfort you; let me do something to drive away this misery." 
               To Mrs. Erwin it seemed a great exertion to speak, and the effort to comprehend was evidently painful. 
               "I am happy. Yes, I am happy. I love you very much;" she answered. 
               "Do not say you are happy. You have, I know, a heavy sorrow at your heart," said Miss Digby, "and you suffer from its concealment. Do not let delicacy prevent your speaking. The troubled soul finds relief in sympathy; unburden your heart to me; its griefs shall be sacred. I will suffer with you and for you." 
               The only answer was a shuddering, tremulous agitation. 
               Miss Digby saw this, and refrained from urging further. She thought perhaps it would be cruel to still probe this hidden wound. So she mercifully ceased, and resolved to find some other way to minister to this sadly diseased mind. 
               With a fair breeze the now steady craft moved lightly on, scattering the foaming spray from the sharp bow, as if it too were glad to near its home. The scene was exhilarating. That little speck on the distant horizon had assumed form and dimensions. Mountains and hills reared their heads. Soon the sweet fragrance of blossoms was wafted toward them, and the din of many sounds was heard, even amid the deafening roar of the huge breakers that lash the shores of that ocean girt island. 
               But all was quiet on board as they moved steadily on. Expectation was high, and all enjoyed silently contemplating the beauty they were approaching, and the freshness around them. The deep green sea, the bright blue sky, the invigorating atmosphere, the delightful sense of motion, made to their impatient desires a too exquisite sensation of pleasure to be embodied in words. 
               Miss Digby had not yet moved from the deck. But as they entered the Loch on whose. banks stood the ancient town which bore its name, she consented to go below to prepare for landing. 
               As they neared their port the early twilight had spread over the sky, but there was still the usual excitement and noisy activity attending a new arrival from a foreign port. Many came to seek for friends; others to hear from them; while many crowded from mere curiosity. Miss Digby was glad to accept a carriage that was offered. None of her friends were there, for none were expecting her. Although she had spent much time in this city, and it was her native place, yet it was not to be her ultimate home. She had some friends residing in its environs, whom she wished to see, and therefore decided to remain a day or two. So she desired to be taken to a hotel, and from there she would acquaint them of her arrival. 
               The carriage was, fortunately a commodious one, and Mrs. Erwin had supplied it well with pillows. On these Miss Digby reclined, and quite enjoyed their slow travel through many remembered places. 
               There stood the Exchange-that fine building on the high ground, as they ascended from the water. There were still the well lighted stores-the broad streets. Even the hotel in front of which they now drew up-how very familiar! 
               "It seems but yesterday," she said, "that I was here." 
               On entering they were shown to private apartments, and Miss Digby at once dispatched a note to her relatives. They lived a few miles distant, and would probably see her in the morning. On Mrs. Erwin these changes made but little impression. No feeling of human joy seemed to enter her soul. Miss Digby was the only object that excited in her the least emotion, she was as dead to all else. She never spoke but in answer to a direct question; yet her affectionate devotion to Miss Digby was most touching. And this devotion, accompanied as it was by such perfect trust and confidence in her protection, drew out all the best traits of that lady's strong character. It was long since Miss Digby had been so happy. There was something now to love and care for; something that needed and appreciated her love. She rejoiced to find that there was a spot in her heart that could still bloom with warm humanizing emotions; for she had really feared that they were all dead within her. Disappointments of every kind had alienated her from the world, and she was not satisfied with this indifference which had been so long stealing over her. 
               Poor Mrs. Erwin had no seeming consciousness of this; she moved uniformly and mechanically in these cold shadows that closed around her. The rude tearing asunder of all her tenderest affections had apparently paralysed her being, and her life was little more than a mere automatic existence. Still, there was something unusually attractive in her whole appearance; her still, statue-like life had its charms. There was the impress of a pure and lofty soul, which no saddened or frigid aspect could entirely obliterate. And kindest pity and reverence and esteem were the mingled feelings called forth by her misfortunes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               
                  THE reader must be anxious to know how it was with Mr. Erwin all this time. Was he shut up in his own fine mansion enjoying its many luxuries; or was he, as his wife had foretold, unhappy, lonely and heart stricken? Yes; even so; miserable and wretched he was, to a degree far greater than she had even imagined. He had depended on the justness of his resentment, and the obstinacy of his pride, to maintain him in his resolution to make no concessions; but he had sadly miscalculated his strength and the deep and abiding nature of his own affections. He was not aware that he had a conscience that would stand forth as the stern vindicator of his wife; and that while he was pursuing another, he had been bringing a sweeping desolation on himself, and the bitterness of self condemnation to his own inmost soul. 
               Unlike Mr. Vernon he could not triumph over the misery he had created, his own fine sense of right would not have allowed him to do so, even were he firmly persuaded he was the injured party. When he returned in the evening to his home he was still highly incensed from the altercation of the morning, and still retained all the sentiments, and determination he had expressed with regard to Mary. In other words reason had not as yet asserted her power, passion was still predominant, so that when the note left by his wife was given to him, and he glanced at the first line which said she was going to the poor girl, his indignation knew no bounds. He did not heed Susan's presence, or did not care, but dashed the note unread to the ground, and trampled it under his feet. Susan was amazed, she had been most unwillingly a witness of this, and when she ventured to say a word he silenced, her in a moment. His wife had gone, contrary to his desire, that was enough, he would not hear a word in explanation; and she found too that instead of having the pleasure of being a peacemaker, she had only made herself a mark of vengeance by her interference. Susan was an old privileged member of the family; he well knew her partiality for her mistress; and to the madly angry man there is no pleasure so great as to meet with one he can really make feel his indignation. So he poured out all his vindictive feelings to her, in the shape of severe strictures on her impertinent remarks, her miserable judgment, her uncalled for audacity, and her ill behaviour and grossly outrageous conduct generally. 
               Susan did not so much care for this on her own account, but her anxiety was to keep all this difficulty from the other servants. She would not have them know it for all the world, so delicate was her perception of what was due to the dignity of the family; and still another dread took possession of her as the evening merged into night-what if her mistress should come home in the midst of this terrible passion? The very perspiration stood in drops of terror on her face as she tremblingly listened to every sound that swept by; her fears magnified the consequences so much that if she could only have discovered where her mistress was to be found she would have gone in the night anywhere to have prevented her coming. As it was she slipped to the door at every breath of the wind, looking up and down through the darkness in the rain in hope of seeing her, to give timely warning. 
               There was little rest for Mr. Erwin or Susan that night. She staid in her kitchen, too much excited to sleep, and heard him pacing the room overhead through the long dreary hours. Early in the morning he gave her that note to hand to her mistress, which he had written, as he imagined, in his cool, reflective moments, and then appealed to dispose himself to rest. 
               When Mr. Erwin wrote that note although so highly incensed and fully in earnest, yet he had no idea or apprehension of being taken at his word. It is a common error with those who assume a mastery, to seldom look at the consequences of their acts; indeed they feel often disposed to quarrel with those consequences when they are but the legitimate results of what they have taken so much pains to bring about. Mr. Erwin began to have a little added feeling of displeasure, as the day wore on, and still his wife did not come to solicit a return to that home he had taken the responsibility of so summarily demanding that she should leave forever. He even began seriously to consider that he was more than ill used by this persistency of hers to do that which he had so determinedly told her she must do. 
               But thus it is when we look at but one side of justice; and as yet he only considered himself in the matter. But as the day still wore on, and night was closing in and the wind and the storm were heard outside; then his better, his less selfish feelings began their whisperings. He was uneasy that he had not heard from his wife. Still his pride, and sense of personal wrong, would not allow him to concede and make any inquiries of Susan about her, although he was certain she must have delivered the note or else she would have returned it to him. How drearily the time now dragged. He dined, he dressed, still no message, no explanation, it was very strange! he took his wife's note, which still lay crushed on the floor where he had thrown it the evening before, and when he read, now more calmly, that the poor girl to whom he had taken such an unreasonable dislike, was sick, and probably dying, and in the almshouse too, a most painful sense of his own injustice seized him; and as he still read on, and reached the concluding words of his wife, which said, "she knew from the natural kindness of her dear husband's heart, that he would prefer her acting contrary to his wishes at this time;" especially when he remembered that she was the only one on earth the poor dying girl could call friend, then his conscience smote him remorselessly and unpityingly. 
               Mr. Erwin continued in a very uncomfortable state of mind, anxious and uneasy; every moment expecting to hear from his wife; though he had not come to that point where he would seek her; indeed had he met her at that moment, he would have felt it perhaps better to make some show of resentment as such a glaring defiance of all command ought not to be altogether overlooked, but when dusk, and then sudden darkness came and the storm still raged fearfully then his uneasiness overcame all other feelings and his only resource was now in action. He resolved to go to the almshouse, and at once went out and procured a carriage and gave orders to drive rapidly there, had he spoken to Susan it would have saved him this trouble, but the fact was now that an anxious alarm was fully roused, he had forgotten her altogether in the matter. 
               After some hard driving, they reached the almshouse. The storm had now mostly abated. As they entered the gate they found that another 
                     carraige
                     carriage
                   had just preceded them, and when they reached the steps of the building. a gentleman alighted simultaneously with Mr. Erwin. Entering the hall, the lamplight revealed to him the features of a well known business acquaintance. It was Mr. Lee, who had come to superintend the immediate removal of the body to his house. "Come," said he to Mr. Erwin, I will show you a strange, but melancholy choly sight. It is the daughter of the once gay and fashionable Leonard. Likely you may remember him-he made a great stir for a time in the world-and here his only child lies dead in an almshouse." 
               Mr Erwin followed in silence, believing that he would find his wife there, and somewhat embarrassed at the prospect of meeting her. 
               But when they entered the room, a sad cold feeling of disappointment came suddenly over him. 
               The flickering light of the one candle on the wall revealed nothing save the silent corse stretched on its narrow bier. 
               Long and earnestly did he gaze on the beautiful statue-like form before him, and his heart melted in tenderness and yearned toward the youthful dead in love, even as the love of a parent to a child. 
               "Is she not beautiful in this perfect stillness?" whispered Mr. Lee. 
               A burst of powerful emotion was the only reply. 
               Mr. Lee was completely astonished. He had not thought Mr. Erwin a person of this kind; he had thought him rather cold and indifferent. Ah, he little knew the inward workings of that subdued heart. 
               "Is it not a sweet young thing?" said a woman's voice at his side. It was one of the aged inmates, who had followed them in, and seeing Mr. Erwin so deeply moved, had directed her remarks to him. "A kind, good lady," she continued, "was with her when she died this morning, and wept over her as a mother would over a child-God bless her!" 
               "And where is that lady now?" asked Mr. Erwin, turning quickly round and grasping the woman tightly by the arm, "Where is she now, I say?" 
               "The Lord preserve me!" exclaimed the poor creature, much alarmed, "I do declare most solemnly that I do not know where she is; indeed I do not!" 
               "That is well;" he answered, and turned to leave. 
               "You will attend the funeral to-morrow," said Mr. Lee, "will you not?" 
               "I think I shall." was the reply. 
               Mr. Erwin was now disposed to hasten home, as his wife, he thought it probable, would be there before him. She had now left Mary, and where else would she go? But he was doomed to disappointment. When he returned and found she had not yet arrived, he was almost in despair. He paced up and down the room with hasty steps, not knowing what next to do. It was terribly torturing. 
               This was the time when his wife was so sadly watching the shadows moving to and fro in that well remembered spot. In the shelter of the tree on the opposite side of the street, she was then bidding him a long farewell. And when he left the house a moment after, in that painful restlessness which will not admit of a moment's peace, in the vain expectation that he might possibly meet her; ah, had he been aware that the slightest est space, only, separated them, what an age of misery and mental agony it would have saved! 
               But he still had some slight hope left. He thought she would certainly attend Mary's funeral, and there he should meet her. At an early hour he was at Mr. Lee's residence, and took a favorable position to observe all who came, but alas, his eyes were not to be so blessed. The quick eagerness of his look might have attracted attention, were it not that all were engaged. That redeeming trait of our common nature, the sentiment of deep compassion for the lone one in suffering or death, was experienced by all. And when the clergyman at the close of his remarks spoke of the young dead as unknown, yet loved as one of the great kindred of humanity, the answering sob, the spontaneous sigh, told that all hearts at once recognized the universal bond. No bereaved father was there, nor weeping mother, nor mourning relatives, yet all felt in that silent dead, that young life cut off, that something belonging to themselves was lost, and the lesson that death ever brings was never more keenly felt. Yes, there had been a blotting out of one whose germ was from the same fountain as their own; and warm hearts throbbed loud, and love wept long over the remains of the lonely orphan. 
               But all was soon over. The last hymn was tremblingly sung, the last prayer was fervently uttered, and Mr. Erwin found himself again alone, with the almost last fond hope of meeting his wife, nearly extinguished within him. 
               Where was he to go-what was he to think? It was becoming heart-sickening. Could he now but see her he would most happily have made any sacrifices, to be restored to her love once again. When he reached home he summoned Susan to his presence. He found that she had delivered the note, and when he remembered its contents they could not but account partly for his wife's absence, but still he ought to hear from her; surely she would not leave him forever thus. He questioned Susan closely as to all she knew. Every word of that last interview with his wife in the park he had her repeat again and again. Still it gave no clue as to where the banished one had gone. He then went among relatives and friends, he traveled in every possible direction which he thought she might have taken; he did not speak his errand,-but alas, among all there were unmistakable signs that they knew nothing about her. 
               Then there came the horrid thought that she might have been forced to self-destruction; and with this terrible fear he wandered night and day among the pitiful, abodes of wretchedness, thinking that he might discover some traces of her there. How tenderly he would follow and raise the covering from the disfigured corse, and gaze upon its scarcely human lineaments seeming to discern some resemblance in its countenance to the well remembered features of a loved face. These scenes of painful effort were renewed eagerly on every possible opportunity. 
               Why did not that letter come to save him from all this torture? Mrs. Medway had entirely forgotten it in the confusion of departure, and not until some months after, in the clearing out of a seldom used drawer, was it at last discovered and sent to its destination. 
               In the meantime Mr. Erwin's physical health began to fail. Such constant and unremitting mental anxiety could not but be destructive to health, and a severe rheumatic fever after one of his long wanderings through rain and storm completely prostrated him, Susan was now his faithful nurse and only comfort; their mutual suffering for the one beloved object had obliterated the distinctions of rank and station, and he cared to be with no one else. 
               "Oh Susan, Susan," he would despairingly cry, "talk to me of her; tell me of her,-never, oh, never cease!" 
               Mercifully at this time did that letter arrive which his wife had considerately written on the eve of her departure. It did not say where she was going, it only spoke of undertaking a long voyage by sea. But it. was enough to raise hope in his heart, and lift that despairing agony from his soul. The streams of life began to come slowly back, and peace once more diffused its balm over his stricken spirit. Still it was long before tedious disease unloosed its grasp, and allowed muscular energy to regain its strength. But the one hope of being able soon to follow his wife, made him bear all this patiently, and his waking and sleeping dreams were still of her, and of the strong hope of a future meeting. 
               During these many months his business had been completely neglected. Shrewd observers had noticed in the commercial atmosphere symptoms of an approaching crisis; and friends came to warn the now strangely negligent man that his affairs were in danger; but they could not rouse him to interest. His was a business where fortunes might be made or lost in a single day. Immense capital was employed, and a slight fluctuation in prices took men either up or down. When the great crash did indeed come, Mr. Erwin, usually so watchful, and armed at all points, was away from his post, and ruin came, sweeping away the gatherings of many years. At another time this would have been an overwhelming catastrophe; but now he hardly minded it, it was so completely a secondary matter: would, he have but enough to pay his debts and reach his wife, that was all he cared for. But he was an honorable man, and he felt obliged to remain, even after had somewhat recovered, to settle his business, so that none should suffer loss or inconvenience by him. Time did did indeed seem tedious while this was being done, and when it was completed, and every one fully paid their demands, he found truly there was very little left for himself. 
               This did not give him so much anxiety as his health; and that only troubled him, because it interfered with his progress in search of his lost treasure. He found that exertion in spite of all the efforts of his will would occasion relapse, indeed the rheumatic affection was evidently becoming permanent, and he dreaded above all things being laid up altogether helpless. He had discovered, after great exertions, that a vessel had sailed for Europe on the date of his wife's letter, With two female passengers on board, and he was but waiting even partial recovery from one of these painful and tedious attacks to follow to the seaport, It was, indeed a visionary scheme; for even should he get there, how still could he possibly trace them? His wife was evidently traveling under an assumed name. But nothing could depress him. He only prayed to be raised from his bed, and he was sure of a favorable issue. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               
                  WE left Miss Digby, and Mrs. Erwin on the evening of their arrival, waiting at the hotel. Miss Digby, as may be remembered, had sent a note to some friends to apprise them of her arrival and then awaited their coming. 
               Old and familiar scenes were inspiring Miss Digby with an energy to which she had long been a stranger. She arose early the following morning and requested her silent but ever attentive companion to assist her to a seat by the window of their sitting room. This window directly faced, and enabled her eye to reach through one of the finest streets or places in the city, or rather it had been in her time; as it was nor rather faded in its splendor, and seemed more as belonging to the past. The more modern and fashionable portions of the town had grown since her recollection. Still around this old place there was an air of grandeur that was not elsewhere. The short street or place, as it was called, was unusually wide, while upon either side rose the rich structures of the ancient nobility and gentry of the old town. Many of these houses were closed most of the year, while their owners were traveling or enjoying the pleasures of their more extended country residence: at any rate this had been the case in her early day, and it had always invested the place with such an air of stately rest, that her youth had been 
                     unconciously
                     unconsciously
                   inspired with veneration and awe in its lonely seclusion. There was still the same old castle dark and sombre as ever before her, enclosed on every side by these high brick walls, the front discernible through an open iron railing. How vividly she recalled the busy fancy of her youth that had been filled with the most strange imaginings of all that might be within those walls. How like, and yet unlike its former self! It certainly seemed much less pretensious. There was still the double flight of steep stone steps that led to the main entrance, but their dimensions were marvellously curtailed; indeed they looked rather insignificant now, and the exterior once so imposing to the childish eye, had a strangely contracted and low appearance. Why it had ever been dignified with the name of castle she knew not. It had not much of architectural beauty about it, and certainly was less pretensious than many of the edifices around. But still there was something that made her feel after all that it was not misnamed; and she still enjoyed its mystic gloom, its moss covered walls, its darkened repose, as it brought back these strangely mysterious, half fearful associations, with which her childhood had ever invested The Castle. 
               Still farther on, but in front of the window quite at the extreme end of this even yet stately looking place, rose that time honored structure the "Linen Hall," so famous in the annals of the ancient town. It stood as formerly in the midst of spacious grounds enriched with grand old trees, and adorned with flowers and shrubbery, and gravelled walks, and was as ever the favorite promenade of the inhabitants of the vicinity. 
               From this pleasant recreation, thinking with the past, and viewing with the eyes of the present, she was suddenly aroused by the drawing up of a carriage in front of the hotel. The livery, silver and pale blue, seemed very familiar. Scarce had a moment 
                     elasped
                     elapsed
                   when a servant announced a visitor, and immediately followed a fine looking, elderly man, dressed in the old style of a private gentleman. He advanced towards Miss Digby with a "God bless you Jenny dear." 
               "Dear Philip!" she exclaimed, and they were closely embraced in each other's arms, each heart swelling with an overflow of feeling, and the gush of a kindred sympathy. 
               "Bless me," said Mr. Wellenford, who was the first to speak; "How astonished we were to hear that you were so near us. Poor Grace would not let me rest a moment. You know she is an invalid, or else she would have been with me. She hurried me off to bring you to her. So come let us be going at once! Your trunks and other matters can follow anytime." 
               "Not so fast, Philip, my trunks need hardly be disturbed, to-day; and part of to-morrow is all I can give to my good cousins at this time. Remember cousin Philip my days are about numbered. I am on my way to that home left me by my kind old aunt, and I must hasten there, and have all things ready for the first summons; which indeed I very soon expect." 
                
               "Tut, tut, nonsense, my dear woman, you are wandering! There is a long life before you yet. Why, I expect before long to dance at your wedding. But to be serious, my dear cousin"-and he lowered his voice, and fixed his eyes affectionately on her, "you are changed very much changed indeed. Had our meeting been casual, I really think I should hardly have known you. You are about my own age; but do excuse me-I think you might pass for my mother;" and he suddenly turned towards a large looking, glass, and viewed his fine person most complacently. 
               Time had but just brought him to that perfection of maturity, that immediately precedes a healthful and vigorous old age, before the woolen wrappings, the soft lined slippers, or the warm quilted cap become among the indispensibles. There he stood, a man originally cast in nature's finest mould; and to whom fate had been so kind that nothing had helped to mar these fair advantages. His hair fully powdered was combed back from the broad smooth forehead and tied in a queue behind; his dark blue 
                     cothes
                     clothes
                  , stockingnet small-clothes, large black velvet vest, hessian boots and ruffled shirt-bosom-altogether this dress set off his portly figure, while his rich florid complexion denoted perfect health; and in his countenance beamed that cheerfulness and goodness with which his heart was filled; he was indeed one that all might love to honor. 
               He turned again to Miss Digby, and in her pallid face and furrowed brow read of trials and stormy passions, which he knew but little about. 
               "Ah, my poor cousin," he said, "this comes of your wanderings, leaving your native soil, and native air, and sacrificing your best da to an ungenial climate, and the cold intercourse of strangers. But you would have it so; there was no persuading you from your impracticable schemes, and now you reap the consequences." 
               Miss Digby smiled, as one smiles who is made conscious of their mistakes. 
               "I know my old combatant, cousin Philip, that you would always have it that I was a self-willed, obstinate-what shall I say?" 
               "Never mind, Jenny, and now come; a drive on the shores of the old Lough will make you young again. But who," added he aside, "is this lady?" 
               "Excuse me," said Miss Digby, "she is a much esteemed friend, to whom I owe a deep debt of gratitude for unremitting kindness in my constant sickness during our long voyage. She is a stranger, Philip, receive her for my sake as another cousin;" and the generous woman silently pressed his hand as if urging impressively her request. 
               "With much pleasure," said Mr. Wellenford warmly, "if the lady will allow the privilege." 
               The expression of sadness on the engaging face of Mrs. Erwin, and the delicacy and refinement of her whole demeanour had interested Mr. Wellenford from the moment he came in the room. He now approached, and bowing low, offered his warmest congratulations, and hoped he might have the pleasure of her company with Miss Digby at his home. An assenting bow was all the answer he received, but it was done so simply and graciously, that he was perfectly satisfied, and made no remark in his own mind. 
               In proceeding to the residence of Mr. Wellenford, the carriage passed through many of the principal localities, and more modern portions of the city, before they reached the open country. 
               It was all new to Miss Digby, and she expressed herself as hardly knowing where she was; but when Mr. Wellenford told her of the advance and changes there had been since she was there, it accounted for it; from a population of eighteen thousand, there were now over one hundred and forty thousand, and the old town that she was familiar with was hardly observable in the new. There were many fine private dwellings on wide spacious streets, but there was a flatness and uniformity in all these that did not please the eye long used to the irregularities and variety in most American cities; besides, Miss Digby missed those beautiful shade trees on the side-walks that she had been so long accustomed to admire in the new world. There were none here; but there was so much of order and cleanliness, and freedom from everything that was offensive in the outside arrangements, that it somewhat compensated for their absence. 
               And there were these same old land-marks too that she remembered so fondly among the more showy and elaborate novelties of modern times. There was the Academical Institute in its fine open Park of shade trees and sheltered walks, and the Botanical Gardens, and the Chapel of Ease, and that same tall spire on that old Episcopal church, and the three dissenting meeting-houses in the narrow lane near by; all these were familiar; but it was only when she found herself once more on the broad and beautiful road, which sweeps around the borders of the noble Loch, that she really felt at home again, with the full return of old loves and old associations upon her. 
               For some miles of their ride they enjoyed a varied perspective of unrivalled beauty. All along on one side the broad level road they were traveling, rose a succession of splendid country seats, the summer residences of many of the wealthy inhabitants of the town, with their groves and parks, and every variety of improvement that art or nature could bring; while on the other side lay that broad sheet of water, throwing up its rippling waves in, quiet majesty, even almost to the carriage wheels. It was now full tide, and the grateful perfume of the salt breeze which the sea wafted over the rocks and sands of its shore, took Miss Digby back to the days of her youthful spring-time, when she scrambled and waded in its shiny depths to gather the pungent dulce, sharp, but delicious, that grew so abundantly there. She leaned back in fondest reverie, her heart overflowing with renewed love and life; every breath was a luxury, every thought a joy, till roused by the sudden stopping of the horses in front of Mr. Wellenford's avenue-gate; soon the venerable porter, with his white flowing locks emerged from the lodge to open it. 
               "Do you remember old Peter?" asked Mr. Wellenford. 
               "Ah, surely I do," she replied, and, raising her voice, said, "And you, my good old friend, may remember me-Jenny Digby." 
               "Indeed I do;" and the aged man raised his bent head, saying, "God bless me, is this my bright, merry young lady? My old eyes are dim, may be I don't see right. They told me you were coming, or God knows I would not have believed it was yourself." 
               Mr. Wellenford feeling that his newly restored cousin would not be flattered by these remarks on her much altered appearance, withdrew her attention from Peter to a group of smiling faces just discernable on a high balcony, waving their handkerchiefs in welcome at their approach. The avenue they were on had so many windings, and the densely clothed trees so closely shut it in, that occasionally the house was lost to sight; it was a large roomy mansion, built of a white stone peculiar to the country, and it had a very peculiar appearance in the occasional glimpses they had of it; when they emerged from this gloom into broad open space, the bright sun shone cheerily on the spacious portico now filled with a smiling throng hastening to meet them. 
               Mr. Wellenford presented his numerous family, sons and daughters, with their wives, husbands, and children; all that could be gathered together at such short notice, to meet the long lost relative. 
               "And here come my sweet twin blossoms," he said, as two lovely young creatures full of life and joyous health came galloping forward on their little ponies, "these you have never seen, cousin Jenny." 
               The welcome she received from all this bright company was glowing and sincere. Miss Digby felt that they were indeed a household of blessings to each other. She never was made more truly sensible of her own lonely position in the world. 
               "Ah! Philip, my cousin!" said she in a saddened voice, "this is a great contrast. Look at your numerous sources of happiness, and then look at mine." 
               "But there are also the more numerous sources of care. You may remember, Jenny, ever life must have its two sides; so cheer up; perhaps yours will more evenly balance in the end than you suppose. At any rate, let us enjoy life as we go along; so come now to Grace, I know she waits impatiently." 
               To Mrs. Erwin the greetings had been most kind and respectful. Her subdued melancholy interested their sympathies. It was most pleasing to observe the unobtrusive delicacy and tender regard with which these light-hearted young people, and their more observant seniors treated her; even the poor chilled heart seemed somewhat to feel a response to such kindness. 
               In the evening a numerous party gathered in the rich drawing-rooms of that hospitable mansion: but Miss Digby much preferred sitting in an adjoining room with Mrs. Wentworth; there was much to talk of in the short time they expected to be together. 
               "How much," said Miss Digby, during a pause in the conversation, "do I like to hear these merry sounds that come to us from these blithe young hearts. Happy beings! They enjoy the present; that is what I would never do. I was forever craving for something beyond my reach; some visionary scheme that filled my brain, but which I never could bring to practical bearing. I did not, or would not, appreciate the life that was near me. This was my mistake; I see it now, and bitterly do I mourn over my many wasted gifts and sadly mis-spent time." 
               "Do not speak thus, Jane," said Mrs. Wellenford, with much emphasis. "Few through all their lives have been so much guided by principle as you have; everything was sacrificed to it. I used to think if you would let your impulses a little more rule you, it would be better; but it was always 'the reason,' or the question, 'Is it right that I should do so?'" 
                
               "Say, then, mistaken principles, if you will have it so," she answered with a smile; "at any rate, I have been sadly misguided; for all my efforts have never produced results. From my earliest youth, I had, as you know, the fixed idea that I had a work to do; and I had, also, the conviction, that, to test my own sincerity, I must be ever ready to make unbounded sacrifices; and I did make them, as you know, Grace: and, indeed, I almost felt a pride in their magnitude. My great desire was for the elevation of my own sex. I felt that woman, as a human necessity, did not take the position that she ought, and foolishly imagined that my short life, in its new light of advancement, might compass that which would necessarily take centuries to accomplish. 
               "My plan was educating the female mind in every department of knowledge, to the highest of human capacity; and for this, I must have institutions where science, literature, art and knowledge of all kinds could be pursued to any desirable extent; and to the accomplishment of this object, I resolved to devote my fortune, my time, and every talent I possessed. 
               "It was not all madness with me, I think; I was visionary; but still I had some reasons on which to found the necessity I saw for such a course. My plan, though, only reached to those about in my own station in society, or, perhaps superior; not that I was indifferent to others; but that I saw many useful and necessary occupations of time for those in the humbler walks of life which did not exist in my own. I had long noticed that young ladies, when their school. education and accomplishments were completed, commenced a life in most cases of useless frivolity. In fact, they were forced into these pursuits, I was well aware, from the restlessness of youth and the utter want of any stimulus to a high ambition; their intelligence and individuality was lost in the game of life that opened but one avenue to consideration. Perhaps it might be argued that in the married life women might find the best and truest occupation for every full aspiration of her soul. My answer to this is, that all women are not married. 
               "I do not, Grace, believe me, I never did depreciate the beauty and the holy fitness of that which unites two lives to the perfection of their work; neither did I deny that in that sphere of usefulness, (as my own Grace is a living example,) a woman may, by her excellence, create an influence that no individual effort ever could; still, as I said, all women are not married; all women are not fitted by habit, mind or taste to be married; and to such and all others, I wished to offer inducements to a development that might lead them into that which would be, perhaps a truer life for them. All that I asked was that she might choose her course, and be honored, and not, as I proudly felt, be merely tolerated in it. To do all this, I thought I must leave my own country, and begin my work in a new. I was aware of the prejudices around me: these old countries are so surrounded by a thick wall of fixed usages, that any who attempt a breach, must certainly be immolated; so I went, a stranger among strangers, and as might be supposed, I was doomed to disappointment. Like many reformers, I had the desire, but not the temper to be successful: neither had I the magnanimity to plant the seed, and let others reap the fruits. I had thought, if I but named my project, that vast crowds would gather and worship at this great shrine of knowledge; but was mistaken, and I became embittered. I found my motives questioned, and my actions misinterpreted, and I came to look upon all with distrust; still I had a few fast friends that I think understood me, and gave me encouragement. But I am fatiguing you, Grace, I will hasten to a close. 
               "I still persevered in my work. I spent my all in these endeavors; I had proudly refused remuneration, and when I found myself getting old, and without means to provide for my wants, then you may suppose I was indeed alarmed; so, then I began to teach for profit. I was hardly fitted for this; my temper would not let me bear patiently with the ever varying demands of parent and child, and I was unreasonable, too. I am ashamed to own, that instead of advancing age making me more prudent, and considerate towards my fellow beings, it only made me more severe to what I considered their faults, and I became, at last, the cold, harsh, unwavering misanthrope. 
               "I now see that much of this neglect and want of the first principles of gratitude, that I so much complained of, was caused by my own conduct. I was selfish, proud; only thought of my own personal feelings when repelling all advances, and did not care for the consequences; but, above all, I was wanting in that principle of love that would have created love in return; and indeed the atmosphere of repulsion I caused around me, was not only a passion, but an active wrong to those I came in contact with." 
               "My dear Jane," said Mrs. Wellenford, with a smile, "you were ever exceedingly ingenious in these self-condemnations; we all have our peculiarities; a little added in quantity makes them appear very prominent either for good or bad. The great difference between you and me was, I accepted circumstances as they came, you wished to create them for yourself. I have had a life of quiet prosperity; you have had rather a stormy life of what would probably be termed the opposite. I have had no very great stirrings of the heart, but you have had your moments of intensest emotion. Who then can say when the balance is made up which had the largest share. So we might go on through, every action of our lives. It would not do, Jane, were all alike willing to go on in the same beaten way: we need these restless elements of mind to disperse the fatuity that gathers round satisfied contentment, just as we need the storm to clear the air from the unhealthy secretions of the soft summer breeze. 
               "If in your prophetic genius you have had even the slightest glimpse of the necessities of the future, and have with a high purpose, to the best of your convictions endeavored to aid them along, even though you have failed, accept the pleasure of that consciousness. There is nothing lost, believe me, Jane. These struggles of yours may yet loom up in the far distance, when all that I have done is passed away and forgotten. I belong to those that smooth the present, you to the pioneers of the advance. Both are needed: we must not despise each other; so brighten up, my strong cousin. Martyrs there must be: and don't yourself somewhat glory in the thought?" 
               A number of voices were now heard approaching, and Mr. Wellenford soon invaded their quiet privacy, followed by a bevy of laughing young girls, who said they were unanimously appointed committee to urge, persuade or oblige the trio of the invalid sanctum to favor the drawing-room with their presence for a short half hour. No apologies they were told would be accepted: and as all objections were overruled, and willing arms were readily offered for their support, they at last consented to be led for a very short time to their gay friends. Miss Digby and Mrs. Wellenford went on, supported by a young friend on either side, while Mrs. Erwin followed, leaning on Mr. Wellenford's arm. 
               This evening the attention of Mrs. Erwin seemed unusually interested. Perhaps the low voices of her two companions may have sounded sweetly in her ear, or the hum of gayety and merriment that reached even her may have echoed pleasantly through the long dormant recesses of her silent soul, and awakened to sympathy some tender chord that vibrated there. She showed evidence of some slight notice of what was passing, and Miss Digby even fancied she saw a tear course slowly down the pale impassible face, but it was hardly so. Yet the brilliantly illuminated apartment they now entered, with all its gay appendages might well have enlivened the gloomiest heart. 
               Bright groups were seated around the little card tables placed on one side the entire length of the room. The merry laugh and animated voices of the players were heard, showing that the game did not occupy all their thoughts; others were moving about variously engaged. Some were examining the paintings, others the statuary and many rare gems gathered from all portions of the earth; while the sparkling chandeliers and the oval mirrors, with their gilt branches all a blaze of light reflected on the rich gay-colored hangings of the numerous windows, made a scene of brilliance that was truly dazzling. 
               As they came out, the company pressed forward to pay their respects to Mrs. Wellenford and her new guest. Foremost among these was a person of noble presence, just emerging from middle life to old age, but still peculiarly attractive. She was attired in the rich costume of a lady of the past generation. She stood looking for some time at Miss Digby without speaking. When all had withdrawn she gently took her hand, and looking into her face said, 
               "Jane Digby do you know me?" 
               A slight tremor crept over Miss Digby as she was thus strangely addressed. 
               "I could not forget that voice, Rose, even were I not to see the well remembered countenance. Ah, how it stirs my memory! When we last parted it was in anger. Have you forgiven me yet?" 
               A warm embrace was the only reply. 
               They withdrew to the curtained recess of a large bay-window. 
               "I never blamed you, Rose," said Miss Digby. "I knew I deserved your severest reproaches; and as years rolled on, I felt their justice still more." 
               Miss Digby's whole frame trembled, during this recital. 
               "Yes, it was here," she resumed, "at this very window, with the same moonbeams casting their pale shadows on the distant waters, that I, with steady voice, and cold, determined heart, announced to your good and gentle brother my fixed and immoveable resolve to brave the sneers of the world, and enter alone upon a new and untried path. I thought not then of how I was sacrificing his prospects and wounding his heart, while I was gratifying my own. I need not tell you of his pleadings-if not for his sake, for the sake of all I held dear, to give up the wild enterprise; and then, how I, so cruelly in my ungovernable self-will taunted him with selfish motives in all that he said. I cannot forget the look of wounded pride and deep sadness which his countenance assumed, it has never left my sight. Even then my heart told me I was wrong. He spoke no more, and yet I would have given worlds for one word, that I might have thrown myself on his forgiveness. Ah, I understood so little a nature like his." 
               "But tell me of him, Rose," she still continued, after a short pause; "Do you know I never dare inquire about him? Feeling I had wronged him so much I thought that I had no right to know,-that the punishment of suspense was what I deserved. Is he well? Did he marry? Is he happy?" 
               "My dear brother is in Heaven. He never married. He never forgot you, Jane." 
               "God be praised! Then we shall be united above. My heart has never wandered from him. I have loved as few have loved, believe me, Rose." 
               "My dear brother made me the confidant of all his thoughts. He deeply mourned the delusion, as he considered it, that beset you; but he gave you full credit for sincerity of purpose. He knew the difficulties you would meet with, and he sincerely grieved at the thought of your disappointments. While he lived he devoted himself to the good of his parish, and was much beloved by his people; but he died early. Still his memory is cherished, and many still love to honor his name." 
               Miss Digby wept. 
               "A just retribution is shown in my cheerless old age. To a temper trained to bear reverses gracefully, the end is humility; but to my stormy soul trials brought but increased pride. All forsook me, and then instead of examining myself for the cause, I only hated all. But God in pity would not let me die thus; the hardest of hearts was softened. Do you see that pale, almost lifeless being, sitting so silent beside Mr. Wellenford? She has restored me to love and humanity. I know not the cause of her deep sorrow; but her helplessness, her simple tenderness, and the affection with which she clings to me, have again opened the avenues to my soul, and I now feel as one of the human brotherhood, and can love even those in whom I may discern both folly and weaknesses." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               
                  A LARGE and gay assemblage surrounded the breakfast table on the following morning. 
               Many guests had remained, and all had risen early to enjoy the variety of amusements the place afforded. Some had been driving on the beach, while others had been on horseback, galloping over the country; others were sailing, walking, or fishing, as fancy might direct, while a few had remained at home to enjoy the library, read, or view the fine prospect presented in every direction. All were fresh and merry, had "something to tell," and were able to do full justice, after their appetizing pursuits, to the delicious abundance of the repast that was set before them. 
               The smoking urns, bright in their silver hues, were soon dispensing the finest of hot tea and coffee, there was rich cream, fresh butter, eggs, cold meats and patties, with warm bread, white and crisp, in every fanciful variety of shape; but the great crowning attraction of this morning-feast were two unusually large salmon, one at either end of the long table; they had been caught but a short time previous, and had all that savory richness ness so peculiarly perceptible in the first hours of their freshness. 
               An hour was thus passed most pleasantly; and many lingered to still pursue the enlivening conversation that was going on. The young people of the party had mostly scattered, but soon returned, all eager with a proposition, which had been made, that the entire company should form a party to visit the old Castle Carrickfergus, one of the few remaining. strongholds of ancient feudal Ireland. 
               Miss Digby could only remember it as an immense, somber pile, on a bleak promontory of the coast. She had a great desire to see it again, but feared the ride, although it was but a few miles distant, as she had not yet recovered from the effects of her voyage. But all were so desirous to have her go, and she so much disliked to disappoint these many happy hearts, especially as Mrs. Wellenford joined in the entreaties, saying that she would accompany them if her dear cousin would go along, that she at last consented. She did not repent the decision, although much fatigued on her return. She had looked again upon familiar scenes; had scaled the old tower, with its battlemented walls, and looked as of old on the gathering clouds that threw their darkness over the huge breakers as they scattered their white foam on the deep foundations beneath; had again felt the beauty of the sudden bursts of sunshine that so often struggled to lighten this dreary waste; had once more watched the waving sea gull in the 
                     dastance
                     distance
                  , flapping its wings over the cold waters of its troubled home; had heard the winds moan round the lonely walls, and had experienced the same feeling of utter loneliness as in days gone by, as if standing on the very borders of time, launching forth in the grandeur of hope on the great ocean of uncertainty. But this contemplation was now more the luxury of thoughtful enjoyment than formerly. She would fain have lived within herself for a few hours, and sounded to its depths this awakened sense of attuned melancholy, of loved, yet unseen protection of oneness, as it were, with the great order of all that was around her. But the cheerful voices of her friends roused her from her reverie. She must mingle with those who so sought her pleasure in every word and action, and it was indeed a joyous party, and the day was most delightfully spent. 
               But Miss Digby was unusually fatigued; even a long night of quiet could scarcely restore her to rest, and on the next morning she told her friends that she must be off, as it was impossible, in their active affection, for her poor worn out body ever to have peace. 
               "I must go, dear friends," she said wearily, but with that determination which none could gainsay, "I must go to my own home." 
               When it was found that she could not be persuaded to remain Mr. Wellenford at once offered to accompany her in the large old family coach. 
                
               "We will jog along right cozily," he jocularly said, "and you may lie down or sit up, just as you please, and be as long as you like on your journey. It is many years since I visited these almost forgotten wilds, and I assure you it will be a great pleasure to me to look upon their beauties once more." 
               To Miss Digby's many objections to taking him so long from home, all were unanimous in the desire that he should go. Even one of the "little beauties" exclaimed, 
               "Do, dear aunty-papa does so love to travel! I am sure that he is right glad of the excuse!" she added, laughing. But in saying the last words she was wise enough to make her exit beyond reach. 
               "You see now, cousin, as that gipsey says, you need not feel under any obligation. It is you who are conferring the obligation on me. So it is all settled." 
               The parting between Mrs. Wellenford and Miss Digby was accompanied by much feeling. It was hardly probable in the state of health they were both in, that they would ever meet again. This thought cast a gloom over the friendly procession that followed the carriage through the avenue and a short distance down the road. Miss Digby retained these painful emotions long after the last adieu was said, notwithstanding Mr. Wellenford's efforts to divert her attention; but by degrees the pleasant scenery and the varying prospect roused her from her despondency. 
               "And can this be Ireland?" she at length exclaimed, looking back on the populous city now fast receding from their view. "Can this indeed be Ireland? Look at these fine roads, this high cultivation, these evidences of thrift everywhere. Can this be the place of whose wretchedness misery and improvidence I have so long been accustomed to hear, that I had almost come to think my memory had strangely deceived me, and that must be even as all said it was. 
               "Why is it," she continued, "that travelers and tourists, when they visit this country, dwell on the same themes, and forever echo each other's opinions? It is as a set of people had resolved to look on some great picture of nature and only see its jagged rocks, its decayed herbage, its gnarled and misshapen trees, ignoring all the beauty that promises to redeem these ungainly sights. They mount the spectacles of early prejudice and 
                     preconcieved
                     preconceived
                   notions, and see through them alone. I have seldom risen from a perusal of their statements without experiencing a feeling of extreme humiliation. You may wonder why I heeded these things, or allowed them to give me a moment's uneasiness when I knew them to be the result of prejudice or want of observation. But I was away from my country, and it is then we learn to know how dear it is to us; every feeling of patriotism is kept alive, and a slight or reproach is felt as a personal insult; and, strangely contradictory as it is, lowered or condemned by all, so it proportionately rises in our most sensitive estimation." 
                
               "I can understand this;" said Mr. Wellenford, "and as love of home, of country, of old associations are among our best, our most holy instincts, they ought to be respected. It is about as unfair to tamper with the character of nations as with that of individuals. A flippant sarcasm or a thoughtless epithet will brand a nation, as it will an individual, with a very undeserved reputation, and this reputation, with the many, will be remembered when long acts of after greatness are forgotten. But, Jenny, we must rise above this. We, no doubt, have many faults, and a stranger probably, discerns them more readily than we can, but still we have a fine country, and we will be proud of it and love it with all its imperfections." 
               They passed in their route through the capital and many fine flourishing towns and quiet villages, but they made as few stops as possible, anxious to reach their destination. They were now entering the picturesque but agriculturally poor section of the country which has given it so much of its character for penury abroad. Its close proximity to the ocean, its numerous fishing hamlets scattered along the barren shores gave an aspect of wildness and desolation to the region. Poverty was very perceptible in the mud cottages and little patches of poor land around them. Still the smiling faces and the pleasant courtesy as they passed looked as if the inmates might possess the wealth of a cheerful heart; and Miss Digby remarked that one forgot their poverty in the bright hue of sprightliness and health that surrounded them. 
               "The nature of the climate" said Mr. Wellenford, "in this southern section is conducive to this. They have few wants; there is but little hope of ever bettering, their condition; and as much is not expected of them we need not wonder at their few efforts to bring about a change, Let us blame the circumstances that hold them in the slavery of want rather than blame them. When we come to regard human nature in its essential elements as about the same in all the world, and requiring the adoption of the same universal principles to its right development we may hope to find a change, even here." 
               The road they followed was now winding and hilly; but our travelers were richly compensated for these inconveniences by the scenes of sublime beauty that met them at every turn. Mountains reared their heads in the distant sky; and as they ascended the hill or entered the valley still a varied landscape of exquisite loveliness was before them. Perhaps a roaring torrent coursed its way down a steep ravine; or again a peaceful lake amid its sloping banks of richest verdure, charmed the eye; or a picturesque cottage on the brink of some overhanging precipice, where the foam and mist rose like a cloud in the clear pure atmosphere above, captivated the fancy. 
               "But here is my valley of peace," said Miss Digby, as they entered a wild and deeply secluded glen. "Ah, cousin Philip, has not nature in some of her mighty revulsions designed a grand entrance to my humble retreat?" 
               "This is truly magnificent!" exclaimed Mr. Wellenford, with a sudden burst of enthusiasm, "Magnificent indeed!" and he raised his eyes on either side up the lofty mountain wall, so high that the sky over their heads seemed but a narrow strip of light. From base to summit, these 
                     impenenetrable
                     impenetrable
                   sides were clothed with the rich and luxuriant growth of many centuries. And to complete the charm of this enchanted spot, it was wrapped in the profoundest repose; not a sound broke the stillness but the sighing of the wind, as of some sweet olian strain, or the gentle ripple of the little stream as it ran along the path. 
               "Why Jenny," said Mr. Wellenford, "you will be as much cut off from the world as though you were in the desert of Sahara!" 
               "God and nature will be my companions, cousin Philip, and they are the dearest at my time of life." she said smilingly. 
               As they emerged from the glen into an area, or plain, encircled by a grassy terrace, the ancient cottage was before them; its high pointed roof, whose eaves nearly touched the ground, was scarcely discernible amid the mass of foliage that closed it in. Arbutus, holly and birch were growing most abundantly. The deep frosts of winter scarcely torched their bloom in this natural park. The building was of white stone, which had a pretty effect in its embowered retreat. The arch of the low portal was, richly sculptured with many devices of strange import, and the massive door and stone seats at its entrance gave the mansion an appearance of having been a place of some importance in its day. 
               Miss Digby did not know at what period the cottage and grounds came into the possession of her family. There were many traditions concerning it, but they appeared to be only traditions. It was said to have been the last retreat of the beautiful and childless widow of a once powerful chief who had flourished long ago in feudal grandeur in that vast pile now in ruins on the brow of the neighboring hill. Here it was said that she had found a home, with her few followers, in a religious institution she had herself founded. There were some few evidences to carry out this idea; among them, with many other sacred relics, was an excavation on the hillside, as though the entrance to a sepulchre. Its mouth was closed by an antique stone, upon whose mouldering remains could still be traced the full length carving of a female form in nun's drapery, and with a rosary on her breast. 
               Miss Digby enjoyed to its utmost this scene of romanic and isolated beauty; 
               "There is nothing left for me to desire;" she said, "This miniature lake completes my utmost wishes. Is it not beautiful, cousin Philip?" 
               The sound of their voices brought out a fitting accompaniment paniment to all this. A very aged couple stood in the doorway to welcome their new mistress. They were expecting, and now rejoiced to see her. They remembered her as the great, hoydenish girl, who made periodical visitations to her sedate relative, disturbing the quiet and regularity of their retired home, and they had rather uneasily anticipated her arrival. But the appearance of the invalid lady set their hearts at rest; she seemed like their old mistress restored to them, and they kissed her hand and wept with excess of joy. 
               Terence and his wife were of that class of retainers who spend their days, and identify themselves with all the interests of the family whom they serve. Everything in and about the place was just as dear as if it were their own, and it was doubtful whether they did not almost consider it so. 
               Miss Digby expressed great satisfaction with the fine order in which she found everything. 
               Terence fired up, and his old heart warmed, and his eye brightened at the thought. 
               "You have not seen the garden yet, ma'am!" 
               That garden was to him the perfection of all things. Year after year, for more than half a century, he had trimmed its borders, and clipped its sweet hawthorn hedges, and trained its curling vines, and lived among the wealth and bloom and beauty of these rearings of his own hands, and it was to him, indeed, the paradise of his confined existence. 
                
               "Do not ask me to go with you to-day, Terence;" said Miss Digby, "I must leave that great treat for another time. I am sadly fatigued, and must rest. I too am growing old, and cannot do as I used to do, but I hope still we will spend many pleasant hours in this bright spot of your own creating." 
               Mr. Wellenford remained with them a few days, and enjoyed exceedingly this exploring and renewing old recollections of places quite familiar in his younger days. But he was of too active a temperament to remain long satisfied in such still life, even although it was in the midst of such perfection of natural charms; besides he was desirous, to be with his family again, and with many promises of a speedy return he left the two recluses to their secluded retirement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               
                  AFTER a few days of rest, Miss Digby began to examine the many objects of interest in her new home. Every thing was as her relative had left it. It was, indeed, an old-times habitation, in its interior as well as exterior arrangements. From the ponderous style of the furniture, it was evidently coeval with the house. The floors were of polished oak, as were the stairways, wainscotings, and heavy beams over head. 
               The hall was the only apartment of any considerable dimensions in the establishment. Its hight reached to the highest peak of the building, and was lighted by narrow windows in the roof. An immense fireplace reached across either end, and the stone floor was carved in strange hieroglyphics. In the thick walls on either side were deep niches filled with ancient armory, cumbrous enough to defy the rust of ages; showing that although it might have been inhabited by men of peace yet the stern times still demanded the semblances of warfare. There were many small apartments leading from this main one. The place seemed small and low outside, but it covered a large space of ground, and its passages and long dark ways were interminable; and there were closets, and old family chests and drawers, with all their well-preserved relics, to be ransacked; so there was occupation enough for some time. 
               The library alone had a modernized, home-like appearance. The late occupant, although of eccentric habits, and disinclined to mingle with the world, was yet a person of improved and diversified tastes, and her time was much spent in the acquirement of knowledge from books, of which she had a very choice selection. The only window which lighted this well-preserved room was almost buried in creepers and vines; but the dim, subdued light seemed but in happy unison with the place. There was the old-fashioned corner fireplace, With its bright tiles, to send forth the cheerful blaze; then the soft, modern carpet and cushions and seats. It was, indeed, a place for calm enjoyment, where the studious mind might truly forget the world, its misunderstandings, mistakes and overturnings. 
               Miss Digby from the first had endeavored each day, assisted by Mrs. Erwin, to take a short walk; but she had found, although persevered in for some time, that this rather weakened than strengthened her, and she at last came to relinquish them altogether. Mrs. Erwin, however, still continued these walks, and Miss Digby, was desirous that she should do so, thinking they would preserve her health, and perhaps materially benefit her mind. She had not felt uneasy at her pursuing them alone, for she seldom strayed far, and always soon returned. 
                
               However, one day she remained longer than usual; but this did not cause much uneasiness for some time, as there was a security from danger or insult for her, among a people the rudest of whom possessed that true chivalry of nature which would lead them to guard the helpless or God-stricken wherever they would be. Nothing but a reverent "God bless you!" would ever reach her ear. Terribly cruel and unrelenting as these people often are found to be, when that fierce party or faction spirit is roused, yet there are few so degraded as to forget to be generous in the cause of innocence and dependence. The old they reverence, the young they love; and filial pity is a redeeming trait in the character even of the most reprobate. 
               This day, when Mrs. Erwin left home, contrary to her usual custom, she passed out of the glen, and wandered on, seemingly without reflection, following the windings of the stream through quiet meadows, or along the roadside, walking rapidly, her eyes cast down, looking neither to the right nor left. At last the sound of a heavy waterfall attracted her attention, and changed her course. A moment more, and she was descending the rude cliffs, looking out on the grandeur of the mighty deep, and watching the foaming wave as they hurled against the sides of the impenetrable rocks. But her ever-restless spirit would not allow her to remain long amid this scene of wonder and power. So she again turned from its deafening roar, and sought the quiet shade, still moving swiftly as if altogether unconscious of fatigue. Hours she proceeded thus, as though lost in the pleasurable sense of active motion, till unconsciously led to the borders of a lovely lake, resting in the midst of surrounding mountains. The most profound silence reigned here; not a living thing, not a moving sound to breathe its echo on this deep, unearthlike calm. She must have been oppressed with this silence, for she stood a moment with suppressed breath as if awe-struck, and then fled to the highest point she could reach. 
               On, on she ascended, and still higher she observed other lofty summits rearing their heads. This sublimity seemed to overwhelm her. There appeared no bounds to space. Above, as far as the eye could reach, were these wonders; beneath, so distant that its incongruities were not visible, there lay the vast expanse spread out like a panorama of inconceivable beauty. She stood, even in her darkened perception, awe-struck by this immensity of life. God in His fulness of majesty was before her. How elevated the soul becomes in the midst of these mighty creations! We move out of our littleness, as this sentiment of grandeur expands our whole being, and turn from that which the moment before concentrated our active thoughts. We are rising towards the divine, relationship, and we feel exalted in its nearness. We, too, are of His works. As the eye looks around and above, and takes in all the elements of earth, sky and space, the whisperings come, "Even ye are the master-piece of this mighty Mind." How grand the thought! Can we ever live beneath it? No; in the worship of that spontaneous gratitude which the free soul cannot avoid, we must forever keep moving towards the eternal Source of our being. 
               She sank on her knees, and raised her outstretched arms, as the dark vail gradually withdrew from the long shaded mind. The sun was now below the horizon, but its departing rays purpled the deep masses of heavy clouds that rested on its breast. Her whole soul went out in the intense gaze that seemed to penetrate this wall of fire, and rose in the sincere prayer of ardent love, to rest as an embodiment of thought before the Great Eternal. She bowed herself to the earth in deepest reverence. Thought and feeling came, and memory was warming to life and love the long dormant emotions of the heart. 
               But it was a little while before she could connectedly put circumstances together, and trace minutely the half-conscious period of her late existence, and the many events that had ended with her being there. She could well remember Miss Digby and her many acts of uniform kindness to her, while her own affections for that lady came warm and vivid to her heart. She began to think, also that uneasiness might be felt at her absence, and she ought to be on her way home. Still it was most difficult to collect her thoughts, and overcome that dreamy wandering of mind, and it was not till the early moon had come and was waning, that she could sufficiently rouse to action. 
               Her impulse was to descend. She looked around, but everything was unknown to her. She instinctively followed the pathway, though the rough footing and the deep descent was very wearying indeed; and to add to her discomfort, it was now getting very dark; the lowering beams of the young moon had disappeared behind the high range of the precipice, and she felt more lonely than ever; but a pleasant object soon greeted her sight. She thought she perceived a moving light some distance below. She was encouraged to hasten on, and really found that she began to gain on it quite perceptibly. As she still neared the object; she found it was a person carrying a lanterns and to her great relief as she hurriedly approached, she discovered that it was a very old man tottering along, bending his steps toward a low cottage she had not noticed before, at the base of the hill. She ventured to speak aloud and ask his guidance and protection, as she had lost her way. 
               "Certainly, you shall have it, with all my heart, my lady, as I know you are by your gentle tones. I shall be proud to have you enter my little home," and he opened the door wide as he spoke, with true hospitable dignity. 
               A bright turf fire lighted up the rude interior of the cottage. All came joyfully forward to welcome the old grandfather. He had been to the next town with poultry and eggs, and the family were becoming uneasy at his long stay. But when they saw the stranger with him, they started back. The old man introduced her, and their warm feelings made them at once place her on the best seat by the fire. The supper had been waiting for the grandfather, and they respectfully urged her to take a piece of oaten cake and a cup of milk with them, which she gratefully did. Explanations soon followed as to the cause of her being there so late. As she requested to be directed on her way home, a sturdy lad at once offered to accompany her. He knew the way, and he knew her well also. They all remembered her, for they had often met her in her wanderings, and she was known to them by the universal name of "the Mournful Lady." 
               After partaking of their hospitality, she was so much refreshed that she requested her young guide to accompany her immediately. The lad was well acquainted with the shortest and easiest ways, and they moved along in the cool night air at a rapid pace. As they approached the glen, lights were visible and voices were distinctly heard in every direction. 
               Mrs. Erwin was much overcome at this evidence of interest. She knew they were in search of her. The boy ran on and halloed at the top of his voice, when soon the answering ring came wildly back, and the thundering shout was echoed far and wide through valley and glen, up the mountain and on the hill-top. The lost one was found. All ran with warm hearts and open arms to greet her; many had come miles at the given alarm, to search for the lonely stranger Mrs. Erwin could only sob her grateful thanks. 
               She was led in triumph to her home. Fear and anxiety had nearly killed Miss Digby; but when she saw the animated and expressive countenance that now smiled on her, words could not express her surprise and pleasure. 
               "Have you met an angel in the mountains?" she asked. 
               "I believe I have. This heavy burden has been mercifully removed from my soul; and love, and peace, and gratitude-deep gratitude to you, my best friend in my deepest need-have taken its place. I was conscious of your constant kindness, your unceasing consideration; but an icy cold would freeze my smiles, and chill my words, and I had not the power to shake it off." 
               The night had waned to morning before they could part, but Miss Digby then insisted on her retiring, and taking a long rest; while she would strive to compose her nerves and do the same. 
               When they again met, Miss Digby could not cease expressing her great satisfaction at this complete restoration. 
               "My more than friend," said Mrs. Erwin with emotion, "I feel that I can never repay your disinterested kindness to me." 
               "Now," said Miss Digby, interrupting her, and laying her hand on her lips, "let me speak. Do not ever mention this again. It was my pleasure to serve you. I might as well feel obliged to you for the opportunity of this humanizing gratification; we have been mutually benefited. It has been my theory, and I hope my practice, to make it a duty to forget an act my generous impulses urged me to do, knowing I was more than repaid by the pleasure I had in being able to accomplish it; so do not oblige me to feel I have sold my benevolence for a price." 
               "Still I cannot banish my emotions of gratitude;" said Mrs. Erwin, "and if you will allow me, I will make you acquainted with my past life. I feel that you ought to have my fullest confidence." 
               This confidence was what Miss Digby had long desired, and she listened, with much interest to the recital. 
               "I have," said she, "been much puzzled to solve the mystery about you. I was fully conscious that there must be some great cause for the state you were in, and now that I have heard I do not wonder at it at all." 
               Thus a few weeks passed, only uniting them still more closely in love, Miss Digby failed gradually; but she met her fate hopefully and resigned. Her strong nature served her to the end, and she moved about and retained her cheerfulness to the very last. 
               Mrs. Erwin was her constant tender companion, and cared for her as a fond mother would for a loved child, and when they parted it was as if but to meet again in a little while. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               
                  IT was found after the death of Miss Digby that she had executed a will entirely in favor of Mrs. Erwin, with this proviso, that she should take care of the old couple, Terence and Nora, as long at they lived. This Mrs. Erwin felt would constitute one of her greatest pleasures, and be a great stimulus to exertion, in the certainty that these two old people needed her care; for although Miss Digby had left her in possession of all her worldly effects it was scarcely a sufficiency. But she resolved that in whatever else she might be straitened, they should never want for anything. 
               The mind of Mrs. Erwin was now fully restored to its healthful tone. Indeed, if possible, it was even more vigorous and active than ever, possibly from the long rest it had obtained. Certainly nature and the beauty of life had never been presented to her so vividly, before. Even the little blade of grass that trembled in the breeze, and drooped beneath the pressure of her foot, had its charm of deepest interest. The world was now as a new creation to her, just budding into newness of life. Had she been without sight, or was this but the wakening of her native powers to their right perception? The rich stores of her intellect had probably never been fathomed to their utmost depths, and this being thrown on her own resources, and bound to many responsibilities, had roused to consciousness the till now latent faculties; while the beauty and silence of all her surroundings, in the renewed vigor of physical strength, stimulated the soul through the imagination and intelligence to its highest intuitional excellence: but there was no one to whom she could speak all this fulness of thought, and the suppressed powerful emotions of the soul are more than the human mind can bear; they must have expression. So almost unconsciously she took up the pen, and she found this last resource was the true one, for in the enthusiasm of her work she found the sweetest happiness. Hours sped as moments, and fresh ideas in this new-found freedom flowed on as freely as the waters in the downward stream. She did not weary; days, and even nights passed, and an hour occasionally was all she would snatch from these most fascinating labors. 
               While the strong enthusiasm of her work was upon her, it seemed to satisfy every desire, and she perceived beauty and fitness in all that she said; and the thought momentarily occurred to her, "Might I make use of these efforts to try and increase my income;" but when that feeling had passed, all she had done seemed poor and insignificant indeed. It was as if a bright flash of sunshine had been suddenly withdrawn from some pleasant scene, leaving it all darkness and gloom. She almost blushed that such a thought had entered her mind. 
               But soon necessity came to again urge her to some course. Nora was taken sick and remained for some time very ill; at any rate she was getting too old to work. There must be some one had to care for and assist her, and Terence he was feeble and old, and wanted rest too; and with all the economy possible her limited means would hardly bear these now necessary demands. Emboldened by these pressing necessities, she again looked over her many sheets, and with a sort of desperate determination to heed no obstacles, she forwarded them to a popular publisher residing in the capital. To one who had always been shielded from the slightest public exposure, this was a trial indeed; neither had she any one to encourage her in her efforts, or comfort her if rebuff or mortification came. 
               But the dreaded ordeal was at length past. Beyond even her most sanguine expectations, she had been successful. There was a prospect now of constant employment, and best of all independence; and this too by her own individual exertions. Most deeply grateful was she. Was it, indeed a dream, or was it a reality? "God is good, oh, He is too good to me!" were the constant devout whisperings of her heart. 
               Immediately after her restoration from that almost hopeless melancholy which had so long clouded her reason, she had written to former friends, but as yet had received no answer. She wondered at the long silence, and again wrote to Susan, asking an explanation, and begging her to forward any letters that might be directed to her late home. This letter did not reach Susan until the week after Mr. Erwin sailed in search of his wife. Susan at once wrote back an affectionate answer. No words could express the joy she felt at hearing from her mistress again; she begged to be allowed to go to her, and spend the remainder of her days with her. She forwarded a package of letters which she said had been in the house some time, and on opening them Mrs. Erwin found to her great joy they were from her own dear, dear Lucy. 
               Mrs. Erwin was inexpressibly shocked with Susan's account of all her husband had suffered after her departure; but there was such comfort in the hope of possibly meeting him again, that it helped to partially restore her equanimity of mind. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
               
                  LUCY'S letters were before her, and she longed to devour their contents. The first began with expressions of astonishment at not hearing from her dear aunt. What can be the matter? Why do you not write? Oh, I am so lonely! I do so need your sympathy. Would that I could fly to you! But I cannot leave these helpless ones. You do not understand; let me explain, dear aunt: 
               "When I left you, to commence my unexpected journey, I was, as you might suppose, overwhelmed with grief. I could not compose my feelings. My whole frame was convulsed with my emotions. Louis said little, but his delicate attentions showed that I was the object of his constant solicitude. He urged the driver to increased speed, and obliged him to stop during the night and procure fresh horses; thus we traveled till early dawn, when we drew up in front of the dear loved home. 
               "Ah, how different were my emotions now from what they always had been when returning to its well remembered endearments! When Louis saw me surrounded by my little brothers and sisters he left, asking the privilege to call again. The poor children had passed the night upon chairs and sofas. They could not be induced to go to bed; they must wait for sister Lucy. Dear children! 
               "I found my mother much worse than I expected; indeed there had been fears that she would not survive until my return. The physicians gave no hope. Her great desire was to see me while she had strength to relate the changes that had taken place in our family. 
               "My dear mother, I knew, had been unwell for some time, but she had concealed the extent of the danger from me, fearing it would interfere with my happiness. During the last few weeks she had been much worse; still she would not have me summoned, hoping that she might again improve. But circumstances of a most painful nature had occurred within a few days past, attended with such very alarming results for my mother that I was immediately sent for. I gathered from her lips at intervals during that day and the next, the sad cause of the unlooked for events that had brought such mournful consequences. 
               "It seems the night previous to my being sent for my father appeared unusually depressed. He sat late by my mother's bedside, and it distressed her very much to see his evident low spirits. Indeed my mother told me that she had long noticed a great change in his demeanor. He who had been so uniformly cheerful and communicative, was now reserved and taciturn. My mother could not bear this: she knew there must be some serious cause for it, and her affectionate inquiries only the more assured her that it was so, and she still entreated to have his confidence, 
               "'When you are better;' he replied, with a deep-drawn sigh. 
               "But my dear mother would not be set aside; this suspense was worse than reality. 
               "'Let me have the privilege of sharing your burdens, dear husband!' was her entreaty. 
               "He then unbosomed his soul and told her everything. 'Oh, that I had done this before!' he exclaimed, 'what agony of mind I would have been saved!' He had entered, it appeared, a thing so unusual with him, into some visionary speculation, in the hope of acquiring sudden wealth. At first he was rather successful; this encouraged him to go a little deeper; then he lost; and then the hope of retrieving, he risked so much that all was swept away in the great mistake. 
               "Then his courage forsook him; he was advanced in life, 'And here I am,' he added, 'without resources, with a large family used to every indulgence; and you, my poor wife!' and the long pent up agony suddenly burst forth. 
               "My dear mother tried by every endearing epithet to comfort him. Indeed she was quite relieved, she had feared it was much worse; but the sight of his tears was more than she could bear. 'Women may weep,' she said, "we are used to weeping; but to see the strong man thus moved! Ah my Lucy! may you never be forced to behold this painful sight in those you love!' 
               "My mother, as she told me, still used her efforts to cheer him, and tried to make him feel that the riches he had in the love of herself and his children was far beyond any wealth the world could give. 'We will seek an humble home,' she said, 'and in our industrious efforts and its sunshine, we will again taste the truest happiness, that of disinterested love.' 
               "My dear father was almost comforted by her words. He even smiled and spoke of hopes in the future; but he had suffered too much. In the silence of his own breast in the last few months a fearful struggle had been going on, which shattered the whole nervous system most distressingly. This reaction was more than he could bear, and just as hope was again coming to light him with her smile, he sank overpowered by a sudden paralytic shock. 
               "He was carried from my dear mother's bedside more dead than alive; the stroke was too great for her, she became alarmingly worse, and I was sent for. 
               "My dear father remained insensible for many days; indeed he did not even regain a partial consciousness until after my best-beloved mother was laid in her grave. To the last her strength of mind was undiminished. She counselled me as to the course I should pursue, and gave the most minute directions about everything. She was comforted by my promises of devotion to my father brothers, and sisters. My father was her greatest anxiety, and I assured her that he should be my most sacred care. 
               "My dear aunt, I have had unusual strength given me under this heavy affliction, and great responsibility I have assumed. My father's health is being restored, his appetite and strength are returning, but his mental faculties are sadly impaired. His memory is mostly gone. He confounds the past with the present, and singular as it may seem, I almost regard this indistinctness of mind as a blessing, he is so happy in it. He often smiles and calls me by my mother's name, and then he will shed tears, but they do not seem to be those of sorrow. We are all indeed truly comforted by his apparent happiness. 
               "Louis during this time has been most kind. I could hardly have lived without him. He gives me the benefit of his advice and experience, without dictation. I say, this because there is sometimes an advice that embarrasses more than it helps, because you are aware you give offence if not guided by it. On the day my dear mother was buried, what should I have done without him? When she was taken away, to be with us no more, and I fully realized the desolation around me, my little sisters clinging to my side in their helpless grief, and my dear father lying speechless and unconscious before me, despair seized my heart. 
               "Louis returned. He did not follow the remains to the grave, but sat down by me and whispered words of consolation solation and hope. I hardly know what they were, but they calmed my spirit, they strengthened my soul, and I was able to pass through this dreadful, cruel parting. 
               The next letter Mrs. Erwin took up was of a later date, and still expressed an anxiety at the prolonged silence of her aunt. 
               "Did you but know how much I need your sympathy, my dear aunt, I know you would come to me. As I said, my father continued to improve in health, but the cloud did not pass from his soul, and physicians gave their opinion that his mind would never be fully restored. Suitable and trustworthy persons were chosen to investigate his affairs and have them fully settled. They were found to be in a very complicated state, but it soon satisfactorily ascertained that the assets were quite enough to satisfy every demand. For this I was truly thankful. My dear father's honor would be maintained, and it made the loss of all else seem quite insignificant. 
               "Still something must be done for the support of the family. I consulted with friends, and they encouraged me in the resolution I had formed of opening a school for young ladies. No expense, a you know, had been spared in my education; and they kindly flattered me that my abilities were fully equal to the task. When my proposals were made known, many came forward offering to place their daughters under my charge. The creditors were also most generous, and insisted that we should occupy the house and furniture just as it was, at a very small rent, until I was fully established, and then I could purchase or make any other disposition I chose. And so, dear aunt, we are all, as in other days, in the dear old home; my father, kind and good as ever, in his own chosen place by the fireside, and but for the vacant seat opposite, at which sometimes I fancy he looks most wistfully, it would seem as if no change had taken place. 
               "But I did, as I said, at times with much pain perceive an anxious expression on the altered face. There was something missing, I feared; a want he did not fully comprehend, yet tried to make me understand. After one of these more than usual efforts which made my heart ache sore, I thought of my dear mother's portrait-you know what a lifelike one it is. In the evening, after my father had retired to rest, I placed it on the wall directly opposite his usual seat, and my expectations, dear aunt were more than realized. He looks admiringly and smiles on it while he calls me by her name. Indeed, when the bright rays of the setting sun cast their glow upon it, I almost think, myself, that the dear countenance looks down approvingly on us. How happy I ought to be in thus being able to minister to the wants of these beloved ones; for my brothers and sisters too look to me as the great comforter! But to you alone, my dear aunt, I will confess the bitter struggle, the hard conflict I have had with love and duty. You will pity and feel for me, I know. 
               "When Louis heard of my determination to assume the care of my family, he wrote me a long letter. That letter, oh, dear aunt! what exquisite pain it cost me. It almost broke my heart, In it he made an avowal of a long and sincere attachment, declaring that he never loved another, although he had for a brief moment sacrificed at the shrine of beauty and been flattered by the favor with which he has been received. But it was not love; it was an admiration as evanescent as the charms that created it. I had his heart. He did not, he said, wish me to separate from my family, he but asked the privilege of joining with me in my efforts for their happiness. He apologized for making his proposals while my heart was still suffering from its late bereavement, by saying that he did not wish me to make any farther arrangements about the school, as his professional income would be sufficient for all coming wants. Was not this noble, aunt? how dear, how inexpressibly dear he seemed to me! But, aunt, I have learned a great deal in the last few months. I then knew that it would not do to listen to these proposals; and then came the terrible struggle between the deep cherished feelings of my heart and the sacred duty I owed to my family. I knew that if I would support my father and the children, I must do it alone; that as a wife they could only receive as a favor that which it was now my highest duty to perform; so I made my resolve. God gave me strength; and as long as I am blest with human reason, for no gratification of mine shall they ever be placed in a humiliating state of dependence. 
                
               "I wrote my decision to Louis; I candidly owned that it was not my heart prompted the answer, but the lasting obligation I owed my family being now their only natural protector. 
               "He wrote again, asking for an interview. He could not but believe that he might overcome my objections; he hardly thought I could be serious. I granted this, for I longed to see him myself. I thought I could thus better reconcile him to my views. 
               "The next morning early he came. We were at breakfast when he entered. I prayed in my heart for strength to bear me through this fearful exigency. I strove to fortify my resolution, by looking round upon the dependent group. There was my dear father; I thought of and called to mind the dying charge of my mother, never to forsake him. I was glad to see my poor little lame brother's face seem so wan that morning, for then I could think of the many years of care his feebleness would require. But above all was I grateful for that look of impatience which Louis could not conceal, when my poor old father, in his wandering way, still lingered after the others had left the room, for it led reflections which strengthened me; I could now go through with this heart-trying interview. *  *  *  * 
               "*  *  *  It is past. I remained firm to my purpose. I am afraid Louis hardly understands me, or he could not have a hard thought. He bade me farewell. He is going to a distant part of the country. Every thing here is now distasteful to him. Dear aunt, I feel as if I must die. Could I but lay my head on your bosom, I might find rest. Must I live on thus, wherever I go, whatever I do, when I smile as when I weep, with this same sickening weight upon my heart, that must forever ache, ache on? 
               "But away with these thoughts; let me devote myself to the holy work that is before me. Give me light and knowledge, kind Father, and forgive the murmurings of this poor weak heart!" 
               There was still another letter, but it was short. It was only to inform her aunt of their continued health, her great success, the kindness of friends, the love and obedience of the children, and their efforts to make her happy; "And I am happy; I think I am happy-and but God knows how much I try to be so." 
               "Dear girl," said Mrs. Erwin, after a long and continued fit of weeping "what a noble example you are! I do indeed feel ashamed of my own weakness, in the presence of such heroic self-sacrifice." 
               The day was far advanced when these letters were read and re-read, and Mrs. Erwin had still much to do, for her time was now fully occupied. So she fastened the blinds, although it was not quite dark, and lighted her candles, and drew her table with all its writing materials in front of the fire, resolved to go to work in earnest. She had not been long seated thus, when her attention was attracted by the low growl of the large house dog that was chained near by. She opened the window and desired him to be silent, but he would continue his manifestations of anger, and when she retired, he became almost frantic. She then concluded to have Terence see what was the matter, and as she passed into the hall to call him, she heard a low knock at the outer door, and fearing if she waited the dog might break loose and do some mischief, she at once stepped forward and opened it; but what a sight was there! There, in the gathering gloom of night, pale, feeble, and emaciated, stood her husband, her own husband! Petrified and immovable, she gazed for some time, without uttering a word. 
               "Martha! you see me, but I am sadly altered. Can you love me still?" 
               She gasped, but could not utter an articulate sound. 
               "I am weak, I am helpless, my own dear wife; it was with difficulty I dragged myself here. Is there some love for me yet, Martha?" 
               Still she could not speak, but tears began to relieve her overcharged heart. 
               "I am sick, miserably sick," he continued; "and oh, so poor! Say, can you love me still, dearest?" 
               A long, long sigh, and gasping sob, and she caught the outstretched hand and held it tightly to her heart. "Love you still? Love you still?" she repeated. "Do not say that again. I did not love your health, your riches; I loved yourself, my soul is knit in yours, I cannot help loving. Love you still? Yes! it will be more than love; I will spend my life for your happiness. I have prayed by night and by day, and by day and by night, and it has come; and my prayer was that I might once more lay my hand on you, might once more look on you, my own dear, dear husband!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
               
                  KIND reader time files. Ten years have passed since we last met with our old friends, Mr. and Mrs. Erwin, and here they are, just where we left them. Time has been unusually kind to them, though he has, to be sure, made the usual inroads. He has whitened their looks, and drawn his furrows across their brows; but there is a light in their eyes which tells of a spring in the heart, and of joy and harmony in the soul. Mr. Erwin has never fully recovered the use of his limbs; he still uses a staff, to which his wife adds the support of her arm when he walks out on the rich turf, shorn and clipped like a piece of shining velvet, of the sloping lawn in front of their home. 
               The cottage is much improved since we last saw it. The heavy creepers and tall shrubbery have been thinned out, and even some of the old trees removed. It has a more light and cheerful appearance. An addition, or wing has also been built, which without destroying altogether the antiquated style of the structure contributes much to its pleasantness and convenience. Low windows replace the small high ones; they reach to the ground, so as to permit Mr. Erwin to step out without effort; as both he and his wife spend much time out of doors. There is an air of life and animation about the place unusual in old times. Many are moving around, and there are all the appointments and appearances of a large family to enjoy these comforts. 
               Old Terence is still here, but past work; he can only fret and scold, and insist that nothing is done right because it is not done as he used to do it. Mrs. Erwin humors him in everything. Nora, too, is past work, but well cared for. And there is our faithful Susan, quite hearty, but getting old too; she will not admit it, though, and thinks she is able to work as well as ever. Mrs. Erwin humors her in her notions also, and lets her think so if she will, but she has a stout bright girl to help her, and the girl's mother sometimes too; and who do you suppose they are? Why, it is kind, warm-hearted Mrs. Rutherford and our little chubby Nelly who is now a healthy girl of thirteen years. But how did they get here? 
               Mrs. Rutherford, like a true woman, never wearies in the service of those she loves. From the moment her husband entered his prison she had not ceased in contriving plans for getting him out, which after many years, his conduct having been uniformly correct, a humane governor listened to her petition, and granted him a full pardon. She had wisely determined if she ever did get him free, she would leave the land where he had yielded to temptation, and among those who had known them best in the days of their innocence, hope to have him recover his former self-respect. Susan and Mrs. Rutherford had become quite intimate after Mrs. Erwin left, and she naturally sought her when they came to the same part of the country. Mrs. Erwin, when she saw, recognized her, and pleasantly associated her with the remembrance of Mary. The result was that Mr. Rutherford was employed as gardener under Terence, with a nice cottage near the place; he has now quite a farm. Bob has grown up a fine young man, and has nearly completed his trade. When he has done so, it is Mr. Erwin's intention to set him up in business in a neighboring town. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Erwin do not remain permanently at their ancient cottage home. Mrs. Erwin is actively engaged, and they both require at times the associations and facilities which are only to be found in a large city. They therefore spend their winters in one not many miles distant. Mr. Erwin has become quite engaged in science and art; his time is fully occupied in these pursuits. 
               But the cottage is the place they still love best. How fine and imposing he looks, as he sits there resting after his labored walk, on one of the rude seats by the little crystal rivulet that nestles at his feet! It was quite an effort to move down the slight descent from his door to this spot, and he is a little flushed and heated; but the soft breeze as it steals over the still waters, sports through the long silvery hair, and he uncovers his head and is refreshed. How noble he looks! The descending beard, white as the snow-flake, adds to his venerable aspect, according well with the quiet and beauty of nature around. We cannot but think of the patriarchs of old, and of the times when it was said that God and man walked in close communion on earth. And his wife too is here, in all that sublime devotion of character, standing by his side. What shall we say of her we love so well? Shall we be silent, and thus only let her actions speak? We think, as we look on her, of the words of the exalted poet as applied to our first beautiful mother, 
                      
                        "Where Love, the holy sense, best gift of God, 
                        In these was most intense," 
                     
                   and we feel that they may be well understood here. 
               But it is in these lonely communings they love best to dwell, and trace their former lives, and renew these bonds which may soon be broken, but it is hoped only to be renewed in endless duration. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
               
                  BUT there is at present quite an unusual bustle in and about the house. There is something evidently of great interest going on. Perhaps some long absent one is expected to grace this beautiful retreat. 
               Nelly has filled all the vases with fresh flowers, and she is moving about and rearranging every piece of furniture in this favorite room. The snow-white slips are again smoothed over the cushions and seats, and the thin curtains blown about by the breezy air are carefully fastened in their loops; the blinds are partially closed to a subdued light; everything seems in neatest order, and still she is doing. Nelly is a most tidy little body, and it is hard to satisfy her fastidious taste. 
               And there is everywhere, too, a great going about and note of preparation. Even Mrs. Erwin is hurried; she is hastening over some letters of quite late date, as if to find one still more recent. Let us look at these letters as they are from our still lived Lucy, but not, as her aunt says, written in her usual desponding style. 
               Still, as, Lucy. herself remarks, that style suits her best. "I have become so habituated to it," she writes, "that I find it hard to change, and at once realize the full measure of my happiness; indeed, dear aunt, it seems to be one of my pleasures now to pick and cull, with true epicurean daintiness,the sharpest pangs and keenest sorrows from the past, and set them in array against the luxury of my present contentment. 
               "I did, though, feel very sad, and you will not blame me, on that day when the last of the dear flock left me. It is hard to feel that the time of our usefulness is over; that we may come and we may go, and none are to miss us, or be better or worse for it; that none are dependent on us for our sympathy, and that we may live for ourselves as much as we please. I fully realized these feelings at the time. I was like a tree ripped of its branches, I could not shield or protect any. In my lonely unhappiness, I even wished my dear old father, with all his infirmities, back with me. I wished my brothers and sisters could always have remained children, and I their only protector and guide. I well knew I was wrong and selfish in this; that I ought rather be over flowing with gratitude and joy that they had been so mercifully cared for. I knew, too, there was a world before me, where I could be useful, and make all as my brothers and sisters; but the strangeness of the thing must be my apology. This being alone! I could not yet dwell on anything but its oppressive gloominess. 
               "I believe I long since informed you of the marriage of my sister Harriet, the next in age to myself, and that her husband took Martin, who was bred to the law, into partnership. Reuben, in order to pursue the same course, went with them. He, you know, is my youngest brother, and from a sickly child has grown a fine robust youth. It pained me much to part with him; I had so much care in rearing him, that he had become particularly dear. Flora and Anna were all that were left at home. I urged a little that one should remain, even for a short time; but the desire of the young men (they were cousins) to whom they were engaged was so urgent to be married at the same time, that I could not persist in refusing. 
               "The double ceremony was performed in the early part of the day, in our little church, and the parties immediately left for their own homes. 
               "Thus I was alone in the darkening twilight, full of these gloomy fancies, when I perceived a figure coming quickly up the long avenue; but I was so little interested that I did not even care to see who it might be. When the summons to the door was answered, I heard my name; and I heard no more, dear aunt, till Louis stood beside me, holding both my hands. It was a strange welcome, but I could only sob the next half hour. It was so unexpected, I was altogether taken by surprise. 
               "Louis said he was in the church and witnessed the marriages; that he saw me, and could hardly refrain from coming to me. I looked so pale, he thought I must faint; but he was travel-stained and dusty and he did feel that we should not meet thus. He had just arrived as he saw the crowd entering the church, and he followed with them. But he knew of these marriages, he said; he had been kept aware of all that was going on; that I was now free, and that he had come to claim the reward due to his patient waiting. 
               "Dear aunt, I will not dwell on my feelings; but I can assure you I was truly humbled to be thus blest in the midst of weak repinings. 
               "We are to be united in a few weeks. Louis has promised me, that after having visited his relatives and my own, we will cross the broad ocean, and, oh, delightful thought I shall be with you, once more, my dear, dear aunt." 
               There was another letter. This was from Louis himself, and as follows: 
               "I also claim the privilege of addressing you as my aunt; for Lucy and myself were married yesterday. A quiet wedding it was, I assure you, but not the less happy. Happiness with us is now more appreciative than demonstrative, and though we are no longer young, or at least what the giddy world would call so, yet never in all the wildest dreams of my youthful imagination, did I realize half the joy I then felt, when standing by her side, I took her hand in mine and called her my wife, my own dear wife. For in that moment the dread of many years, that something might still snatch her from me, had fled, and the full measure of all my joy sprang up unbounded in my heart. 
               "In a few weeks you may expect us, and in the long wished for reunion Lucy will live anew." 
               A brief note told of their arrival in Liverpool. They were now expected hourly; so we begin to perceive the cause of this pleasurable and unusual excitement with all. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
               
                  THE meeting, as may be imagined, was truly a joyful one. The feelings of all for some time were too full for utterance. It was long before they could altogether realize they were indeed in each other's presence. 
               "Why, aunt!" said Lucy at last, "I expected to see you very much more changed than you are and you too, uncle. Only think! it is more than ten years since I last saw you." 
               "Ten years though is longer at your time of life than ours, Lucy," replied her aunt; "but I think we may return the compliment. I certainly perceive very little, change in you-if any, I should say it is for the better. You are more rosy and smiling-very different from the person your mournful letters led me to expect. And you, Louis, I am sure-but I will not flatter." 
               "Do not, dear aunt; I can assure you he is vain enough already. Do you know he still insists that it is altogether his magic presence that has wrought this great change in me? Don't believe him; it is just as much, and more, the thought of coming to see you, dear aunt, that has done it." 
                
               "Well, we will not quarrel about that," said Louis, laughing; "but I rather think the weight of testimony will be on my side. I scarcely believe Miss Lucy would have looked quite so bright and blooming, had she been obliged to make this visit alone." And he silenced her answer by remarking to Mr. Erwin that this was a very beautiful country he lived in. 
               Mr. Erwin was now all enthusiasm, for he had become devotedly attached to his adopted home. "Yes, indeed, it is a beautiful country, and I love it well. You will find, Louis, in these ancient works of art, in the ruins with which this part of the country abounds, and in the history they unfold, much to occupy your time for many weeks. Yes, sir, this was a powerful country when some of these adjacent ones now more prominent were just merging from merest barbarism. There is proof of this everywhere, in tradition and historical records, as well as in these ruins of great extent and variety. History tells us also, that of all the western isles this was the most advanced in the arts of civilization, and that there was an unusual and ardent desire for literary distinction even in these earliest times, and it was not until later centuries, when savage invasion overrun their territory, that the warlike spirit with all its injustice and accompanying cruelties changed the entire aspect of this peaceful isle. But you must see for yourself, when you are fully rested. You will find enough to occupy you in exploring these wilds, once the very centre of its power." 
                
               "It was far advanced in the night before they could separate; there was so much to say, so much to be told, even after they had risen to retire, there was still another thing remembered. 
               "Oh! aunt, I have not told you of Mrs. Vernon. She is dead; she died suddenly. There were various rumors and surmises as to the cause of the event, but nothing satisfactory was ever known. At the marriage of her youngest and last remaining daughter, she was said to be unusually agreeable. After the newly married couple had gone on their journey, and the guests were all dismissed, she retired to her own room, and not appearing the remainder of the day the servants became uneasy, and finding they could not gain admittance to the room, resolved to enter forcibly; and there she lay silent and dead. The doctors who was at once summoned, said that life had been extinct for some hours. 
               "There was much sympathy expressed for the bereaved husband, for he is now alone, his family are all away from him; but, aunt, I have thought much of what we saw. Still he is to be pitied; he is now old, and it must be hard to live without these necessities of declining years, affection and love." 
               "Truly it must be so, my dear. Were our evil passions our only ones, could we but destroy the good that nature has also implanted there, then we might go thoughtlessly and recklessly on; but there is a conscience, however latent that will as an accusing angel convict vict us, even within the precincts of our own souls, and retribution comes, must come, even to that old man, with all his outward appliances of strength. Everywhere it stalks, still in the air and sunshine as in the solitude of his own lonely home; with the remembrance of his unfortunate wife within its closed walls, even while memory lives it will scorch and scathe; there is no escape from it, no, never!" 
               "But are there no extenuating circumstances for him, aunt?" said Lucy. 
               "There are," replied Mrs Erwin. "Unfortunately, himself and wife were too much alike in their worst qualities; they were both unreasonably self-willed, and as such natures always are, supremely selfish; neither would yield. Mr. Vernon had the legal power, and it gave him the advantage which he ignobly used to crush his wife. We can imagine that he might have had a companion whose gentle nature would have changed, not stimulated, these darkest shades of character, and he might have become a useful and happy man; but they were both lost. Hers was a higher nature than his; she could never have descended to the meanness that he did; she might have tyrannized over an equal, but she could not have trampled on a weaker foe. But it is a too painful retrospect, that of two strong lives wasting their powers in the daily insignificant strife of petty warfare; so we will dismiss the subject." 
               The next morning as the cheerful group were seated at the breakfast table, Lucy noticed some gilt letters, a short inscription it seemed to be, immediately over glass door lined with rose-colored silk. "What are those words, uncle? What do they mean?" she asked. 
               "That is my secret, Lucy; That little room is my sacred depository, my sanctuary, my shrine of thought, where my wisest resolves began with its teachings." 
               "You excite my curiosity, too," said Louis. "That is a Latin phrase. I would translate it, 'The victim here.'" 
               "You are right," responded Mr. Erwin, but did not then seem disposed to say more. He again recurred to it after a lengthened pause; "I have," he said solemnly "resolved, Lucy, that you shall know my secret; but wait. You and Louis have much to do in exploring the wonders and beauties of this old world. When you are through, and feel you must return to your native home, to again enter on, the duties of life, come to me, and I shall then be ready to reveal my secret." 
               Some weeks were thus happily spent in these amusements, and the pleasant communings of love and friendship. But Louis and Lucy must now depart; they felt it their duty as faithful children to return to their own land, and to resume there the many responsibilities it might demand. They earnestly urged that their dear relatives would accompany them; but Mr. and Mrs. Erwin both firmly declined. They were too old to change, they said, and they had become deeply attached to the home of their adoption; the shortest but the happiest est period of their lives had been spent there. They were much beloved, and had great influence; "and where we will be most useful, my children," said Mrs. Erwin, "there we will be most happy now." 
               "So, dear uncle, in a short hour we leave you; may we claim your promise?" 
               "Certainly, my dear; Martha, my best beloved, give me your support." 
               The ever-ready arm was reached forth; Mr. Erwin rose with effort from his seat and walked slowly, leaning on his wife's shoulder, toward the mysterious entrance, Louis and Lucy following. A deep solemnity seemed to pervade all. Mr. Erwin took a small key from his pocket, and unlocking the door, threw it wide open. 
               Lucy in profound amazement exclaimed, "It is Mary!" 
               There lay her form, as perfect as in life; the white hands were crossed on the spotless breast, and the sweet innocence and purity of the features were all her own. It seemed as if the cold marble must be a thing of life, the work of divine, and not of mortal hands. 
               "Is it not like, Lucy?" he murmured. "A tortured conscience burned the image into my soul; and with years of labor and toil I have thus reproduced it. It is now my treasure; I regard it with parental love. Was not she the victim, not only sacrificed by me, but for me? For through her death I have. been brought to taste the present happiness of life." 
               "Not for you alone, dearest," said Mrs. Erwin, embracing cing the hand that was resting on her. "Not for you alone," was echoed by the sobbing Lucy; "we are all wiser and happier for it, dear uncle." 
               They seated themselves around the room, the lovely statue lying in their midst. Lucy was still weeping bitterly. 
               "May you, my dear children," said Mr. Erwin with much emotion, "ever be happy. And may you remember that the purest happiness is from within; no outward circumstances can bring it. And Louis," he said, turning to him, "on the union you have formed, allow me to repeat the words of an admirable woman on the marriage relation. 'There is a power in its love,' she says, 'which to the good and wise communicates fresh energy to every faculty of the soul, and exalts them to the highest perfection; and the friendship which in later years succeeds such love, is perhaps the greatest, as it certainly is the most permanent in life.' As a German author has said, 'It is like the clouds of evening, it increases even to the setting of the sun.'" 
             
            THE END. 
             
         
       
   
