
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). Before and After the Election, or, The Political Experiences of Mr. Patrick Murphy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5608
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            TALES FOR THE PEOPLE. 
             
               BEFORE AND AFTER THE ELECTION. 
             
            BY T. S. ARTHUR.
             
            
                
                  BEFORE THE ELECTION. 
               
             
            
               J. W. BRADLEY, 
               No. 48 North Fourth Street, Philadelphia. 
               L. P. CROWN & CO., 
               61 Cornhill, Boston.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               PART I.-BEFORE THE ELECTION. Page 5
                
               PART II.-AFTER THE ELECTION. 14
                
               PART III.-PATRICK MURPHY RETURNS TO HIS POLITICAL FRIENDS. 22
                
               PART IV.-ABANDONS THE PARTY IN DISGUST. 35
                
             
          
          
            ILLUSTRATIONS. 
             
               BEFORE THE ELECTION. Frontispiece.
                
               AFTER THE ELECTION. Page 15
                
               BEFORE THE NEXT ELECTION. 23
                
               MURPHY IN DISGUST. 34
                
             
          
          
             
            
                
                  Frontispiece. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               BEFORE AND AFTER THE ELECTION; 
               OR, THE POLITICAL EXPERIENCES OF MR. PATRICK MURPHY. 
             
            BY T. S. ARTHUR.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               PUBLISHED BY J.W. BRADLEY. 
               BOSTON, 
               L.P. CROWN & CO.
             
            1853. 
             
            ENTERED ACCORDING TO ACT OF CONGRESS, IN THE YEAR 1853, BY T.S. ARTHUR, IN THE CLERK'S OFFICE OF THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES IN AND FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA. 
            
               STEREOTYPED BY L. JOHNSON AND CO. 
               PHILADELPHIA.
             
          
       
      
         
            Before and after the election, or, The political experiences of Mr. Patrick Murphy 
             
            BEFORE AND AFTER THE ELECTION. 
             
               PART I. 
               Before the Election. 
               "AH, Patrick! How are you, my friend and fellow-citizen?" said Mr. R--, to Patrick Murphy, a newly created republican from the green island. "How are you?" And he grasped the hand of the Irishman and shook it warmly. "How is Mrs. Murphy, and all the little ones at home?" 
               "Well, I thank ye," returned Patrick familiarly. "And how's y'r honour?" 
               "First-rate, my friend,-first-rate. Won't you take something to drink, Patrick?" 
               "Well, I don't care if I do," returned the willing Irishman, "if it's only for the sake of the good cause." 
               "You may well say for the good cause," responded R--; "the cause of the people. It is for equal rights that we are now struggling, my poor but honest friend. For the right to breathe the pure air of heaven. For the right to think, and speak, and act as freemen. Men in power are riding it over us rough-shod. They are crushing the very life out of us. The privileged few gather to themselves all the good things in the land, and leave the great multitude, the mass of the people, the bone and sinew of the nation, like dogs to eat the crumbs that fall from their tables. But there's a good time coming, Patrick-a good time coming. A little while, and there will be a great change." 
                
               "Yis, y'r honour, that th'r wull." 
               The candidate-for be it understood, that it was on the eve of an election, and that R-- was a candidate for a seat in the State legislature-now advanced toward the bar-they had entered a drinking-house-saying- 
               "What will you take, Mr. Murphy?" 
               "Ony thing ye plaze." 
               "Say brandy and water?" 
               "Fust-rate," replied the Irishman, with feeling. 
               "Here's to your good health, Mr. Murphy," said R--, as he lifted his glass, bowing with a graceful and well-assumed deference to his companion. 
               "The same till you," returned Murphy familiarly, as he poured half a tumbler of pure brandy down his capacious throat. 
               "And now, my worthy friend," said R--, laying his hand on the shoulder of the Irishman and drawing him aside, "how is the good cause progressing in your particular neighbourhood?" 
               "You're safe in our ward by a hundred majority." 
               "D'ye think so?" 
               "Faith, an' ye are. I was down at McPhelin's tavern last night until twelve o'clock. There warn't but three men there that dared to open their mouths for L--, and I rather think their bones a'n't done aching yet." 
               "How so?" 
               Murphy doubled his huge fist, and assumed a pugilistic attitude. 
               "No fighting, I hope?" said R--. 
               "No-no. Only a bit of a scrimmage. There was a rowdy Yankee there, who insulted y'r honour; and the way I chastised him would have done y'r heart good." 
               "Insulted me? Ah! what did he say?" 
               "Yis; and he insulted the great body of y'r constituents into the bargain, the spalpeen!" 
               "How? What did he say of me?" 
               "He said that y'r honour cared no more for a poor mon than for the dirt under y'r feet; and that after the election you wouldn't let me, in particular, touch you with a forty-foot pole." 
               "He said that, did he?" 
                
               "Indade, y'r honour, and that's jist what he did say. But if he didn't feel the weight of a heavy bunch of bones, call me a liar. He'll have blue ribbons around his eyes for a month. It'll be as much as the bargain if he get to the polls to-morrow." 
               "And so we are certain of your ward?" 
               "Sure as death; and I take credit to meself for one-half the success. I've worked hard in the good cause, Mr. R--." 
               "It's the cause of the people; or, more emphatically speaking, the cause of the poor man. The rich and the privileged classes-the capitalists and monopolists of the day-are crushing the very life out of you. This is the time for effectual resistance. You must break the chains of oppression now, or they remain fastened upon you for ever. The country of your adoption expects much of you, Mr. Murphy. Do not disappoint her. Remember, that the vote of a poor man is equal in value to that of the proudest nabob in the land. Never lose sight of that fact, my friend. A convert to our side, no matter who or what he is, a drunkard in the gutter, or a lazy pauper in the almshouse, balances off the vote of one of your silk-stocking gentry on the other side. Votes are what we want, then-votes-votes-votes. Let that be ever before your eyes. You'll be at the public meeting to-night?" 
               "'Dade, and it's what I wull." 
               "That's right. And you must bring along as many staunch adherents of the good cause as you can find." 
               "Trust me for that, Mr. R--." 
               "Mr. P-- is not on our side?" 
               "He? No-no! He belongs to the silk-stocking party. What d'ye think he said to me yesterday? 'See here, Murphy,' says he, 'if you don't quit this drinking and rowdying about, and attend better to y'r business, you and I'll have to part.' Drinking and rowdying about, indade!-I knew what he meant. It was the political matters he objected till. He wanted to interfare with my freedom, and compel me to vote his way." 
               "Is it possible?" 
               "'Dade, and it is." 
               "What did you say to him?" 
                
               "Say till him? Why, jist nothing at all, at all. But didn't I look as black as a thunder-cloud?" 
               "Don't be afraid, my excellent friend," said the candidate, laying his hand on the Irishman's shoulder, and speaking deliberately. "Do your duty as a man, and fear nothing. What wages does P-- give you?" 
               "A paltry twenty dollars a month, bad luck till him!" 
               "For the valuable services of a man like you?" 
               "It's ivery cint." 
               "Possible! It's little better than starvation?" 
               "'Dade, and ye may well say thot. It's little more nor starvation. I wonder how much better he is nor me, or ony of the poor men around him, out of whose sweat and blood he is coining goold and dollars." 
               "He's not half so good, my honest friend. You're worth a dozen like him. It's you that ought to be riding in a carriage, instead of one like him." 
               "The likes o' him!" contemptuously ejaculated Murphy. 
               "There's a better time coming," said the candidate encouragingly. "Work hard and push through the good cause at this election. Once let our party come into power, and you'll see a change that will be worth calling a change. There are plenty of fat offices waiting for the working friends of the cause; and you belong, emphatically to that class." 
               "Yis, indade! I'm a working man out and out." 
               "That's well known. I've heard you spoken of a dozen times. More than one of our leading men have their eyes on you." 
               "We're bound to bate." 
               "But we will have to work for it. Don't forget that. Our opponents are wide awake." 
               "Och! And ye needn't tell me that, Musther R--. Don't I know? But, as I said, we're bound to bate; and we will bate. And when we've won the election, what kind of an office do you think I can get? How large will be the salary?" 
               "Nothing less than seven or eight hundred dollars." 
               "So much as that? Och, blood-er-nouns, but won't I be illigant! Eight hundred dollars! I feel rich already. Who cares for Mr. P--? Bad'cess till him!" 
                
               "Don't forget the meeting to-night," said R--, now moving away. 
               "Niver fear. I'll be there." 
               "And, above all, be at your post to-morrow. It is the great day of battle, and unless every soldier is in the field, the enemy may conquer. Go early to the polls and vote your ticket, and then see that every man over whom you have an influence does the same thing. A long pull, a strong pull, and a pull altogether, will do the work for us. Then, you know the motto-'To the victors belong the spoils.' Good-by, my friend." And the candidate shook Murphy warmly by the hand, and left him. 
               "Pah!" he muttered to himself, with disgust and impatience, as he got fairly clear of the vulgar Irishman. "I shall be glad when this work is over. I'm half sick with disgust, and half mad with a fretting sense of humiliation. But they are our tools, and we must work with them. After our work is done, it will be an easy matter to throw them aside." 
               Patrick Murphy had been in the country just long enough to secure a legal naturalization, and thus get the power of a vote in our elections. As to the constitution of the United States, he had never read the first article; and his ideas of the spirit of our institutions were bounded on all sides by the word liberty. Soon after his arrival, he became aware that duties and responsibilities, undreamed of in the "ould counthry," were resting upon him. He was "one of the people," upon whom reposed the welfare of the nation. There was a party in power, charged with aiming to restore the old monarchical and aristocratical privileges that were such a curse to Europe, and seeking to trample the poor working man under foot. Pat was soon politically indoctrinated by the party that first gained his ear, flattered his self-love, and excited his natural belligerence; and as whisky, an article to the use of which he was born, flowed as free as water at the headquarters of the party, his affections were not only won, but firmly retained. 
               Pat's first electioneering experience was the one that brought him in familiar intercourse as an equal with Mr. R--, than whom there was not, in feeling, a more thorough aristocrat to be found. He was one of those who really despise every thing below them; but, being a lover of power and an office-seeker, he could talk of the dear people, and shake them by the hand with an appearance of interest and regard, while in his heart he loathed their very presence. His manner of treating Murphy completely turned the Irishman's head, and made him so insolent in his manner to his employer, a Mr. P--, that the latter had been several times tempted to dismiss him from his store, where he was engaged as labourer and porter. 
               On the night before the election, Murphy was at the public meeting, as he had promised. While R-- occupied the stand as speaker, he stood close beside him, hurraing and throwing his hat in the air at every emphatic sentence. Far above every other voice was heard his, ever and anon shouting, "R-- and the paple, for ever!" 
               After the adjournment of the meeting, he met R-- at the ward-house, and was hand and glove with him for the space of an hour. When he started for home about one o'clock in the morning, his mind had become so confused by drink or self-conceit, most probably the former, that he was in serious doubt whether he were not the candidate for election himself, and R-- only one of the working members of the political firm. Murphy had some doubts whether he would go to the store at all on the next day. It was the great election day, when a battle was to be fought; and when every man should be at his post and ready to do his duty. After some debate, he concluded to go and open Mr. P--'s store, and put the counting-room in some order, previous to the arrival of the clerks. Then he would take the day to himself. 
               It was about half-past eight o'clock that Patrick Murphy presented himself to the owner of the store, and, with an air of unusual self-importance, said- 
               "I shall be absent the rest of the day, Musther P--." 
               "How so, Patrick?" inquired his employer. 
               "It's 'lection day." 
               "Well, what of that? Have you a vote?" 
               "Sure and I have, as much as the best of yez." 
                
               "Then you're naturalized?" 
               "'Dade, and I am thot." 
               "But it won't take you all day to vote. Half an hour, or an hour, at most, is long enough for you to be absent from the store." 
               "I've something else to do besides voting. I'm one of the ward committee to attind the polls." 
               "You are!" Mr. P-- spoke in a tone of contempt that rather nettled Murphy. 
               "Yez needn't fash a body in that way, Musther P--. Ise got rights and privileges as well as ony other mon, if I am poor," he answered a little indignantly. 
               "I've no wish to interfere with your rights, Patrick, said Mr. P-- seriously. "As a citizen, your right and duty is to vote, and time enough for that I have no desire to withhold. You can go and cast your vote, and then return to your work, as I shall do. But to release you from your obligation to me, that you may have time to meddle in what doesn't concern you, and interfere with other men's freedom in voting, is what I cannot do. Today is a busy day in the store. We have a large amount of goods to pack, and cannot dispense with your services." 
               "My duty to my adopted counthry"- 
               "You needn't talk to me after that fashion, Patrick," interrupted Mr. P-- impatiently. "Vote your vote, if you wish to do so, and leave the country to take care of itself. It will get on well enough without any of your meddling interference." 
               "O yis. That's the way ye nabobs try to lord it over us poor men, when ye think ye have us in y'r power," retorted Murphy in an insolent tone. "But I'm not jist ready to kneel down and let yez put y'r foot on my neck." 
               "My friend," said Mr. P-- sharply-he was by this time quite angry-"I don't want to bandy any words with you. You can go to the polls and vote. I'll give you an hour for that purpose; and you can vote for his Satanic Majesty, if it please your fancy, for all I care. But if you are not here at the expiration of an hour, I'll hire a man in your place.' 
               "Musther P--"- 
                
               "I will hear no more on the subject," replied the merchant, turning quickly away, and walking back into his counting-room. 
               Murphy stood cogitating a few moments, and then muttering indignantly, "No purse-proud nabob shall lord it over me!" walked erectly, and with a firm bearing, from the store. 
               What did he care for the loss of a paltry situation like that, when in a few days he would be, in all probability, a custom-house officer, enjoying an income of a thousand or twelve hundred dollars. 
               All day long Patrick Murphy worked at the polls, in his ward and out of his ward, at any and every thing in which those who had the superintendence of affairs chose to employ him. He was an important man-in his own eyes. The United States was a great country for nature's true nobility-honour and freedom attended them as hand-maidens. 
               The sun at last went down, and the polls were closed. Patrick Murphy would have bet his life on the result. His side had won, of course; and, if the truth were known, through his important aid. How deeply and heartily did he despise his old employer, who had attempted to restrict his political rights, and to abridge his freedom as an American citizen. There were times during the day, when indignation and whisky raised his feelings to such a height that, had he encountered Mr. P-- in the street, he would have been strongly tempted to insult and even maltreat him. 
               After ten o'clock, returns from various wards began to come in. This was the exciting time. Now one party was ahead, and now the other. The poll was exceedingly close. Patrick Murphy began to feel uncomfortable. Several times during the evening, since the closing of the polls, he had encountered Mr. R--. But, somehow or other, the candidate did not recognise him. He was too much engaged with others. What did he care for the weak, vulgar tool of his ambition now? Nothing! Murphy began to shrink toward his natural dimensions. In other words, to feel something of his own insignificance. 
               At last the result was fully known. R-- and his entire party were beaten. Murphy was about sober enough to comprehend the disastrous nature of this intelligence, when it came with a shock upon his unwilling ears. One more glass of whisky, and he took homeward, at midnight, his disconsolate way alone, and, tumbling himself into bed, was soon lost in drunken slumber. 
             
             
                
               PART II. 
               After the Election. 
               WHEN Patrick Murphy, the independent voter, awoke on the next morning and collected his thoughts, he had some strange feelings. It took him some time to comprehend clearly the fact that election day had passed, and that his party had been signally defeated. Alas! all the fine offices, in the distribution and enjoyment of which he was to have had a share, were in the hands of the victors. The beautiful visions that had floated before his imagination were all melting into thin air. He was not to ride in his coach yet. Deep and heavy was the sigh that accompanied this conviction, as he turned himself in bed and sought in his mind for some comforting reflections. 
               "I've made some powerful acquaintances ony how," he at length said, by way of consolation. "Musther R-- is a jewel of a mon. Worth his weight in goold. If I have lost the siteation at Mr. P--'s, it was in his cause; and he'll not see me suffer." 
               Murphy's head was none of the clearest when he arose; nor were either his bodily or mental sensations the most agreeable. The amount of money in his purse was just nothing at all, as he would himself have expressed the fact if called upon to do so, and there were only about five dollars due him at the old place he had so foolishly given up. Where the bread and potatoes for the "wife and childther" were to come from was not very clear to his mind. But he strove to brace himself up with the idea of having made a number of powerful acquaintances, who would stand by him in his extremity as he had stood by the good cause of the people. 
                
               
                   
                
                
                
               After breakfast, Murphy went forth and repaired to the head-quarters of the party, where he found a goodly number assembled to hear the returns from the county and State, and to encourage each other in their local defeat, by mutual assurances of success in the general result. Most of these were men who had bets pending on the State election. Those who had striven for local success, in the hope of securing individual benefit when the distribution of offices came, had gone back to their stores, shops, or offices, striving to be content with a lot they had fondly hoped to better. Few of those around him were familiar to the Irishman, and those that he did recognise took no notice of him. 
               "How are you, Musther B--?" he said, walking up to a gentleman who stood conversing with a friend. The man looked at him for a moment indifferently, and then merely answered in a rude, somewhat contemptuous manner- 
               "How are you, Pat?" and, turning his back toward him, went on with his conversation. 
               Murphy didn't just like this. It was so different from Mr. B--'s manner of speaking to him on the day before. Then it was "Mr. Murphy," or, "My dear, good fellow," or, "How are you, my friend and fellow-citizen?" accompanied by a cordial grip of the hand. After three or four attempts, about as successful as this, to renew acquaintance with others who happened to come in his way, Patrick Murphy, with his feelings rapidly declining toward zero, took his departure from head-quarters, and strolled down to the ward-house-the scene of his principal electioneering achievement. 
               "Hallo, Pat! How d'ye feel this morning?" was the salutation he received from a lounger at the bar, as he entered. "Didn't save the nation, after all. Never mind, Pat! don't look so cast down about the matter. Better luck next time. You've one consolation; you did your duty." 
               "Yes, and who thanks him to-day?" laughed, or rather half-sneered another independent elector, who had already found out that he was of far less importance on the day after than on the day before the election. "Yesterday he was one of the people, patted on the shoulder and cajoled by Mr. Broad-cloth-and-calfskin; but to-day he's a foolish Irishman. Ha! ha! We the people? It's very fine, and sounds first-rate; but it's all sound and fury, meaning just nothing at all, at all, Pat Murphy, my darlint. Come, Pat, won't you treat?" 
               Pat thrust his hand into his pocket, and then drawing it forth slowly, shook his head, and sighed- 
               "Haven't a red cint left to bless meself." 
               "Just my own interesting condition, Pat.' 
               "Have you seen Musther R-- the day?" asked Murphy. 
               "Yes; but he looked as sour as a lemon. It would take a power of sugar to sweeten him." 
               "He's disappointed, in coorse." 
               "A'n't he?" 
               "Well, as for Musther R--, I can say wan thing of him honestly. He's a jontleman, ivery inch. He knows a mon when he sees him; and can appraciate merit in the humblest. Bad luck till the party that bate him, say I!" 
               "He's like all the rest of 'em," replied the man to this. "Mighty fine and nice when they want your vote. But too good to share the same sunshine with you after the election. I know 'em all from A to Z." 
               "I'll not stand and hear a jontleman like Musther R-- abused afther that fashion," retorted Murphy indignantly. 
               "Won't you, indeed?" was sneeringly replied. 
               "Indade, and I won't, thin. He's my friend, and I'll hold ony mon till account that spakes against him." 
               Hearing this, three or four bar-room loungers, who wanted a little excitement, drew instantly around the Irishman, and began chafing him on the subject of his "friend" R--. In a little while his hot blood was boiling over, and the muscles of his hands contracting spasmodically. A fight ensued, in which Murphy was severely beaten, and then pitched headlong into the street. 
               As the Irishman gathered himself up, and stole off like a whipped cur, he began to comprehend something of the difference between before and after the election-a new experience for him. Since the closing of the polls on the previous evening, he had been steadily shrinking toward his former dimensions, and he was pretty near down to his old size by this time. Before the election, he was a man of importance in the nation. Great events depended on his efficient action. Now he was simply Patrick Murphy, and he could make little more out of himself. He was but a grain of sand on the sea-shore. 
               In this state of humiliation, Murphy went home at dinner-time. He dared not go home before; for in that case his wife Biddy, who had a temper and a tongue of her own, and who had never liked his meddling in politics, would discover that had not been at work, and there would be a flare-up in consequence. 
               While meditating on his unhappy condition, Murphy, whose confidence in R-- was unimpaired, resolved to go and state to him that he had been turned off by Mr. P-- for his political opinions, and was now without the means of earning bread for his family. He did not in the least doubt that R-- would immediately procure for him a much better place than the one he had lost. 
               Elated by this idea, Murphy left his home after dinner, and called at the handsome residence of R--. 
               "Can I see Musther R--?" he asked confidently of the servant who came to the door. 
               "He's engaged and cannot be seen," replied the servant. 
               He'll see me, I know. Tell him that Musther Murphy wishes to spake wid him just a minute." 
               The servant hesitated to deliver the message, but Murphy urged the matter, and he finally consented to do as he wished. In a few moments he returned, and said that Mr. R-- was engaged, and couldn't see any one. 
               "Did yez tell him me name?" asked Murphy. 
               "I did." 
               "And what did he say?" 
               "I have told you what he said," returned the servant rather sharply. "He cannot see you." 
               Poor Murphy turned away, feeling still more painfully his own insignificance. A few days before, he was a very lord in influence; now, even a common house-servant treated him with contempt. Still he had confidence in R--, the defeated candidate. R-- knew him as a man, and appreciated his value. He had sacrificed every thing for R--, and he was sure that R-- would stand by him now. 
               For an hour or two the Irishman sauntered about the streets or lounged in bar-rooms, meditating on his unhappy condition. He then, in a humbled frame of mind, determined to call on Mr. P--, apologize for his conduct on the day before, and ask to be taken back into his employment. P-- received him coolly; and when Murphy volunteered an apology, told him that it was too late, as he had already hired a man in his place. 
               "Then yez proscribes me for opinion's sake," said Pat, growing insolent when no hope of favour remained. 
               "No," coolly answered the merchant. "I merely filled the place you left. I don't care any thing about a man's opinions. I regard only his ability to serve me in the situation I want filled. If he leaves my work to go and interfere with the freedom of elections at the polls for a whole day, I will discharge him, no matter what his political opinions may be, and I told you that beforehand. So you've only yourself to blame. Here's the balance of money due you. And when next you get a good place don't throw it up for the sake of some brawling candidate who doesn't care three beans for you." 
               Saying this, the merchant turned from Murphy, who retired slowly, with anger, mortification, and disappointment struggling in his mind for the preponderance. He had only gone about a block from the store of Mr. P--, when his eyes were gladdened by the sight of R--, who stood talking with two or three gentlemen. Murphy waited at a respectful distance until R-- was disengaged, and then approached him with his hat held deferently in his hand. R-- did not appear to observe him, and was passing on, when the Irishman said- 
               "How are yez, Mr. R--?" 
               The defeated candidate half paused and stared at him, while his brow contracted. Murphy smiled, and advanced nearer, expecting the countenance of his friend suddenly to change, and his hand to seize his warmly. 
               "Who are you? And what do you want?" now fell from the lips of R--, while his face wore a more repulsive aspect. 
               "Don't yez know Musther Murphy?" asked the voter. 
               "Murphy! Pah! I've had more Pat Murphys running after me than would freight a ship. What do you want?" 
               Poor Murphy was dumb with astonishment. He stood like one aghast for a few moments, and then turned slowly away. He had shrunk now below his former dimensions, and felt not only insignificant, but powerless and wretched. This was the unkindest cut of all. 
               Since election day, Pat Murphy has had a pretty hard time to get bread for his family. At hod-carrying, cellar-digging, and street-scraping, he has been working off and on; and though he has lived in hopes of getting another situation in a store, that hope has not yet been realized. 
               When election times come round again he will be patted on the shoulder, "called one of the people," "my friend," "bone and sinew," and all that, and be hand and glove with a set of men who would not pick him out of the gutter at any other season. And Pat, forgetful of the lesson that he has learned, will be flattered into the belief that he is "somebody," and made to pull in the traces under some political driver, while of any use, and then be turned out to get pasture where he can find it. How many campaigns it will take to endow him with a grain of common sense or independent thought, is a sum that our knowledge of figures will not enable us to cipher out. But we shall see. 
             
             
                
               PART III. 
               Patrick Murphy Returns to his Political Friends. 
               IT was near the close of a sultry day in August, and a poor, toil-worn Irishman "might have been seen" wearily wending his way upward toward the summit of a house, with a hod of bricks upon his shoulder. 
               "Bad'cess till Musther R--!" fell, half-angrily, from the Irishman's lips, as he gained the elevation he was seeking, and deposited his load upon the scaffold. "Bad'cess till Musther R--!" he repeated. "If it hadn't been for him I'd still be houlding my good siteation in P--'s store, instead of being kilt to death wid this hod-carrying." 
               And then Mister Patrick Murphy-for it was that independent citizen-shouldered his empty hod, and commenced retracing his steps down the ladder for another instalment of building-materials. Just as he reached the ground, a voice, whose tones were instantly recognised, said with animation- 
               "Why, Mr. Murphy, is this you? How are you, my old friend and fellow-citizen? How are you?" 
               And Mr. R--, the very man Patrick had been thinking about, stood smiling, with extended hand, before him. 
               To be thus addressed by a "gentleman" was more than the long-nursed anger of Murphy could withstand, and it melted away into good nature, like frost-work in the morning sunshine. 
               "How are yez, Musther R--?" he returned, as he left the candidate take his hand and shake it heartily. 
               "Oh, bright as a May morning!" said R--, still holding 
                   
                  
                   ing the Irishman by the hand. "But how are you getting on now, Mr. Murphy?" 
               "Bad enough, and plaze y'r honour," replied Patrick. 
               "Ah, I'm sorry for that. Have you been unfortunate?" 
               "'Dade, thin, and have I. That 'lection business kilt me dead." 
               "How so, Mr. Murphy? We were beaten, it is true; but how did it affect you personally?" 
               "Mr. P-- turned me off for going to the polls on 'lection day, and it's been hard time wid me iver since, I can tell yez." 
               "Turned you off, Mr. Murphy, for voting your sentiments as an American citizen!" exclaimed R--, in well-feigned astonishment. 
               "Yis, it's just thot, Musther R--," said Murphy with much feeling. Already the hope of making capital for future interest out of that circumstance was beginning to form itself in his mind. 
               "Vile proscription! Thus it is that these nabobs of our land seek, as in the old country, to bind the free consciences of the people, and to trample on their political rights. You felt this in Ireland, Mr. Murphy; and it was to escape such tyranny that you left the beautiful home of your fathers and came to happy America. Shall the heel of the oppressor be on your neck here also? Spirit of liberty, forbid it! Mr. Murphy, we must break down this league of the rich against the poor. We can do it, and we will. In this cause I have embarked, and I will die by it. What greater glory can any man desire than to be known as the friend of the people?" 
               "Nabobs!" responded Patrick, indignantly taking the cue. "Yis! Vile, oppressing nabobs! If I had my will o' them!" 
               And the Irishman clenched his fist. 
               "This is rather a hard kind of business, Mr. Murphy," said R--, changing the subject. "A man like you ought to be doing something better than carrying bricks up a ladder." 
               "'Dade and he ought, Musther R--." 
               "Come round to my house to-night, Mr. Murphy. I'd like to have some talk with you." 
                
               "Yez lives in the same place?" 
               "Oh yes. Come about nine o'clock. I will be disengaged then." 
               "I'll be there to the minute, Musther R--." 
               "Very well. And now, good day. I rather think we'll find you some better work to do than this." 
               All the Irishman's indignation toward R--, so long cherished, was gone. His next trip up the ladder was accomplished in half the time occupied in the last ascent; and when he came down again, it was "on the run." 
               Precisely at nine o'clock, dressed in his Sunday suit, which was not one of particular elegance, Patrick was at Mr. R--'s beautiful residence. He rang the bell, and, almost instantly, the door was opened-not by a servant, but by Mr. R-- himself. 
               "Ah, you're the man after all, Mr. Murphy; punctual to the minute!" said he, grasping the Irishman's hand. "Come in, my good fellow. Come in," and he almost dragged him into the house. 
               In a room in the third-story, to which Murphy was conducted, two or three men were found sitting at a table, on which were decanters and glasses. 
               "Mr. Murphy, gentlemen." 
               Thus the Irishman was announced in a manner the most courteous. 
               "Ah, how are you, my honest friend? How are you? Happy, indeed, to see you!" 
               Such was the words of welcome that greeted his appearance. 
               "Take a chair, Mr. Murphy, said R--, and he handed the Irishman to a seat, with an air of deference and courtesy that was particularly flattering to the easily duped son of Erin. 
               "Well, gentlemen," said R--, after they had all resumed their places at the table and taken a glass round, "this is the Mr. Murphy of whom I was speaking to you; an honest, hard-working man, who has been proscribed for opinion's sake. No man has laboured harder or more efficiently in our cause than he, and it will be a burning disgrace to our party-the party of the people, the sworn advocate of the oppressed and trampled upon-if we let him suffer for his devotion to true principles. This man has a family, sir-a family to whom he is dearly attached, and for whom he's toiling like a galley-slave at the oar. Previous to the last election, he had a good situation and a good salary in the store of P--; but, because he worked in our cause, P-- turned him off to starve with his wife and his little ones, for all he cared!" 
               "Impossible!" exclaimed the men at the table, lifting their hands in astonishment. "To think that such a spirit exists in our country!" 
               "A spirit," resumed Mr. R--, "that, if not checked, will prostrate our liberties beneath the iron heel of oppression. What is a poor man in the eyes of one like P--? Of less value than his horse! And he is but the type of his party." 
               To this there was a warm response from all present. 
               "And now, Mr. Murphy," resumed R--, addressing the Irishman, "the time has come when another strong effort must be made to break through the party lines that have been drawn by these poor-oppressing, blood-sucking aristocrats! At the last campaign, we drove them back, and came near routing them, horse, foot, and dragoons. This time, if we unite all our forces, victory is certain; and you know, my honest friend, that to the victors belong the spoils. No man did better service to the good cause at the last election than you, Mr. Murphy; and now that the tug of war is about to come again, your bleeding country calls upon you, and asks for aid. Shall she call in vain? No; not when her voice reaches the ears of Patrick Murphy, the man who has felt the crushing weight of oppression. What say you, Mr. Murphy? Are you with us again?" 
               Thus appealed to, Murphy instantly replied with enthusiasm- 
               "Faix and am I, Musther R--! Bad'cess till the nabobs! I'll have it out wid 'em yet." 
               "You've got the right kind of stuff in you, I see," remarked one of those present. 
               "I'm an Irishman," said Murphy proudly. 
               "And an honour both to the country of your birth and the country of your adoption," responded R--. 
                
               By this time Murphy was fully prepared to enter into the views of the individual who wanted his "valuable aid" again. Flattered into blindness, he allowed the bit to be once more placed in his mouth, and bearing on the rein, moved forward to the right or the left, at the will of his drivers. It was demonstrated to him, with the utmost clearness, why the party failed of success at the last campaign, and why it would now be sure to gain the victory. And his reward was to be a clerkship in the post-office, at a salary of six hundred a year. Moreover, R--said that he must throw away his hod, and come at once into the service of the party. And, as the labourer was worthy of his hire, it was agreed to pay him one dollar a day until the period of election arrived. 
               Again was Mr. Murphy a man of consequence in his own eyes. Higher ranged his head, and more stately was his step as he walked homeward from the house of R--. But he was doomed to have his ardour somewhat cooled; for on announcing what had just happened, to his better-half, Biddy, that lady became exceedingly indignant, called him a fool, and sundry other names of like character, and vowed if he got himself into any more trouble with his politics, she'd "take the childther and lave him." 
               On the next morning, Murphy waited on Mr. R-- again, according to appointment, when arrangements were made for attending a "Harvest Home" to be celebrated at a village in the county which embraced the district in which R-- was a candidate for election. There were to be present at this assemblage some of the leading men of the party, with many of whom Murphy had worked side by side in the last campaign, and he was made to believe that his appearance among them would be hailed with the greatest enthusiasm. 
               "We looked upon you at the last election as one of our best men," said R--. "Already more than a dozen old friends have been inquiring after you. Your appearance, Mr. Murphy, will put new life into our people, for they know you of old." 
               R-- then placed a five-dollar bill in the hands of the Irishman, as the beginning of his pay in the new service, and five more to be used for electioneering purposes among his own countrymen. Particularly was he instructed to see to the naturalization of all those who had been in the country long enough to entitle them to citizenship, and to pay all attendant expenses, if a pledge was given to vote the party ticket. 
               Again the Irishman began to feel his own importance, and to swell beyond his natural dimensions. It was night before he returned home, and then he was, to use a vulgar, but very expressive word, a little "groggy." The moment he entered, Biddy said, with some sharpness of voice- 
               "Pathrick, ye convict! And where have ye bin all the day? Musther P-- sent for yez this mornin', and wants to see yez." 
               "Bad luck till Mr. P--!" returned Murphy. "Bad luck till him, I say!" and he staggered into a seat. 
               "Are ye crazy, mon?" exclaimed Biddy. "No doubt Musther P-- wants ye back agin in his store." 
               "Bad'cess till him! I'll niver darken his door agin, the aristocratic, silk-stockin' nabob! Didn't he turn me aff for votin' me sentiments as a free American citizen? Didn't he, I say? Bad'cess till him, the spalpeen!" 
               "Y'r a drunken fool, that's what ye are!" said Biddy, in wrath uncontrollable. But, knowing how fruitless a discussion would be with her husband while under the influence of liquor, she curbed her anger, and had little more to say during the evening. But, on the next morning, as soon as Patrick was fairly awake, she began- 
               "Pathrick," said she, "are ye going till see Musther P--?" 
               "No, faix, and I am not!" replied Patrick. "I'm done wid Mr. P--, kith and kin. Didn't he turn me aff for votin' my sintiments? Didn't he? Ay, fegs! And if iver I darken his door, it 'll do him good." 
               It was all in vain that Biddy argued, scolded, persuaded; her husband was not to be moved from his resolution. There was a better chance before him than any situation in P--'s store. He was to be a clerk in the post-office. That was settled; and, moreover, up to the period of election, was to receive a dollar a day for doing what was equivalent to "just nothing at all, at all." 
               For three or four days, Murphy spent his time idling about taverns, and at night going home in a condition that made all Biddy's attempts to reach his feelings abortive. Then the time for celebrating the "Harvest Home" came, and he was called for in a carriage by R-- and two other members of the party. Such an honour elated him almost out of himself; and even Biddy, who knew that her husband was no uncommon man, began to think him of even greater importance than she had yet imagined. 
               The "Harvest Home," as it was called, was nothing more nor less than a political gathering, for the purpose of gaining party influence. It was held in a certain neighbourhood pretty thickly settled with Emerald Islanders, and the particular work Murphy was wanted for on the occasion was to make interest for R-- among his countrymen. A bullock was to be roasted, and an entertainment, consisting of an abundance of things eatable and drinkable, provided. 
               When R-- arrived on the ground, accompanied by his willing tool, the latter was introduced with all formality to about a dozen substantial leaders of the party, office-expectants, and others personally interested in the approaching election, who treated him with the most marked attention, asked him to drink with them, and talked to him as if he were an individual of the first importance. 
               "Welcome back among your friends?" said one. 
               "Ah, my old friend Murphy," said another, "you are just the man I've been wanting to see. How are you? How are you?" And he shook the Irishman's hand half off. 
               "Here's Mr. Murphy again!" exclaimed another. "Why, bless me! I'm as glad to see you as if I'd found a guinea!" 
               And so the changes were rung, and Murphy believed that all he heard was true. In return for the cordial welcome received, and the honour bestowed upon him at this reunion with the party, Murphy went to work in good earnest, cheered on every now and then by some one of the leaders, with flattering words of encouragement like the following- 
               "You're the man, Mr. Murphy!" Or- 
               "Ah, my fine fellow! If we had a little army of such as you, we'd sweep the nation!" Or- 
               "Talk to them, Murphy. That's you! The best man among us!" 
               Never did Patrick Murphy work harder at cellar-digging or hod-carrying than on this occasion, in his efforts to make converts to the "cause of the people;" and between arguing, persuading, drinking, quarrelling, and such other efforts with his countrymen, he was so much overcome by sundown that his political friends had to send him home to his wife Biddy, in a furniture wagon. As he was not in a condition to feel the honour attendant on a ride with R-- in his carriage, such an honour was not wasted upon him. 
               On the next day, Mr. Murphy had a shocking bad headache, and was so sick and so much exhausted that he kept his bed until toward night, when he sallied forth, and took his way to McPhelin's tavern, where he spent the evening in drinking, talking politics, and "going his death for R--," whom he did not hesitate to declare, "A jontilman, ivery inch, and a raal friend o' the hard-working paple!" 
               About twelve o'clock, he staggered homeward, carrying with him a black-eye and sundry bruises from hard fists on other parts of his body; the effects of which he did not get over for a week. 
               Thus, for a whole month, did Murphy serve the cause of the people, receiving his dollar a day, besides money to use "judiciously," in treating and in other ways controlling the votes of the "better class of citizens," whom he was specially chosen to influence. As the election-day approached, he became busier and busier, and finally was placed in charge of a "colony" of drunken vagabonds who would vote either way for a glass of grog. There were twenty of these, and he had them locked up in the loft of an old warehouse for two or three days, supplying them with as much as they could eat and drink all the time, and generally managing to keep them too drunk to run away, even if they should manage to escape from their prison. 
               The particular work of Murphy, on the election-day, was to bring to the polls these vagabond voters, and as many others as he could drum up. To this end, he was supplied with a carriage and ten dollars to treat with. Faithfully did he perform his part, even to the injunction of R--: 
               "Mr. Murphy, mind! you must keep sober to-day." 
               "Gloriously" the voting went on from the time the polls opened until their closing at six o'clock. 
               It was twelve when Patrick Murphy burst into the room where Biddy sat mending the tattered jacket of her eldest hopeful, swinging his cap about his head, and crying- 
               "We've bate! we've bate! Biddy, me darlint! Hurrah for R-- and the cause of the paple! Hurrah! Hurrah!" 
               "Hish! hish! Patrick, now! Ye'll wake the childther, and alarm the whole neighbourhood!" 
               But Patrick was too intensely delighted at the great result achieved to care for such trifles. Seizing Biddy in his arms, he swung her round as lightly as if she had been a strip of a girl-and Biddy was not a baby in size-repeating the words- 
               "We've bate! We've bate, darlint! And now for the swate little corner in the post-affice, and silks and satins for Mrs. Murphy! Ha! what do yez think of that, honey? Pathrick Murphy knew what he was about!" 
               But we must leave the reader to imagine the rest of this scene. The party whose cause Patrick had espoused were the victors, sure enough. They had routed their opponents, in the common and expressive phrase used on such occasions, "horse, foot, and dragoons." 
               Next for the sequel. 
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                
                
               PART IV. 
               Murphy Abandons the Party in Disgust. 
               "THE victory gained, now for the spoils." If these very words were not used by some hundreds of the country's "devoted friends" on the morning that followed election-day, it was not because no such thought was in their hearts. As for Mr. Murphy, he arose from his bed a proud man. Through his important aid-of this, R-- and others had assured him over and over again-the great victory had been achieved; and he, of course, was sure of his reward. 
               "The fact is, Biddy, darlint," said he, as he sat over his potatoes and coffee-the dollar a day had not supplied as many wants as it should have done-"the fact is, I don't belave it's jist right till put me aff wid a beggarly place in the post-affice, at five or six hundred a year. A man who has sarved the party as I have, desarves better thratement nor that, so he does." 
               "Plaze goodness!" responded Biddy, in a voice slightly troubled, "and I'd be thankful for thot, and niver think o' callin' it beggarly. Yez got y'r idess a little too elevated, Pathrick." 
               "Niver a bit, troth! I knows me desarvins, and I'll git them. They'll not put me aff wid the crumbs o' the table, I can tell them." 
               "Have yez ony money, Pathrick?" asked Biddy. 
               "Niver a rid cint, darlint. I spent ivery farthin' yesterday in buyin' up the votes; but I'll see Musther R-- the mornin'." 
               "But will he pay yez ony thing more, now that 'lection is over, Pathrick?" 
                
               "And why not, sure? Isn't he under an iverlastin' debt o' gratitude to me? Didn't he say that if I'd do me duty as he knew that I could do it, he'd niver forget me while the breath was in his mortal body?" 
               "But what are we to do for dinner the day, Pathrick? There isn't a loaf of bread nor a petatee more in the house. The childther must have food." 
               "Och! And can't yez jist git a little thrust at Mrs. Mulligan's for the day? I'll git plinty o' money when I see Musther R--." 
               "I don't know," replied Biddy. "We owe four dollars there now; and Mrs. Mulligan said, the last time I was there, that I needn't come for ony more thrust till the ould score was paid aff." 
               "Och! Bad'cess till her stingy ould soul! But do you tell her, Biddy, darlint, that we've bate the bloody nabobs, and that I'm to have an affice, and that we're goin' to have hapes o' money, and that we'll dale with her for ivery thing. Jist say all that, Biddy, and she'll open her store till yez." 
               Biddy was not so sanguine, however, and doubted the effect of this particular mode of argumentation; whereupon Patrick called her an old fool, and started from the table in disgust. 
               After scraping off his wiry beard, and sprucing himself up as well as he could, Murphy sallied forth about nine o'clock to meet his fellow-victors, and rejoice with them over the party triumph. To head-quarters he repaired, in hopes of meeting R--. Dozens he found assembled there, who, like himself, had come to seek for some particular leader or leaders, and who were ready to shake hands with him, and exchange congratulations on the "glorious victory." But all this shaking of hands amounted to nothing. It put no money in the empty pocket of our friend Murphy. 
               "Have yez seen R--?" he inquired of one and another. 
               Some had seen the successful candidate and some had not. Of one individual to whom his inquiry was extended, he received in reply this interrogation- 
                
               "R--? and pray what do you want with him? An office already, Pat Murphy!" 
               "Do yez mane to insult me?" responded Murphy angrily. 
               "Oh no!" laughed the other. "But I'd like to give you a piece of good advice." 
               "Wull, and what is it?" inquired Murphy, evincing no little impatience. 
               "Why, just this, my friend:-If you've got any work to do, go and do it, and be thankful." 
               "What do yez mane?" Pat's fists were clenched involuntarily. This was an insult he could ill bear. 
               "I mean," was replied, "that you will find it more profitable than running after an elected candidate, or seeking for an office. R--don't care three buttons for you, now that he's gained the day." 
               Just at this moment, R-- entered the room, and passed so close to the Irishman as almost to rub against him. Pat started forward, extending his hand, and saying, in a voice of exultation- 
               "Me congratulations, Musther R--!" 
               But, from some cause, R-- did not hear the Irishman's voice, nor recognise his person; and he was so quickly surrounded by his many "friends" that Murphy could not get near him. This fact, connected with the "good advice" he had just received, threw rather a damper upon the poor fellow's feelings. This state of mind was not improved by the several ineffectual attempts made to obtain an interview with R--, who was too much engaged with other and more congenial spirits to think or care for an obscure Irishman, whom he had duped into becoming an efficient tool for the accomplishment of his ends. 
               With troubled feelings, Murphy at length saw R-- depart. He followed him out quickly, and forcing his way up to the carriage which stood at the door, and into which R-- had just entered, said, in a somewhat agitated voice- 
               "Musther R--! Can I jist get a 'spakin' till yez?" 
               "To Colonel L--'s," said R--to the driver, as if he had not heard Murphy. Then, waving his hand to the little crowd on the pavement, and bowing and smiling, as the driver spoke to the horses, he swept away, with as little thought or care for the poor Irishman as if he had been one of the bricks in the pavement. Crest-fallen, and with a heavy weight on his feelings, Murphy walked slowly away. Still, he was willing to believe that R-- had not recognised him, and that so soon as he could obtain an interview, every thing would be done that he desired. He did not go home at dinner-time; for he was afraid to meet Biddy with his empty pockets and no prospects of filling them ahead. And as he had not, to use his own words, "a rid cint to bless himself wid," he was compelled to go without food until his return in the evening. 
               In going from place to place, familiar during the progress of the canvass, and in meeting certain individuals with whom he had been hand and glove for weeks, he found that he was a man of far less consequence than before. Instead of cordial greetings and fine compliments, a cold "How are you, Murphy?" "Still loafing about, Pat?" or some such address, met him at every turn. Occasionally, an individual about as important as himself would seize his hand and half wring it off. But he would have willingly dispensed with these particular congratulatory manifestations. 
               About three o'clock, Murphy repaired to the residence of R--, and sent his name in by the servant, who brought back word that the gentleman was particularly engaged. 
               "Tell him," said the Irishman, "that Mr. Murphy would jist like to spake wan word wid him. Jist wan word and no more-and won't kape him a minute." 
               The servant went back, and, after a rather prolonged absence, returned and asked Murphy to walk in. 
               "Take a seat. Mr. R-- will be down in a little while," said the servant, as he opened one of the parlour doors and motioned the Irishman to enter. 
               A quarter of an hour elapsed, and then R-- made his appearance. His face did not wear a very cordial aspect. It is true, there was a smile upon his lips, but it was a forced smile, fading quickly. 
                
               "Well, my good friend," said he coldly, "what can I do for you?" 
               He did not even say "Mr. Murphy." 
               The Irishman was chilled by the manner of R--, and felt himself strongly repulsed. 
               "I've worked hard for yez," said Pathrick, in a humble voice. 
               "You did your duty to the good cause; I'll give you credit for that, friend Murphy; and you'll get your reward." 
               "But how soon, Musther R--?" 
               "All in good time-all in good time," was answered, with some impatience. 
               "Ye knows, Musther R--, that I gave up my siteation"- 
               "At hod-carrying? Oh yes, I remember. Well, Pat, you've had a pretty easy time of it for a couple of months, and can go to work now with more spirit, sustained as you will be by the reflection that you have served your adopted country like a good and true citizen." 
               "But I gave up my siteation, Musther R--," said the Irishman, in a distressed tone of voice. 
               "You must find another, then, my friend. You can't expect to live in idleness. Every man must work to live." 
               This was said in a tone of stinging rebuke. 
               "I'm not afraid to work," returned Murphy. "But I've got no work. You promised me"- 
               "Office-hunting already! Why, don't you know, man, that I shall not take my seat in Congress for a year? I'm still only a private citizen." 
               "A year!" stammered Murphy in a husky voice. "A year, did yez say?" 
               "Certainly I did. The member's term, in whose place I have been elected, doesn't expire until the close of the present Congress. When I take my seat next fall, I will do all I can for you. But, until that time, you must go to work like an honest, industrious citizen. Your reward will come; never fear." 
               Murphy had arisen from his chair when R-- entered the room, and was still standing on the floor, the member elect not having invited him to resume his seat. 
               "And now," said the latter, "you must excuse me. I have several friends in waiting." 
               And he bowed in a way that said "Be off!" almost as distinctly as if he had given utterance to the words. 
               Confounded and utterly cast down under a sense of mortification and distress, the Irishman turned away and retired in silence. 
               "Remember, William," he heard R--say to his waiter, as he was passing to the door, speaking with some anger, "I'm not at home to any of these fellows." 
               Outside of the door, as he opened it, Murphy found two men of his own class, one of whom said- 
               "Can I see Mr. R--?" 
               "He is not at home," said the servant, appearing at the moment. 
               "When will he be in?" was inquired. 
               "I can't tell," was answered, and the door was shut in the man's face. 
               "It's a bloody lie!" said Murphy indignantly, half to himself and half aloud. 
               "He is in, then?" exclaimed one of the men. 
               "He's jist that!" 
               "Have you seen him?" 
               "Yis." 
               "Well?" 
               "And got a bit of cowld comfort for me pains; jist what ye'll git, if ye'r after ony favours." 
               And, with this he turned away, in no very pleasant mood of mind. As he was walking along, with his head bowed down and his eyes upon the pavement, some one said- 
               "Hi, Patrick! is this you?" 
               On looking up he recognised one of the clerks in Mr. P--'s store. 
               "Where have you been keeping yourself, Patrick? We spent a whole week some time ago in trying to find you." 
               "Indade!" 
               "Yes. The man we got in your place turned out badly. We changed two or three times, and then Mr. P-- thought he'd give you another trial, if you were inclined to make a change. He'd seen you at work carrying bricks and mortar, and said he couldn't help pitying you." 
               "I'm obleeged till him for his kindness," repled Murphy, at once elated in prospect of a return to his old place. "Mr. P-- is a jontilman, I must say; and I was a fool iver to have left his employ. I'll go back wid pleasure." 
               "Ah, but, Patrick," replied the young man, in a tone of regret, "it is too late now. We couldn't find you, and so filled the place with another man, who is all that we could want." 
               "It's all bad luck!" exclaimed the Irishman, in a voice of distress. "I've a mind to go and 'thrown meself." 
               "But where were you, Pathrick? We left word at your house for you to come round to the store." 
               "Where was I, d'ye say? Faix, and I was mindin' other paple's business instid o' me ane." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yis. I was promotin' the election of R--, bad'cess till him!" 
               "Ho! ho!" laughed the young man, in spite of the sadness of the Irishman's face. "Well, you are a fool! What good did you expect to gain from his election." 
               "He promised me a siteation in the post-affice?" 
               "Did he? That's rich! What has he to do with the post-office?" 
               "I do'no'. But he promised that I should be rewarded." 
               "As he promised two or three hundred besides, as big fools as you are. He'll have nothing to do with the post-office. In fact, he won't take his seat in Congress for over a year; and then his influence, if he have any, will not go in your favour. He's got too many others to reward with the few crumbs it may be in his power to dispense." 
               The Irishman groaned, but made no reply. 
               "Good-morning, Patrick," said the clerk. "And take with you this piece of good advice: never put any faith in the promises of a politician, made on the eve of an election, for he'll be sure to deceive you." 
               With this, the young man moved on, and the Irishman was left still sadder than before. 
               Of the toil and struggle through which the humbled Patrick Murphy, again shrunk down to his real dimensions, passed during the long, hard winter that followed, and of the sufferings endured by his poorly clothed, warmed, and fed, wife and children, we will not speak. They were severe enough. In the spring he went back to cellar-digging and hod-carrying, at which he worked until fall, when he was sought for again by his old political friends, who knew the value of his services, and was again wheedled by promises into taking the bit into his mouth. This time, however, he was a little wiser, and took care not to neglect his daily work. In the spring, a new party, triumphant at this election, were to come into power, and Murphy, a little better instructed than before, now understood that he must wait a few months before the time came for a distribution of political favours in the shape of comfortable offices; so he wisely accepted, for the winter, the place of coal-heaver in a coal-yard. 
               March at length came around, and a new party came into power. Then followed a general system of removals from office, and the appointment of new men. Murphy's time had at length come. There was a broad gleam of daylight ahead of him, and his heart beat high again with anticipation. He was an applicant for office, and pressed in among the crowd, eager as any to secure the reward of party service. At first, his ambition led him to select the post of inspector of the customs; then he changed from that to a clerk in the post-office; and afterward to a letter-carrier. But as he could get no one to sign him a recommendation to either of these places, he, upon the advice of one for whose opinion he had some respect, filed an application for the situation of night inspector, or, in other words, custom-house watchman. The running, coaxing, begging, and all manner of humiliation attendant on getting up his recommendations, were painful to even Murphy's rather obtuse sensibilities, and he more than once felt like giving up the effort in disgust, and falling back, for life, upon honest, independent labour. As the signature of R--, the party member to Congress, was considered of importance, Murphy strove hard to get it. R--, with whom, after various trials, he at length obtained an interview, promised him all his influence to secure him the place he wanted, and said that he would make it his business to see the collector in his behalf that very day. (He had made the same promise to about sixty or seventy different office-seekers.) Murphy asked his signature to his recommendation; but this R-- declined giving, on the ground that he was called on every hour for such certificates, and that he could not sign all, and, therefore, signed none. It was in vain that Murphy urged his valuable aid in securing R--'s election; the member could not be brought to sign the paper, and the Irishman went away with some righteous indignation in his heart. 
               Still, for all this, through singular good fortune, Murphy got the appointment he sought, and felt that he was "a made man." In his elation, he was stimulated by certain individuals that were instantly attracted around him, to give his "friends" a regular "blow out." So he invited them to a supper at McPhelin's tavern, a place for which he had a particular regard. 
               Some twenty choice spirits responded to this invitation, and not only ate and drank the oysters and brandy he had provided, but ordered champagne and sherry by the dozen; and, in conclusion, broke up about two o'clock in the morning by breaking all the furniture in the room. 
               Sober and serious was Patrick Murphy on the next morning-Patrick Murphy, newly appointed night inspector to the custom-house, with a salary of five hundred a year. On that day he was to enter upon the duties of his office; or, rather on the evening following that day. Touching the doings of the night before he did not feel very comfortable. McPhelin's bill for the supper would, he was afraid, be larger than he intended to make it; and then the breakage of furniture might give him trouble. 
               All was quiet for about a week, during which time Murphy discharged his duties as an officer faithfully, and kept away from McPhelin's. But the evil in search of us is sure to find us out. McPhelin's bill came at last, and proved to Murphy worse than all his fears. It stood thus-  
                      
                        For supper and wines 
                        $40 
                      
                      
                        For breakage of furniture 
                        30 
                      
                      
                         
                        $70 
                      
                  
                
               Poor Murphy, already in debt some eighty or ninety dollars, besides two quarters' back rent, the result of his electioneering diversions, was confounded by such an unexpected bill. But there was no evading it. He had ordered the supper, and under his sanction the wines had been added. Moreover, the party introduced by him had broken the landlord's furniture, for which he very confidently demanded payment. 
               A day or two after the receipt of this document, the Irishman sat alone in one of the offices attached to the custom-house, meditating on what he had gained and lost by politics, and feeling in no very elevated frame of mind, when the messenger came in and handed him a letter. He broke the seal and read, with dismay, his dismissal from office, ample testimony having been received at the "Department," so said the communication, "that he was a drunken turbulent fellow, and not to be trusted by the government, which sought for sober, orderly men to fill its responsible stations." 
               This was too much for Patrick Murphy to bear patiently. Here was the result, after between two and three years' devotion of himself to party interests. Thus was he rewarded! A pleasant morsel placed before his eager lips, and then drawn hastily away! In the excitement and indignation of the moment, he tore his dismissal from office into a hundred pieces; and then, seizing a chair, as his frenzy increased, dashed to fragments a plaster bust of the chief magistrate of the nation that stood the only witness to his disgrace. 
               "Murphy, my good fellow, how are you?" exclaimed an old party leader and driver, who had obtained good service out of the Irishman in former times. This was at the opening of the next political canvass. 
               Murphy, when thus addressed, was standing in front of P--'s store, back into which snug quarters he had found his way again. 
               "Purty well, I thank yez," returned the Irishman coldly. 
               "How are you getting along now?" said the other, not seeming to notice the indifference with which he was received. 
               "Fust-rate," answered Patrick laconically. 
               "Glad to hear it. No man deserves good fortune if you do not. Well, you see, election time is coming round again." 
               "Indade." 
               "A time when every good citizen is expected to do his duty." 
               "I did my duty wanst, and what"- 
               "That you did, Mr. Murphy, as hundreds can testify," interrupted the other. 
               "Humph! I know thot as wull as ony body." 
               "We want to see you down at head-quarters to-night," said the man, now laying his hand familiarly on Murphy's shoulder. "We can't do without your valuable aid." 
               "Be dad, and yez won't see me there!" returned Patrick, showing his teeth and knitting his great shaggy brows. 
               "Why not, my honest friend?" inquired the party leader. 
               "Don't honest frind me, if ye plaze! I'se abandoned yez all in disgust, so I have, bad'cess till y'r politics! They're only got up to chate and desave the honest, hard-workin' paple into votin' for nabobs, who don't care a ha'pence for them." 
               "But, my friend Murphy," began the other, in a soothing voice. 
               "Yez nadent frind me," quickly retorted the Irishman. "It'll do no good. A burnt child dreads the fire. I'se got enough of politics. So good mornin' till yez." 
               And with this the "disgusted" elector turned away and marched into the store. The man, half-amused and half-angry, stood for a moment looking in after Murphy, and then moved on, saying to himself as he did so- 
               "Confound the fellow! He isn't so green as I thought him. Well, we must fill his place with some Green Islander of a later importation. There are plenty of them about ready to be caught. I guess we can spare him." 
               And with this consolation, the party leader went on his way. Doubtless he found it an easy matter to fill the gap left by Murphy's breach from the traces; for, we say it more in sorrow than in levity, "all the fools are not dead yet." 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            J.W. BRADLEY, 
            No. 48 NORTH FOURTH STREET, PHILADELPHIA, 
            And L.P. CROWN & Co. 
            61 CORNHILL, BOSTON, 
            Publish the following Works, which are sold only by Agents. 
             
               Pictorial History of the World, 
               From the Earliest Ages to the Present Time. Three Volumes in One; comprising, Part 1, Ancient History; Part 2, History of the Middle Ages; Part 3, Modern History. By JOHN FROST, LL.D., Author of Pictorial History of the United States, Pictorial Life of Washington, &c. &c. New Edition, with additions and corrections by the Author. Illustrated with over 500 Engravings, from drawings by CROOME, DEVEREUX, and other distinguished artists. 
               This work contains over eleven hundred super-royal octavo pages, and over five hundred finer illustrations than have ever been engraved for any history in this country; it is handsomely and substantially bound in embossed morocco, gilt back. 
             
             
               Conquests of the Bible. 
               By VINCENT W. MILNER. Comprising Important Events in the History of Christianity, from the time of our Saviour to the present day. 336 pages, 12mo. Illustrated with numerous Engravings. 
             
             
                
               Thrilling Adventures among the Indians. 
               Comprising the most remarkable Personal Narratives of events in the early Indian Wars, as well as of Incidents in the recent Indian Hostilities in Mexico and Texas. Illustrated with over 300 Engravings, from designs by W. CROOME, and other distinguished artists. 
                
                  Notices of the Press. 
                  "The matter contained in this handsome volume is as well calculated to give a correct idea of the character of the Indians and their modes of life, as that of any book ever published. All that gives a charm to romance may be found in the narratives contained in this work, but all of them possess the never-failing attractions of truth. The sufferings of numerous captives are also detailed, together with their contrivances of escape from their savage captors. The illustrations, by the well-known W. Croome, are excellent in design and execution, and the printing and binding of the work are fine specimens of each art." 
                
             
             
               Great Events in Modern History. 
               Comprising the most Remarkable Discoveries, Conquests, Revolutions, Great Battles, and other Thrilling Incidents, chiefly in Europe and America, from the commencement of the Sixteenth Century to the present time. Embellished with over 500 Engravings, by W. CROOME, and other eminent artists. 
               The following are extracts from notices of the press received by the Publisher:- 
                
                  Notices of the Press. 
                  "We have here, within the compass of eight hundred pages, the history of those events of modern history which have been 'big with mighty consequences,' and with which, therefore, all men should become acquainted. Beginning with the discovery of America by Columbus-that new starting-point of civilization-the work proceeds through the history of the various European nations, culling those great periods when, either by wars or revolutions, each nation began to occupy a conspicuous place in the general estimation of men, and to make its influence felt by those without its limits. The late revolutions in Europe, the Mexican war, and the gold discoveries in California, are rapidly and vividly sketched. The illustrations, principally from designs by Croome, are numerous, well executed, serving to impress the striking scenes and characters of history upon the tablet of memory. The whole work, in design and execution, reflects great credit upon all concerned in its production." 
                
             
          
          
             
            J.W. BRADLEY, 
            48 North Fourth Street, Philadelphia, 
            AND L.P. CROWN & Co., 
            61 Cornhill, Boston, 
            PUBLISH THE FOLLOWING WORKS BY T.S. ARTHUR. 
             
               ARTHUR'S SKETCHES OF LIFE AND CHARACTER. 
               An Octavo Volume of over 400 pages, beautifully Illustrated, and bound in the best English muslin, gilt. 
                
                  Notices of the Press. 
                  The present volume, containing more than four hundred finely printed octavo pages, is illustrated by splendid engravings, and made particularly valuable to those who like to "see the face of him they talk withal," by a correct likeness of the author, finely engraved on steel.-Neal's Gazette. 
                  In the princely mansions of the Atlantic merchants, and in the rude log-cabins of the backwoodsmen, the name of Arthur is equally known and cherished as the friend of virtue.-Graham's Magazine. 
                  We would not exchange our copy of these sketches, with its story of "The Methodist Preacher," for any one of the gilt-edged and embossed annuals which we have yet seen.-Lady's National Magazine. 
                  The first story in the volume, entitled "The Methodist Preacher, or Lights and Shadows in the Life of an Itinerant," is alone worth the price of the work.-Evening Bulletin. 
                  It is emphatically a splendid work.-Middletown Whig. 
                  Its worth and cheapness should place it in every person's hands who desire to read an interesting book.-Odd Fellow, Boonsboro'. 
                  "The Methodist Preacher," "Seed Time and Harvest," "Dyed in the Wool," are full of truth as well as instruction, and any one of them is worth the whole price of the volume.-Lowell Daystar, Rev. D.C. Eddy, Editor. 
                  There is a fascination about these sketches which so powerfully interests the reader, that few who commence one of them will part with it till it is concluded; and they will bear reading repeatedly.-Norfolk and Portsmouth Herald. 
                  Those who have not perused these model stories have a rich feast in waiting, and we shall be happy if we can be instrumental in pointing them to it.-Family Visitor, Madison, Geo. 
                  No library for family reading should be considered complete without this volume, which is as lively and entertaining in its character as it is salutary in its influence.-N. Y. Tribune. 
                  The work is beautifully illustrated. Those who are at all acquainted with Arthur's writings need hardly be told that the present work is a prize to whoever possesses it.-New York Sun. 
                  We know no better book for the table of any family, whether regarded for its neat exterior or valuable contents.-Vox Populi, Lowell. 
                  The name of the author is in itself a sufficient recommendation of the work.-Lawrence Sentinel. 
                  T.S. Arthur is one of the best literary writers of the age.-Watchman, Circleville, Ohio. 
                  The name alone of the author is a sufficient guaranty to the reading public of its surpassing merit.-The Argus, Gallatin, Miss. 
                  Probably he has not written a line which, dying, he could wish to erase.-Parkersburg (Va.) Gazette. 
                
             
             
                
               WORKS BY T.S. ARTHUR. 
                
                  LIGHTS AND SHADOWS OF REAL LIFE. 
                  With an Autobiography and Portrait of the Author. Over 500 pages, octavo, with fine tinted engravings. 
                   
                     Notices of the Press. 
                     In this volume may be found a "moral suasion" which cannot but affect for good all who read. The mechanical execution of the work is very beautiful throughout.-New Haven Palladium. 
                     It is by far the most valuable book ever published of his works, inasmuch as it is enriched with a very interesting though brief autobiography.-American Courier. 
                     No family library is complete without a copy of this book.-Scott's Weekly Paper. 
                     No better or worthier present could be made to the young, no offering more pure, charitable, and practicable could be tendered to those who are interested in the truly benevolent reforms of the day.-Godey's Lady's Book. 
                     The paper, the engravings, the binding, and the literary contents, are all calculated to make it a favourite.-Penna. Inquirer. 
                     This volume cannot be too highly recommended.-N. Y. Tribune. 
                     More good has been effected than by any other single medium we know of.-N. Y. Sun. 
                     The work should be upon the centre-table of every parent in the land.-National Temperance Magazine. 
                     A single story is worth the price charged for the book.-Union, Newburyport, Mass. 
                   
                
                
                  GOLDEN GRAINS FROM LIFE'S HARVEST FIELD. 
                  Bound in full gilt, with a beautiful mezzotint engraving. 12mo, 240 pages. 
                   
                     Notices of the Press. 
                     It is not too much to say, that the Golden Grains here presented to the reader are such as will be productive of a far greater amount of human happiness than those in search of which so many are willing to risk domestic peace, health, and even life itself, in a distant and inhospitable region. 
                     These narratives, like all of those which proceed from the same able pen, are remarkable not only for their entertaining and lively pictures of actual life, but for their admirable moral tendency. 
                     It is printed in excellent style, and embellished with a mezzotint engraving. We cordially recommend it to the favour of our readers.-Godey's Lady's Book. 
                   
                
                
                  THE WAY TO PROSPER AND OTHER TALES. 
                  12mo, over 200 pages, with a fine steel engraving. 
                
                
                  THE HOME MISSION. 
                  12mo, of over 200 pages, with an engraving. 
                
                
                  TRUE RICHES; OR, WEALTH WITHOUT WINGS. 
                  Over 200 pages, 12mo, with a fine mezzotint engraving. 
                
                
                  THE FIRESIDE ANGEL. 
                  64 pages, 32mo, with an engraving. Bound in muslin, gilt edges. 
                  These Books are sold exclusively by Agents, to whom the most liberal commission will be paid. For particulars, address (if by letter, post-paid) J.W. BRADLEY, 48 North Fourth Street, Philadelphia, or L.P. CROWN & Co., 61 Cornhill, Boston. 
                
             
          
       
   
