
    ----CITATION----
        Ashland, Aria.. The Rebel Scout .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5671 wright2-0152
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE REBEL SCOUT:
               A Romance of the Revolution.
            
            BY ARIA ASHLAND.
            
            
               NEW-YORK:
               STRINGER & TOWNSEND, PUBLISHERS, 222 BROADWAY.
            
         
      
      
         
            The rebel scout
            
            THE REBEL SCOUT.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               AT an early hour, on the morning of the 8th of June, 1777, the good city of Montreal resented a scene of warlike bustle and excitement.
               With the first gleam of dawn a deafening roll of drums, mingling with the softer notes of the bugle, echoed through the streets, rousing alike the slumbering citizen, and the veteran soldier, long used to the din of arms.
               From almost every dwelling soldiers hastened to assume their well-known stations, some advancing with the eager step and exultant mien of men whose happiness lay in the anticipation of martial conquest; while others moved with less elastic tread, as if a hard experience had taught them the perils as well as the triumphs of war.
               It was the army of Gen. Burgoyne prepared to march in the direction of Fort Ticonderoga. This accomplished commander opened the campaign of '77, with brilliant hopes of a successful issue—hopes in which both officers and men under his command participated. And in truth, a view of that gallant host might have inspired a less sanguine leader with confidence. Amid the extended columns were the trained soldiers of Britain, the heavy Germans, tried in many a conflict, Provincials and artillery-men—in all composing a corps of nearly ten thousand men.
               The sun had not yet risen when Burgoyne, attended by his suite appeared on the ground. As he passed along, regiment after regiment stood with bayonets fixed and muskets shouldered, while a flush of pride and admiration animated the features of the General.
               At length the cavalcade reached the head of the parade, where was stationed a body of men—known as "Frazer's rangers or marksmen."
               This company received, as it deserved, marked attention from Gen. Burgoyne. It was composed of one hundred young men, of unrivalled strength and activity, and whose aim with their own weapon—the rifle—was unerring. The band was made up of Scottish emigrants, and the descendants of old soldiers who had settled along the St. Lawrence; hence early training had taught them to set bodily fatigue at defiance, while cowardice was a quality unknown to the brave company of marksmen.
               In answer to their salute Burgoyne doffed his hat, and addressed to Capt. Frazer a few words of commendation respecting the fine appearance of his men.
               "Ha! we may thank Gleig for the General's complimentary speech," muttered a young man to his comrade.
               "Do you see the jewel looped in the silken tassel of the fellow's cap? Its lustre sheds a shower of scintillations over the person of the wearer; but 'tis a woman's trinket, and would better grace the black tresses of the donor, than gleam to advantage amid the course accoutrements of us soldiers."
               "Who mean you by the donor? or in other words, where got Duncan Gleig yon bright bauble?"
               "Do you not know?"
               "Of a surety not. Remember, I have been absent for a week, and only joined our men at a late hour last night."
               "Ah! then I will repeat the history of Duncan's exploit. At our late shooting-match, his trusty rifle did not belie its master's acknowledged skill. He won, and there were several ladies present who witnessed and rejoiced in his triumph. Among the fair bevy was old Graham's dark-eyed daughter; and while others were content with the waving of handkerchiefs, Meg 
                     Craham
                     Graham
                   chose to give a more substantial proof of approbation. You can see it now, gleaming on the forehead of the, doubtless, grateful recipient."
               "By my hopes of promotion, a token of approval which many of higher rank might well covet! And yet, pretty Margaret is reputed a coquette, with a spice of the old Colonel's pride in her nature. Haughty as her sire, and inconstant as the wave that glides from the kiss of the sunbeam, she may frown on Gleig to-morrow, albeit he is happy in her smile to-day."
               The colloquy was interrupted at this point by the voice of Burgoyne, proclaiming—
               "God speed the right, and the arms of our King and country."
               Then followed the order to advance, answered by a hearty cheer which rolled back like thunder from batallion to batallion, as each regiment began its toilsome march.
               Notwithstanding the hardships which the army must encounter on its passage through the wilderness, and the uncertain issue of the expedition, so sanguine of success were Burgoyne and his officers that the attendance of numerous ladies was permitted. The fair retinue was chiefly composed of the wives and children of the officers, who with their servants, and, as a writer of that period adds, "their household staff" were conveyed in open carriages in the rear of the columns.
               These devoted followers of the British army received every attention which gallantry and affection could bestow; and when, ten days after leaving Montreal, the first regular encampment was formed, perhaps not one of these courageous women regretted the determination which had led her thus far in the track of a war-path.
               The spot chosen for the halting-place of the invading forces was romantically situated near the shores of Lake Champlain. A valley enclosed by hills, except where the lake opened to the eastward, afforded sufficient ground for the encampment. Here tents were pitched, and sentinels stationed on the surrounding heights, while Burgoyne prepared to make his final arrangements with certain Indian tribes whose aid he had already solicited.
               The tents of the females were planted beneath a gentle eminence, on which a guard was posted; and, though slightly removed from the main body of the army, they were yet in the neighborhood of the temporary ground occupied by those whose hazardous fortunes they uncomplainingly followed. There might be seen the marquee of the Baroness Reidesel; and also that of the Lady Harriet Ackland, whose heroic fortitude at a later period was proof against the extremity of suffering, while her amiable character won the esteem of all. Her story furnishes one of the most affecting episodes to be found anywhere in the annals of the Revolution.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               A WARM June day had given place to the coolness and the early shadow of twilight, when a youthful figure of the softer sex emerged from a marquee, and directed her steps over the rude path that ascended the hill in the rear of the collection of tents of the females. Her attire was rich, and yet in color and fashion not unsuited to the place nor the circumstances which surrounded her. An ample skirt of dark lustrous silk fell in shining folds to her feet, while a close-fitting bodice of purple velvet, richly wrought with gold thread, displayed to advantage the form of the wearer. A small bugle of exquisite workmanship was suspended about her neck, and carelessly confined in her belt. On her head she wore a crimson mantle, which partly concealed the jetty locks that fell, half curl, half wave, upon her shoulders.
               She had the complexion of a brunette—a bright, dark eye, and an expression which was at once playful, penetrating and haughty. Such was Margaret Graham in person. Her character we will not attempt to delineate, otherwise than as it may be portrayed in the events to be narrated. She was the only child of Col. Graham, and had been motherless since her early infancy.
               The height which Margaret had chosen for her evening promenade was dotted with clusters of dwarf shrubs, while here and there a giant tree waved its dense foliage in the breeze that had sprung up at sunset. The surrounding hills wore the bright green livery of early summer, while the broad vale below was dotted with innumerable tents. The scene was also enlivened by the appearance of a host of gaily equipped men, who swarmed amid the tents like bees around a hive, while the different sounds rising from the encampment came to the maiden's ear, softened and mellowed by distance.
               Above, on the highest pinnacle of the hill, stood a sentinel,—his figure finely relieved against the mass of golden clouds which lay along the western sky. It was in the direction of the sentinel, by a devious path, that Margaret took her way, often pausing to send a backward glance towards the camp and then resuming her course, an arch, yet slightly troubled expression visible in her face whenever her eyes were covertly raised to the solitary figure of the guard.
               It was in one of those moments, when she sought a hasty view of the ground already passed, that she perceived a person in the path behind who was evidently bent upon following her, though at a respectful distance. On observing that her pursuer halted as she turned to survey him, Margaret made an impatient signal for his nearer approach. Thus mutely commanded, he advanced, displaying a tall, gaunt person, attired in the habiliments of a Scottish servitor of that period.
               "How now, good Robert?" said the lady, in a half angry tone; "art becoming a spy upon thy master's daughter, that she must e'en be plagued with thy unasked attendance?"
               "Nay, Miss Margaret; ye ken weel enough that I'm na spy. Spy, indeed, when 'tis Robert Lindsay that's been a faithful servant to the Grahams for sixty odd years. Hard words, hard words, chield. And ye ken, too, that your father bade me keep a watchful een over ye in these dubious times, because, forsooth, we maun needs, go into the country of rebels, and Indian bogles, and the Lord kens what."
               "But, Robert, my father's charge to you did not extend to my evening walks within the precincts of the camp. No harm from the rebels and bogles, of which you seem so apprehensive, can molest me here."
               "Ye canna tell that," said the old man, with a mysterious air. "Andrew MacFarlane, who's been for long in the Indian country, tells awful tales of the redskins. They rise out of the very ground in the track of a white man; and, like cunning devils as they are, seize and scalp him in the twinkling of an een; and, as ye maun own, Miss Margaret, no honest gentleman would be throttling and murthering a puir soul after such a manner."
               "Never fear for my scalp, my trusty friend," she answered, laughing, as she prepared to continue her walk. "These dusky warriors would scarcely think my sable locks worth the clipping, because nature has bestowed them on a weak girl instead of a soldier's head. Moreover, we have as yet no Indians in the camp, nor do I apprehend that a redskin will rise out of the ground to harm so insignificant a creature as myself. Yet, listen, good Robert. Though not inclined to forego my usual exercise, I will even grant you permission to await me here. The evening is fine; and a soldier's daughter can meet with no harm in a Christian camp, though unattended in her customary walk. The path above us seems solitary; yet should I chance to encounter a disorderly soldier, or an Indian bogle, I promise to give instant notice of the fact, by sounding a note on this pretty instrument. Hark, to its music!"
               Raising the miniature bugle to her lips, she drew from it a few low, sweet notes and then smiling on the old man, resumed her walk.
               "The chield has her father's stubborn spirit," muttered the ancient servitor, as he seated himself on a low bank, after assuring himself that no tree or shrub in his immediate neighborhood concealed a dusky foe. "Aweel, aweel! I dinna forget how sorely her father grieved because his lassie wasn't born a boy; but the girl is brave as any male amongst the race—counting from old Sir John Graham down to my master."
               The light of day was gradually receding, and Margaret hastened her steps along the lonely path, which, winding through a thicket, soon concealed her from the observation of Robert. At last she reached a hollow of the hill, where the path seemed to terminate abruptly, the ground rising in a rough perpendicular ledge to the summit. Perhaps the track continued its tortuous course around the base of the precipice; but, wearied with the labor of climbing to the height already gained, and possibly deterred from pursuing her way by the near approach of night, she did not venture to proceed further.
               Meanwhile the quick eye of the guard had been fixed on the figure of Margaret almost from the moment of her leaving the marquee. He had watched Lindsay following her steps, observed their interview on the further border of the thicket, and now his curious glance wandered alternately from the indistinct figure of the old man below to the graceful form of the maiden, scarce a dozen rods beneath the post he occupied.
               Throwing back her mantle, Margaret looked up, at the same moment signing to the guard to approach. He took a step forward, and gazed eagerly downward in the gay twilight, as if surprise led him to doubt the accuracy of his vision, when the signal was again repeated with a haughty, impatient motion.
               The sentinel was one of "Frazer's marksmen," and his station one of peculiar trust. Hence, he was reluctant to forsake his post even for a moment; though his heroism was sorely tried by the instigations of curiosity, and perhaps a softer sentiment, as he gazed on the fair apparition.
               It was while he remained undecided how to act, that two figures approached from the opposite side of the hill, and, giving the countersign, they were about to proceed below, when the guard detained them.
               "Are you bound for the camp, friend?" he asked, bestowing a close scrutiny upon the fellow nearest him, who, rough as he seemed in dress and bearing, was yet more civilized than his Indian comrade.
               "Ay, to the camp," he replied. "We belong to the scouting party sent out yesternight."
               "There is a person yonder to whom I wish you to bear a message," continued the sentry, directing the other's attention to Margaret, who was now restlessly awaiting the result of her summons to Gleig.
               "You will say that I shall shortly be relieved, and will then descend and learn the commands with which the lady may honor me."
               The man bent his head with a grin of significant intelligence, as he prepared to advance.
               "Hark you, sirrah?" added the guard, as he noted the fellow's expression; "remember that your message is to a lady, whose friends and relatives rank among the highest in authority within the British army. An uncourteous word or look to her would meet with instant chastisement.
               "Heaven preserve me from the crime of jeering at another's sweetheart, and the penalty thereof!" answered the scout with a look of mock apprehension.
               "On! on!—my dusky Mohawk friend," he added to the redskin, "for Frazer's men are proverbially rash; and this brave youth may inflict the punishment he spoke of ere giving me time to commit an offence against the laws of courtesy."
               Descending by a circuitous way, the messenger approached Margaret, and, removing his hat, delivered his errand in respectful language.
               Though meanly attired, and passed the middle age of life, there was something in the look and manner of the man that did not seem to assimilate with his station. An expression of keen, penetrative sagacity was visible in his countenance as he perused the lady's face by the light of the crescent moon, which at that moment appeared above the hills.
               "The fidelity of a trusty watch dog, but not the gallantry of a gentleman," muttered Margaret, as she listened to the message. Then observing serving that the scout loitered near, his eyes fixed on her features in a prolonged and bold scrutiny, she exclaimed—
               "How now, fellow! I am not a person to brook the effrontery of your gaze! Go!" and she waved her hand imperiously towards the camp.
               "A beggar may look on a king, fair lady, and by the same right I may claim the privilege of judging of your beauty, unless you are the sultana of yonder marquees. It is true, Gen. Burgoyne follows the example of an Eastern Soldan, and marches with a harem in his train; but I know not that an edict had been proclaimed for men to veil their eyes whenever a fair captive escapes and walks the camp by moonlight."
               "Insolent!" exclaimed Margaret, turning her flashing eyes upon the offender. "Do you know to whom you speak?—do you know that you insult the daughter of one who never permits insult to go unavenged?—Depart, if you are wise! With this horn I can summon instant aid!" and she raised the instrument to her lips, as if about to verify the assertion.
               "Stay a moment!" said the man, his whole face gleaming with restrained ferocity, while the native sweetness of a remarkably clear voice echoed no intonation of anger.
               "Permit me to answer your inquiry. I do know to whom I speak, for the haughty lineaments of the sire are faithfully transmitted to the child. I speak to the daughter of John Graham, Colonel of His Majesty's 20th regiment of troops, who has sown misery where he owed protection, and trampled in the dust every good principle in the pursuit of base and selfish purposes. But vengeance will not always slumber. As he has measured unto others so shall evil be meted out to him. A good-night to you, my haughty lady; and when we meet again, you may find cause to repent the arrogance of this, our first, but mark me—not our last, interview."
            
            
               CHAPTER III
               MARGARET GRAHAM was not unmoved by the menace uttered by the scout as he took his departure, yet she had but little time to reflect upon his unfriendly language; for, relieved in his watch, the sentinel hastened to join her; and doffing his military hat, he began to excuse his tardy approach, when the apology was cut short by the impatient tones of the maiden.
               "Say no more! say no more, Duncan Gleig! Your uncouth defence is tenfold more annoying than your lack of courtesy. But I pardon you for compelling me to await your leisure, if you will spare enough of your precious time to listen to the errand which has brought me hither. A pretty scandal would be bruited about among yonder tents were it known that Meg Graham had left her marquee on so unmaidenly an enterprise! Then you must needs employ an ill-omened messenger to convey an apology! Pray, tell me if you know the name and station of your gallant envoy?"
               "I am ignorant of his name, though I can inform you of his rank. He is now employed as a scout, and belongs to the cowboys—"
               "The what?" said Margaret, interrupting him, as she turned an inquiring, curious gaze on his face.
               "I said the cowboys, Miss Graham."
               "A martial appellation truly! Pray, sir, what military duties does the name cover? —or, in other words, who and what are the cowboys?"
               "They are chiefly colonists who profess attachment to the King and crown, and are half soldiers, half foragers. Their main object is plunder; though, when occasion demands, they will fight with reckless courage. We shall see more of these enterprising purveyors as we move to the southward, lady. The eastern portion of the colony of New York is their chief haunt."
               "Were I the commander of this gallant army I would scare to a distance these birds of prey! Trustworthy and honest they cannot be."
               "As trustworthy as the Indian allies with whom Gen. Burgoyne will treat to-morrow, perhaps," said Duncan, in a doubtful tone.
               "Ah! to-morrow, say you? Then, if the day be fair, and my father in an indulgent mood, I will even crave permission to witness this famous council between red warriors and white men! But I forget my mission and the evening wanes apace. Duncan Gleig, have you the trinket which I foolishly gave you some three weeks past?"
               "If the gift was foolishly bestowed, it has been religiously kept, as the choicest treasure of a poor soldier," he answered, with respectful earnestness. "I would sooner part with aught of fame that may wait on my humble fortunes than resign this token of"—
               "Of what, fair sir?"
               "May I say of Miss Graham's good will?"
               "Say what you choose;—but have the grace to restore the ornament."
               "Miss Graham!" he ejaculated, in a voice of wounded pride and reproach.
               "Nay, listen, and I will explain. There is a secret connected with the gem which renders its recovery important. I have learned from my old nurse, that the seemingly thin shell of gold conceals a diamond of great value; and by a hidden spring, the gem opens into a golden flower with a jewelled centre. It was presented to my mother, on her marriage, by an eccentric relative, who had travelled much in the East; and the cabalistic figures engraved upon the back of the case are Hebrew characters, which, translated, signify that the loss of the diamond will bring misfortune. Finding it in a jewel-box that belonged to my mother; and ignorant of its real value, I wore it on that unlucky day which witnessed its bestowal upon yourself. My evil genius led me to reward your triumph with this precious memento of my departed parent. And I am here in person to entreat its restoration, Gleig. I could not entrust the mission to another; nor would I, for thrice the value of the jewel, have my father learn that it has ever been removed from the casket."
               "I will return it instantly; and let me entreat that Miss Graham will not withdraw, along with her gift, the good will she has shown to one beneath her favor."
               He placed the ornament in her hand; and with an exclamation of delight Margaret surveyed its gleaming oval surface in the moonlight.
               "'Ill betide the loser' is the interpretation of these occult figures," she remarked, turning the golden case till the light fell on the secret characters.
               "Have you faith in the prophecy?" asked the young soldier, gazing on her animated face with a look of mingled curiosity and admiration.
               "Not implicit faith," she answered, smiling, "but I confess to an interest in the traditions, whether prophetic or otherwise, that my old nurse is always repeating. If one may believe Dame Martha's legends, the Grahams of former times were a fierce and turbulent race, always at war, and quite as cruel, though less treacherous, than the aborigines of these barbarous colonies."
               "That your ancestors were brave and valiant I cannot doubt, knowing as I do the intrepid qualities of Colonel Graham. He maintains the chivalrous spirit of his race, as his daughter bears the attributes of grace and beauty for which the females of her family have doubtless always been distinguished."
               "Enough!" exclaimed Margaret, laughing gaily. "I thank you in the name of all my female progenitors for your complimentary speech. But you will excuse my listening further to the sweet accents of flattery, for here we part, my gallant friend."
               "Nay, I entreat that you permit me to attend you to the plain," he answered, earnestly. "In descending to your marquee you may chance to encounter our rude soldiery."
               "And the chivalrous arm of one Duncan Gleig would be sufficient protection against a host of armed men. Is that what you would say, fair sir?"
               "I would die ere harm or insult should reach you! Moreover, I frankly own my desire to prolong these precious minutes to their utmost limit. It is not often that I am honored with the privilege of addressing Miss Graham."
               "Our conference has already exceeded the restrictions of propriety," she answered, with a slight degree of haughtiness. "An attendant waits for me on the border of the thicket beneath us, and I am not afraid to pass alone over the intervening ground."
               A shade of disappointment and chagrin passed over the marksman's face, as he listened to the rejection of his services; and observing the look, she extended her hand with an air of mingled condescension and coquetry.
               "Let that suffice," she said, smiling, and slightly blushing at the 
                     eargerness
                     eagerness
                   with which her hand had been seized and pressed to Duncan's lips.
               "I owed you some mark of favor for the return of the diamond, and you have now received it. See that you do not presume too much upon the good will of Margaret Graham."
               With this caution, she drew her mantle about her head; and retaining the recovered jewel in her hand secure in a firm grasp, she passed from the spot, Duncan meanwhile anxiously watching her retiring figure.
               Fearless and active, the daughter of a brave soldier, and the descendant of a family formerly known as the warlike Grahams in "bonnie Scotland," Margaret experienced no fear as she went on her way, now passing within the shadow of a leafy tree, and anon coming out in the clear moonlight.
               Once ere she reached the thicket she encountered a party of soldiers, headed by an officer, who gallantly raised his cap in passing. As the band ascended the hill, she looked back at their martial forms, and perhaps was not displeased to observe the figure of Duncan still occupying; the height, and apparently engaged in watching her descent.
               But soon entering the rude path which had been cut through the trees, she quickened her steps on seeing how completely the foliage overhead shut out the beams of the moon.
            
            
               CHAPTER IV.
               IN the meantime, Robert remained awaiting the return of his mistress, and beguiling the lagging minutes in humming snatches of ancient ballads. His years excused him from active service among the retainers of Col. Graham; consequently Margaret had engaged the faithful old man as a sort of protector amid the unknown perils which she might experience in following the hazardous fortunes of her father. In truth, Robert filled the different offices of groom, footman, and guardian, to the satisfaction of his beloved young lady; and aside from the superstition inherent in his Scottish nature, he was well qualified for the trust reposed in him. An arm of flesh and blood had no terror to the mind of the ancient servitor; but, a firm believer in supernatural appearances, his simple credulity was a source of vexation as well as ridicule to the mistress whom he served.
               Whether it was the effect of his recent conversation with Margaret, or attributable to some secret lunar influence, we do not know—but certain it is that every object within the range of his vision assumed a preternatural shape to the eyes of Robert Lindsay. Scalps waved in the moonlight from every tasseled bough, and the 
                     abjoining
                     adjoining
                   thicket was peopled with dusky spectres which moved in concert with the hoarse cry of a night-bird, concealed in a neighboring tree.
               His mind was haunted with tales of Indian treachery and cruelty; and believing that the savages were in league with the great enemy of mankind, he trembled at the ghostly forms to which fear had given birth. To "keep his courage up" he alternately whistled, or chanted in a muttered tone—
               
                  
                     "The oak, and the ash, and the bonny ivy-tree,
                     They flourish best at home in the North country!"
                  
               
               The old man was yet repeating his favorite ditty, when he suddenly ceased, his vocal powers paralyzed with terror. From the thicket there advanced, or rather glided, a dusky figure, arrayed in the barbarous accoutrements of an Indian warrior. Turning neither to the right or left, the apparition came steadily on, almost brushing the clothes of the Scot in passing; yet not a dry leaf or twig rustled beneath his noiseless step. It was only the transient turn of a glittering eye, as it glanced upon the humble servitor, that showed a veritable savage instead of a "red man's shade," as Lindsay's terrified imagination had named the object. He had scarcely time to look at the vanishing bogle ere it disappeared in the winding path, leaving him a prey to tormenting apprehensions. Setting his teeth firmly together, and drawing his only weapon, a short rapier, from its sheath, the doughty Scot commenced a series of evolutions, muttering—
               "Avant ye!" And then in a lower tone, to himself, adding—"I dinna ken but the imp may rise out of the ground; but muckle wark will he find to strike a murthering blow in the back of a peaceable man sae lang as his lugs skippit round like a weathercock in a blast."
               The pirouettes of the old man would have done honor to a French dancing-master; but unfortunately, age disqualified him for the continuation of his singular exercise; and although the stories of Andrew MacFarlane were still fresh in his mind, as well as the later appearance of the Indian sprite, he was compelled to forego the novel movements that the idea of self-preservation had originated.
               With the cessation of his laborious exertion a thought of Margaret entered his mind; and, as if in answer to his thought, there arose the blast of a bugle-horn from the thicket, clear and musical, yet ringing a note of impatience—it might be of alarm. The sound was familiar, for often on their tedious march had the instrument been used to summon Lindsay to his post as attendant of his youthful mistress; nor was the signal unheeded at the present moment. Forgetting superstitious fears in the real danger which might be menacing the person of Margaret, he rushed forward, and was met on the border of the thicket by the young lady. Her mantle was trailing on the ground, and her appearance betokened excitement and alarm, as she hurriedly asked—
               "Whom did you meet, Robert? Answer—who passed you but now?"
               "Nobody has passed, Miss Margaret."
               "Nobody! Are you sure, quite sure, that not a person has been seen on this side the thicket since you heard the bugle?"
               "Ay, quite sure. No living thing has been here since ye went up the hill a good hour a-gone."
               She turned, and climbing to the top of a high rock in the vicinity, seemed to be surveying the dense 
                     clumb
                     clump
                   of saplings.
               "I met a party of soldiers further up the height," she said, descending and joining Lindsay.
               "And I saw them, too; but they dinna come nearer me than the great elm ye can see, spreading its limbs anent yonder craig."
               "And two persons passed me shortly after I left you here. They were bound for the camp, as I know—a soldier and an Indian. Did they take this path, good Lindsay?"
               "The Lord hae mercy on us! Dinna I tell ye, Miss Margaret, that no living thing had been here? I say naught of the wraith that glides in the moonlight without breath or sound, because, forsooth, ye would be misbelieving."
               "What mean you, Robert?" she asked, bestowing an inquisitive glance on his features.
               "Naething, just nothing at all," answered Lindsay. "I ken what I hae seen, but that's not telling the matter to them that'll fleer at such awful sights."
               "Foolish old man! You look for a phantom in every shadow, and vex me with your nonsensical mysteries. Would that you could speak, and utter something to the purpose."
               "The auld man may be foolish, as ye say, chield; but he has sense enough to ken a mortal body from a spirit, e'en though it appear in the likeness of a redskinned imp. Art sure that ye looked on a real Indian to night?" he added, in a mysterious whisper, and shaking his gray locks.
               "Was it a dusky spectre you saw?" exclaimed Margaret, with increased interest, "Tell me all about it, my good Robert. What said and did this ominous apparition? Whence came he, and whither did he vanish?"
               "Then, if I maun tell, it came out o' these very trees, and vanished in the twinkling of an een, anent the turn in the path there awa'. 'Twas an Indian bogle, Miss Margaret, sure as I be Robert Lindsay; for it almost touched me as I sat on yon hillock, and I minded it had a spirit-tread—ne'er a blade o' grass rustled as it glided by."
               "The moccasined foot of an Indian moves with noiseless tread," she answered, gravely. "Fie, Robert! these credulous superstitions make you a coward."
               "The thoughtless chield calls me first a spy, and then a coward," he muttered; "nor do I care to grapple with a bogle or brownie, though there breathes nae mortal man whom auld Robert fears in fair and open fight."
               "I know it, my faithful Lindsay," said Margaret soothingly. "I know that I may safely rely on your courage, if hard blows are to be dealt in my defence. But these idle, childish fears of phantoms and goblins vex me. Believe me, it was no ghost you saw, but a veritable savage, as you will perhaps become convinced when we have advanced still further into the country; for if rumor speaks truly, a host of these red warriors will soon enlist under the banner of Gen. Burgoyne. Then you will not take every Indian you may chance to meet for a tawny spectre. But let us on to the camp. Other dangers than those your visionary fears create may be lurking on the hill."
               "Hah! ye did gie a hasty blast o' the horn. If ye hae met with harm from an enemy of flesh and blood, I'll e'en gang back and search the thicket."
               "Nay, Lindsay. Stir not, I command you. The search now would be an idle waste of time; but had you been by my side a few minutes since, you might have saved me from the anxiety and alarm that now so oppresses my mind."
               "But hark to me, darling. My bluid is up, and I canna gang awa' till I hae beat the thicket. Nae dastard loon shall affront my mistress and escape with a sound head, e'en though he burrow deep in the ground anent yon trees."
               "You would unearth no enemy more formidable than a timid rabbit, or a harmless fox; so let us proceed to the camp, for I am sadly wearied, and would fain be safe in my marquee."
               Though anxious to learn the cause of his mistresses evident alarm, the Scot was compelled to proceed without further question; and he descended the hill, closely followed by Margaret, without meeting sprite or spectre or enemy of more vulnerable shape.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               WHEN Margaret Graham reached the entrance of her tent she was met by the bent figure and withered though cheerful face of Martha Hollins.
               This person was an English woman, who in early youth entered the service of Colonel Graham's mother, a lady who was also of English extraction.
               
               For a period of nearly sixty years, Dame Hollins had remained in the family, first as a waiting-maid to her original mistress, and subsequently acting as housekeeper to the Colonel, and nurse to his motherless child.
               The old woman alone knew of Margaret's errand on the hill; and for the last half-hour her wrinkled visage had regularly appeared and disappeared at the door of the tent, as her thoughts were divided between solicitude for the maiden's safe return and preparations for the evening meal. A warm attachment united the young lady and her ancient nurse; hence the former bore with surprising patience the garrulity of Dame Hollins, even when she took it upon herself to lecture the young mistress whose infancy and childhood she had faithfully tended.
               At the present time, two causes occasioned the irritation of Martha's temper. First, Margaret had gone forth contrary to her advice, and in consequence, supper had been delayed long after the hour which the punctual housekeeper had assigned.
               However, joy at her young lady's safe return quite mollified her resentment; though she thought proper to offer a slight reproof.
               "You should know better than to be out at this time o' night, with nought but a thin mantle for a covering," she remarked. "Neither can I see why it need take a good hour and a half just for the asking and giving of—ye know what. Of course you found the fellow, Meg; I learned for certain that his watch was on the hill above us. Pray, did he haggle about giving up what ye sought?"
               "Nay, Martha, the thing was restored. Ask me no more questions, for in truth I am sadly tired with my tramp over rock and hillock."
               "Ay, your cheek is white as the muslin ruff on your neck; and these locks," she added, clasping a mass of shining hair in her withered fingers, "are tangled as if they had never seen comb or brush. What ails ye, Meg? one might think ye had to do battle in fulfilling your mission. Yet this Duncan Gregg, or Gleig, looks not like one who would churlishly refuse your request. What said he, darling: that the jewel was not so bright as your own bright eyes?"
               "A truce to the subject, Dame. What matters it, the words that may have been spoken, seeing the ornament was returned."
               "Well-a-day! Had it been kept back, you would have rued the giving it away; for none know better than I the great store your father sets by the hidden diamond," she replied; and knowing that nothing further could be extracted from Margaret while she remained in her present unsocial mood, Dame Hollins was compelled to stifle her curiosity.
               Meanwhile, the young lady scarcely tasted the food placed before her, but sat absorbed in thought. There was nothing pleasant in the nature of her revery; and anxiety lent its own peculiar expression to her features.
               Long used to reading every look of Margaret's fair face, old Martha continued to steal furtive glances at her beautiful countenance, influenced no less by tender solicitude than feminine curiosity, of which she had a full share.
               "One might think ye had met with a wraith, Meg, and it had laid a spell on you," she at last exclaimed. "Come, dear heart, tell me what thou didst see and hear to make thee look so glum?"
               "I have nothing to say, good nurse, save that Duncan Gleig, the loitering knave, made me wait his leisure after I had walked nearly to the summit of the hill. And when he did condescend to approach, questions and explanations necessarily followed."
               "And were they all about the diamond?" she asked, raising her shriveled visage to the other's blooming face, with a peculiar look.
               "Certainly, Dame! What converse should I hold with one whom my father rates as a person of inferior station? You know the vigilance with which he guards me from all contact with aught of lower grade than that to which I am justly entitled by my birth and rank."
               "Ay, ay! But you and the Colonel have different minds about the grand-spoken Major; and belike it may be the same with your likings and dislikings of this Scottish lad. But now, I bethink me, the Major rode up on his bonny black horse with a message for you, and that afore ye had left the tent ten minutes."
               "Ah! What was the message?"
               "'Deed! The man's words are so flighty that it sorely plagues a poor ignorant body like me to get at the meaning. But I'm mistrusting he meant to say that a party of our ladies would go to some great Indian show in the morn; and he came with a permit from your father to you, giving consent for you to join the company. It took him a woful long time to 'say his say,' the tiresome creature; and I can't see the reason of his using so many long words, unless he means to tire one's patience entirely."
               "Hush, Martha!" said Margaret, in a tone of impatience. Then, as if repentant of the hasty exclamation, she kindly added—"I shall not retire yet; but you need not sit up for me, dear nurse. You can place a light on the table, and leave me."
               The old woman obeyed the request, and then disappeared in a compartment of the tent. The part of the pavilion in which Miss Graham remained was spread with carpets; while tables, chairs, and a small case of books, gave a cheerful and home-like aspect to the scene. A little portable desk sat on the table whose surface was 
                     strown
                     strewn
                   with a quantity of evergreen, the leaves and scarlet fruit of the checkerberry, and a pile of variegated mosses.
               Sweeping back these forest gleanings, she opened the desk, and after a moment's irresolution brought forward writing materials. A tiny note was soon prepared and carefully sealed. Next she employed herself in forming a bouquet out of the evergreens, skillfully weaving the note in the heart of the glossy leaves.
               "The plot thickens, but will it end in farce or tragedy?" muttered Margaret, surveying her work, and then, after seeing that the slip of paper was secure, depositing it in the desk, the key of which she turned ere leaving it for the night.
               Before retiring she moved to the entrance of the tent, where, stretched upon the hard ground, with no covering but a blanket, the ancient Scot reposed.
               All was wrapped in silence and darkness without; but whatever secret anxiety might disturb the mind of Margaret, she knew that danger could not approach so long as her trusty Lindsay slept at the threshold of the pavilion—unless, indeed, peril came in no mortal guise. But of preternatural terrors she had no apprehensions; and after gazing out for a few minutes longer on the shadowy night, she sought her pillow.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               ON the following morning the camp presented an appearance of bustle and commotion. It was the day appointed for a treaty with the chiefs of the Five Nations, who, with a formidable body of warriors, were encamped in the adjacent hills.
               At sunrise, General Burgoyne and his principal officers, attended by an escort of light companies, were prepared to leave the camp.
               As the marksmen composed a part of the escort, Duncan Gleig was early astir; and while awaiting the signal to march, his glance was often turned to a particular point, where stood a number of gaily caparisoned horses. The animals, judging from their light equipage, and the spot which they occupied in the vicinity of the ladies' tents, were about to bear a fair company on an equestrian excursion.
               Remembering Miss Graham's intimation that she intended to witness the treaty between Burgoyne and his red allies, Duncan doubted not that with a party of female friends she was about to ride forth to the Indian camp.
               Perhaps the young soldier harbored a secret wish that he might attend upon Margaret's bridle-rein during the morning; for he started aside, the color deepening in his sunburnt cheek, as a mounted officer, followed by a dozen of his troop, dashed by in the direction of the marquees.
               Leaving his men drawn up at a short distance, Major Holbrook waited at the entrance of the pavilion till Miss Graham came forth; then springing to the ground, he placed her on the back of the palfrey which old Robert at that moment led up.
               This little scene was closely observed by Duncan Gleig; and knowing that the English Major aspired to Margaret's hand, the anxious expression of his face was none decreased when he saw the officer address his fair companion with the easy assurance of an accepted suitor. And what interest could the humble marksman have in the matter, if Miss Graham, high-born, and an heiress, chose to favor the suit of the Englishman? None at all, as prudence whispered; yet he could not withdraw his eyes, so long as his interview with the maiden on the previous night was still vividly fresh in his mind.
               It was just as the gallant body of marksmen received the order to march that Margaret rode swiftly forward to the tent of a female friend, passing the rear of the column where Duncan was stationed. Indeed, so near did she approach that her habit brushed his person; and glancing on his upraised face with a look of significant meaning, she dropped at his feet the cluster of evergreens which had been borne in her hand since leaving the pavilion.
               All eyes followed her beautiful figure as she reined in her palfrey at the door of Lady Ackland's marquee; and improving the moment in which he was comparatively unobserved, the young soldier raised the bouquet. Ere the glances of his comrades were withdrawn from the fair horsewoman, the shrewd Scottish youth had discovered and read the note concealed within the fragrant leaves.
               "Hark ye, Jamie," whispered Duncan to a shock-headed, long-limbed 
                     countrymen
                     countryman
                  , the groom of Captain Fraser.
               "Wilt do me a service, lad ?"
               "De'il a fear o' Jamie McNab's saying ye nae, if the siller is to come."
               "You shall be paid, well paid, lad. Now mind," continued Gleig, speaking rapidly, for his company was already moving. "A scouting party returned to the camp last night—among them a tall, middle-aged man, who with an Indian was in advance of the party. This man passed me while I had the watch on the hill in our rear. Learn his name, and where he is at the present moment, and you shall be rewarded. And remember, too, that your inquiries must be made as secretly as possible. Now go, and return to me immediately that you get intelligence of this person."
               Away darted Jamie, and hastening on, Duncan was soon marching with his comrades up the glen.
               Meanwhile Miss Graham, together with several ladies, pursued a circuitous path, escorted by Major Holbrook and a chosen number of his men. Enjoying her favorite exercise, and invigorated by the fragrant air of a fine June morning, Margaret's spirits rose, spite the hidden care that obtruded itself on her mind. Occasionally, as the party ascended an eminence, or when an opening in the hills afforded an extended view, she could observe the advance of Burgoyne, who moved in a path parallel to that pursued by the ladies. The handsomely mounted cavalcade, the columns of men advancing in exact order, their fine appearance rendered doubly brilliant in the bright sunlight, and the strains of martial music which swept down the glade, made the scene one of exciting enjoyment. Then the animated conversation of her friends withdrew her thoughts from personal anxieties; while the discourse of the Major, never very pointed, though delivered in pompous style, was rendered utterly ambiguous in his desire to make himself particularly agreeable. Often was her mirthful face turned towards the Englishman, as she mischievously encouraged his eloquence; and as often did he secretly bless the good fortune which had bestowed on him so willing, and withal so fascinating, a listener.
               Thus, in covertly humoring the grandiloquence of the unsuspecting officer, Margaret passed the 
                     half-four
                     half-hour
                   that intervened ere reaching the Indian camp.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ON GAINING an ascent which commanded a view of the winding vale below, Miss Graham beheld a scene of novel interest. Scattered along the side of the hill were the wigwams of the savages; and at the upper extremity of the glade appeared a band of four hundred warriors, their wild figures literally covered with war-paint.
               These dark-browed sons of the forest sat on the ground in profound silence—their chiefs alone maintaining an upright position in front of the approaching strangers.
               Having advanced within a short distance of their red allies, the escort halted, General Burgoyne proceeding unattended, and making the sign of peace by elevating his hands, and then folding them on his breast. The salutation was gravely acknowledged by the warriors, who manifested their desire that the General should be seated ;—then, dropping in a circle around his person, they continued to maintain the silent gravity which always marks the commencement of an Indian council.
               But when the interpreter gave notice that the English chief was ready to address them, their dusky faces expressed deep attention.
               Meanwhile, bending forward in her saddle, with an air of exciting interest, Margaret's ear was strained to catch the words that fell from the lips of Burgoyne, while her glance was often withdrawn from the speaker to note the impression made by his accents upon the savage assembly of listeners.
               However, the distance rendered the remarks of the General almost inaudible; and, silently withdrawing from her party, she circled a cluster of bushes, and checked her horse on a hillock that overlooked the immediate neighborhood of the council. But scarcely had she gained a point favorable for observation, ere she was addressed by some person who had apparently followed her course round the thicket.
               Believing the interruption proceeded from Major Holbrook, and thoroughly wearied of his prosing remarks, Margaret turned an impatient glance on the intruder.
               Instead of the Major she encountered Duncan Gleig, standing within the line of the bushes, yet sufficiently near for her to read the looks of respectful admiration visible on his frank countenance.
               Reining back her horse, Miss Graham was soon by Duncan's side.
               "Your errand, sir? What brings you hither?" she asked in a voice of eager interrogation.
               "The commands with which you honored me in your note."—
               "Yes, yes! But what have you learned?" interrupted the impatient girl. "Who is the man, and where is he?"
               "Anywhere but in the vicinity of the camp, lady. He is not a regular soldier; but was engaged as a temporary guide to the party sent out to reconnoitre and clear the roads between the camp and Crown Point, for the passage of the hospital stores. He has fulfilled his engagement, received his pay, and with the Indian, who was his companion last night, has departed.
               "Ah!" she exclaimed, with an anxious look. "But proceed. I would know the man's name, and aught you may have learned respecting his character."
               "He is called Gilbert Wolcott; but of his character I know nothing, except that he is a reputed cow-boy—a title of no great credit among our British soldiers, although they are in part indebted to these same cowboys for the means of subsistence; and as we descend lower in the country, the services of these lawless purveyors may become still more necessary to the army. I have now given you all the information which I have been able to glean respecting this person. Is it Miss Graham's pleasure that I pursue inquiries?" he asked, anxious to continue the communication that chance had opened between himself and the high-born maiden.
               She remained in silent musing for some minutes, and then bent her fine eyes on the marksman, doubtful of the propriety of giving him her confidence, yet solicitous to secure the aid of a willing and faithful servitor.
               "You doubt my fidelity," said the young soldier, his intelligent glance reading, though not rightly interpreting her hesitation. "It is true, you may find in a higher rank those more able, but not more willing to serve you than Duncan Gleig. Trust me, Miss Graham, and I will sooner part with life than prove unfaithful."
               "It is a mysterious, as well as vexatious matter," responded Margaret, "and were I not fearful of a stern reproof from my father, I would confide the affair to his judgment.
               "But listen, Duncan Gleig, and as you regard your own word and my esteem, reveal not to others the secret which I give, it may be unwisely, to your keeping. Know that this ill-visaged Wolcott was grossly insulting in his language to me yesternight, uttering dark menaces against my father, whom he pronounced a selfish, unprincipled man.
               "I cared but little for his offensive words, though they stirred a momentary feeling of anger; and I dismissed both him and his threats from my mind, as too trifling for consideration. Yet I had afterwards cause to remember them. In descending to my tent last night, the diamond was suddenly wrenched from my hand by some person concealed in the darkness of the thicket. The words—'Ill betide the loser', were muttered close to my ear; and this circumstance compels me to think that the thief must have been a concealed witness of our meeting, and must have overheard me repeat to you the story of the diamond. My suspicions rest strongly on this Wolcott, who could easily retrace his steps, if curiosity or any other motives moved him to return.
               "You remember the spot where we met was strewn with rocks and shrubs,—a meet place for an ambuscade, whether of white or red men. But I exculpate the Indian; for he passed my faithful Lindsay, and passed alone, disturbing the old man with apprehensions of dusky phantoms, so swiftly and silently did he glide by. What think you of the deed?—Ought I not to feel apprehensive on my father's account, if my suspicions of Wolcott are correct? A cowardly blow, at the instigation of malice, might deprive me of a parent's love and protection."
               "Would to heaven you had permitted my attendance on your homeward path!" said Duncan, earnestly, almost reproachfully. "Denied the pleasure of conducting you to your tent, I remained on the hill, watching your safe descent until you vanished amid the trees. Just before entering the thicket, I observed that you met a party of Hamilton's men. Surely a cry from you would have arrested their attention."
               "I had not the power to utter a sound, for my mantle was drawn round my mouth so closely that I could not breathe. The cowardly thief was expert in muffling my voice—dexterous in wrenching away the diamond. It was all the work of an instant, and when released, I summoned Lindsay with a note of my bugle; but 'twas a useless summons—the man had escaped. Now tell me, Gleig, if in our passage southward you will watch for the re-appearance of this Wolcott? And tell me, too, that you will watch over my dear father's safety as closely as your martial duties will permit? Assure me of this, and you will secure the lasting gratitude of Margaret Graham, which is all the recompense Margaret can bestow, unless earnest wishes for your prosperity be taken in payment."
               The eagle glance of the young Scotsman rested an instant on her face in keen interrogation.
               Already had he been the recipient of some transient marks of favor usually bestowed with a coquettish air and smile of condescension. These slight tokens of regard the plain-dealing Duncan knew not how to interpret; and while his feelings were becoming hourly more deeply interested in the high-born and beautiful girl, he was in no wise assured that she responded to his sentiments. In many a romance the youthful soldier had read how noble ladies had wedded with those of humble rank, whose swords had carved a way to renown; and it may be that he, too, cherished the dream of future greatness and successful love, for his tone was bolder, and his mien more confidant, when he again spoke.
               "For your good wishes I sincerely thank you," he said, "and as regards the light duties named, I know that much weightier ones would be gladly undertaken by Duncan Gleig, while he considers himself happy and honored in serving Miss Graham. Had fate placed me in a higher sphere, I might perchance sue for friendship where I must now rest satisfied with the sentiment of gratitude. But what a queenly sovereign may be to her most humble subject, you may still be to me, fair lady,—an object of respectful homage, to whom my heart pays fealty."
               "In truth, a gallant speech, worthy the days of chivalry—those days of blessed memory to us insignificant damsels of the present age," ejaculated Margaret, laughing, as anxiety gave way before the lighter mood of the moment.
               "You are ungenerous, Miss Graham!" said Duncan, reproachfully. "Fully sensible of my inferior station, I seek not to encroach upon the favor you have kindly shown me in the communication opened between us. Loyalty to your commands is all that a poor soldier can offer; yet even my honest vow of faithful service meets with derision."
               "Not so, Gleig. You receive, as you merit, my warmest thanks. Believe me, I laughed but now because your language savored of the surprising fluency and eloquence wherewith our worthy Holbrook is wont to embellish his ideas. If one might put faith in the man's words, Meg Graham is the sun of his existence, and he is nought but an ugly owl, blinking his dull eyes in terror or admiration of her brilliancy. This, I think, is one of the many ludicrous comparisons that fell from his lips on our ride hither. Indeed, one cannot restrain a laugh at the expense of the chivalrous Englishman, and least of all, my merry self."
               "Major Holbrook, in the possession of wealth, birth, and high rank, enjoys the pre-eminence over others. Not the least of his advantages may be counted the privilege of attending upon Miss Graham," remarked Duncan, gloomily contrasting the fortune of the officer with his own less favored lot.
               "Then you consider him fortunate in being a mark of my ridicule?" inquired Margaret.
               "It matters not how Major Holbrook improves the happy circumstances which have given him such high social privileges;—enough that he can claim rank and worldly standing alone considered, the happiness of meeting you as an equal,—a happiness which my loftiest ambition can never realize."
               "You a soldier, and set a bound to ambition!" she said, laughing, and then immediately added in a graver tone:—"The soldier who cherishes not the hope of martial fame and distinction is a craven. I trust that I do not see such an one in Duncan Gleig!"
               I have harbored the dream of military renown," he answered, "and along with the desire of future preferment, I have entertained another dream, so visionary, wild, and distant in its scarcely possible realization, that the indulgence of it must be condemned as the madness of folly! This bright creation of an ideal future is buried here," he added, laying his hand on his heart, "and here it will remain, to perish with me on the battle-field; or if fortune spares me, and awards to me honor and distinction, it may some day be spoken to one who will listen with indifference—perhaps with scorn—to the revelation."
               When Duncan ceased speaking he hardly dared look on Margaret's face, lest he should meet the half-mirthful, yet sarcastic expression so frequently impressed on her beautiful features.
               When he did look, however, he met no answering glance, for her eyes were fixed on a snowy cloud which floated onward in the brightness of that June morning as she sung in a sweet and careless tone a verse of an old Scottish ballad.
               "Hark!" she exclaimed, her face kindling with animation as a joyous shout rose from the valley, and echoed through the forest glades.
               "Ah! that is a signal for a happy termination to the treaty; and a signal, also, for my return to my party, else will Holbrook, with his cortege, be beating the bush in search of a deserter."
               "One moment, Miss Graham!" said Duncan, laying his hand on her bridle.
               "May I not hope that you will graciously allow me another interview, in consideration of the trust with which you have honored me? Surely, if I am so fortunate as to learn aught of the diamond, or if I find that Wolcott intends harm to Colonel Graham, you will afford me the opportunity of imparting the information."
               "You can discover means of giving such intelligence, if it becomes necessary," she replied, with something of coldness in her manner. "A succession of clandestine meetings are not seemly—neither are they essential to the end in view. My father's reproof would be severe, were he to learn the impropriety of his daughter's conduct. Not even the motive which has led me to seek your aid would soften the severity of his censure; for, brave as well as proud, he would scorn the threat of so base a foe as this Gilbert Wolcott. Therefore have I entreated you to watch for the, appearance of a secret enemy whom I have learned to fear. Alas! if the tradition should prove true! If misfortune should follow the loss of this family jewel, how deeply should I deplore my folly!"
               "It shall be restored if vigilance can compass the detection of the thief, Miss Graham. The discovery of the diamond and the safety of your honored parent will occupy all my thoughts."
               "Thank you for relieving so much of my anxiety," she answered, gratefully.
               "Go, Duncan Gleig, and take with you the good wishes of Margaret. I would not that any stroller from yonder valley came hither to report to Colonel Graham how his daughter is engaged. Neither would I have our conference a subject for Holbrook's ambiguous eloquence to the paternal ear, although the acute discernment of my father might be at fault in getting at the brilliant Englishman's meaning."
               The smile with which she concluded the remark had hardly vanished from her lip ere there was heard a violent agitation of the bushes. The next moment a handsomely mounted officer broke through the thicket, and advanced at a rapid pace, while the color deepened in Margaret's cheeks, as she signed to the marksman to retire.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               ALONG with courage, fidelity and right feeling, there was a good degree of Scottish inflexibility in the nature of the young soldier. Therefore he paid no heed to Miss Graham's silently expressed wish that he should depart, but continued on the spot, boldly yet respectfully facing the intruder till he drew rein by the lady's side.
               The person who appeared so inopportunely was a stern-browed, haughty-looking man, whose hair was thinned and somewhat bleached by the hand of time. Still, his erect figure, and the physical force displayed in controlling the spirited animal he bestrode, betrayed unabated muscular power.
               Reining his fiery horse beside Margaret, the officer looked sternly in her face, and then permitted his glance to fall with increased severity upon the person of the young marksman.
               "What do you here, fellow?" he exclaimed. "Your place is yonder, with your comrades, who compose a part of the force that surrounds the person of your chief."
               "Gen. Burgoyne will not miss the absence of one poor soldier like myself," answered Duncan, doffing his hat as he spoke, in deference to the other's rank.
               Finding his haughty words lost upon the even-tempered marksman, the gentleman next turned to Margaret, speaking in tones of mingled censure and irony.
               "Why do I find you here," he said, "when you came forth this morning to witness the pageant, which, if I may trust my eyes, you have not even looked upon? Have your eyes become doubly discerning, that you can behold the spectacle in yonder glade through intervening objects?"
               "Nay, my father," she answered, "I did gaze from the lodge till I grew tired of the grave mummery, and retreated from the hot sun to this refreshing shade. Even now, I am on my way to join Maj. Holbrook and the ladies, whom I left to obtain a nearer view of this assemblage of red warriors. With your leave I will pass on."
               "And thereby exchange servile vulgarity for society suited to your station," he added, in a voice that trembled with restrained passion.
               "Ride on, Margaret, if you have respect to my authority. I will shortly attend you; and you, young man, return to your place. Yet stay a moment," he continued, wheeling his horse directly before Duncan, whose frank and manly countenance was subjected to a rigid scrutiny.
               "Ambition, rightly directed, is a noble sentiment; but one may set the mark too high, and then it diverges into absurd folly. Remember this, and moderate unreasonable expectations, if any such you secretly entertain."
               "Honest purpose, coupled with earnest endeavor, can accomplish much," replied Duncan, bluntly. "Nevertheless, I thank you for your advice, utterly as it disagrees with my private sentiments."
               "How! would you bandy words with me, boy?"
               "No, Col. Graham. I have too much respect for your years, rank, and distinguished bravery to speak aught but respectful language. But every man has a right to his own opinion, and unfortunately the opinions of men differ. However, I seek not to obtrude my sentiments upon others, unless they are directly assailed."
               "Indeed! Then it would appear that your person is brought forward, at the expense of your opinions, which are modestly kept in the background, while you thrust yourself upon your superiors. But mark my words, young man. The name of a noble maiden shall not suffer reproach through the unwarrantable familiarity of one infinitely beneath her. Therefore, cease to force yourself upon the notice of a lady who can only laugh at your Quixotic folly."
               "There goes the embodiment of family pride," muttered the marksman, as Col. Graham rode away in the direction of his daughter.
               She was waiting his approach on the skirt of the bushes; and ere disappearing in the thicket, she turned a backward glance, and waved her hand in token of a friendly adieu. Duncan observed the signal, though it was unseen by the Colonel, who rode a little in advance.
               When the trees hid the fair form of Margaret from his gaze, the young soldier hastened to join his comrades, humming as he passed along the quaint ballad that had fallen so sweetly from other lips that very morning.
               In the meantime, attended by her father, Miss Graham rode toward the point where she had left her party. It required all the feminine tact, of which she possessed no inconsiderable share, to parry the direct interrogations of the Colonel, who would fain have learned the subject of discourse between his high-bred daughter and Duncan Gleig.
               Deep indeed would have been his anger, had he known that the interview was effected through the solicitation of Margaret; but of this he was happily ignorant. As they came in view of their friends, Col. Graham sternly bade her cease the unbecoming levity which led her to countenance, if not encourage, attentions that were utterly beneath her notice, unsuited to her rank, and unjust to the honorable suit of Maj. Holbrook.
               With an air of deference, Margaret appeared to submit to the paternal edict, though a visible contraction of the muscles about her mouth and a slight elevation of the eyebrows indicated an inclination to smile at her father's closing remark.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE morning after the treaty the army resumed its march, accompanied by the Indian allies.
               At Crown Point, the tents were again pitched, and Burgoyne proceeded to mature the plan of the campaign, by establishing depots and magazines, and reviewing the army.
               However, the weighty questions that absorbed the mind of Gen. Burgoyne did not prevent the officers and men from enjoying as much relaxation and social amusement as time and circumstances would permit. The marquees of the ladies were opened for the reception of visitors; evening parties were given, and every night a gay and gallant company assembled in the quarter of the camp assigned to the females.
               Among these fair loyalists, Margaret Graham was a general and admired favorite. Added to a beautiful person, she possessed a careless gayety of mien bordering upon coquetry; and, indifferent to the good or ill report that might be attached to her actions, she usually pursued whatever wild fancy came uppermost in her thoughts—now mischievously encouraging Holbrook's abortive eloquence, and anon, with a smile, surprising and delighting some inferior rival, that she might watch the looks of astonishment and jealousy depicted on the Englishman's round, rubicund visage.
               Descended from a noble English family, with a present fortune, and a barony in perspective, Maj. Holbrook seemed a good match for Margaret, in the opinion of Col. Graham. In his anxiety to secure a wealthy and titled son-in-law, he overlooked certain displeasing qualities of which his daughter was keenly observant. Thus, while the young lady made the ridiculous conceit and the extravagant language of the Englishman a matter of ridicule, her father thought only of his fortune and expected title, as securing rank and riches to his child.
               As yet, Holbrook had made no definite proposals, for, often as the important question sought to escape his lips, clothed in all the ambiguous oratory he could command, Margaret was sure to turn the conversation upon subjects utterly at variance with his unspoken wishes; and being a person of dull perception and not remarkably comprehensive understanding, he suffered time to slip away unimproved as regarded his matrimonial anticipations.
               Thus affairs remained between Miss Graham and the chivalrous Major when the army encamped at Crown Point; along with others, he improved the fleeting hours of social enjoyment.
               Meanwhile, there were many who would fain have shared the privileges and the amusements granted to the few. Neither by birth, rank, or fortune was Duncan Gleig entitled to mingle in the society of his superiors; and sometimes, when passing Margaret's tent, the sound of social revelry within would arouse bitter thoughts against fate. Yet such were not always his sombre reflections. A remembrance of Miss Graham's favor shown at their last interview, and a secret hope that the chances of martial service might award him preferment, often dissipated the gloom that overspread his mind when he sought to measure the distance between his humble love and its nobly descended object. Nor did Duncan fail to prosecute secret inquiries regarding the purloiner of the lost diamond, for he knew that gratitude at least would reward him, if successful in the search; and the gratitude of Margaret was worth years of untiring vigilance and effort to the young soldier. But up to the last day of June nothing had been seen or heard of Wolcott.
               It was at the close of a warm summer day that Duncan was returning from an outpost to the camp. His path lay through the tangled thicket and almost impervious wood, where a dense growth of underbrush obstructed the way; and obliged to proceed slowly, he found that night must overtake him ere he could clear the rough road which lay between himself and the camp. He was alone but well armed; and, inured to exertion and hardship, our brave marksman entertained no fears either of an enemy of flesh and blood or of the wraiths and bogles which raised vivid apprehensions in the mind of his countryman, honest Lindsay. Still, when a tawny and half-naked savage rose in the dim light from behind a clump of bushes and confronted him, Gleig stopped in some trepidation. So sudden was the appearance of the dusky apparition that the Scot might well question its corporeality; but his doubts, if he entertained any upon the subject, were soon dissipated.
               The Indian uttered a single guttural ejaculation, pointed down the ravine, and turning on his heel, beckoned Duncan to follow.
               "Nay, my dark-skinned friend," answered the latter. "My road lies yonder, and I trust not myself to your guidance."
               "My white brother is afraid. He has the heart of a woman," tauntingly exclaimed the savage, in good English.
               "You may possibly receive a proof of my courage that will not be much to your liking, if you persist in obstructing the path. But why should I go with you? What would you with me?"
               "The Long Knife waits," he muttered, again pointing down the glen.
               "Hah! one of your devilish Indian confederates! No Christian ever bore so barbarous an appellation."
               "Long Knife is the Mohawk's brother," said the savage, proudly; "his skin is white, but our warriors give him a seat at their council-fire."
               "And what name does he bear among white people?"
               "The palefaces call him Gilbert, the cow-boy."
               "Gilbert, the cow-boy!" repeated Duncan, in surprise. "Lead on, my dusky guide. I hesitate not to follow, albeit my trusty rifle may prove no sure defence against treachery, if treachery is intended."
               Following the swift and noiseless steps of the Indian, the Scot descended the ravine by a less laborious path than that which had led him thus far towards the camp. A few rods below the spot where he had encountered his dark guide our marksman came up with a number of fat beeves, destined, as he had no doubt, for the use of the army. The animals were feeding on the tender herbage which a natural opening in the thicket afforded, and a short distance apart appeared their owner, dressing his evening meal of venison over a smoking fire. The scene was wild, yet significant of the times. The dark verdure of the thicket, rendered still more sombre by the fading twilight; the beasts, quietly cropping the grass, or disposing their huge bodies upon the green-sward for the night; and the dress and person as well as the employment of the lawless drover afforded a graphic picture. But Duncan did not linger to survey the view outspread before him. Anxious and exciting thoughts were busy in his mind, as he identified the person of Wolcott; and pressing hard on the moccasined feet of the Indian, he soon reached the scene of the cow-boy's culinary preparations.
               "Hah! I give thee a welcome, young Scot, though it be limited by necessity to a seat on the turf, and a mouthful of fresh-killed venison," exclaimed Wolcott, with an air of rough civility. "But a soldier craves not dainty fare, and possibly your stomach will not loathe the food which I shall be ready to offer anon."
               Duncan saw the wisdom of conciliating his host, and he therefore answered in a tone of careless frankness—
               "In truth, your hospitality comes at a lucky moment, for a five hours' tramp through bush and brake has given me the appetite of a famished wolf. But I crave to know by what subtle means you gained intelligence of my approach; and I would also fain learn what may be your business with me."
               "I passed the station with my cattle this morning, and casually ascertained that you would return to the camp to-day. Thus much for the knowledge I have shown of your movements. As regards your last query—meat before business. Words come faint from a hungry stomach, and we'll e'en defer all wordy matters till our meal is dispatched."
               Resolved to curb every impatient feeling, Duncan imitated the imperturbable reserve of the redskins, and silently seated himself on the turf. He had now ample leisure to study the countenance and manner of Wolcott, as he gravely and dexterously turned the long strips of venison upon the coals.
               His hat was removed, and a forehead of remarkable breadth and fullness fully displayed. A mass of coal-black hair, slightly grizzled, lay on either temple, and from beneath appeared eyes of sagacious rather than villainous expression. Our young physiognomist fancied too that he could discover traces of more than ordinary intelligence in the weather-beaten face, together with a look that he could neither analyze nor understand. Perhaps, had Duncan better comprehended the study in which he was engaged, he would have termed the mysterious expression a mark of inflexibility, acquired in the hard school of adversity. The dress of the cow-boy was a mixture of the garb of a citizen, and the uniform of the lawless band to which he reputedly belonged.
               Scarcely had the youthful soldier concluded his secret observations, ere Wolcott drew the last smoking steak from the fire, and with a smile of quaint humor, formally announced that the banquet was prepared. The flat surface of a rock offered a tolerable table; and the trio set to their agreeable work, dividing the savory mouthfuls with the hunting-knife of the cow-boy—a long and slightly curved instrument, which had gained him the appellation of "Long Knife" among the Mohawks.
               Meanwhile, though employed in satisfying the demands of a vigorous appetite, the marksman's thoughts were actively studying the best means of arriving at the discovery of the diamond, if, as he still believed, his host was the thief. He was anxious also to learn the cow-boy's motive for intercepting him, for that he had a motive, not yet disclosed, Duncan could not doubt.
               The peaceful and even cordial reception extended to him allayed all personal apprehensions, though, like a wary scout, and a soldier used to hostile surprises, he ate with his rifle lying beside him, prepared for any sudden alarm.
               "White-Hawk," as Wolcott named his Indian comrade, was the first to leave their primitive board, and retiring a short distance, he stretched himself on the turf, his black eye-balls glittering in the light which the smouldering brands dimly afforded.
               "It is a league from this point to the camp," said the cow-boy, as together with his guest he rose up, and proceeded to follow the example of the redskin.
               "The moon will rise at midnight, and then you can depart, none the worse for an hour's rest. In the mean time, sit you here and hearken to my request."
               With increasing curiosity Duncan threw himself upon the grass—prepared to listen to whatever his strange companion might offer.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               BEFORE entering upon the subject that engaged his mind, Wolcott lighted a pipe by the dying embers, and offered it to his companion. Duncan, however, rejected the little civility, and the other placed it in his own lips, remarking—
               "Our Indian friend would take your refusal as an affront; but I am less punctilious in matters of courtesy than the Mohawk. I care not whether you smoke with me the 'pipe of peace,' if the refusal will not extend to the favor I seek of you. Of course, young sir, the person of Colonel Graham must be known to you; and it is to this officer I would have you bear a message. Wilt do it, friend?"
               "A hostile message is it?" asked Gleig, glancing keenly in the other's face.
               "That may be as John Graham feels inclined to interpret the import of the message; but hostile I certainly do not intend it to be. It is simply an act of justice that I demand—not for myself, however. My account with this man must be carried before a higher tribunal, where the hidden acts of all men will be written in characters of light."
               The tone of solemnity in which this was uttered struck the listener with emotions of awe, but after a moment passed in silence, Duncan suffered his excited curiosity to escape in words.
               "May I ask wherein Col. Graham has injured you?" he said.
               "In everything which man holds dear," he replied fiercely. "He has dug a grave in my heart, and I am but a walking sepulchre—bearing in my breast nought but buried hopes, and in my brain nought but the curse of a terrible memory. Yet he lives, honored and respected; and I—am what I am."
               Moved by an irresistible impulse, Duncan clasped the cow-boy's hand, exclaiming—
               "Whatever you may be, I honor you as a respecter of God's laws—'Vengeance is mine,' saith the Holy Book; yet too often do we see men attempt to take chastisement from the Divine hand, which meeteth to every being his due, whether of reward or punishment."
               Wolcott returned the pressure of his companion's hand with a convulsive grasp.
               "I have been sorely tempted!—sorely tempted!" he muttered. "An oath recorded between the living and the dead is sacred; and such an oath protects the life of John Graham. With God's help, it shall never be broken: and in the end may God judge betwixt me and him."
               As if unable to cope with the thoughts which had gained such mastery over his self command, the cow-boy started to his feet, and traversed the little natural enclosure with hasty strides.
               Meanwhile the marksman observed this ebullition of feeling with sentiments of pity and sympathy, while the Mohawk watched the excited steps of his white brother with the stoicism of his race—mingled perhaps with scorn and wonder.
               But each maintained a respectful silence till Wolcott returned, and with his customary composure, resumed his seat.
               "Henceforth White-Hawk will regard me as a woman," he remarked, wiping the perspiration from his brow. "An Indian never gives way to feeling or passion; yet the Mohawk should have some charity for my weakness, since the blood of the paleface mingles in the darker current that courses through his veins."
               "He is not a half-blood," remarked the scout, glancing on the impenetrable face of the savage.
               "No; but one of his grandparents was the offspring of a white man by an Indian mother. Hence, his tribe have given him the name of the White-Hawk. But the Mohawk's pedigree has nothing to do with the request which I must still solicit you will grant. Once more I ask if you consent to be my messenger?"
               "Ere giving you a definite reply, I wish to revert to the time of our former meeting. You, with the Mohawk, passed me one night as you entered the camp; and I desired you to give a message to Mar—I mean to a lady"—
               "Yes,—to Margaret Graham; the daughter and sole heiress of John Graham."
               "I know that you delivered the message; and I was told that your language to the lady was insolent. Surely, a man of your intelligence should know that a child is not accountable for the errors of the parent; yet you could have no motive for affronting the daughter, aside from your hostility to her father. It was certainly an unmanly act."
               "It may be that you are right," gloomily responded the cow-boy;—"but her haughty look and tones—so like her father's—maddened me."
               "Believe me, Miss Graham is a generous, high-souled woman," said Gleig, trying to read the other's expression by the glowing light which at that moment streamed up from the smouldering brands. "Restore to Margaret the diamond which you forced from her weak hands that night, and she will forgive you—nay more—reward you."
               Duncan was prepared for a denial of the theft, for an appearance of shame at the detection of the cowardly act, or for sudden rage on the part of the cow-boy; but he was not prepared for the cool and deliberate acknowledgment of the crime.
               "Margaret Graham need entertain no anxiety about this precious family jewel. It is in safe keeping; and I pledge you my word that it shall be returned to her—immediately, if her father turns not a deaf ear to justice, the justice which he has ever withheld from the wronged."
               "Then I am to understand that you will withhold the diamond if Col. Graham does not accede to your requirements, whatever they may be?"
               "For a time—yes. If the parent continues obdurate, I must appeal to the daughter. You call her a high-souled woman; and the assertion may be true, although I know her father to be destitute of human feelings. The precious gem may prove, if other means fail, whether this girl possesses the generosity and tenderness ascribed to her years and sex."
               "She does, I assure you!" eagerly exclaimed Gleig. "None can be more generous and noble than Margaret. Suffer me then to bear back the jewel which you obtained by violence, and I promise you she will forgive the outrage, and aid your cause with her father, if it be worthy of her aid."
               "It cannot be," answered Wolcott. "The diamond is far from hence, and were it now in my hand, I would not part with it, on the bare supposition position of the girl's lending aid to the wronged. Nay, my young friend; I alone must return it—and when fate decrees its restoration, I will give her sure intelligence of the time and place where she may receive it."
               Reluctant to depart with no surer pledge that the jewel should be restored than the word of the cow-boy, Duncan continued to entreat his companion—but all in vain. He remained firm to his resolve of keeping the diamond until it suited his pleasure to restore it. In his solicitude to get back the ornament so highly prized by Margaret, he intimated that Col. Graham might discover its loss and take effectual means to recover it; but this menace also proved fruitless.
               After a half hour had passed in earnest and at times angry controversy, the young soldier was obliged to resign all hopes of its immediate recovery; but, still believing a conciliatory tone most prudent, he frankly offered to convey the message to Col. Graham.
               "It is simply a request that he will grant me an interview," muttered Wolcott, as he drew a sealed note from his pocket. "The object of my request will not be unknown to him."
               "And you give me your word that no personal harm is intended?" said the marksman, apprehensive of some great danger to Col. Graham's life, from the hints Margaret had given him of the cow-boy's language.
               "Would you trust my word?" he asked, looking with speculative curiosity in Duncan's open and manly face.
               "You know something of my character from the reputation of our band. A cow-boy is considered but one or two degrees removed from the lowest dregs of the rebel army—I mean the skinners. What reliance can you place on the word of a cow-boy, whose only merit consists in allegiance to his King?"
               "And by the merit you possess in that allegiance I trust your word, as one loyal subject should repose faith in another, united to him by ties of mutual interests and attachments."
               "You know me to be a thief, and you may as well add 'eaves-dropper' to my other ignominious titles; for I confess that I was a secret witness to your conference with Margaret Graham. Yet I would not that you judge me too 
                     harshy
                     harshly
                  . Hence, I own that no prying curiosity led me to assume the latter character."
               "What then could have been your object in listening to our conversation ?"
               "I had a purpose in view foreign to the trivial wish of hearing what might be the idle talk of a high-born maiden with one of your humble rank. The end may justify the means; acts that seem base in their origin may tend to the happiness of many, although the humble instrument employed by fate may fill a dishonored grave."
               "Your philosophy appears gloomy and dangerous to me," said the youth. "I like a frank and open course of action, such as the wisdom of men and mine own conscience approves."
               "And such may you ever pursue, young man. Necessity is a hard task-master, but his servants are not such as you. In the course of human events men may be driven into acts that seem base in the estimation of their fellow-men, and these persons are often those whom the world has treated unkindly. Hence, without ambition and without hope, they are fit instruments for the labor that gives no return but disgrace."
               "May I ask if you labor in so unthankful a cause?"
               
               "I do, and willingly. What do you call the act that robbed Margaret Graham of the diamond? and what honor can you possibly attach to the title of eaves-dropper? None, as you know; yet repentance to the hardened and right to the wronged, with Heaven's blessing, may spring from my censurable conduct."
               Duncan shook his head, as if incredulous; for, brave and upright by nature, he was loth to believe in the other's arguments.
               The moon was now up, and receiving the note from Wolcott, the Scot prepared to proceed on his way to the camp.
               "I shall shortly follow you," remarked the cow-boy. "If White-Hawk and I can keep the beasts from straying, we shall reach the camp a little after sunrise. I heard a rumor as I came along that the army would move from Crown Point to-morrow, and having engaged to bring in the cattle before the camp broke up, I feel anxious to fulfill the engagement."
               "You will have ample time, for I have sure intelligence that we shall not march before the day after to-morrow."
               "And then, of course, you will move in the direction of Ticonderoga," carelessly remarked the cow-boy.
               "That will be as our General determines," answered the Scot, who felt that the plans of Burgoyne, inasmuch as they were known to himself, ought not to be divulged to a person of the cow-boy's roving character and novel principles.
               After again promising to deliver the note immediately on arriving at the camp, Duncan hastened on his way. Reflections upon the strange conference he had just held beguiled his lonely walk. Notwithstanding the culpable acts of Wolcott, his acknowledged debasement, and the life of pillage and outrage which he must necessarily lead while connected with the cow-boys, Duncan Gleig experienced a sentiment akin to kindness for him.
               He fancied that he could read amidst this stoical acknowledgment of degradation the ruin of a noble character. But how ruined? Through the instrumentality of Col. Graham, if he could believe the mysterious words of Wolcott.
               It seemed a dark subject; and the honest young Scot, used to fair and open dealing with his fellow-men, could not unwind its secret history.
               A little before the break of day our marksman reached the camp, and gave the note into the hands of the officer's groom, with an injunction to deliver it speedily to his master. Then proceeding to his quarters, he endeavored to gain a few moments' repose ere the day called him forth to his accustomed duties.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE wish of the cow-boy was realized. With the first beams of the morning sun he reached the camp with the beeves, which were destined to afford sustenance to the enemies of his country.
               A satisfactory sale of the animals was ere long effected; but in haste to leave the encampment, Wolcott strayed from quarter to quarter, apparently engaged in admiring the handsome appointments of the British soldiers, so superior to the nondescript equipments of the American army.
               He also indulged a loquacious spirit, which seemed foreign to the man as we have hitherto known him—exchanging idle jests with the soldiers, and to some of the officers who casually addressed him imparting some trivial intelligence respecting the disposition of the American force established below. In return, he gained information of the probable movements of the British which would have been greatly serviceable to the Americans, could they have gleaned the knowledge which the cow-boy acquired with but little difficulty. Meanwhile, Duncan was anxious to communicate the unexpected interview he had held with Wolcott to Margaret. But ever since the Indian treaty, when Col. Graham had found his daughter in close and familiar converse with the young soldier, he had taken effective measures to prevent another meeting. Consequently, Duncan was obliged to delay the intelligence he was so solicitous to impart till a fitting opportunity presented itself.
               It was now fully understood that the army would remove on the ensuing day; and preparations for leaving Crown Point were already going forward. Beneath a majestic maple in the vicinity of the camp appeared a group of marksmen, some engaged in cleaning their rifles, and others stretched idly on the cool turf in the shade of the tree, while the events of the campaign were the general theme of conversation among the little band. Duncan Gleig was one of the number; and judging from the frequent appeals made to his opinion, and the attention given to his casual remarks, he was held in high estimation by those amongst whom his lot was cast.
               As the marksmen were thus loitering away the sultry afternoon, two persons approached, upon whom the more mischievous of the party resolved to practice their idle merriment. Observing their intentions, and recognizing in the purposed victims Wolcott and the Mohawk, Duncan drew back from observation, after having vainly urged his comrades to forego their malicious sport.
               "Halloo, honest friends!" shouted one of the group to the cow-boy. "What may be your calling?"
               "One that is praiseworthy and honorable, my lad. I'm just now engaged in the business of stuffing English hides with the carcasses of rebel beasts. The rebels fight like so many devils on the strength of this same wholesome diet, and by way of experiment I want to discover if it will give a little courage to a set of poltroons."
               "Experimenting, hah!" said the interrogator, laughing, as he carelessly played with the end of a rope which he held coiled in his hand. "Now, just for curiosity, I will even try an experiment myself, and see if this rope can do what a lie can't—I mean choke a cow-boy."
               As he ceased speaking the marksman threw forward the noose, but so awkwardly that it encircled the neck of the Mohawk instead of his for whom it was intended. Scarcely had the coil touched the tawny-skin ere the hatchet of White Hawk glanced through the air, sent with the accurate and fatal precision of Indian skill. But the weapon failed to accomplish its deadly mission, for, apprehensive of what might be the consequence of the malicious sport, Duncan had divined the Mohawk's revengeful object, and tripping up the marksman's heels he laid him sprawling on the turf at the very moment that the hatchet sunk quivering in the body of the tree.
               
               "Hah! He who jests with an Indian plays with edged tools," exclaimed Wolcott.
               "Let us on, White-Hawk. Thou hast taught the lads a lesson that will not soon be forgotten. Nay, nay!" he added, seeing that the group were making a demonstration of carrying out in earnest what had been commenced in sport; "the Mohawk was never born to be hung, and I will even shoot the first man who lays violent hands on him; and there is one among you who will aid me in protecting him," he concluded, pointing at Duncan.
               At this moment a mounted officer approached, and stifling their resentment, the marksman suffered the Indian to depart unmolested.
               Wolcott lingered till the officer, who was no other than Col. Graham, came up. A look of settled, inveterate animosity and hatred, as it seemed to Gleig, was exchanged between the cow-boy and the horseman, who made a slight signal that the former should follow, as he passed the tree. Nor was the sign unheeded, for Wolcott departed with the Colonel, though keeping the utmost distance from the person of the officer that the path would allow.
               "And so this is the hour appointed for their mysterious interview," thought Duncan, as he watched the receding figures of the hostile parties.
               Influenced less by curiosity than apprehensions for the officer's safety, he resolved to follow at a distance, and observe the events of the conference. It might be that, urged on by passion, Wolcott would attempt the life of his foe, spite his assertions of the past night; and, unable to defend himself against the attacks of one who was physically his superior, Col. Graham might be murdered in cold blood. With this thought uppermost in his mind, Gleig silently left the party, who were too deeply engaged in discussing the recent event, which might have ended so tragically, to note the departure of him whose presence of mind had averted the fatal blow.
               The pursuit led him through a wood, nearly half a mile in extent. Beyond was a small open space, where a brook went foaming and dashing on its way; and at this point the officer dismounted, leaving his horse to crop at leisure the tender grass that carpeted the sylvan retreat. Then in earnest conversation, the two men slowly traversed the green sward—walking side by side, though always keeping some distance apart. The bearing of Col. Graham was firm and haughty—the mien of the cow-boy determined and abrupt, and not without an appearance of dignity, which was natural to the man, spite of his associations with the lowest followers of the English army. From his hiding-place in the skirt of the wood, Duncan could not distinguish their words, though he observed that the conference was conducted with earnestness and mutual forbearance till near its close. Then the manner of Wolcott became urgent and excited, as he 
                     seeemed
                     seemed
                   to press with mingled command and entreaty the unyielding officer.
               With all this anxiety to learn the cause of their animosity, it appeared that the marksman was fated to continue in ignorance; for, abruptly turning away as if resolved to hear no more, the Colonel seized the bridle of his horse, which he prepared to mount. Meanwhile, the cow-boy regarded the movements of the other with a lowering brow; but he did not speak till Graham was in the saddle, with his horse's head turned toward the camp.
               "This then, is your final answer?" he cried, in a voice that was audible to Duncan's ear. "Destitute alike of honor and shame, you disregard the appeal which justice urges on your conscience—if your base and selfish nature owns such a faculty as conscience."
               "You are privileged to use language which I could bear from no other man living," was Graham's reply, "for I scorn to disown the wrong that I thoughtlessly inflicted upon you. Ask for yourself reparation for your injuries, and half my fortune should go to repair the consequences of this one base act of my life. What say you, Wolcott—will the moiety of my wealth purchase your silence on this harassing subject? Think well ere rejecting my offer, which will raise you and your family to affluence."
               "Keep your gold to sustain your accursed pride! I will have none of it!"
               "Enough!—your insane zeal carries you beyond the true interests of your cause. I cannot and I will not take the step which you so madly propose. The honor of my family—my daughter's happiness—everything in short forbids it."
               "You may be ultimately forced to accede to the call of justice through other means than those hitherto used. Might does not make right; and your cold, unnatural rejection of my suit compels me to adopt measures which will eventually bring you to terms; that is, if pride and selfishness have left a spark of human affection in your heart."
               "Fool!—madman! What care I for your idle threat? But this is an utter waste of time and words. You will listen to no reasonable adjustment; and that which you ask of John Graham he will never yield. Neither will he longer listen to insults."
               Thus ended the hostile interview—Wolcott turning slowly away, in an opposite direction as the officer rode toward the camp.
               Meanwhile Duncan remained in the concealment of the thicket watching the approach of Graham, who leisurely advanced with his head sunk on his breast, and his bearing like that of a man lost in deep meditation. As he passed the hiding-place of the Scot his stern visage was visible, and the watcher saw a trace of anxiety, and, as he fancied, remorse, stamped upon his haughty features. It was but a transient view he gained, however; and soon as the sound of the officer's retreat ceased to echo through the wood, Duncan rose and pursued the same path to the camp. More anxious than ever to confer with Margaret, he knew not how to effect an interview; for, with the first streak of dawn, on the succeeding morning, the corps to which he belonged, was ordered to march with the Indians in advance, while Margaret, with her female friends, would proceed in the rear of the columns.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               ON LEAVING the spot where he had met Col. Graham, the cow-boy proceeded directly to the place which he had appointed for the Mohawk to meet him. It was in the neighborhood of the glen, where they had passed the previous night, and, taking a straight path over the hills, Wolcott cott reached the point but little after sunset. He found the Indian already awaiting him; and without delay the cow-boy proceeded to declare his immediate movements to his dusky comrade.
               In his intercourse with White Hawk he often suffered his ideas to escape in the brief, comprehensive, yet lofty style which signalizes the Indian language. He also understood, and in some degree indulged the peculiarities inherent in the temper and disposition of his savage ally, though he always opposed, and sometimes successfully, the barbarous and revengeful propensities of the Mohawk. The voice of Wolcott, always clear and musical, assumed an intonation of feminine softness, as laying his hand on that of the Indian he murmured—
               "There is a cloud on the face of my brother! Why is it there?"
               "The heart of White-Hawk is with his people," he muttered, suffering his dark eyes to gaze for an instant on the other's face.
               "Ha! is it so? Say on; my ears are open."
               "His dreams lead him in the war-path of his tribe. White Hawk is a chief among his red brothers. He wears the paint of a warrior. He counts the scalps of his enemies, and there are many. Shall the palefaces hang him like a dog?" he exclaimed, a gleam of wild ferocity shooting across his swarthy visage.
               "Forget the idle play of the white youths," said the cow-boy, soothingly. "Their foolish sport is beneath the notice of my brother. They are not brave like the young men of the Mohawks, and we will waste no further words upon them. But the hours wane, and time presses. Wilt hearken to my words, White Hawk?"
               "The Long Knife may speak. His red brother will count his words."
               "Then know that I must away instantly to the place from whence we set out three days since. You will join me there; and after I have seen my nephew, I shall be able to speak definitely of my future plans. It may be that before another moon we shall follow the path to the Great Lakes."
               "Hu!" ejaculated the redskin, giving utterance to the expression, which, rendered into English, signifies pleasure and surprise.
               Without further question, White Hawk glided into the bushes, descending, by a precipitous path the ledge which enclosed on all sides a little hollow. Within the secluded nook a horse was quietly feeding—a rough-coated, half-tamed beast, the property of the cow-boy. It had been turned into the hollow on the previous day, and, wild as it appeared, offered no resistance when the redskin seized its shaggy mane. Meanwhile, Wolcott drew a bridle together with a rude saddle from the bushes; and when White Hawk appeared with the animal, he was prepared to depart.
               Requesting the Indian to proceed without delay to their place of meeting, he dashed into the bushes, and disappeared in a southward direction.
               Three hours of hard riding brought him before a long, low farm-house, situated about midway between Crown Point and Ticonderoga.
               A few weeks previously, Wolcott had found the building untenanted, and he had unscrupulously assigned it as a place of rendezvous with the Mohawk, as well as with certain other persons with whom lie maintained a secret correspondence. At the present time, however, the house was not 
                     destittue
                     destitute
                   of an inmate.
               There was a light burning in one of the lower rooms, the windows of which were carefully screened to prevent the rays of the fire from being visible without. The doors also were securely fastened; and to the outside observer the building appeared solitary and deserted. But within, a young girl was keeping a lonely and anxious watch for the arrival of him who was even now at the door.
               She was of the lowest stature, compatible with grace and symmetrical beauty in the female form; and but for an unnatural prominence upon her shoulders, her figure would have been faultless. But, alas! no art in dress could conceal the deformity that marred the otherwise perfect form.
               Her complexion was fair and delicate; but the rosy hue that lends beauty to the youthful cheek was seldom visible in her face.
               She had a profusion of soft, brown hair, small and regular features, and eyes of dark blue, whose searching and somewhat imperious expression was tempered by inward sorrow for the affliction which it had pleased Heaven to lay upon her. At the sound of Wolcott's approach, she started to her feet and remained in a listening attitude, the color gradually stealing over her pale face till cheek and brow were bathed in the crimson glow. The silence that reigned in the house rendered every sound from without distinctly audible; and soon she heard the voice of the cow-boy, demanding entrance. The beautiful color which excitement or expectation had called to her features subsided; and, breathing a sigh, it might be of disappointment, she proceeded to unbar the door.
               "Ha! Alone, Ruth?" exclaimed Wolcott, the moment he had passed the threshold. "Has not Oliver arrived?"
               "I have not seen him since he left with you three nights since," she replied.
               "He should have been here ere this," muttered Wolcott, raising the light to a large, old-fashioned watch of massive silver, which hung against the wall.
               "And how have you passed the time?" he continued, setting down the light. "I hope nothing has occurred to terrify you in my absence."
               "I have remained undisturbed by friend or foe," said the girl, tranquilly; and, after a moment of hesitation, she added—"but I confess that I am anxious to proceed to the Indian country, father. If my grandmother cannot join us here, I will willingly undertake the long journey for the reunion of our scattered family."
               "You feel the need of society, Ruth; and the feeling is natural to your age and sex. Possibly when this distracting contest ceases to agitate our country, I may be able to place you in a situation more congenial to your tastes and education than aught we may find in our home with the Mohawks."
               You will find that a little learning has not changed me," she answered, with a transient smile. "I wish for no companionship with strangers, to whom I could be nothing more than a mark for ridicule. Believe me, I shall carry back to the old block-house, the same feelings and affections which bore me company on my departure, two years since."
               "So soon tired of the world? I fancied, Ruth, that the seclusion in which you had lived would give you a love of social enjoyments from the effect of contrast. You surely found a wide difference between your Indian home and a residence in Montreal."
               "Assuredly I did; though while pursuing my studies in the convent I lived in absolute retirement. But what is that?" she exclaimed, at a sound which seemed like a distant shout struck upon her ear.
               The cow-boy threw up the sash and listened eagerly as Ruth silently joined him at the window. The moon yet lingered behind the hills, though her approach was heralded by a shadowy light that in some degree dissipated the darkness of the night.
               Meanwhile the sound that had disturbed the inmates grew louder and clearer, till a clear manly voice could be distinguished, giving utterance to a song which was in keeping with the times. Some continental wag had indited the lines in honor of Burgoyne's approach; and satirical allusions to the vanity and self-exaltation of the English General were plentifully sprinkled throughout the measure.
               
                  
                     "Said Burgoyne to his men, as they passed in review,
                     Tullalo, tullalo; tullalo, boys!
                     These rebels  their course very quickly will rue,
                     And fly as the leaves 'fore the autumn tempest flew,
                     When him who is your leader they know, boys."
                  
               
               These, the first lines of the song, were twice repeated with great relish by the singer, who seemed in the mood to applaud his own vocal efforts, and indeed he possessed a voice of rare compass and melody. But the harmonious sounds gave no pleasure to Wolcott, however they might affect the more susceptible spirit of Ruth.
               "The devil is in the lad," muttered the former, as he thrust his head through the window.
               "Oliver has a wonderfully fine voice," remarked the gentle girl.
               "And he uses great discretion in the exercise of it!"
               "My cousin has health, high spirits, and a social disposition. We must not blame him, father, if experience has not taught him the wisdom of curbing his frank and joyous nature."
               "The bullets of some of Burgoyne's advance parties may render the lessons of experience unnecessary," was the muttered response.
               As he ceased speaking, a firm, manly tread was heard on the beaten pathway that led up to the house, while a human form became distinctly visible to the watchers.
               The next moment the figure of a young man, wearing American colors, appeared in the doorway.
               "How now, nephew!" exclaimed the cow-boy; "art tired of this world, that you call so lustily on the enemy to send you into another? Shame on thee, Oliver, to be tuning your pipes like a blackbird, when, for aught thou knowest, every bush and brake may hide a fierce hawk!"
               "If by hawks you mean the skulking redcoats, then I've treated them to a fine poetic dissertation upon the renown of their great leader."
               "And had they unfortunately been within hearing, they would have returned your civility by cutting your throat, or sending a bullet through your heart."
               "And thereby, a certain Oliver Wingate could cease to enjoy the dignity of a lieutenantcy. Uncle, congratulate me! Cousin Ruth, give me joy, if the Tories and Provincials among whom you have lived have left a spark of patriotism in your breast. I have been promoted."
               "And you merited promotion, my brave boy" said Wolcott, shaking his nephew's hand, while an expression of joy and pride beamed on his weather-beaten features.
               And I also rejoice in your prosperity, Oliver," said Ruth Wolcott, her beautiful blue eyes lighting up with an expression of pleasure. "Two brief years of separation have brought no change in the interest which I shall always take in your advancement to fame."
               "Thank you! thank you, cousin! I see that you are no Loyalist, but the same firm little rebel that you were when we used to talk over the weal and wo of our country before I joined the army, and you went to live among the English. But what news do you bring from Crown Point, uncle? It is necessary that I get your report and hasten back, if, as 'tis rumored, the British are about to quit their present quarters!"
               "I have gleaned some intelligence of their movements which may be worth repeating."
               "Then let us have your report; but not on an empty stomach. My dear cousin, I claim the rights of hospitality at your hand."
               "My larder, as you perceive, is but poorly stored," she answered, smiling, as she opened the door of a cupboard that was sparingly supplied with provisions. "But Lieutenant Wingate is welcome to such food as I am able to set before him."
               "By my hopes of good cheer, thou are but a sorry purveyor, Ruth," he exclaimed, laughing. "It is three weeks since my Uncle brought you from Montreal; and if as many more pass ere you reach home, you will arrive at the block-house in a famishing condition."
               "I have no apprehensions of dying of hunger," she remarked, and after placing a chunk of cold beef, together with a loaf of bread and a mug of beer upon the table, she left the two men to the discussion of the meal, and the important subject which had brought them together.
               "Have you learned the time of Burgoyne's leaving Crown Point?" asked the Lieutenant, as he commenced a violent attack upon the beef.
               "I left the camp an hour before sunset, and active preparations were in progress for marching at sunrise."
               "Hah! So soon? Our scouts have been out, almost to the British lines, but they have brought us no certain information. You are assured of the accuracy of your report?"
               "I am, and I can also tell you something of the order in which they will march. The Indians, supported by Fraser's men, will move in advance, followed by the British and German troops."
               "And of course their first operations will be directed against Ticonderoga," remarked Oliver. "Well, we shall be in readiness to give them a warm reception. But our pickets will have to be drawn lower in the country. At present they are scarcely two miles below us, and might easily be surprised by the advance parties of the enemy. I must be off uncle, and carry in your report at the earliest possible moment."
               "Wait a few minutes," said Wolcott, drawing from its concealment about his person a dirty deer-skin purse. "My assumed character," he continued, "gives me opportunities of gaining intelligence which 
                     I I
                     I
                   could not otherwise obtain. But it does go against the grain to drive fat beeves to a British market, e'en though I receive a round sum in exchange. But if the cattle afford sustenance to the enemy, British money can provide clothing for American soldiers. Take the purse, Oliver, and expend its contents for the good of the service."
               With a feeling of reluctance amounting almost to loathing, the young man obeyed. But the impoverished state of the American army and the sufferings of the soldiers forbade the rejection of the silver, although it came directly from the enemy, and was—if we put a certain construction on the acts of Wolcott—the price of duplicity.
               "You play a dangerous game, uncle," said the Lieutenant.
               "I know it, my boy; and some day I may hang for it."
               "Why not drop the secret service, and openly join us in our struggle for freedom?" said the youth, earnestly. "Side by side we would then bravely fight for liberty."
               "Private griefs have left me without hope or ambition, Oliver; neither do I care for the dishonor which may be attached to my name, so long as I can reconcile my acts to the dictates of conscience. The service has need of secret agents; but who that harbors sentiments of honor and hopes of fame would engage in so dangerous and infamous a calling—dangerous, because a discovery of my real principles and actions by the English would lead to the halter; and infamous, if we consider that I shall go down to the grave with the stigma of cow-boy and Tory attached to my name, if the gallows should leave me to die a natural death? Such are the alternatives that wait upon the spy—a British halter, or a grave shunned and abhorred by the patriots of America. But what matters it to one whose hopes of happiness were wrecked early in life, whether his dissolution is tranquil and his name honored? Alas! Destiny has fitted me for my present calling."
               Oliver could only press the hand of his relative in silent sympathy ere a flood of moonlight suddenly bathed the cottage, warning him to depart; and concealing the money in his dress, he bade Walcott a goodnight and hastened from the house.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               LEAVING Lieut. Wingate to retrace his steps with more caution than marked his approach to the farm-house, we will return to Margaret Graham. On a fine morning, the last in the month of June, the English army moved from Crown Point. The females, suitably protected, traveled in the rear of the columns, as heretofore; and not the least conspicuous in the train of conveyances was the equipage of Miss Graham. A wagon, mounted on four substantial wheels and covered with canvas, had been procured with a view to his daughter's comfort by the Colonel; and, drawn by two stout horses, the young lady, with her old nurse for a companion and Lindsay acting as coachman, advanced over the rough road. Though Margaret would have preferred a carriage of lighter, and more elegant construction, she was satisfied of the wisdom of her father's choice; for, as they continued to advance, the ground became more abrupt and uneven, and in consequence the roads seemed quite impassable for the passage of a less substantial vehicle.
               On the night of the first of July, the head of the British columns halted on an eminence in the neighborhood of the American pickets, which were now concentrated around Ticonderoga.
               Meanwhile, the tents of the females were pitched in the rear of the army, and guarded by a force sufficient for the protection of the fair Loyalists.
               Margaret had herself chosen the site for her pavilion; and, agreeable with her direction, it was planted just without the cluster of tents, and beside a small rivulet. Fronting the entrance and upon the opposite side of the brook was a high bank, upon which grew a majestic elm, its spreading branches overshadowing the pavilion.
               Immediately beyond the bank appeared a log-constructed hut, hastily erected for the purpose of a temporary guard-house, it being placed in the centre of the line of sentinels which guarded the camp in this particular quarter.
               On a sultry July afternoon, a group of idlers were congregated within and around the guard-house. Some lay stretched upon the turf, in the careless attitudes of men accustomed to take their repose wherever chance might permit; while the more animated of the group were collected around the cart of a suttler, a coarse-featured, muscular woman, who employed herself in dispensing "creature comforts" to the bystanders.
               Familiar with her calling, she manifested no fastidious delicacy when assailed with ribaldry or coarse jests; but, intent only on driving a good sale, she smiled in good humor upon every new customer that approached to barter a penny for a glass of her foaming beer, or a supply of the dainties with which the cart was stored. "Look yonder!" exclaimed a young Cornet, directing the attention of his comrades to an object which at that moment emerged from the bushes but a few rods beyond the hut.
               "Now, as I hope for promotion, good mother, it is a bundle of rags which you've lost from the cart, or a waxen doll, gifted with the power of locomotion. Saw you ever so strange a figure?"
               All eyes were turned to the point where an extremely diminutive female figure was slowly advancing; nor was the surprise of the party decreased on gaining a nearer view of her person.
               From beneath a straw hat a profusion of light brown hair descended in heavy braids almost to her feet. She wore a petticoat of some rich and dark texture, which glistened as the bright sunlight fell across its shining folds. A tunic of white linen that reached a little below her waist covered, though it failed to conceal, the unnatural prominence of her shoulders, a deformity that sadly marred the grace of an otherwise faultless form. With an air of confidence, inspired perhaps by the very helplessness of her situation, she approached, regarding the group of gazers with a look of blended melancholy and child-like reliance on their courtesy and kindness.
               "I seek the tents of the ladies, good friends," she said. "Will you tell me if I am near to them?"
               "Aye, near enough," responded a brawny, coarse-featured fellow—"but I guard the pass. What if I refuse you permission to proceed?—Can you give the countersign, sweetheart?"
               "I cannot; but you will not detain me," she said, with a smile of winning persuasion.
               "If he does, ne'er another glass shall he have from me for love or money, e'en though he be dying of thirst," exclaimed the suttler. "Shame on ye, Jack, to be stopping the wee thing, and she too little to stand up and speak a bold word for herself. But I who know ye all for a pack of blustering lads, with more smoke than fire, will speak for her—so I tell ye, give way and let the child pass."
               "Aye, aye, mother, pass she may, but not scott free. I'll have a kiss from her dainty lips, and a mug of your strong brewed liquor, to wash down the salute, or my name's not Jack Mills. But say, pretty one, what burden hast thou got on thy shoulders that looks as if 'twere too heavy for such a chit as you to carry?"
               At this direct allusion to her deformity, the cheeks of the sensitive girl glowed with a painful color.
               "Respect the affliction from which you are happily free," she answered haughtily; and then, her look and tone suddenly changing to meekness, she added—"You will treat with civility and kindness a poor girl whose weakness appeals to your generosity. Here is a purse, my friend. Divide its contents among your fellows, and permit me to pass with this woman. She may be able to direct me to the quarters of the lady whom I seek."
               With an uncouth attempt to apologize for his rudeness, the man allowed the females to proceed, and the next moment he, with his comrades, was busily engaged in counting the money, which was not less welcome than unexpected. The sum was not inconsiderable in the estimation of the soldiers; and soon it was divided into little heaps, while the men gathered eagerly round to draw lots for a prize.
               In the meantime the suttler had learned that her companion was seeking the pavilion of Margaret Graham; and stopping her little cart, she pointed out the quarters of the young lady. Ere separating, the kindhearted woman offered to the other's acceptance a glass of beer, with one of the numerous little cakes that were packed away in the body of the cart, but the civility was declined with thanks; and while the good-natured victualler continued on her round, the young female descended the bank, crossed the brook on a plank that formed a temporary bridge, and stopped at the entrance of the tent, where, on making known her errand to old Robert, she was conducted to Margaret's presence.
               With surprise and curiosity depicted on her beautiful features, Miss Graham received the stranger thus abruptly introduced. She pointed to a seat, but her guest disregarded the motion; and advancing, she presented a sealed note to Margaret.
               "Permit me to ask, lady, if you are the person to whom this missive is addressed?" she said, in a sweet, womanly voice.
               "Yes, I am Margaret Graham," she answered. "But this note—from whence does it come?"
               "That you will doubtless learn by a perusal."
               Without further question, she opened the paper which contained the following communication:—
               "If Miss Graham wishes to recover the jewel which she lost some weeks since, let her follow the bearer of this note, and it shall be restored to her."
               "Who sent you hither, young woman ?" she asked, casting an anxious glance on the singular messenger.
               "I am here at my father's bidding."
               "Hah! then you are the child of this Wolcott, the 'cow-boy,' as he is called. Do you know the purport of your mission?" she said, looking fixedly in the fair face of Ruth.
               "I know it no further than that my father awaits you a mile from here for the purpose of returning to you some article of value which he gave me to understand was in his possession."
               "Why did he not come hither himself?" It was unwise and selfish in him to send you on a message which he dared not venture upon himself. Surely, he cannot have the regard of a parent, if he sent you alone and unprotected into the midst of our rude soldiery."
               "I bear in my own person a protection against injury and insult," replied the deformed girl, as the color rose in her pale cheek. "Men are apt to shun whatever is unpleasing to the sight; and God has given to my fellow-creatures the sentiment of compassion for physical weakness."
               Margaret looked with pity on the repulsive figure of her guest, even while her eyes expressed admiration of the delicate and lovely face that was allied to the distorted form. But other and anxious reflections soon superseded her contemplation of Ruth.
               Duncan Gleig had found no opportunity, during the hasty march, to communicate with Margaret; hence she remained in ignorance of his interview with Wolcott. But instant in action, and possessing a spirit of no ordinary nature, she did not long hesitate between anxiety to recover the diamond and the fear of trusting herself to the guidance of Wolcott's daughter. Whatever might be the secret designs of the father, she could not believe that the child intended to betray her into danger, so long as she looked in Ruth's sweet face, so expressive of refined feeling and patient resignation to her unhappy fate. She therefore prepared for the walk, though an undefined apprehension of evil led her to summon the attendance of her faithful Scot.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE declining sun shed a mellow light upon the scene, as Miss Graham and Ruth, followed by Robert Lindsay, crossed the sparkling brook, and took the path which led over the bank.
               The loiterers had mostly deserted the guard-house, though the sentinel who had obstructed the passage of Ruth remained, leaning idly against a corner of the building. He offered no opposition, however, to the progress of the party; but, with an air of rude gallantry, touched his cap as the light step of Margaret passed the station. Anxiety, attendant upon her strange mission, prevented the young lady from indulging in conversation; and the trio proceeded in silence—old Lindsay often casting suspicious glances on the diminutive figure of the deformed girl, as if doubtful of her corporeality. Perhaps the worthy disciple of "brownies and bogles" expected to behold the distorted shape vanish in air, after leading his beloved mistress into some unseen danger. However, no such danger occurred; but Ruth walked steadily on till they had attained quite a distance from the guard-house.
               
               She had led the way through unfrequented hollows amid the broken ground till a smooth spot was gained, where neither rock or bush appeared upon the level turf. At this point she relaxed her rapid walk, looking anxiously around as if expecting the appearance of some one; but no living creature was visible save a shaggy pony, which raised its head with a snort of alarm as the party came in view. After listening a moment, Ruth clapped her hands, calling out—
               "Father, I am here."
               Wolcott did not answer to her call, but in his stead the sinewy and little figure of an Indian rose from a couchant position on the border of the green-sward opposite.
               Margaret turned in anger and alarm to the girl.
               "What means the presence of that savage?" she said, in tones of mingled sternness and anxiety. "Remember! if you lead me into danger, I have powerful friends to punish your duplicity."
               "Nay, lady; Heaven forbid that I bring sorrow upon your bright life! The Indian is friendly and faithful. I will call him hither and question him of my father, whom I thought to meet here."
               Thus saying, Ruth beckoned to the red-skin, who immediately glided to within a few yards of the trio.
               "Where is my father, White Hawk?" she asked.
               The Mohawk pointed in a direction contrary to that in which Margaret had come, but did not speak.
               "Will he come soon?" she continued.
               "The foot of my white brother never tires—it is swift as the sun," he answered, in the figurative language of his race.
               "What does he mean?" asked Margaret, gazing in curiosity and admiration upon the Indian, as his pliant form unconsciously exhibited an attitude of wild, untutored grace, while he stood before her.
               "His words signify that my father's footsteps will not lag behind the setting of the sun."
               "Hah! And it wants but a short half hour of sunset at this moment. Truly, I have come on a fool's errand, for there is now scarce enough of daylight left to guide my return to the camp. Let us back, Lindsay, while there is sufficient light to see our way. And thou, girl: I bid thee tell thy father that if his purpose of restoring my property be sincere, he need not fear to come openly to my tent. Margaret Graham can be generous, even where she has been treated to wrong and insult."
               It was with extreme pleasure that Robert heard her declare her intention of returning immediately; for, though now pretty well assured of the materiality of both Ruth and the savage, he yet was disinclined to remain long in their presence. His frank and honest Scottish nature loathed the treachery and cruelty which he had heard ascribed to the Indians; and, harboring a latent suspicion of evil from the sudden appearance of White Hawk, he was glad to depart with his mistress.
               Meanwhile, Margaret turned in disappointment to retrace her steps; but with the first movement towards retiring, a brawny hand clasped her shoulder, and she found a further advance effectually impeded by the Indian. This insult aroused the spirit of Lindsay, who was not more superstitious than brave, when only tangible danger was brought before him.
               Drawing the short rapier which he always wore, but which was rusted from disuse, he boldly advanced to release Margaret from the hands of the savage. His approach however was observed by the keen eyes of the Mohawk, who seized his hatchet, which he circled about his head with the speed of light; but ere it was sent on its deadly errand, Margaret clasped his dusky arm, and exerted all her strength to stay his hand, while Ruth clung to the Scot, imploring him to sheathe the weapon, if he valued his own or the young lady's life.
               "Indian dog! You shall not slay the old man!" exclaimed Margaret Graham, her eyes brilliant with the undaunted spirit that had made her ancestors renowned in battle.
               The glance of the savage fell on her upraised face; and with the hatchet still suspended, as if about to strike, his glittering eye-balls flashed fiercely on her beautiful features.
               For a moment the two looked steadily in each other's face; then the weapon of White Hawk slowly descended, till its sharp edge touched her forehead; while the tawny fingers moved along her arm, till they rested on her wrist, as if the Indian sought in her beating pulse a sign of the terror which was not discernible in her fearless look.
               Perhaps he failed in finding the evidence he sought; for, dropping her hand, he stepped back and ejaculated "Hu!" as his dark eyes regarded her in surprise.
               It was a moment of deep anxiety and suspense to Margaret; but ere she had time, to decide upon her safest course of action, Wolcott suddenly appeared; and pointing silently to his captive, the redskin retreated a step, his dusky features losing all trace of passion in the imperturbable gravity peculiar to his race.
               "Why did you summon me hither?" said Miss Graham, her beautiful eyes flashing in indignation upon the cow-boy. "Was it because your brutal associate must add another scalp to the horrible trophies of his cruelty?"
               The eyes of Wolcott glanced searchingly in the stoical countenance of White Hawk, and then rested calmly on Ruth, as he bade her relate what had occurred to alarm the lady.
               After listening to his daughter's communication, he turned to Margaret.
               "You had nothing to apprehend from the Indian," he remarked, "though it might have gone ill with this foolish old man, had he dealt the Mohawk a blow. You may rely on my knowledge of the Indian character when I tell you that their word is sacred, if pledged to a friend; and I had White Hawk's promise that he would not harm you. But I did request him to detain you until I returned."
               "And for what purpose? If it was to restore the diamond, give it me, and I will forgive the violence by which you basely obtained it."
               Without reply, he drew forth a leathern pouch, and subtracting from it a small package, he gave it into her hand. She opened the paper, and with emotions of pleasure saw the family jewel, uninjured, and the cabalistic figures engraved on its golden case undefaced. It was really again in her possession, notwithstanding the anxiety she had experienced on account of its loss, and her fear that her father would eventually learn how it had originally passed from her keeping.
               "Hark ye, Margaret!" whispered the anxious Lindsay, while she yet stood contemplating the gem. "I dinna like the glowerin' look o' the Indian devil! 'It's an ill wind blaws naebody gude,' and the sooner we gang back to the camp, the safer it maun be for us; else, yonder brown imp may send the hatchet whizzing above our ears, as he did before; and that wad be sair work to end a truce with."
               "True, my good Robert. We have barely day-light enough left to guide us; and it is best that we improve it. Let us proceed at once."
               "Softly, Miss Graham! We part not company so soon," exclaimed Wolcott, coming before her.
               "How! Do you dare impede my return?" she asked, in tones of mingled haughtiness and alarm.
               "You have a proud and angry look, young lady, but it has no terror for me. Neither will it drive me from my purpose."
               "And what may that be?"
               "I intend that you shall bear me and my daughter company for some days, or weeks. The time of your return to your friends will depend on certain conditions to which Colonel Graham will subscribe, if he has a father's affection."
               "Ah! Now I comprehend your utter baseness! You used the diamond as a decoy, to rob me of my freedom; and my father must pay a ransom for his daughter's liberty. Hush! Lindsay," she added to the Scot, who was heaping invectives on the head of the cow-boy.
               "You have misjudged my motives," calmly answered Wolcott, "but it matters not. Neither money nor lands can purchase your release; yet in your captivity you will experience only kind and honorable treatment. Hah! Ruth, what wouldst thou say?" he asked of the poor girl, who had crept forward and silently clasped his hand.
               Dropping on her knees, she looked imploringly in his face, exclaiming—
               "My father! Do not this great wrong! Suffer the lady to return, and then you will go hence with a conscience void of offence. Alas! you have made me the unconscious participator in an evil act!"
               "And you also accuse me of criminal injustice? Ruth, judge me not rashly and blindly. Of all the world, you should be the last to reproach me. Have I not said that no harm is intended to the person of the young lady, and that her liberty will be restored, on conditions that cannot injure her father otherwise than in wounding the pride of his haughty, selfish heart? Go to! Your entreaties will not prevail over my settled convictions of right; and I will not waste the time that is so precious in trying to convince thee of the justice of an act which I cannot now fully and openly explain."
               While this controversy was taking place between Wolcott and his daughter, Margaret made a secret signal to Lindsay to hasten to the camp and alarm her friends. But, resolved not to leave his mistress, the faithful servitor disregarded the silent command. Perhaps he read in the glittering eyes of White Hawk, fixed watchfully on his slightest movement, the danger of flight.
               In truth, the brave and honest-hearted Scot was determined to stand by Margaret to the last, and defend her from the peril with which she was menaced.
               "You must prepare for immediate departure," said Wolcott, turning from Ruth to his captive. "Here is pencil and paper, if you desire to send a communication by your servant to Col. Graham. You perceive, young lady, that I am willing to grant you any privilege which you can reasonably expect in our relative circumstances."
               "Will nothing move you to give me freedom?" she asked, the courage she had hitherto sustained relaxing before the alarming idea of a long and painful separation from her father, and the thought of the dangers she might encounter while the prisoner of this strange man. "Let me return, and I will forgive the violence which I have experienced at your hands," she continued. "But retain me a captive, and I warn you that you bring upon yourself the vengeance of a wronged and injured parent! My father is not destitute of means to prosecute a search for his child, and he has powerful friends to aid him. Think what hazard you run in the commission of this outrage, and be not inexorable to the entreaty of a helpless girl, who never injured you."
               "You appeal to me in vain," he answered, "though I confess my regret at being compelled to restrain your liberty in order to force a base and selfish man to an act of justice."
               "The honor of my father is unquestioned," answered Margaret, looking at the other in haughty resentment. "Never was he guilty of so vile a crime as that which you are about to commit."
               "Let us not dispute upon a subject regarding which our views are widely different. Enough that you must depart with me, and that speedily. Here are the means of communicating with your father; and here, also, is the note that I shall send to him in explanation of the course into which his pride and obduracy have driven me."
               Margaret received the paper which he had prepared for her father, and which contained the following lines:—
               "For years I have pursued you with a claim which humanity and equity alike authorized. You have ever turned a deaf ear to my appeal, and refused to make the only reparation for a base crime that is now in your power.
               "With the reception of this note, you will learn that you have no longer a daughter. Margaret—the child of your love—goes hence with me.
               "All search will be fruitless, for I convey her to a secure retreat; and she is for ever lost to you if you continue obdurate. Reflect and repent, John Graham! Know, also, that however closely you seek to hide the black sins of your life, I have it in my power to reveal all to Margaret Graham, together with proofs of your guilt which will dissipate her every doubt.
               "In view of your selfishness and depravity, she may turn in sorrow and estrangement from her father, and give to the innocent and wronged the sympathy and just regard which you have always withheld."
               Margaret had scarcely time to read the mysterious missive to its abrupt conclusion, ere Wolcott approached, and signified that she must hasten and prepare the note for her father, or depart without sending him her farewell.
               Thus urged, she wrote a few hasty lines, entreating Col. Graham to grant the request of Wolcott, if it was consistent with honor and his sense of right. "I know not whither this vindictive wretch will convey me," she added; "but while I reflect that in consequence of my foolish credulity in coming to this spot, I lose my freedom, there are still two circumstances that in some degree alleviate the horror of my situation. I am given to understand that I shall be treated kindly, and that Wolcott's daughter will be my companion. She is a poor deformed creature, and has plead with her base father to release me, but all in vain. However, the girl has some trace of feeling, and it may be that through her instrumentality I may yet find means to return to you. Adieu, my dear father, for I am permitted to write no more. I pray you leave no means untried to discover my concealment, and rescue from suspense and wretchedness your unhappy child."
               Scarcely had she finished the message ere the cow-boy, as we will continue to call him, took from his pocket a coil of rope, and approached Lindsay.
               "Unwelcome tidings require not speed in the messenger," he said; and notwithstanding the strong resistance of the enraged old man, Wolcott succeeded in tying his feet in such a manner that walking was a slow and laborious task.
               "I am sorry that necessity compels me to offer you this indignity," he remarked, "but foreseeing that you will reach the camp at an earlier hour than agrees with my safety, I am forced to place a check upon your movements."
               Margaret had no power to release the Scot, and the attempt would have been both fruitless and dangerous; but her cheek glowed in angry excitement as she saw the fetters bound upon the limbs of her venerable servitor.
               The cow-boy next led forward the pony, and after imparting some secret communication to the Mohawk, he placed Margaret, with his daughter, on the back of the animal. Poor Margaret! She had only time to give a transient glance at the scene she was leaving; and that glance sufficed to show her the agonized face of Lindsay, turned in sorrow and affection towards the beloved mistress who was thus rudely forced away.
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               THE Indian did not follow the party on their secret march; and in the anxious state of her mind, Miss Graham scarcely knew whether to interpret his disappearance as a fortunate or an evil omen. For a moment she had entertained a thought of attempting to bribe White Hawk to convey her back to her father; but the idea of soliciting such protection could not be otherwise than repugnant to her feelings, and only as a last resort could she appeal to so treacherous an ally. A young female, destitute of Margaret's fortitude, would have sunk under the increasing ills of her situation; but our captive maiden belonged to a race which never yielded tamely to misfortune. Rudely as he had forced her from the protection of her father, Wolcott had no power to subdue the haughty spirit of his prisoner; for, along with the softer attributes of her womanly nature, she inherited a meet proportion of her sire's firmness. Her dark eyes, brilliant with resentful feeling, were undimmed with tears, and in her present angry mood she was unjust to the gentle Ruth, listening in scornful silence to the expressions of compassion and sympathy which her companion whispered in her ear.
               The sun went down, and dusky shadows stole over the landscape, while Wolcott continued to lead forward the poney through silent and solitary paths. Not a human being did they encounter to whom Margaret could make known her grievances; though on either side lay an armed force, the royal troops of England and the brave soldiers of America, waiting only a favorable moment to engage in battle.
               They had travelled thus for more than three hours, as Margaret judged, when, on rising a hillock, a sheet of water lay before them, dimly perceptible in the starlight.
               The party had indeed reached the western side of the peninsula on which Ticonderoga is situated, and they were now in the rear of the position occupied by the Americans.
               This fact was suspected by Miss Graham; and the faint hope which she had hitherto entertained that Lindsay might reach the camp and inform her father of her situation in season for a rescue, was destroyed.
               Meantime, the stars lent but an indistinct light; yet, distinguishable on the margin of the water were two figures, one of which, if Margaret's eyes did not deceive her, was the Mohawk, whom she had not seen since setting out on her constrained journey.
               For the first time during their unpleasant ride she deigned to address Ruth, who was seated on the crupper of the poney, with one hand resting lightly on Margaret's shoulder to aid in balancing her slight form.
               "Whom do we see yonder? Is it the sweet-tempered, enlightened associate of your worthy father?" she asked, in a tone disagreeably sarcastic.
               It is the Mohawk, lady."
               "And the other?" she continued, sending a keen glance through the obscurity to White Hawk's companion.
               Miss Graham felt a tremor in the hand that touched her shoulder, and there was a huskiness in Ruth's voice as she answered—
               "The other is my cousin, whom the Indian has guided hither to bid me farewell ere I proceed."
               Wolcott had now led the animal down the bank; and observing their approach, the young man advanced to meet them.
               "True to your tryst, my sweet Ruth, as if you were to meet a gallant lover instead of your scape-grace cousin," he exclaimed gaily, as he lifted her from the pony.
               In rendering the same service to Margaret, her foot became entangled in the rude fastenings which confined the saddle to the back of the animal; and by a sudden movement of the beast, she was thrown forward into the arms of her assistant.
               "The equipage of my Uncle Gilbert is rude enough, and scarcely fitted to a lady's use," he said, the dim light but partially revealing the smile that crossed his features as Margaret drew back from the involuntary embrace.
               "The equipage of your relative is in keeping with his courtesy," she answered, coldly. "He doubtless considers the comfort of a captive of but small account, even though the captive be a helpless girl, basely dragged from her friends to gratify secret malice."
               "Nay, do not judge my father so harshly," said the mild voice of Ruth. "I know, at the present moment, you have cause to reproach him for compelling you to bear us company; but, believe me, he will mitigate the hardship of your situation to the extent of his means. He is far from being cruel or violent; and though I deplore your loss of freedom, and would fain persuade him to grant you liberty, I know that he will provide you with every comfort that circumstances will afford."
               "Your vindication of his baseness does in no degree soften my just resentment; and I pray you cease to justify acts which every impartial person would term grossly criminal.
               "But to you, young sir, I would appeal," she continued, addressing the youth. "If not deceived in this uncertain light, you wear a soldier's dress, and should possess the gallantry and courage ascribed to men of your profession.
               "None but a coward, destitute of honor and heroism, would refuse protection to an injured and defenceless female; and such an one sues for your protection at this moment. If you be an honorable gentleman, you will release me from the custody of this man, even though you be allied to him by the ties of kindred."
               "Was ever a poor fellow so hard beset!" muttered Oliver, glancing uneasily at his uncle, who was at the water-side, preparing the boat in which to take his daughter and Margaret across to the other shore.
               "You are silent, sir!" said Margaret, in a voice which showed the utter scorn in which she held his hesitation; "and I was a credulous fool to think that honor and generosity could exist in the heart of a craven and rebel!"
               "Heaven preserve me from your anger, lady!" exclaimed the poor Lieutenant, turning every way to escape the contemptuous, angry look which he felt rather than saw was fixed upon him.
               "But speak for me, my gentle Ruth, and tell Miss Graham that your cousin Oliver is not wholly a coward, even though he is compelled to refuse her request, which he does with deep regret. Say, too, that he hopes her father will ere long be induced to yield to the demands of a moral obligation long due from him to another; and in the event of his submission to a known, but rejected duty, he will find his daughter restored to him in safety."
               "A pretty harangue!" exclaimed Miss Graham, bitterly, "and your base refusal to aid me must be sweetened with a vile attack upon the integrity of my beloved father."
               "Oliver, what is this mysterious secret, this moral obligation of which you speak?" asked Ruth. "If you know, why not impart it to Miss Graham, who may be able to excuse what you consider injustice in her father's conduct. At least, a full disclosure is due to her, that she may understand why she must be oppressed for the errors of her parent."
               "I thank you for what you have now said," exclaimed Margaret, taking Ruth's hand; and with the frank generosity that mingled with her better nature, she added—"If I have treated your previous expressions of pity with coldness, pardon the offence, and ascribe it to the irritation attendant upon my unhappy situation,"
               "I have nothing to pardon," said the girl, meekly. Then turning to the Lieutenant, she again urged him to relate the errors of which he believed Col. Graham guilty.
               "Nay, my sweet cousin, I cannot gratify you in this," he replied. "The season for the disclosure of what you seek to know has not yet come. But in time; you and this young lady also will know all—till then you must wait in patience. I see that the boat is nearly ready to receive you," he continued; "would that your father and myself were returning with you!"
               "My father!" exclaimed Ruth in surprise. "Surely, he is going with me!"
               "No, Ruth. I bring him certain intelligence that renders his departure impossible, at the present moment. You will have to set out alone with the Mohawk; but knowing his courage and fidelity, you can ask no trustier guide.
               "And Miss Graham, too, will find him brave, and disposed to yield her the taciturn courtesy of his race, if she resigns herself a willing prisoner. White Hawk would be torn limb from limb, before injury should reach the person entrusted to his protection; and at the same time he will guard with the Indian's untiring vigilance every avenue of escape."
               "I have already received a convincing proof of the Mohawk's savage courtesy, and would willingly be excused from experiencing aught further of his civilities," said the young lady, haughtily; and retiring a step, she leaned against the body of a tree, lost in anxious and painful thought, while the cousins, free from the restraint that her presence imposed, continued the conversation in low and eager tones.
               In a few moments Wolcott approached to lead his captive to the boat; and, still earnestly conversing, Oliver and Ruth followed their steps. Knowing that resistance at this moment could not effect her release, Margaret permitted her conductor to seat her in the light birchen vessel, the property of White Hawk, who stood silently by till the females had entered the buoyant little canoe.
               "I am unable to attend you in person," said Wolcott, "but I place you in the care of one who will regard your comfort and safety, if you submit to his direction, which is limited to your safe conveyance to the abode in which I shall place you. Meanwhile, I shall take an early opportunity of communicating with your father; and if, as I hope, he will listen to my just requirements, your liberty will be restored. Ruth," he added, turning to his daughter with an air of kindness rather than affection, as Margaret thought, "you are a good girl, and have always been obedient. Remember that any attempt on your part to effect the escape of this young lady will merit my severe displeasure. Strive rather to reconcile her to the decree that for a time separates her from her friends, and eventually you may find your account in it. Horses await you on the opposite shore, and your journey will be made as comfortable as circumstances permit. Good-night, Ruth, and keep in mind what I have now told you."
               Oliver pressed a kiss on the pale cheek of his cousin, and bowed courteously to Margaret, as the Mohawk sprang into the canoe and pushed from the shore.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               ON a sultry July afternoon, a party of travellers came forth from the dim and winding aisles of the wilderness through which they had held their course for some days, and, halting on a slight eminence, these forest wayfarers surveyed the new scene opening before them, each with different emotions. To two of the group the magnificent view was familiar; but to the dark-eyed maiden, our captive Margaret, as we may call her, the landscape presented features which in wildness and sublimity she had never seen rivaled, even among the Highlands of her native Scotland.
               Before her lay a vast body of water, its wide-spread surface stretching away in the distance, till, like an inland sea, no visible line seemed to separate its waves from the horizon. Across the bosom of the lake the western sun flung a long trail of light, which glowed like fire on the distant waters, but which was mellowed to the hue of pale gold where it approached the shore. On the north side appeared high and craggy hills covered with the dense foliage of midsummer, while southward the eye rested on a primeval wilderness, unbroken by hills, and at this early period untrodden by the foot of the white man. No sound broke the silence save the plash of the water rolling on the shore, and no living creature was visible except a solitary eagle perched on the limb of a dead tree, and a timid deer that sought the margin of the lake to quench its thirst at a point some rods below our travellers. Apparently, the nice instinct of the animal warned him of the proximity of strangers, for with startled motion he elevated his head and sped away to the cover of the wood.
               Margaret Graham dismounted from the faithful beast that had borne her safely over many a weary league; and sitting down on the body of a fallen tree, she contemplated the scene in admiration and silence.
               Meanwhile, Ruth and the Indian waited patiently the movements of the young lady, the former directing a long and earnest gaze towards a particular point where a wreath of smoke rose lightly amid the trees. The glance of the Mohawk also sought the same direction; but his dusky features betrayed none of the eagerness so plainly expressed in the eyes of the deformed girl. Hitherto, on the journey, Miss Graham had maintained almost an unbroken silence toward both her fellow-travellers. This was owing partly to the manner in which she had been torn from her friends, and partly to the force of education; for she had been taught to regard savages with terror, and to look upon one of Ruth's station with a sentiment allied to contempt. At the present moment, her curiosity was excited on beholding the sadness, yet eagerness, with which the humble companion of her journey regarded some object in the distance.
               "What is it that so deeply attracts your attention?" she asked, looking inquiringly at Ruth. "Surely, you can discover nothing in yonder hills that can rival the glorious beauty of this illuminated lake, which looks as if a thousand fires burned unquenched in its liquid depths."
               "It is very beautiful; but I love better to look upon it amid the wind and storm," she answered, with something like enthusiasm in her tone. "It is then that these tranquil and brilliant waves are lashed into furious play; and amid their hoarse and angry roar I fancy that 'deep calleth unto deep' in the mysterious language of many waters."
               "You speak as if you had really looked on the picture which you have so graphically described."
               "I have, Miss Graham; and although I have been two years absent, the murmur of the lake greets me like the old familiar voice of a friend. Yonder, where the smoke rises amidst the trees, an aged relative waits to welcome home her truant grand-daughter; and she will also have a kindly greeting for the guest who comes unwillingly to her hearth. We are near to the end of our weary journey."
               "Then why do we linger on our way? If you have been so long absent you must surely be anxious to meet the relative of whom you speak and I, though my movements must yield to the will of others, would gladly seek rest."
               "I mean, in all things consistent with my father's commands, to submit myself to your wishes, Miss Graham; and having seen that you were disposed to halt here, I restrained the impatience that urged me onward. But if it is your pleasure, we will proceed at once."
               Our little party was soon mounted and once more pursued their way, a rude path leading them along the border of the lake. The resentful and somewhat sullen retrospection in which Margaret had hitherto indulged yielded in some measure to the submissive air and gentle language of Ruth. The young lady had also partly overcome the deep yet haughtily suppressed grief occasioned by her violent separation from her friends; and believing, with the bright anticipations of youth, that she would ere long be restored to her father, she suffered her silent reserve to relapse into a more social mood.
               "Pray, do you find it 'consistent with your father's commands' to inform me what part of the globe we are now traveling?" she asked.
               "We are in the country of the Mohawks. Our guide will tell you that these forest lands are the hunting-grounds of his tribe; and a league to the north you could see the fires of an Indian village, did not the hills obstruct the view. The Mohawks own a great extent of territory, and they are called the most brave and honorable of all the Indian tribes."
               Margaret observed that a transient gleam of exultation shot athwart the tawny visage of White Hawk as Ruth uttered her commendation of his people. But by no other sign did he betray an interest in their conversation. She had before noted his imperturbable gravity of look and manner with emotions of curiosity and wonder. No event, however sudden and alarming, caused him to betray agitation; and the brief look of triumph was almost the only expression of feeling which she had seen in his countenance since the moment that his tomahawk was raised against poor Lindsay. Stoical as he appeared, he had unconsciously shown that he was not insensible to flattery; and Margaret experienced a womanish desire to learn if her power over his singular nature equalled that of Ruth. Possessing an inherent love of dominion over the will of another, and believing that the Indian was not invulnerable to scorn more than he was to praise, she choose the former weapon in her skillful attack, closely watching the savage as she addressed Ruth.
               "But these people, Mohawks as you call them, number cowards among their tribe," she said. "What is your guide but a base coward, who leaves the company of brave warriors to make captive a poor weak girl. He is afraid to go on a war-path, and would flee at the sight of an enemy."
               Ruth turned her blue eyes in astonishment upon the speaker, in no degree comprehending the motive of this attack on the Mohawk's courage, who proceeded onward with the same inflexibility that had previously marked his look and mien.
               "Nay, Miss Graham, you have strangely misjudged his character," she answered. "Speak, White Hawk, and tell the lady that you are a chief amongst a brave people."
               With a lofty mien, the Indian stopped in the rude path and extended his arm.
               "Can the woman of the pale-faces count the leaves of the forest ?" he said. "Then let her seek to number the warriors of my tribe. When our chiefs follow the trail of an enemy, White Hawk leads an hundred braves."
               "And to what purpose? I know that it is not to fight openly and bravely. Ah, White Hawk wars only with women. Men laugh at his weakness, and a wolf could drive him from the path. He wears the weapon of his tribe, but he dares not use it, only upon the feeble and helpless," she exclaimed, significantly touching her forehead, on which the gleaning edge of his hatchet had for a moment rested.
               A kind of daring and malicious pleasure in taunting the savage had led Margaret to utter words which prudence would hardly sanction, and the whispered "Hush!" of Ruth recalled her to the danger of exciting the revengeful passions of the uncivilized being. She meant only to make trial of her skill in annoying him; perhaps she had wrought upon the more vindictive feelings of his nature. But if so, the subtle Indian guarded against every outward sign of anger. Indeed, in the brief moment in which she encountered the eyes of White Hawk, Miss Graham fancied that she discovered a trace of the admiration which she had often witnessed in the more open gaze of those officers who paid their court to her in the British camp. However, the unwonted expression faded so quickly from his dark visage that she might well hesitate in resolving its nature.
               A turn in the path now brought our travellers in view of a strange-looking structure, standing solitary and alone at the distance of some rods from the lake. It was situated on a mound, and its long, low, log-constructed front faced the water. A trench encircled it on every side, a rude bridge forming the only passage to the isolated edifice. From the position and appearance of the building, Margaret supposed it had been erected for military purposes; nor was her supposition false. It was a block-house which had been built while the Colonists were engaged in a war with the French. On the cessation of hostilities it had been abandoned, and had remained untenanted until Wolcott in his intercourse with the Mohawks, had discovered it.
               At this period he was engaged as a fur-trader, and anxious to provide a comfortable shelter for his family in the vicinity of his labors, he had repaired the old block-house, and removed thither when Ruth was a girl of fourteen. His aged mother and his nephew, then a lad but two years the senior of Ruth, comprised his family. During the past year Wolcott and Oliver had been with the army; while Ruth was established in a convent, in order that she might acquire among the austere sisterhood the education befiting her age and sex. Thus had the later dwellers of the ancient stronghold deserted its walls with the exception of Wolcott's mother, who was highly respected and beloved by the savage tribe amongst which she had found an abode.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               CROSSING the dry moat by the bridge, Miss Graham and Ruth alighted at the entrance of the building.
               As yet not a creature was visible except two wild-looking Indian women, who gazed in silence upon the strangers; but perceiving and apparently rently recognizing the person of White Hawk, they uttered a few rapid sentences in a language unintelligible to Margaret, and then hastened away at full speed—probably to carry the news of the Mohawk's arrival to his tribe.
               Meanwhile, the ponderous door swung back before the exertions of Ruth to unclose it, and, turning to her companion, she bade her enter. It seemed like a romance to Margaret; the massive old structure, so like a prison; the deformed person, and pale, yet lovely face of Ruth; and herself the heroine of some mysterious, and it might be tragic adventure.
               However, the young lady was allowed no time for indulgence in these imaginary reflections, for, gliding through the long, gloomy room, Ruth opened the door of an inner apartment, at the same moment beckoning Miss Graham to advance.
               She obeyed the signal, and found herself in a smaller and better lighted room than that through which she had passed. Coarse mats, manufactured by the Indian women out of a kind of long grass, covered the floor. Chairs of rude workmanship were ranged against the wall, and above the unpainted table of white pine hung a small, antique mirror, set in a carved and gilded frame. A recess, hewn out of the log-built walls, was filled with books; and beneath it appeared a shelf, containing a row of brightly-scoured pewter plates. The hot summer day precluded the necessity of artificial warmth, and the immense fire-place seemed like the black and gloomy entrance of a dungeon in the regions below.
               A glance sufficed to show the room to Miss Graham as we have described it; but the object which attracted her deepest attention was the figure of an aged woman reclining in a chair.
               Advancing into the apartment, Ruth knelt beside her venerable relative, exclaiming—
               "Dear grandmother! Thy truant child has returned, and asks of thee a welcome and a blessing."
               "Thou hast both, Ruth," she answered, laying her withered hand on the girl's fair locks, but speaking, as Margaret thought, with more of kindness than tender affection in her tone.
               "There is another, also the companion of my journey hither, who claims hospitality at your hands, grandmother. This young lady, Margaret Graham by name, comes not with me of her own will, but she has been sent hither by my father. In her separation from her natural protectors, it is meet that we show her respect and kindness."
               As Ruth ceased, the ancient dame rose from her chair, and turned her wrinkled visage towards the blooming face of Margaret, who advanced, and almost unconsciously extended her hand in expectation of a friendly greeting.
               "Not to me! Not to me, daughter of a proud and wicked race, can you give your hand in friendship!" said the sybil; her black, deep-set eyes burning with unwonted excitement.
               "As you please," answered Margaret, drawing haughtily back. "I had forgotten that courtesy and friendliness were incompatible with our respective characters of captive and keeper."
               "Has my beloved grandmother, usually so just and generous, no compassion passion for the sufferings of a stranger?" murmured the soft voice of Ruth.
               "Your reproach is natural, child, and what I might have expected of thee. Nevertheless, it is hard to bear," she answered, in a softened tone.
               "Dear grandmother, my love is only equalled by my respect for you; therefore, forgive me the seeming disrespect of a hasty expression. I thought only of the distress and hardship which Miss Graham has undergone through my father's means; and I sought only to excite your sympathy for afflictions which our kindness may alleviate. Why she has been sent on this long and toilsome journey I do not know; but trusting in the justice and integrity of my father, I hope that he will eventually explain the reason of her captivity in a satisfactory manner, and restore her to the parent from whom she is separated. In thy name, grandmother, I promised her a friendly greeting; for none know better than poor Ruth the generous kindness of your heart."
               "And I, child, will strive to make good thy words, though the presence of the maiden comes like a dark shadow to my hearth. She has not thy gentle demeanor, Ruth, nor thy tranquil spirit; yet I bid her rest in peace with us, the sharer of our rude shelter. Warmer welcome I cannot give."
               The girl looked in sorrow rather than reproach upon the aged speaker; and then turning away, she took the hat and mantle of Margaret from the floor, where they had been haughtily cast by the wearer on receiving so cold a reception from the old woman.
               Meanwhile, Dame Wolcott busied herself in placing refreshment upon the table; and as her tall figure moved to and fro, Miss Graham could not help acknowledging to herself that she beheld the wreck of majestic beauty in the person of her hostess. She had apparently outlived the limit of her threescore and ten years, and time had bleached her hair to the whiteness of snow, and strewn wrinkles on a brow that was once fair and smooth. Still a trace of early beauty was discoverable in the outline of her features, and in her eyes, which even in advanced age beamed bright and expressive. Her movements were still active, and her voice possessed a solemn sweetness of tone that forcibly reminded Margaret of the cow-boy's voice, which had the same serious harmony in its intonation.
               Gladly would Margaret Graham have learned more of this singular family. Gladly would she have traced to its source the animosity with which both mother and son regarded her family. What were their fancied wrongs, and what the secret claims with which Gilbert Wolcott perseveringly pursued her father ? Alas, time might discover; but could she wait in this remote and cheerless place till the revolution of weeks or months brought an elucidation of the mystery?
               In silence the young lady permitted herself to be led to the table, which was spread with no dainty fare, but displayed only the simple food wherewith the pioneers of the settlements sustained life.
               A steak of cold venison, and cakes made of Indian maize which had been ground in a huge mortar by the Mohawk women, was all the refreshment which the table contained. Seated opposite Margaret and her grand-daughter, Dame Wolcott folded her shriveled hands and reverentially pronounced an appropriate grace; the sweet solemnity of her voice acted with soothing effect on the irritated spirit of Miss Graham, and a glance at Ruth's pale face, always mild and spiritual in expression, seemed still more to soften her sullen resentment. She felt drawn towards the poor girl by some secret and subtle influence, even while addressing her in cold and haughty language.
               Perhaps the latent charm of Ruth's presence lay in her resignation to the disfigurement that marked her person, and the gentle submission which she always manifested to Margaret's will.
               On the conclusion of the meal, the young lady was told that this particular room, together with an adjoining recess, would be devoted to her accommodation during her abode at the block-house. With a secret hope that her residence in the rude building would be limited to a brief period, she silently prayed for submission to her fate; and when Dame Wolcott retired with her grand-daughter, she inspected at leisure her new quarters. The recess contained nothing but a mattress and a large sack made of the skin of some wild animal. It was securely fastened, and resisted all her endeavors to open it.
               The windows of her room fronted the lake, offering to her vision a scene of wild and magnificent beauty; but had Margaret sought to escape through these unguarded apertures, it would have been at the peril of life and limb; for upon this side the trench was dug beneath the walls; and her eyes glanced down from a considerable height into the black, deep chasm.
               Margaret remained at the window, watching the last fading gleam of sunset on the water, till gray shadows obscured the view. Then seeking repose upon her coarse but clean matress, she sought in sleep, oblivion of the sad truth that she was a captive, far removed from the society and protection of her father.
               But the events of the day had been of too exciting a nature to allow her peaceful and untroubled slumber. Her dreaming fancy created a scaffold, and a vast throng waiting in silent and solemn expectation the execution of a criminal. Next the doomed person appeared with the rope about his neck, and she recognized the cow-boy. Major Holbrook, in priestly robes, attended the guilty being to impart spiritual consolation; and Duncan Gleig was the executioner! Ruth and her aged grandmother stood beneath the scaffold, dissolved in tears; and the hush of silence pervaded the multitude, as Holbrook, in his ghostly character, commenced a fantastic harangue.
               As he proceeded, a strange spirit seemed to animate the crowd. Solemnity gave place to wild laughter, and excited by the grotesque style of the speaker, Ruth, and even Dame Wolcott danced around the condemned in extravagant glee! Shocked at their unseemly mirth, she fled from the scene, when Ruth attempted to drag her back to the scaffold.
               While striving to elude the grasp of the deformed girl, she suddenly awoke and found herself standing before the main entrance of the building, with the dusky hands of the Mohawk restraining her further progress.
               Excited by her strange dream, she had indeed risen, and was flying from the vision when discovered by the Indian.
               "The forest paths are dark," muttered White Hawk, who mistook her unconscious movement for premeditated flight. "'Tis a long trail that leads to the great river," he added, pointing in the direction of the Hudson, "and the foot of the paleface would tire on the journey."
               In a moment Margaret was fully awake to the reality of her situation; and dashing away the bitter tears, she returned to her couch, while the Indian betook himself to the hard floor for a bed, soon resuming the light sleep from which the step of the maiden had aroused him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               THE rays of the morning sun had long illumined the lake when Miss Graham awoke from the profound slumber into which she had fallen after her encounter with White Hawk.
               The table was already spread in her rude boudoir; and while she slept some friendly hand had removed her soiled and dusty garments, substituting in their place, coarse but cleanly habiliments of antiquated fashion.
               She was soon dressed; and entering the adjoining room, she returned the salutation of Ruth, who remained to serve her guest as she partook of her solitary repast. The old woman was not present; and calmed and refreshed by sleep, Margaret was grateful for the regard Ruth betrayed for her comfort.
               "I have not the means to provide you with amusements to which you have been accustomed," remarked the young hostess; "but I will do all in my power to relieve the weariness of your situation. Here are books in which you may possibly find entertainment; and here," she added, dragging forth the leathern sack, "are pencils and drawing-paper?"
               "You have there a capacious portfolio," she answered, smiling, and remembering her ineffectual attempts to dive into the concealment of the article in question.
               "It was conveyed across the wilderness, from Montreal to this place, some weeks since, and it contains, among other things, the gifts which I received from the nuns of St. Catharine, who for two years were my teachers in the study of books and ornamental needle-work."
               "You were educated in a convent," exclaimed Margaret, glancing in surprise on her deformed person.
               "The little learning which I possess was thus acquired," she answered, meekly.
               "Wait a moment!" said the young lady, restraining the hand of Ruth, as she was about to draw forth the treasures of the sack.
               "My father proposed placing me in a convent, before the march of Gen. Burgoyne's army; but I stoutly resisted his scheme, which was formed principally with a view to my comfort and safety. Against his better judgment, he yielded to my wishes, and permitted me to accompany him to the English army."
               "You would have been saved much anxiety and hardship had you consented to the request of your father," said Ruth, thoughtfully.
               "True; but should I not have been the victim of irksome seclusion? Pray, did you not long to exchange the sameness of your convent-life for more exciting scenes?"
               "No, Miss Graham. I shall always retain a pleasant memory of the good sisters, and the days of tranquil happiness passed in their society."
               "You term that happiness, which to me would be unalloyed weariness. I love society; but not the society of a dull sisterhood of nuns," said Margaret, a transient look of contempt flashing over her beautiful, animated features. "I like the rush of the great world, change in the scenes and persons with which I am brought in contact, and the variation in constantly occurring events, which produces novelty. You do not sympathize in these feelings?"
               "How should I, Miss Graham? Nature, in rendering me an object of ridicule and aversion to my kind, has also given me an instinctive love of retirement. I am unfitted for the social amusements natural to my age and sex; and I can resign them without murmuring against the decree that made me a poor misshapen girl."
               "You are too sensitive on the score of your affliction," said Miss Graham, with feeling. "Indeed, all would acknowledge that the delicate, almost spiritual beauty of your face more than compensates for the lack of comeliness of figure."
               "You echo the words of my cousin Oliver," she answered, with a mournful smile that touched the finer feelings of Margaret's heart.
               "My generous, light-hearted cousin would fain persuade me that my deformity is invisible to mortal eyes."
               "The eyes of affection can see no blemish in a beloved object," replied the sharp-sighted maiden, glancing at the faint glow on Ruth's cheeks as she spoke.
               The latter offered no reply; but, opening the sack, she brought to light various articles, chiefly the labor of the needle, which occasioned ejaculations of admiration from the lips of the beholder.
               Various kinds of embroidery, the work of the sisters, was displayed; and Margaret, whose peculiar tastes but ill-accorded with the patience requisite for such tasks, could not but commend the exquisite beauty of the ornamental work.
               At length, from the bottom of the huge bag, Ruth extracted a small box; and opening it, she displayed a richly wrought veil of fine gossamer-like lace.
               "A beautiful and significant gift," exclaimed Miss Graham, who almost envied the humble girl the possession of so rich a decoration for her distorted person.
               "I fancy that this must be designed for a bridal veil; and it was doubtless wrought by some pious nun, who has resigned the expectation of ever donning the veil of a bride. Would that I could read the secret thoughts of the fair laborer as she pursued her task."
               "You are mistaken in thinking this the work of the nuns of St. Catharine," Ruth replied. "It is a sample of my own handiwork, wrought not for myself, but in the anticipation that my cousin will some day wed, and I would wish to present his bride an appropriate gift. However, his marriage is an event that must belong to the future, while this protracted war continues. Oliver would never think of forming domestic ties when his time and energies are engrossed in martial duties. Hence, I will change the destination of my humble offering, if you, Miss Graham, will deign to accept it. I have materials for embroidering another, so that Oliver's future bride need not lack so essential a decoration, even if you gratify me in keeping the veil."
               "I ought not to accept so rich and beautiful a gift without making you a suitable return," 
                     the
                     she
                   answered, her eyes fixed in eager desire on the transparent fabric. "It must have cost you months of labor to create these delicate embellishments of bud and blossom, for never have I seen so exquisite and perfect a specimen of needlework. Ruth, I cannot be so selfish as to accept the veil without giving you the recompense that you fully merit, and I can offer you no meet reward, situated as I am."
               "You can, Miss Graham. Think kindly of poor Ruth, and meet the cold demeanor of her grandmother with forbearance, and you give the only reward that Ruth asks, or could receive."
               "I do regard you with kindness, even with affection," and bending her graceful figure, she lightly touched her lips to the other's forehead.
               "And my grandmother?" said Ruth, anxiously.
               A haughty frown gathered on her brow.
               "'Tis but small courtesy I owe either your father or grandmother," she replied; "but to the latter I will strive to pay the respect which belongs to age, whatever may be her incivility towards me. I promise it for your sake; for you alone show sympathy and some kind feeling for my situation."
               "Grant me one more favor, and you will make me happy indeed," said the grateful girl, throwing the veil over Margaret's dark locks as she spoke. "Keep this memorial of my convent life; and in future years, when you look upon it, remember that it is the work of one who is thankful for the compassion sometimes extended to her. Only earnest wishes for your happiness attend the gift."
               Margaret could not pain the gentle girl by a refusal, and she spoke her grateful thanks, as Ruth led her forward to the old-fashioned mirror, which reflected her image with beautiful effect. The white folds offered a pleasing contrast to her raven hair, and the cheeks which glowed with secret pride at her own loveliness.
               No envious emotion disturbed the heart of Ruth, as she looked in undisguised admiration upon the fair reflection so fully developing the grace of womanhood. In her misfortune the poor girl had sought for resignation; and beside the beautiful features of Miss Graham, the glass gave back a pale face, calm and spiritual in expression, yet animated with a look of generous enthusiasm. In character the two young women were as unlike as in form and feature. Margaret was proud, unyielding, and impetuous in feeling and action, while Ruth displayed a gentle submissive nature, seldom suffering pride or passion to triumph over the mildness of her disposition. But notwithstanding their want of resemblance, each was kindly disposed toward the other. Influenced by some subtle attraction, Margaret was led to regard Ruth with sentiments of pity and affection, while the latter experienced a tender attachment for the highborn maiden.
               Glad that they had come to so friendly an understanding, Ruth proposed showing her companion some fine views in the neighborhood of the lake.
               The proposal met with Miss Graham's ready assent; and, taking the materials for sketching which had been withdrawn from their place in the sack, she prepared to follow wherever Ruth led the way.
               Dame Wolcott, with an Indian handmaid, was engaged in braiding a grass mat as the girls passed from the building; and, remembering her promise, Margaret bowed courteously to the austere woman.
               The mute salutation was gravely returned; and as the light footsteps of the young lady crossed the bridge, the sybil sent after her a portentous look, which gradually melted into an expression of sadness as she silently resumed her work.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               MARGARET usually passed her mornings in exploring the wild scenery around the lake, attended by Ruth, and frequently by White Hawk. The Indian accompanied her not less as a guide than watch, as she was suspected; yet his vigilance was unnecessarily exercised; for, surrounded only by the natives, and far removed from every friend who could aid her escape, she resigned all thoughts of flight.
               Accustomed now to the Mohawk's presence, and understanding his peculiar characteristics, she felt neither fear nor repugnance when his dusky figure glided before her through fern and thicket. Grave, silent, yet keenly observant, he noted her slightest movement; and in her lighter mood, Margaret would feign an inclination to escape, secreting herself behind the trunk of a giant tree, or hiding at the base of some great rock; but this playful mode of proving the sagacity of White Hawk was understood; and when he discovered her hiding-place his expressive "Hu!" was not uttered in a vindictive tone. At other times, when gloomy thoughts cast a shadow over her beautiful face, both Ruth and the Indian left her undisturbed the former roving about in quest of fruits and flowers, while the Mohawk remained near her, though with eyes always averted from a contemplation of her sorrow.
               One cloudless day, when Ruth was engaged in some household labor, Margaret stole forth from the block-house unattended. White Hawk was off on the hills in quest of game; and keenly enjoying her freedom from restraint, she wandered along the shore of the lake. Gradually extending her ramble, she at last found herself in the rude pathway which she remembered to have travelled in coming to her present abode. All at once Margaret experienced a keen desire to escape.
               She was alone; amid the sight of the familiar forest track aroused a tumult of wild thoughts. She could not retrace her steps while the bright sunlight and the warble of birds lured her on.
               It was a long, long path that led to the noble Hudson where lay the English army, and the way was full of peril; but she knew that between the lake and the great river there were settlements of white people, which the Indian had avoided in conveying her to the block-house.
               If she could but follow the path till she came upon the cabin of some pioneer, perhaps the promise of an ample reward would procure her a guide to the British camp. The desire to escape grew every moment stronger, till it overcame all fear save that of pursuit; and urged on by her impulsive nature, she cast one hasty glance backward at the old block-house, and then plunged into the cool shadow of the wood, following with a fleet step the track which led her deeper and yet deeper into the intricate windings of the forest.
               
               Margaret wandered on over the uneven, leaf-strewn earth until fatigue relaxed her physical energies, and taught her the folly of her undertaking. She found her strength nearly exhausted, while yet she seemed as distant from the accomplishment of her object as when she commenced her flight.
               The narrow track had become lost amid the dense growth of trees, nor could she again discover it, unused as she was to the landmarks that serve to guide the forest wayfarer.
               Meanwhile the sun sunk lower in the western sky, and the air came cool and fresh on her fevered brow. She knew that night was approaching and a sense of loneliness, of the utter solitude of her position, fell painfully on her spirit. The excitement which had sustained her courage during the earlier part of the day was dissipated in view of the danger that might await when darkness enveloped the wilderness; for, firm and fearless as she was, Margaret shrunk in terror from the idea of passing the night surrounded by fierce and savage animals. With regret she thought of the comfort and security of the block-house, and gladly would she have returned to her prison, repenting the rash impulse that had urged her to flee. Hoping to obtain a view of the lake, by which she might retrace her way, she advanced to the top of a long, shelving mound, but partially covered with shrubs and trees; and here an unexpected scene met her vision. Directly below was an Indian village, situated in an extended glade that, stretching away to the southward, presented a long, level sweep, washed at its extremity by the waters of the lake.
               Remembering that Ruth had spoken of a Mohawk village among the hills, Margaret instantly divined what sort of people she had come amongst; and without hesitation she descended the bank, while a number of half-naked children scattered themselves amongst the wigwams, doubtless to herald her approach. In a few moments the spot was swarming with dusky figures, principally beings of her own sex, though their appearance indicated a degree of abject degradation never witnessed in the females of civilized lands.
               Several warriors of the tribe were also present, maintaining the air of grave dignity consistent with the Indian character; and among their number Margaret recognized White Hawk with emotions of pleasure. Neither surprise nor curiosity was betrayed in his stoical countenance as his captive approached; and not until she addressed him did he show that he was aware of her presence, although his keen glance was the first to observe her as she emerged from the bushes.
               "Listen, White Hawk!" she exclaimed, with something of authority in her tone. "I took my morning exercise alone to-day; the wilderness has many paths, and I lost the trail that leads to the old block-house."
               The glittering eyes of the Indian sought her own with a look of contempt and incredulity, but he made no reply.
               "My feet are weary," she continued, "and I am faint with hunger. Who will guide my steps to the dwelling of the white women by the lake?"
               He turned and addressed an aged woman who stood near, in the language of his tribe; and disappearing within one of the huts, she soon came forth, bringing a cake which had been baked in the ashes. This she presented to the stranger, holding it between her wrinkled dirt-stained hands.
               Margaret knew enough of their savage customs to suspect that a rejection of their rude hospitality would be received with resentment; and wishing to propitiate the kindness of the wild beings, she accepted the cake, forced an unsavory morsel between her teeth, and then taking off her gay-colored mantle she spread it on the shoulders of the squaw. It was the mother of White Hawk to whom her gift was presented, and an expression of fierce delight flashed over the son's dark features as he saw his parent thus honored. The old woman was soon engaged in displaying her acquisition to the tawny faces gathered round her, while, with a signal to Miss Graham—a mute gesture, requesting her to follow—White Hawk bent his steps in the direction of the lake.
               Relieved of anxiety, and invigorated by the cool breeze that swept up the glen from the water, Margaret followed her guide. Though again under the restraint from which she had been for a few hours exempt, she regarded her situation with no sentiment of regret. The anxiety which she had suffered while deprived of freedom was light in comparison with her apprehensions during the day; and she experienced emotions of pleasure rather than sorrow as she thought of her safe shelter in the security of the block house.
               Scarcely had Miss Graham lost sight of the Indian huts, when she encountered in the middle of the path a young Mohawk girl whom she had before seen in her rambles about the lake.
               In general, the females of the tribe were wretchedly ignorant and squalid; but "Wild Flower," as she was called, was more attractive in person; and from having been often to the block-house, where she was a favorite, some traces of civilization had become engrafted in her wild nature. At the present time she was clothed in a loose tunic, which was confined at the waist by a broad scarlet ribbon, the gift of Ruth. Several bright-colored flowers were fancifully interwoven in her jetty locks, and in her hand she bore a basket filled to the brim with berries. As Margaret met her in the narrow path, White Hawk, who walked before, turned and signed to Wild Flower to give the fruit to the young lady. A moment she hesitated, casting a look of keen and angry reproach upon his face; but when again commanded with a lofty and stern voice, she timidly advanced and held forth the basket. Never had Margaret seen so sad and humbled an expression as that which rested on the features of the young Indian; and with the intuitive discernment of her sex, she read pride, despair, and jealousy in the eloquent features open to her gaze.
               With gentle motion Miss Graham put back the basket, but setting it in the path before the white lady, Wild Flower walked away, shaking over her face the long black hair which effectually veiled her countenance.
               After the occurrence of this incident they proceeded as before, except that the Mohawk imperceptibly fell back till he walked by his captive's side. Margaret felt a little anxiety at this; for heretofore her dark-browed keeper had always kept at a respectful distance, usually proceeding or following her at the distance of some yards. However, she was careful not to betray any symptoms of alarm, though she secretly watched his every movement, wishing yet fearing to learn the reason of his proximity.
               "The captive of Long Knife is very small," said the Indian, after they had walked some way in silence. "She is slender as a young fawn; her hands are weak, but she has the spirit of a warrior. When the hatchet was raised, she did not tremble. When it lay on her forehead, she did not shrink. Her eyes were open. They were very bright, and White Hawk looked for tears to quench their fire. Did he find them? No! for the white captive has the heart of a Brave."
               Suspecting that the Indian mistrusted her of intending to escape, and fearing that his savage anger was thereby aroused, Miss Graham felt inexpressibly relieved when her apprehensions were quieted by expressions which she knew were meant to be highly complimentary. But, at a loss to understand the purport of his unusual address, she remained silent.
               "The paleface is like a chained eagle," he continued, his deep guttural tones modulated to softness. "She is a captive; her feet are tender; they cannot follow the trail that leads to her people. Does she love freedom? then let her seek it in the cabin of White Hawk. He has no mate. His lodge is empty, but he will give to the Long Knife skins and wampum for his white captive. Will she come? Let her speak, for the ears of White Hawk are open; they wait for her words."
               Now, indeed, Miss Graham comprehended his meaning; and suppressing all external appearance of disquietude, she summoned courage and tact to parry his unexpected proposal.
               "The hawk mates not with the dove; nor should a Mohawk warrior lead a woman of the palefaces to his lodge," she answered. "The Great Spirit never designed us for mates. My hands, as you say, are weak. Look at them, White Hawk, and see that they are not formed for the labor that the women of your tribe perform."
               "The captive of my white brother is a fair lily," he answered, in a voice inexpressibly soft. "She has the bright eye of the eagle; and her words are sweet as the song of the wish-ton-wish. She shall dwell as a singing bird in my cabin."
               "No, White Hawk! I should pine away and die; for my people are not your people; and I could not exist among your wild race more than you could live in our great towns, separated from your tribe, removed from your native forests, and compelled to submit to the laws and customs of the whites. The Mohawk warriors would laugh at their red brother for bringing a girl of the palefaces to his lodge. They would say—'White Hawk is not our brother; he scorns our women, and he has brought a stranger to dwell in his lodge. She is not of our race: why has he brought her hither?'"
               "White Hawk is a chief amongst his people," said the Indian, proudly, yet betraying the impression which her words had made on his sensitive spirit.
               "And a chief should not depart from the customs of his tribe," answered Margaret, quickly.
               "There are dark-browed maidens who would be proud to mate with so brave a chief. Has the Wild Flower a deaf ear that she does not listen to your suit?"
               At the mention of the Indian girl his glittering eyes flashed an inquiring glance in her face.
               "The Wild Flower is straight as a young sapling, and graceful as a fawn," she continued, watching the effect of her words. "She is worthy to be the bride of a warrior; and if you take her to your cabin she will shed brightness and bloom over your life. I love her the best of all the Mohawk women, for she is the most beautiful; and when you ask her to dwell always with you, tell her that Margaret Graham will give her a token of good will. If Wild Flower becomes your bride, and I live to return to my father, I will send to her an hundred bright pieces of silver. I promise it!"
               Only by a gleam of pleasure transiently visible in his flashing eyes could she discover that her promise was well received.
               "The cabin of White Hawk is large," he said, after a silence of some minutes. "There is room for Wild Flower and the Lily of the palefaces."
               Miss Graham could not restrain smiling, amid her apprehensions, at the intention of her uncivilized keeper, who would fain make her the Sultana of his harem of tawny wives; but composing her features to a due degree of gravity, she replied—
               "The Great Spirit whom I worship forbids his children to live in the manner you propose. You, who are brave and generous, surely will not urge me to sin against the Manitou of the white people. Let White Hawk forget the words he has spoken in the ear of a stranger. Let him seek the Wild Flower of his native forest, and Margaret will remember her promise. She will make the Indian maiden the richest of her tribe. What says my red brother?"
               A powerful struggle was going on in the heart of the savage, for the beauty and haughty grace of his captive had cast a spell upon his wild spirit; yet he suffered no manifestation of feeling to appear on his imperturbable features. As Miss Graham suspected, he had heretofore sought the young Mohawk girl with presents of Indian trinkets; and like the more enlightened of her sex, she knew the purport of these rude civilities.
               But however willing our coquettish Margaret might be to triumph over a rival of higher rank, she felt no disposition to grieve the humble Wild Flower; and she waited impatiently to see if avarice equalled the softer sentiments of White Hawk's breast. Would he return to his old love for the hundred pieces of silver wherewith she had tried to purchase a cessation of his suit?
               "White Hawk cannot lie," he at length said, proudly and coldly.
               "His word is pledged to the Long Knife that the white captive shall meet no harm. If her heart is with her people, her red brother will speak no more."
               "A good and wise decision, my friend," she said, meeting his eyes with a friendly expression, "and now let us hasten forward; for see, the sun has disappeared, and darkness is creeping over the lake."
               Without exchanging further remarks, Miss Graham and the Indian advanced down the glade, crossed the old bridge, and arrived before the door of the block-house.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XX.
               AUGUST came, bringing a deeper green to the foliage, and a brighter hue to the flowers; but while summer was ripening into the mellow glories of autumn, Margaret still lingered in captivity. Had her father taken no means to discover her?—had he forgotten his child, that she remained thus, day after day, the victim of depressing anxiety? Where was the chivalrous Holbrook, whose high-flown gallantry had excited her mirth? And where was Duncan Gleig, the brave and honest Scot?
               Such were the thoughts that occupied her mind as she wandered listlessly about her rude abode. Each morning seemed bright with the hope that the speeding hours would bring intelligence from the British camp, and each night was she destined to experience disappointment. She could not submit tamely to the evils of her situation; her high spirit was continually chafed with a sense of wrong and oppression, though she was happily free from the fear of personal injury. Ruth was invariably gentle, kind, and respectful; and even Dame Wolcott had learned to show a silent, perhaps conscientious, regard for the poor girl's comfort.
               Since her memorable walk from the Indian village with White Hawk, he had seemed to avoid her, giving her almost wholly into the charge of Ruth and her grandmother; therefore she was no longer troubled with his matrimonial petitions. In the cool freshness of early morning, and when the sun lay low upon the water, Margaret took her exercise abroad; but often there were days of wind and rain, when she was confined to the dreary old dwelling; then, indeed, did she feel the weariness of captivity.
               It was on such a day, when a dense vapor hung over the lake, and the wind whistled mournfully through the mountain passes, that Miss Graham endeavored to alleviate her gloomy thoughts in conversation with Ruth. So, to bring a smile on the girl's quiet, serious face, she recounted her strange conference with the Mohawk; giving a humorous description of the gravity with which the Indian proposed establishing herself as the reigning sultana of his lodge.
               "Doubtless he suspects me of having enough of the virago in my disposition to queen it bravely over his tawny wives," she remarked. "But in truth, my inclinations were not in unison with the honor he intended me. I will resign the place in White Hawk's heart, and lodge in your favor, Ruth. Am I not generous?"
               "I fear your generosity will avail me nothing," she answered, with a gentle smile, "for our Mohawk friend holds me in utter contempt for my cowardice, as he admires you for your courage. Had you shrieked or trembled when his tomahawk was raised over your head, you may rely upon it, White Hawk would have looked on you with contempt. I understand the nature of an Indian, Miss Graham, and am none surprised at what you have told me."
               "And I also have learned something of their character, and customs at least. I have acquired a practical knowledge of their peculiar mode of courtship."
               "And how does it compare with the gallantry of an enlightened lover? Of course, a young and beautiful woman, like Miss Graham, is fully competent to answer the question."
               "Then know that the haughty brevity of the Indian is preferable to the surfeit of flattery with which men among civilized nations fill the ears of a lady. That is my opinion. What is yours, Ruth."
               "Mine!" How can I express an opinion upon a subject of which I am totally ignorant? I must abide by your judgment, Miss Margaret; for neither dusky nor fair-skinned lover ever whispered words of tenderness to me."
               "Is that true, Ruth?" asked Margaret, fixing her dark eyes archly on the other's face.
               "It is indeed true. Why should you doubt it?"
               "Because you are too guileless to practice concealment, and because I have no ordinary skill in searching into the heart's lore."
               "I do not understand you," she answered, dropping her work, and looking earnestly at Miss Graham.
               "O, my meaning is quite plain. I do not say that your rebel cousin has yet whispered the tender confession; but I do assert that you will listen with no unwilling ear to his suit when he prays you to share his fate. With your reverence for truth, you will not deny that your attachment for him is something more than mere cousinly esteem."
               A bright color glowed for a moment over Ruth's face, and then disappearing, it left her cheeks paler than before.
               "I confess that Oliver is very dear to me," she said; "but you are mistaken in thinking that we shall ever marry."
               "And why not, may I ask? If you entertain a mutual affection, what earthly reason can prevent your union?"
               "I will bear my burden of affliction alone," she answered firmly. "Oliver's future happiness is precious to his poor cousin, and she will never suffer her own evil shadow to darken his domestic life."
               "Now, Ruth, let me tell you that you are a self-deluded creature; and your perverted generosity will only make yourself wretched, and grieve and disappoint your cousin, if he really loves you. You are too sensitive on the score of your deformity, as I have once before told you. It is wicked, aye, it is reproaching Providence to thus throw away your happiness, because Heaven has withheld a comely form amid your many pleasing endowments."
               Ruth looked steadily at Miss Graham, with colorless cheek and lip while the humble and sad expression of her features was lost in a smile of womanly dignity.
               "Your censure of my actions compels me to disclose a sad, humiliating secret," she said, evidently summoning all her fortitude to make some painful disclosure. "The poor, misshapen girl is a foundling, Miss Graham; a natural child whom Gilbert Wolcott took in her friendless infancy.
               "God bless my adopted father," she continued, the tears raining over her white cheeks; "never will the child of his adoption grieve him!—never will she disobey his command; for wise and just is the decree that separates misfortune and disgrace from the fair fortunes of Oliver."
               Lost in astonishment, Margaret remained gazing upon her companion, as if she doubted the truth of the disclosure. But soon in the warmth of generous sympathy she clasped Ruth's hand, and strove to find words of consolation.
               "I have learned submission," said the poor girl, a beautiful expression of resignation beaming through her tears, "nor can I reproach my guardian for prohibiting my union with his nephew. He loves and is proud of Oliver; and not until he found that we were becoming mutually attached did he disclose my disgraceful birth. We both yielded to the justice of his request, that we would henceforth regard each other only as friends and cousins. This occurred two years ago; and Oliver joined the army while I was sent to Montreal."
               "But your parents?" asked Margaret; "why did they desert you, and who were they?"
               "I will answer you in the language of my kind guardian. He said—'Leave the history of your parentage to the future, Ruth. Seek not to know more than is for your present good, and rest satisfied with the knowledge that I have been compelled, prematurely, to impart.'"
               "And this man—your adopted father—is he kind to you?"
               "Always kind, but never affectionate. There is something strange in his manner to me; and were it not for the benevolent protection which I have so fully experienced, I should think he regarded me with abhorrence! He seems to have two natures, Miss Graham; one that shows a generous interest in the fate of the poor foundling, while the other is cold, hard, and stern, but always just to the object of his care. I have evidently his goodwill; but Oliver Wingate, his orphan nephew, receives all his affection. Now you can see the wisdom of his command, which has also become my choice. Honor and distinction may attend the fortunes of my cousin, as I am permitted to call him; but ignominy, united with deformity, must never be the portion of his wife, the inheritance of his children. This is what my guardian said, when he disclosed my parentage; and I have learned patiently, yes, cheerfully, to subscribe to his judgment. Oliver and I can never be more to each other than we are at present."
               "And yet you love him!"
               "Yes; too well to cloud his happiness with my misfortunes, even if the mandate of my guardian had never been uttered."
               "Ruth, what will become of you?" exclaimed Margaret, with feeling. "Deserted by your unnatural parents, prohibited from forming the domestic ties which are essential to every woman's heart, and utterly destitute of kindred, the future must indeed be gloomy to you."
               "And yet, I have my plans for the future," she answered, with a tranquil smile.
               "May I ask you to repeat them?"
               "They are simple, yet sanctioned by conscience, after deep deliberation. So long as Heaven spares him who has been indeed a father to me, I will never leave him," she answered, fervently. "In his helpless old age, I may in some degree return the debt of gratitude which I deeply owe; and to wait on his failing years will be a labor of love; for never was parent dearer to child than is Gilbert Wolcott to the daughter of his adoption. Thus, while my father lives, I remain with him; and if death takes him first from the world, Ruth will bear the burden of her afflictions to a peaceful refuge. The doors of St. Catharine are never closed upon the unfortunate."
               "You will go back to the convent!" said Margaret, in a tone of surprise and displeasure, "and those cunning priests and nuns will gain a new proselyte to their false and impious mummery. It shall never be, Ruth! your story has won my interest and pity, as your gentle, truthful nature, has gained my love. Come to me, my dear girl, in your affliction; and Margaret, wilful and haughty as you have often seen her, will nevertheless give you a kind welcome and a pleasant home. I have a father, Ruth; and though men call him stern and proud, he is an indulgent parent, and a friend to those who are worthy of his regard. He, I know, will permit you to share the comforts of our home, if fate ever takes us back to our native Scotland. Would to heaven we had never left Scotland!" she concluded, a quick transition of thought bearing her back to the freedom of the heathery hills and silver lochs.
               "I am grateful for your generous offer," Ruth replied, "for affliction has taught me to prize the sympathy and friendship of my sex."
               "Then give me the promise I desire. Say that you will come to me rather than return to the convent, whenever you need a friend. Surely, the strange animosity with which your guardian regards my father ought not to influence your decision," she exclaimed, urged on by the zeal of her impetuous yet noble nature.
               "Forgive me, Miss Graham; but I can make no promise without the sanction of him who has been parent, guardian, and friend over my youth."
               "Add to his character of guardian that of a ruthless oppressor; for has he not crushed your hopes—the affections which might have shed sweetness and bloom over your isolated fate?"
               "I cannot question the justice of my father; much less can I, the recipient of his generous care, give him the hard name of oppressor."
               "It is well," said Margaret, in a colder tone. "I am not used to urge expressions of good-will where they are received with reluctance. Neither can I find a better name for this man of ireful, vindictive passions, than that which I have given. Not till he restores me to my friends, and gives a reason for my abduction, can I think of him only with fear and hatred. Let us say no more," she added, seeing that Ruth was about to speak in vindication of Wolcott.
               "I have not your patient spirit; and though I love and pity you, I am vexed because of your reverence for one whom I have good cause to abhor."
               Always submissive to the wishes of Margaret, Ruth remained silent, her calm, pale face resuming its wonted gentle expression; while, approaching the window, Miss Graham leant her forehead upon the sash, and suffered her glance to wander over the wind-swept forest, and the lake, whose waters washed the shore in a long line of feathery foam.
               The storm was increasing in violence, and the wild commotion of the elements was in unison with her unquiet spirit. Something seemed urging her forth from her prison; and for a moment she fancied that there were voices in the blast that called her to follow; but, banishing the spell upon her senses, she turned from the window, and beguiled the tedious moments in watching Ruth's placid features, and questioning what might be the destiny of this deserted child of misfortune.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXI.
               As night approached, Margaret often looked out on the troubled waters of the lake, hoping for a lull of the storm with the sunset. She was anxious to behold the clouds riven in the western sky, that a fading sunbeam could illuminate for a moment the wild scene. But darker grew the shadows on lake and hill, while the increasing fury of the blast gave warning of a tempestuous night. Dark masses of vapor were continually driven across the western horizon, and the hills north of the old block-house were enveloped in mist, which even the violence of the gale could scatter but for a moment.
               Occasionally a fiercer gust would sweep down the glade, seeming to expend its fury upon the building, which trembled before the rude assault; and then dying away in hollow murmurs, it seemed to gather force for a renewed attack.
               At last darkness prevented the continued observations of Miss Graham upon the warring elements, and, leaving the window, she sought Ruth in the room which served the purpose of a kitchen. A fire burning in the huge chimney gave a cheerful aspect to the apartment; and placing a chair where she could enjoy the glowing light and warmth, Margaret sat down, her eyes idly tracing the hands of Dame Wolcott as she labored on the braids of coarse grass, her constant employment. Ruth sat on a low stool beside the old woman, assisting her in selecting and arranging materials for the braid.
               "This is indeed a wild night," said Ruth, dropping her work and listening in alarm to the roar of the wind. "I was always afraid of a tempest," she continued, "and when a child I well remember how you, dear grand-mother, used to quiet my apprehensions by relating some fanciful story as you held me in your arms. Have you no legend to repeat to me now?"
               "You are no longer a child, Ruth."
               "But I have not lost my childish fear of a tale, nor have I forgotten the spell which you used to cast over my terrified senses. I have entertained Miss Graham with one gloomy story to-day; and now I would fain do away the unpleasant thoughts it has left in my mind by listening to something less sad and truthful."
               "Child! what have you told her?" she said, gravely.
               "I told her of the kindness which Gilbert Wolcott has shown to a poor foundling," said Ruth, gratefully touching her lips to the wrinkled hand of the old woman.
               "And she laughed at thy story, for none of her haughty race can feel for the unfortunate. You were wrong, Ruth, in telling your humiliating secret to one who is—who must be—destitute of sympathy."
               "Nay, dear grandmother, you are mistaken in the character of Miss Graham. She will tell you if you ask her, what proof she has given me of kindness. Were she destitute of sympathy, she would never have bade me seek her in my affliction. She would not have said,—'You shall share my home, Ruth, if I ever return to it, and you find yourself friendless, and come to me.' Was not that noble and generous, grandmother ?"
               "Promises can be broken," she muttered "and you may learn the bitter truth when this proud maiden retracts her words, and gives you scorn for her promised benevolence. Yet I would not be unjust. The sappling is not always like the parent tree, and selfish pride may not wholly possess the daughter of a proud and selfish man. Tell me, Margaret Graham, if in good faith you promise protection to this disowned and unhappy girl?"
               "What avails a repetition of my word since you are resolved to doubt it?" she replied, in a tone of cold sarcasm.
               "Not to you, who bring unfounded accusations against my family, will I pledge my word. But to Ruth I repeat my promise; nor will I fail in its fulfilment. I tell you in good faith, Ruth, that you may share my home whenever I return to it, which I pray Heaven may be soon."
               A singular expression passed over the withered features of the sybil as her eyes wandered from the face of the deformed to the countenance of Margaret, glowing in haughty passion at the continued insults which the old woman heaped upon her family.
               Meantime, Ruth was anxious to allay the angry feelings of the young lady; and to give a milder turn to the conversation, she repeated her request for a legend.
               "What wouldst thou have, daughter?" said Dame Wolcott, resting her hand on the girl's fair head.
               "If you seek for a fairy tale or a gay romance of brave knights and gentle ladies, ask of your younger companion their fancied history, for I have only gloomy traditions laid up in the store-house of memory."
               "And I am in the mood for a gloomy tradition—something in unison with the blast which comes down from the hills with so fearful a wail! Hark! It sounds as if a thousand evil spirits were unchained to fly howling and shrieking over the earth."
               "Would you hear me repeat the story of your mother, Ruth? The time has come when I may tell it to thee; even Gilbert would not longer withhold the sad history from your ear; yet I tell thee, child, that it is full of sin and woe. Can you bear to hear it?"
               "Can it become less sinful and sad in the keeping? will it not strike home to my heart as painfully a year hence as at the present moment? Grandmother, I will learn my mother's history now," she answered, sadly.
               Feeling that she was intruding upon a communication that should be sacred to Ruth, Margaret rose to leave the room when Dame Wolcott requested her to remain.
               "Stay and learn whom and what you promise to befriend!" she said. "Then if you stand bravely forth and say to this poor child of sin and shame—'Come, share my home,' I will own that I have not judged thee fairly."
               Thus entreated, or rather commanded, Miss Graham resumed her seat, experiencing a presentiment that the disclosure was in some mysterious manner connected with the cause of her captivity. Yet she was too anxious to reflect calmly upon the subject.
               "Thy mother, Ruth," she commenced, "was a gentle, timid creature, and in the days of her innocence she had the beauty of an angel. For one year she dwelt with us, the honored and beloved wife of Gilbert. Then she, so loved and trusted, left us, lured from her humble home by the wiles of a fiend! Why need I dwell on the sin of the faithless wife? enough that she listened to the voice of the tempter, and secretly forsook a home of penury for a life of guilty splendor!"
               "O, my mother, my misguided mother!" exclaimed Ruth, wringing her hands in anguish.
               "Ay, misguided, child; but God suffered her to live till repentance had wrought its hard but salutary influence on her heart. Let that though console your sorrow and shame. It was two years after her secret departure that she wandered back to our home, a blighted, wretched creature, whom misery and remorse had driven demented. It was on such, a night as this that she came to us with you, a starving, feeble infant, in her arms. No gleam of recognition appeared in her wild eye as she asked a shelter of the husband whom she had deserted; and he, my noble son, took the outcast in and soothed her frenzy with words of kindness and compassion. Those were dark and fearful days; for in the violence of insanity the miserable mother sought to take the life of her child. Constant vigilance was necessary, Ruth, to protect you from her fury; and, shocking as it must seem to you, I have now to tell you that you were a fair and well-formed child until your maniac parent stole you from my care and cast you down a flight of stairs. Through life you must bear the marks of her murderous attempt."
               "The sins of the parent shall be visited on the child," sobbed Ruth; "I complain not of my afflictions."
               "For months the poor creature remained thus violent," continued Dame Wolcott, "and then she grew calmer, appearing dejected and melancholy. At last we could see a trace of returning reason; but as the mind resumed its natural faculties, her health failed; and, a prey to the bitterness of shame and remorse, she remained in the privacy of her own room, preparing for the great and solemn change which she knew was near. From her period of her restoration to reason until she was dying, she and Gilbert did not meet; but to me she disclosed the humiliating incidents of her elopement and subsequent career. The desertion and marriage of her betrayer had 
                     un ettled
                     unsettled
                   her intellect: and guided perhaps by instinct, she had wandered back to the humble roof which sheltered her in the days of her innocence. When her last hour approached, she prayed to see Gilbert, that she might implore forgiveness. He came, Ruth; and, bending over the abject fallen, and dying creature, he said—
               "I am still your friend; and you are yet dear to me for what you once were. May God forgive your sins as freely as I do at this moment."
               "That was a noble act!" exclaimed Margaret, her ardent, generous nature touched by the magnanimity of Wolcott.
               "My son is a Christian—not nominally but practically, in every action of his life!" replied the aged woman, as she looked steadily for a moment in the maiden's face. Then turning to Ruth, she continued the story of grief and guilt.
               "Your mother exacted the zeal of forgiveness, and not in vain did she implore it. She prayed Gilbert to remember that vengeance belongeth to the Most High; and entreated that his wrongs might be left to the justice and wisdom of a wise and just God. Poor creature! She could not die in the fear that blood-shed would rise from her guilt; and, moved by the solemn prayer of the dying, Gilbert clasped her wasted hand and resigned the retribution of iniquity into the hands of his Maker. Blessing him for the peace he had imparted to her last hours, she bade him send her infant to its natural protector; for, sensitive even in her fallen state, she felt that Gilbert ought not to be burdened with an object which would continually remind him of misery and dishonor. Since the death of your mother, Ruth, we have been wanderers in a strange land; but never has your reputed father lost sight of him to whom you owe your being. Rich, proud, and selfish as when he sacrificed honor to passion in the ruin of your mother, he is hardened against every sentiment of humanity and natural affection. He refuses to acknowledge the child of dishonor; while another, the daughter of wedded love, possesses that affection and care which is denied to the outcast. My disclosure is now ended. I have unveiled the past; but who can raise the curtain of the future, and tell if Margaret Graham will abide by her promise? who can say that she will take this poor girl by the hand and in the face of a deriding world, exclaim—'Behold! She is poor and weak, and her birth-right is dishonor; but nevertheless she is my sister—the daughter of my father!'"
               "It is false!" exclaimed Margaret, springing to her feet and confronting the old woman, with flashing eyes. "Never will I believe so base a slander against my brave, my noble father! Speak, Ruth! Tell this vile sorceress that you have no faith in her lying words. You are not ungenerous, and you will never aid so wicked an imposition!"
               But Ruth did not speak. Conviction deep and strong had fastened on her mind, and she remained gazing mournfully in the face of her whom she had been taught to call grand-mother. Aroused by the reproaches of Margaret, the old woman opened a drawer, and taking from thence a paper, she put it in the hands of the haughty and enraged girl. It was a letter written by her father some years before, in which he acknowledged Ruth's claim upon his parental protection, while he utterly refused to own their relationship to the world, though offering to secretly provide for her maintenance. The letter dropped from her hand. Shocked at the proof of her parent's baseness, burning tears flowed down her cheeks, now pale with emotions of grief and humbled pride. But Margaret had none of that spirit which had led her father to shrink from the fulfilment of a moral duty, though she inherited all his haughtiness. There was no base alloy mingled in her noble nature, and, approaching Ruth, she took the poor girl's hand in her own.
               "Let the affection of a sister atone for the neglect of our father," she said, striving, and not in vain, to speak with composure. "Henceforth I remain true to you, though all the world, my father included, turn against me; and here is the seal of my promise," she added, touching her lips to the brow of the deformed one, while a glow of pure and lofty feeling lit up her beautiful features.
               Overcome by the excitement of the discovery, Ruth humbly pressed her tearful face on Margaret's hand, and then left the room.
               "I have been unjust to you," said the old woman, intercepting Miss Graham as she rose to retire.
               "The events of to-night prove that in your pride you yet cherish sentiments of magnanimity. Margaret Graham, I wish you a life of prosperity and happiness."
               The offensive language of Dame Wolcott was too recent to admit of ready forgiveness on the part of the young lady; and she answered only with a distant bow. The next moment the aged woman was alone. Still raged the storm without, but all unheeded by her as she sat gazing on the smouldering embers. "Gloom and sunshine?—grief and gladness," she muttered, "and of such materials is the web of life woven. Thank Heaven! The child we have reared in charity, but not in love, will now be removed from our sight!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               THE morning which followed the tempestuous night was bright with sunshine, and the waters of the lake, wearied with their turbulent play, reposed in placid beauty. Birds sung amid the trees whose wet branches glistened with rain-drops; and on the hills and far off upon the water appeared a white mist, streaked with rosy hues where the sunbeams touched the snowy mass. The day had indeed opened brightly; but, exhausted with the incidents of the previous night, the inmates of the block-house slumbered long after hill and lake were illuminated with the brilliancy of sunrise. Ruth at length came forth from her room, her pale face still bearing traces of deep emotion; and moving to the door of the great kitchen, she sought her grandmother, who at this hour was always to be found engaged in some household labor. The room was dimly lighted with but one narrow window; it was rendered still more obscure by the heavy oaken bars placed across the sash; and as Ruth entered she encountered a damp and chilly air for no fire burned on the hearth. As she gazed round the gloomy room her eyes fell on the figure of Dame Wolcott, seated in the corner of the chimney in an attitude of strange, unnatural repose. For a moment, surprise and a latent feeling of awe kept her motionless near the door; but, banishing apprehension in the thought that the tempest had disturbed the slumber of her grandmother, she approached and looked in the sleeper's face. A glance showed Ruth that she was gazing on the rigid features of the dead! She could not mistake the marks of dissolution so fearfully impressed on that ghastly countenance: and with a shudder she veiled her eyes and fled from the room to bear the sad tidings to Margaret.
               The aged woman had indeed passed from life; but so gently was the great change effected that the posture of her stiffening form remained almost in a natural position. The cause of her sudden death was unknown to the poor girls, who soon stood by the dead body, Ruth weeping in unavailing grief, and Margaret experiencing emotions of solemn awe. Death at all times strikes the beholder with mysterious dread; and as the young women stood by the cold form which a few hours before had been animated with the spirit of life, they clung to each other, feeling that they were alone with the dead. In a short time, however, a couple of Indian women came down from the village, and Margaret bade one of them return with a message to White Hawk. Remote from any settlement of the whites, the young lady knew that the body of Dame Wolcott must be interred without the rites of Christian sepulture. Her son, her only living relative, was at a distance; and none but the rude tribes of the wilderness could aid in the sacred labor of burying the dead.
               Before night-fall, nearly every man and woman of the Mohawks had come from their village to petition Ruth for the privilege of looking on the face of their "White Mother," as they reverently called the deceased. Gravely and silently these children of the forest gathered round the form of one whom they venerated for her age, and loved for the kindness which she always extended to their tribe. It was a strange sight to Margaret, the view of their dusky features bent above the dead in silent reverence, while no wandering glance or rude action betrayed the wildness of their nature and habits.
               A grave was dug in a solitary spot of Ruth's choosing, not far removed from the block-house; and near the close of the following day, the body was borne from the building to the resting-place prepared by the hands of the savages. It was literally a burial in the wilderness. A rude bier, borne by White Hawk and one of the tribe, conveyed the remains to the place of sepulture. Margaret and Ruth walked side by side; and behind followed a long file of dusky figures. After the body was lowered in the grave, Margaret read from the prayer-book of the deceased a portion of 
                     he
                     the
                   burial service, the sweet and serious tones of her voice interrupted only by the sobs of Ruth. It was a scene of novel and striking interest. The party was enclosed amid wooded hills, save where the lake opened brilliant with the golden light of sunset. The open grave: the dark group of Indians standing near, their wild forms assuming 
                     attittudes
                     attitudes
                   of natural grace that would have attracted the eye of a painter; while the most beautiful feature of the scene was the youthful priestess, whose proud lineaments were clothed with solemnity as she performed her sacred task. When it was finished, she led Ruth from the spot, while two of the Mohawks commenced filling the grave.
               Lower sunk the sun over the water, and softer fell the light on lake and hill, as the girls walked slowly toward the block-house. To Margaret, the sudden decease of Dame Wolcott was a solemn rather than an afflicting event. But it was otherwise with Ruth; for, affectionate by nature, and having but few objects to love, she returned the cold kindness of Gilbert and his mother with sentiments of tender regard. Having never known other friends, she felt for her guardians the respect and attachment of a daughter; and the tie, strengthened by years of constant and kind intercourse, was not weakened by learning that she had no natural claim upon their affection. Margaret, she regarded with admiration for her high personal and mental endowments. She also felt a deep interest in the happiness of her newly discovered relative; but, as yet scarcely realizing their endearing tie of relationship, she could experience but little of tender, sisterly fondness. At the present moment the mind of Ruth was mournfully retracing the years of her childhood; and the constant kindness of Dame Wolcott was remembered with gratitude and grief for her death. But Margaret's thoughts were otherwise employed. She was looking to the future instead of the past, and questioning what effect the decease of the old lady would have upon her own individual prospects.
               "What is to become of us now, and what are we to do?" she exclaimed, the abruptness of the question disturbing Ruth's sad retrospections.
               "I scarcely know myself. Perhaps I can engage a Mohawk to carry the tidings of my grandmother's death to the Hudson, where I suppose my father and cousin are at present."
               "Ruth, I do, not like to hear you speak of this man as your father."
               "I have no acknowledged right to apply the title to another," she answered, with an unwonted degree of pride in her tone.
               
               "You know that I acknowledge your right, and so will our father, when you go with me to the English camp."
               Ruth stopped and gently laid her hand on the arm of her companion.
               "I may as well disclose my intentions now as at a future time," she remarked. "Margaret, my duty is plain. More than ever does Gilbert Wolcott need my regard for his comfort and happiness. Death has left his hearth dreary and desolate. Shall the child whom he has reared in a spirit of noble benevolence ungratefully desert him? There are few men who would have acted his part by the offspring of a faithless wife; and I trust there are but few who would unworthily abandon such a guardian in affliction."
               "You have no affection for me!" said Margaret, reproachfully.
               Ruth looked fixedly in her face, now flushed with excitement, as she replied—
               "I love you, Margaret; but my love for my adopted father is strengthened by time and gratitude."
               "And yet he is none attached to you; he is striving now to remove you from his charge!"
               "I know it, dear Margaret, but nevertheless, he would miss me in his affliction. He would look, perhaps with regret, for the unloved but familiar presence of poor Ruth."
               In acknowledging the claims of her sister, Miss Graham had nobly made a sacrifice of every selfish consideration. Pride, the derision of the world, every rebellious feeling had been conquered; and now that the sacrifice was made, she was grieved, and in some degree offended, that her generosity was cast back upon herself. Moreover, she possessed ardent affections, which already entered upon Ruth with fondness. Admiration and pity were united when she looked on the exquisitely delicate features, and the form rendered unsightly by deformity. But thinking that Ruth's welfare and happiness might be more readily considered when time had allowed her a period of reflection, Margaret said no more; and turning into the path that led to the old block-house, the sisters crossed the bridge and entered the low doorway just as the last gleam of sunset was reflected on the water. Stopping on the threshold, Margaret looked up the glen in the direction of the grove. The Indians had dispersed, with the exception of one tall figure gliding towards the Mohawk village, and the person of an Indian girl following the steps of the warrior. A smile flitted over the face of the watcher; for she knew that the retreating figures were White Hawk and the Wild Flower of the tribe.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               LEAVING Margaret and Ruth the sole inmates of the old block-house, let us return to the stirring scenes which were occurring in the vicinity of the Hudson. The British continued to advance into the heart of the country; but as yet no regular engagement had resulted in their conquest or defeat. A desultory kind of warfare, however, was conducted by detached parties, and not until about the middle of September did the English cross the Hudson.
               In a skirmish between a party of the marksmen and the Americans, the former made prisoners of a young American officer and one of his company, who appeared to belong to no particular military grade as he did not wear the colors of those with whom he served. However, there were some among the marksmen who recognized the person of the prisoner; and on searching him, papers and memoranda were discovered which proved him a spy in the employ of the Americans.
               A reputed cow-boy, he had driven his beeves to the English camp, and along with the money received, he had, by some means, gleaned important intelligence. The fortune of war had indeed placed Wolcott and his nephew in the power of the enemy; and, exasperated at the deception practised by the former, the British doomed him to immediate execution.
               Meanwhile, Wolcott did not plead for pardon; but he asked for a reprieve of his sentence, that he might have time to confer with Colonel Graham, who was then at one of the distant out-posts, where a portion of his men were stationed.
               The disappearance of Margaret had occasioned much anxiety and alarm; and hitherto the efforts of her father to trace her concealment had been attended with no success. Consequently, when the prisoner intimated that he could give intelligence respecting the young lady, a messenger was dispatched for the Colonel, while Wolcott, with Oliver, was put in the charge of Duncan Gleig, who received orders to shoot either of his captives if they attempted to escape. The place assigned for their confinement was a strongly built log hut, slightly in the rear of the camp; and thither they were taken after having been disarmed.
               The high proud spirit of Oliver Wingate was sensitively alive to the humiliations that attended his loss of liberty; and, on entering the hut, he cast a glance over its massive walls in the hope of detecting some avenue of escape.
               He could observe none, however; and stretching himself on the floor, he indulged in a reverie of no very pleasant nature. Wolcott sat in a corner, his arms folded across his breast, with the appearance of a man resigned to the decree of fate, however hard to endure that decree might be. The entrance of a soldier bringing a jug of ale and a loaf of course bread disturbed the musings of the Lieutenant.
               "'A spare diet breeds no distempers,' I've heard said," he remarked; "and in good faith, friend, you seem particularly tender of our stomachs. Now our fellows, who can fight better than forage, would provide wholesome food for a poor devil, e'en though he might wear a red coat. But up my dear uncle, let us fall too! For this unsavory crust will grow none the sweeter for the keeping."
               
               "Belike your rebel jaws would choose to break their fast on a round of beef out from the quarters of one of a spying cow-boy's fat oxen; but mind ye; the meat has been safely stowed in our English stomachs; and soon we'll give the drover of these same beasts a handsome recompense."
               "He has received that already, my worthy beef-eater, British mouths are always open for indulgence in beastly gluttony; and when they are filled to repletion, a cool head and practised hand can play on their dull perceptions till the tongue is loosened. Is it not so, uncle?"
               "Forbear, Oliver," said Wolcott, gravely. "This bandying of offensive words can result in no good."
               "Hum! nor harm either; for I shall not be shot, neither will you die with a rope round your neck, that is, if you pull hard enough on the right rope, when this stiff old Graham comes. But leave us, good keeper, to the enjoyment of your rich bounty; and in proof of my friendly feelings, permit me to drink your health as you take leave."
               Thus saying, with an air of drollery, the young Lieutenant bowed to the Englishman, and raising the jug, he applied its mouth to his lips—taking a long draught, as the soldier, with a grin of good humor, retired.
               Scarcely had the man departed when the door again opened to admit the person of Duncan Gleig. As he entered, Wolcott rose up but showed no signs of recognition. Oliver glanced at the intruder, and pleased with the noble bearing of the Scott, he said courteously—"We doubtless stand in the relation of captive and guard, as you appear before us fully armed."
               Duncan bowed an affirmative.
               "Since our acquaintance is destined to be thus intimate, I beg leave to ask your name. With both the name and fame of your company I am familiar, having more than once fought hand to hand with Fraser's gallant marksmen."
               "Your comrade can give you the information you seek regarding my name," he replied.
               "Hah! Then you are known to my fellow captive?"
               "So well known that I regret the occasion of my present office. There is no pleasure in discovering a traitor in—I will not say in a friend, but in a person of whom you could wish better things."
               "From the events of our previous intercourse, what better could you expect of me?" asked Wolcott, looking fixedly at the young man. "Certainly the character in which I have appeared to you is far from honorable, using the sense in which men estimate honor."
               "True!" said Gleig, gravely. "But in your actions I have fancied that I could read the perversion of a character originally noble."
               "Listen," said the Lieutenant, earnestly. "That which you term perversion is the indifference which arises from despair. Secret grief has robbed my dear uncle of hope and ambition; therefore he lends himself to acts that seem unworthy, but which may result in the good of his fellow-men. He is a patriot; and though your principles are loyal, you must acknowledge that no mean or selfish motive could have urged him to risk his life in a service so dishonorable as that of a spy. Not for wealth or honors has he followed a calling usually termed degrading; but a spirit of patriotism guided his choice, and sustained him in his hazardous undertaking. Is it not so?" he added, turning to his relative with a look of blended sympathy and affection.
               "I have prayed and toiled in secret for the welfare of this oppressed land. Other recompense than the satisfaction of knowing that my services have not been all in vain I neither expect nor desire; and when my time comes, I can lay down a life that presents but few enjoyments, with resignation. It matters but little with me whether a rope or musket-ball deprives me of existence, or whether I am spared for the remainder of my days to die at last a natural death."
               "Heaven preserve me from this indifference to life! And may heaven keep me also from acting dishonorably under false impressions of right," exclaimed the young Scot, as he leaned on his rifle and looked at Wolcott with an expression of curiosity. Then as other thoughts rushed into his mind, he added—
               "But you may yet atone for an act of outrage. I have conversed with Lindsay, the servant of Margaret Graham, and learned the shameful incidents of that young lady's abduction. Surely, your perverted sense of justice will not lead you to leave an innocent girl in captivity, now that death will soon put an end to your machinations. You dare not appear before your Maker with your sin against Margaret unrepented of; and only by restoring her to her father, ere you are led to execution, can you atone for your guilt."
               "Are you quite sure that my uncle will be hanged?" said Oliver, sarcastically. "You speak as positively as though the rope was now round his neck, and you were about to perform the pleasant task of launching him from the scaffold."
               "There is neither hope nor mercy for a convicted spy," said Duncan, gravely; "therefore there should be no delay in a matter that concerns the liberty and happiness of an injured person. The freedom of Margaret Graham ought now to be regarded on in the light of a solemn duty."
               "The young lady bears a charmed name which has already bought a reprieve for my uncle. Now, if I occupied his place the girl should serve to keep the halter at a comfortable distance for a longer time. You manifest a surprising degree of interest in her fate, my friend," he added, inquiringly.
               "An interest shared by every friend of Miss Graham, for none possess higher claims to respect and admiration."
               "I shall not take the trouble to dispute her claims with so gallant a knight. Yet I will e'en say that she has a woman's gift of speech; and I doubt if even Xantippe could rain such a tempest of scornful fire on the head of her sage lord as this maiden is wont to pour forth. But a truce to the high-bred vixen; and now, my worthy guard, I am going to turn into my quarters for the night, and sorry quarters they are, at the best. But a soldier, much less a prisoner, has no choice of lodgings."
               Thus saying, the Lieutenant stretched his athletic figure against the side of the hut, only once raising his head to warn the sentinel not to give an alarm if he heard a shout of triumph from his captive; "for, since seeing so many red-coats scattering like frightened partridges through the woods at Bennington," said Oliver, "I am apt to fancy in my dreams that I hear brave old Stark bringing up his men to the charge."
               
               With this caution, he composed himself to slumber, and his example was soon followed by Wolcott.
               Both prisoners had passed a day of unusual fatigue and hardship, and consequently their repose was sound and unbroken. Oliver resigned himself to sleep, with the flattering hope that time would effect his own release through an exchange of prisoners; and seldom permitting gloomy anticipations to cloud his sanguine spirit, he hoped that fortune would yet favor his uncle.
               Wolcott's nature was more given to reflection. He fully realized the danger of his situation, and knew that nothing could now purchase the pardon of the English. Still, the object for which he had labored, and for which he had carried Margaret into captivity, might prolong his life for a few days if his interview with Colonel Graham resulted favorably to his purposes.
               Meanwhile, Duncan indulged in the train of thought which the conversations had originated till the approach of midnight, when a fellow-soldier came to relieve him in his watch over the sleeping Americans.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               ON the afternoon of the day succeeding the capture of Wolcott and Oliver Wingate, a handsomely mounted officer halted before the log hut, and throwing the bridle over a projection of the rough wall, he entered the building.
               The Lieutenant had been removed a few hours previously to the quarters assigned to the prisoners taken in battle; therefore, none but the spy and Duncan Gleig, who had resumed his watch, were present when the officer appeared. No greeting, either friendly or hostile, passed between the captive and the visitor; but the watchful eyes of the guard noted that Wolcott retreated, almost imperceptibly, till he had gained the furthest corner of the hut.
               It seemed to Duncan as if secret and ungovernable feelings of dread and detestation influenced the movement. However, he had no time for further observations; for, with a haughty wave of the hand, the officer signed to the door; and, raising his hat to his superior as he passed, Gleig left the room.
               For a few minutes both men remained silent. Memory was active in the mind of each; for to each the past presented images of sorrow and shame.
               "We love not the company of each other, John Graham," said Wolcott, at last, "therefore it is best that our conference be brought to a speedy close."
               "I certainly have no desire to prolong it. Tell me, whither you have conveyed my daughter Margaret, and I will immediately retire."
               "The secret is mine still. Grant me certain conditions, and she shall be restored to you—deny them, and I swear to you never to reveal her present abode."
               "The old stipulation, doubtless," answered the officer. "You intend to force me to acknowledge the right of one whom I will willingly maintain secretly, but will never bring to my house to breed coldness between myself and Margaret. The happiness of this young person does not require the publishing of my youthful offences to the world. Her welfare will be as surely established elsewhere as beneath my roof, where she would be an object of reproach to me, and of dishonor to my high-minded Margaret. But all this I have urged upon you before."
               "And the repetition avails nothing. But know that ere this time Margaret Graham has probably received the knowledge which you seek to hide. She has met with the child whom you basely disown. You know the character of this daughter of your affections, and can judge whether she will vindicate your course of action. You have called her high-minded—will she regard as honorable your shrinking from the performance of a moral obligation?"
               The austere features of Graham showed agitation. He felt, intuitively, that Margaret would not suffer pride to triumph over duty; and, deep as would be the humiliation, she would own the right of her illegitimate sister to parental protection.
               While he yet pondered upon the question, Wolcott continued, in tones of imposing solemnity—
               "In that day when the actions of all men shall be judged, your sins will be arraigned against you. Before a holy tribunal you shall meet the sinless child of guilt—the offspring of iniquity; and the retribution of an offended God shall be dealt to you in tenfold measure for your abandonment of this poor child. In that day, also, God shall judge 'twixt thee and me, and another who long ago laid down the burden of a wretched existence. I cannot speak her name," he added, his features convulsed with emotions too powerful for control, "but she will appear with her sin-born child, a witness against you. Reflect and repent, John Graham! This is my last appeal to your base and brutish nature, for death, which will soon deprive Ruth of a protector, will also close the lips that now entreat you, in eternal silence!"
               The cold, proud spirit of the officer was touched as he listened to the solemn adjuration. The barrier of worldly pride which he had raised between himself and his disowned child was broken; and his own baseness stood forth in strong contrast with the generosity of Wolcott, who had readied the offspring of a faithless wife, and with the forbearing rather than forgiving spirit of a Christian, had left the requital of his wrongs to the justice of his Maker.
               "You address me in solemn terms, and I consent to your requirement, if Margaret will join me in receiving this girl to our home," he answered, the words coming in slow and husky accents, as if forced up from the lowest recess of his rebellious heart.
               "Have you aught more to say?" he added, looking towards the door as if longing to escape from the presence of one whom he had deeply injured.
               "Yes. I know your influence with Burgoyne, and would have you obtain a reprieve of my sentence for the space of three weeks. 'Tis with reluctance I ask of you the smallest favor, yet to none other can I apply in hope."
               "You have miscalculated my influence with General Burgoyne," he answered, looking disturbed. "You know something of the rigor of military law, which seldom grants a reprieve to the condemned. But I will urge your petition with our Chief, if you will impart the plea wherewith I must present it."
               
               "Tell him that I have an aged mother, whose blessing I must receive ere I am led forth to execution. The infirmities of age weigh heavily upon my beloved parent; yet I know that she will exert the failing powers of nature to see me once more."
               "I am sorry for you, Gilbert Wolcott, but truth compels me to say that your plea will avail nothing with the General. He will never relax the severity of martial punishment in favor of a condemned spy, unless weightier reasons for reprieve are brought before him."
               "Hah! Then will I give you grounds for delay which will compel you to urge the petition through personal interest. Obtain a respite of my sentence for the time mentioned, or remain in ignorance of the fate of your daughter. I will never reveal the place of her confinement, if Burgoyne denies me the blessing of my aged mother!"
               "Then must we search for her; and though the step may be attended with difficulties and delay, we shall eventually discover the prison to which you have conveyed her. Wolcott, I have never sought to deny or palliate my injury towards you; but the cruel abduction of my daughter equalizes the wrongs inflicted upon each other. Nay, more than that; for if I was instrumental in making your hearth desolate, I resorted to no violent means, such as you have used in depriving me of my child."
               The gloomy expression of Wolcott's face changed to passionate rage, and he raised his hand as if about to strike his persecutor to the earth. But restraining the impulse he sunk into his seat, gazing at Graham with a look of unutterable scorn and loathing.
               "Give me back the wife of my youth, innocent and unpolluted as when your devilish arts betrayed her!" he exclaimed. "Ye cannot do it, for the grave holds her in its cold embrace! Death has sealed her eyes in eternal sleep, and one, inexorable as death, guards your captive child! John Graham, ye may search for her, and ye will not find her. I have given her into the custody of a stern guardian, who, sooner than betray his trust would bury his hatchet in her brain, and lay her lifeless at his feet!"
               "My God! The savages possess my child!" exclaimed the officer, in horror.
               "And never will resign their captive but by my orders! Obtain my reprieve, and the same messenger that bears the tidings of my fate to a beloved mother shall conduct both your daughters to the British camp in safety. But fail in petitioning a respite for me, and I swear to you by her memory that no word of mine shall effect the release of Margaret Graham. Remember the murder of McCrea's child, and save yourself from the agony of a similar bereavement," he concluded, impressively.
               The recent bloody fate of Jane McCrea, the victim of savage barbarity, filled the mind of the officer with horrible apprehensions.
               She was a captive—in the power of the same cruel keepers that confined his own beautiful Margaret. They had disputed the possession of their ill-starred victim, and the quarrel ended in the murder of the maiden!
               This shocking event occurred but a few days previously; and the allusion to poor Jane McCrea's death had the effect that Wolcott desired.
               Graham rushed from the hut, mounted his horse, and rode furiously towards the quarters of the General; while Duncan, who had remained without the building during the Colonels visit, returned to his post.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               COLONEL GRAHAM had been gone from the hut but a short time before orders were brought to Duncan Gleig to conduct the prisoner to the presence of Burgoyne.
               Guarded by the marksman and a fellow-soldier, Wolcott was led to the General's quarters, a large tent standing nearly in the centre of the camp.
               The Chief of the British army was alone, with the exception of Graham and Major Holbrook, who was present by the solicitation of the alarmed Colonel.
               When Wolcott was introduced, Burgoyne surveyed him with a stern aspect, as if his glance had power to enforce submission with the most hardened reprobate. But no trace of emotion disturbed the grave composure of the prisoner's features.
               "Gilbert Wolcott, you are convicted of being a spy in the service of the rebels," he exclaimed, drawing towards him several loose papers that lay on the table—the proofs of the other's secret profession.
               "You have rightly named the nature of my service. I do serve with the Americans in the character of a spy, or secret agent."
               "And you confess your guilt with a bold front, methinks."
               "That is because I attach no dishonor to my employment, General Burgoyne, and because silence respecting the character of my office can avail nothing with those papers to witness against me."
               "Traitor and rebel as you confess yourself, you can expect no clemency from the laws which you have offended. The boon of life is never granted to one guilty of your misdeeds."
               "Have I asked pardon of you?" he exclaimed, looking with haughty firmness in the face of his interlocutor.
               "You have petitioned for a reprieve."
               "And you are doubtless aware of the grounds of my petition. If you are not, the officer on your left can enlighten you."
               "I have heard from Colonel Graham that you are the villain who basely abducted his child, and that you would now make her restoration to her friends the means of prolonging your life. The rigor of martial justice cannot be abated in behalf of a traitor. Wolcott, your crime demands the severest penalty of the law, and forthwith you will be led to execution. Speak, wretched man, while you have yet time, and atone for your injury to a noble maiden by relieving the anguish of her father."
               Burgoyne spoke in tones of commanding authority; but, unmoved by the command, the prisoner remained silent, looking steadily on the disturbed features of Graham. No trace of pity or remorse could be discovered in the calm seriousness of his expression.
               "I bid you speak. Where have you conveyed Margaret Graham?" exclaimed the General, in a raised voice.
               "You ask in vain. The secret dies with me," he answered, the solemn sweetness of his remarkably fine tones giving a harmonious echo to the harsher accents of Burgoyne.
               "Wretch! We will wrench the secret from your lips in spite of your obduracy."
               "How? By torture? These limbs are at your service," he added, stretching forth his arms; "ye may forget that ye are men, and like the savages sear the flesh of your victim with hot iron; but the secret of Margaret Graham's fate no torment could extract. Once for all, Gen. Burgoyne, you know my terms—a reprieve, or immediate execution with the abode of the maiden undiscovered. He can tell you that the settled purpose of my soul cannot be shaken," continued Wolcott, pointing to Graham.
               The General turned to his brother officer, and beheld his austere features convulsed with mental anguish, as he thought of the mystery and peril that surrounded his beloved daughter. Sympathizing in his anxiety and grief, Burgoyne signed to Graham to follow as he led the way to a remote corner of the tent.
               Meanwhile, Wolcott remained to all appearance unconcerned whether their private conference ended favorably to his hopes or otherwise. His guards stood on either side, silent and grave, while Maj. Holbrook, impatient at the restraint which the presence of his chief had imposed on his tongue, now walked about the tent muttering unconnected sentences to himself. The eloquence of the officer was a subject of merriment to the wags of the British camp; and when he stopped before the culprit, clearing his voice with a sonorous "Ahem!" Duncan caught the eye of his comrade glancing over the prisoner's head with arch and significant meaning.
               "The penal code contains many well-digested laws for the infliction of punishment upon the various degrees of crime," began the worthy Major, fixing his large, dull blue eyes on the face of his victim. "In ancient times, before civilization began its illuminated, or rather its luminous, march through the eastern hemisphere, there were no statutes for the preservation of good order in communities, and therefore there were no laws to be violated. All men were alike barbarians, in those dark ages, and crime, rapine, and murder stalked over the earth, dealing devastation to all mankind. This I call the era of lawless retaliation; for, as I have previously mentioned, there were no laws to be broken. Do you comprehend my remarks?" he asked, stopping to take breath.
               Wolcott bowed, as he cast a glance of wonder and inquiry on the frank countenance of Gleig.
               "In addressing the vulgar ear, a man of enlightened parts must reduce a flowing and polished style to meet the understanding of his hearer; therefore, my poor man, I will endeavor so to speak that you shall comprehend the weight of my argument, which, if correctly understood, will sweep a torrent of conviction over your darkened mind. I come now to the second era, in which man begun to see the necessity of establishing edicts for the suppression of crime; therefore a crude set of laws were formed, which executed summary punishment upon the criminal; and slight as was this check upon the increase of evil actions, it gave promise of the approach of the next and last era, when crime in its different degrees would be rightly classed, and the proper penalty annexed thereunto. Thus, we have now the trial by jury; and where a difference exists among the jurors, the wisdom of the court decides that they consult together on fasting stomachs till the fear of starvation compels them to a decision. In regard to the military code, which takes cognizance of your being criminal as a spy, I will speak, after having sufficiently discussed your offence against civil law, in abducting, seizing, and forcibly conveying into captivity the person of"—
               Here the learned disquisition of the expounder was interrupted by the approach of the General and Graham; and, reluctant to leave his subject, Holbrook exclaimed—
               "Your pardon, gentlemen; but I entreat that you grant me time to finish my elucidations to the prisoner. I doubt not that I can bring him to acknowledge his crime against Miss Graham; and having explained to his brutish perceptions the origin and necessity of a common law, I will proceed, with your permission, to the examination of his particular crime."
               "Nay, my dear Major. Your argument is unnecessary, since I have resolved to grant the prisoner a reprieve on condition of his restoring the unfortunate lady to her father," said the General. Then turning to Wolcott, he added—
               "You hear my decision. In consideration of the feelings of Col. Graham, I will delay your execution for the period of three weeks. Speak now, and disclose the abode of the young lady."
               "My captive is in the custody of rude but faithful friends," he answered. "Leagues of unbroken forest lie between your broad Hudson and the great lakes of the Indian country. Seek her among our vast Western waters, where none but the foot of the redskin treads the paths of the wilderness, and there she may be found."
               "And there will I go in search of her!" eagerly exclaimed Holbrook. "Gen. Burgoyne, I pray you to grant me leave of absence, and also permission to detach a part of my men from the regiment for the safe conduct of the lady hither, and to awe the savages while penetrating into their barbarous country. Col. Graham, I trust, will offer no objection to my engaging in a service so closely connected with the welfare of his daughter, knowing as he does the interest which I feel in her safe return."
               Before either the General or Graham could reply, a contemptuous laugh broke from Wolcott's lips.
               "This chivalrous knight and worthy expounder of the law would follow a bootless chase, were he to proceed in the manner proposed," said the prisoner; "for with the appearance of armed soldiers, the jealousy and suspicions of the Indians would be aroused, and they would immediately retreat with their captive, if, indeed, they spared her the fate of the murdered child of McCrea."
               "What can be done?" exclaimed Graham, with renewed apprehension.
               "Listen to the counsel of one who has acquired, in a long intercourse with the Indians, a thorough knowledge of their character," said Wolcott. "To no armed force will these faithful guards resign their charge, but a single messenger, with the private signals which I can give him for a passport, may journey unarmed into their territory, and return in safety with this maiden and another who must also be conducted hither."
               "What are the signals?" asked the eager Holbrook. "I am as ready to undertake the adventure alone as at the head of my regiment, if Miss Graham's release can be as well effected."
               "Permit me to say, that, notwithstanding your rank and supposed courage, you are in every respect unqualified for the undertaking. The grave and taciturn Indian despises, next to cowardice, undue loquacity. I require a different messenger—one with a cool head and silent tongue, who will be faithful to my instructions."
               "The safety of the lady demands our earnest consideration," remarked Burgoyne. "What think you, Graham? I am of the opinion that an armed escort should be sent to protect Miss Graham on so hazardous a passage; and although we need the service of every man under my command at the present moment, I will cheerfully follow the advice of our gallant Holbrook, and detach a party to conduct the lady to the camp. But I leave the matter to your decision; for, anxious as every brave man must be for the safe return of Miss Graham, none can feel your parental solicitude."
               As the General ceased, Graham bent his glance on the prisoner with a look of doubt and uncertainty. Approaching Wolcott, he said in a low and troubled voice—
               "Remember that the welfare of another, to whose fate you cannot be indifferent, is now involved in Margaret's well-being. Can a single attendant form a sufficient guard for these helpless females?"
               "Listen," said the prisoner, addressing Burgoyne, and drawing back from Graham as if there was contagion in his presence. "Permit me to choose my messenger, and impart to him directions respecting his route and intercourse with the Indians, and I pledge you the word of a doomed man that the maiden shall receive no harm from the savages. Act in accordance with your own opinion, and I will not answer for her safety, e'en though your entire force march to her rescue."
               "And whom would you entrust with so important a mission?" said Burgoyne, haughtily.
               "One who is already known to the chief who has Margaret Graham in custody, and one, too, whose courage and honor you can interrogate, since he is in our midst. I mean this Scottish youth—my keeper."
               All eyes turned upon Duncan with looks of interest and inquiry, while the young marksman's expression of surprise betrayed that Wolcott's announcement was unexpected to himself as the others.
               "Duncan Gleig! Dost thou remember meeting with a savage some months past, who led thee to me, when I gave to you a message for Col. Graham?" continued Wolcott.
               The youth bowed.
               "The Indian was White Hawk, a chief of the Mohawk tribe, and he is the guardian of the maiden. Speak, young man, if you consent to bring the captive to the British camp. You are the only person known to White Hawk as having previously sustained friendly relations with his white brother, and to you, as the friend of Long Knife, will he extend the rude civilities of his tribe."
               "If these noble gentlemen think me worthy of the trust, I will pledge the honor of a Scotsman and soldier that their confidence shall not be betrayed," said Duncan, in a bold but respectful tone.
               Burgoyne turned an inquiring gaze on Graham, who muttered in the General's ear—
               "I believe the prisoner has made a right choice. This ambitious youth would fain have courted favor with Margaret some time past, and his foolish liking for the girl will insure a double care of her safety."
               "Ay, and he is favorably known to her savage keeper," answered the other, in an under-tone. "Your best course is to engage him; for Holbrook, though brave, and skilled in martial operations, would never answer to treat with those redskinned devils."
               "When relieved in your charge of the prisoner, come to my quarters, and we will speak further upon this subject," said Graham to the marksman man. "If after having seen Capt. Fraser, I find that you are qualified for the service, I may engage you to guide my daughter on her return."
               "And another also—remember your promise!" exclaimed Wolcott, resolved not to lose sight of the reluctant acknowledgment which he had wrung from Graham in respect to Ruth.
               Gen Burgoyne signed to the guards to remove their prisoner; and as they obeyed the signal, Maj. Holbrook, discontented with the turn of affairs, entered into an eloquent disquisition concerning the history and character of the aborigines; then, gradually convening his ideas, he at last came to the point, stating "that perils by land and water, savages and wild beasts, would menace the safety of Margaret; and a detachment of brave soldiers only could rescue her from these manifold dangers."
               Col. Graham listened with the attention which he always bestowed upon the sage remarks of the rich baronet in perspective; but convinced that Wolcott had given good counsel, he did not forego his original resolve of following the prisoner's advice, which appointed Duncan the messenger to the Mohawks.
               Elated with his prospects, the young Scot conducted his charge back to the hut; and leaving him in the custody of his comrade, he bent his steps toward the quarter of the camp where stood the tent of Col. Graham.
               Remembering that Duncan had formerly made Margaret the object of his humble regard, the officer could not divest his manner of a certain degree of haughtiness, even while entreating the youth to be vigilant and faithful to his trust. Frankly and boldly Duncan pledged himself to the other's requirements; and they separated, Graham pleased with the courage and intelligence of the messenger, although regretting that he must be brought into so intimate companionship with his high-bred daughter.
               From Wolcott, Duncan received every direction necessary to the release of Margaret, and her safe conduct to the camp. Long intercourse with the Mohawks had given him a knowledge of their wild nature; and at the same time he had acquired an important influence in their councils, where the Long Knife, as he was universally called, was listened to with respect.
               "You spoke of another in connection with Miss Graham as the companion of her journey," said Gleig, recollecting the allusion of Wolcott.
               "I did," he answered. "With Miss Graham you will find an aged female, my venerable mother, and also a youthful maiden. The latter must accompany your return to the camp; and my beloved mother also, if the infirmities of age will permit her to endure the hardships of the journey. Tell her of my fate, and say that I pray for her last blessing ere I am called to resign a life which has been marked with many sorrows. The Mohawks will furnish you with horses for the females; and if you follow my instructions, White Hawk will immediately resign his captive, though he may see fit to attend you in person to the English camp. If he manifests such intention, make no opposition for you may find him a necessary guide through the trackless wilderness. Moreover, an Indian chief in his own country likes not resistance to his will from a white stranger."
               Duncan promised implicit obedience to the directions given for the safe fulfillment of his mission. At dawn on the succeeding morning he left the camp, taking a circuitous path to the northward, that he might avoid the outposts and scouting parties of the Americans.
               The hopes of our young adventurer flew beyond the present to one happy event which the not distant future opened to his mental view.
               The approaching event which so occupied his thoughts was the meeting with Margaret, and the long journey in which she would depend wholly upon his services; her stern and haughty father could not interrupt these days of close and necessarily intimate companionship, nor could Holbrook appear, to prosecute his ridiculous mode of wooing. Duncan felt that a fate had cast in his way a fortunate chance of gaining Margaret's ear nor should it pass unimproved.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               DUNCAN GLEIG proved no laggard on his mission; and with such haste did he proceed, that the 10th of October found him approaching the camp on his return, together with Margaret, Ruth, and White Hawk. Notwithstanding his utmost care, the females had suffered severe hardships over the toilsome road, continued storms adding to the fatigue of their passage through forest paths. Anxiety regarding the fate of Wolcott rendered Ruth insensible to suffering; and sympathizing in the poor girl's solicitude for her adopted father, Margaret uttered no complaint, but nobly strove to cheer the sinking spirits of her sister. Thus, three days before the period assigned for Wolcott's execution, the weary party came in view of the head-quarters of the British.
               As they rounded the base of a hill, the camp was in sight; and the eager glance of Duncan noted that a change of some importance had been effected during his absence. He saw that their old ground had been abandoned by the English, and that their present quarters were on the heights above the river. Guiding his horse to the top of the bank, he looked earnestly toward the hills occupied by the royal army, and then suffered his gaze to turn in the direction of the enemy, while Margaret and Ruth anxiously watched his movements.
               The practiced eye of the young soldier instantly comprehended the present state of hostilities; and descending the declivity, he joined Margaret with an expression of care clouding his open brow.
               "What have you discovered?" asked the young lady, quick to note the change that had visited his features.
               "There has been a regular engagement, if my observation is correct."
               "And the result!" she exclaimed, impatiently. "It cannot be that our gallant soldiers are defeated! God forbid such a termination to the campaign!"
               "Probably there has been no decisive victory on either side; but I much fear that our poor fellows had the worst of it, since the army is withdrawn to the heights. However, I cannot regret that there has been a regular contest; for in military operations 'discretion is not always the better part of valor'; and acting on the defensive continually will never aid our junction with Gen. Howe, nor provide rations for our poor soldiers."
               "How! Is the army poorly provisioned?"
               "We shall doubtless find it to be so, unless stores have been brought in since I left; and enclosed as the British are on every side by the enemy, it is serious work to victual several thousand men."
               "I return at an unfortunate moment," she answered, striving to banish gloomy thoughts with a light remark, "and if I am really menaced with starvation in the English camp, I will e'en turn rebel, and go over to the rebel Gates. Like Esau, I would sell my birthright, or rather my loyalty, for a mess of pottage."
               "I fear that you will not be the only Esau who deserts us, if the army is endangered by famine."
               Margaret made no reply, but continued to look eagerly forward to the spot where her journey would terminate, while Ruth and the Mohawk pressed on in advance of herself and Duncan.
               Suddenly the young soldier turned to her and laid a hand upon her bridle.
               "Our journey is near an end," he said. "Miss Graham, before we separate—you to proud and admiring friends, I to my arduous duties—permit me for the last time to introduce the subject which you have interdicted."
               "No more! Duncan Gleig, you are ungenerous! What you would say becomes not you to speak, nor me to hear," she replied, in agitated but not haughty accents.
               "One word, dear Miss Graham. In all things I acknowledge myself unworthy of your regard; but give me a single hope, the faintest token of affection, and it shall be to me a beacon-light, a blessed ray, cheering me on in pursuit of fame. Withhold this precious light, and you take from me all ambition. With no aim in view, the struggle for military honor is indeed a joyless, hopeless labor."
               "It is out of my power to extend such a beacon to you as you ask," she answered, gravely; "and no truly high-minded man would suffer a woman's smile to discourage honorable ambition. I wish you well, Duncan—nay, more, I feel an interest in your fortunes; but more, I cannot, must not say."
               "Then, would to Heaven we had never met!" he exclaimed, bitterly. "Why have you ever shown me favor? Why did you make me proud and happy by the bestowal of the diamond some months since, and why did you grant me those precious interviews, in which your look and tone sometimes softened to tenderness? Margaret Graham!" he added, almost sternly, "you have stooped from your high rank to love an humble soldier! Deny it not! Nay, the denial would be in vain, for I have read your heart. Mate with an equal, if you will, the witless Holbrook, or another; yet through all your wedded life you will remember the poor marksman with unholy regret; unholy, because his memory will be a sin against your marriage vow, and you will think of him with regret, because pride cannot crush the strong affections of the heart."
               The proud spirit of Margaret was subdued before the impetuous reproaches of her companion. Always respectful and humbly devoted to her wishes, he had never in their previous intercourse shown that his nature possessed elements kindred to her own passionate yet noble disposition. But the past moment had revealed a new and not unpleasing view of his character, although she felt resentment at the defiant tone he had assumed. For some distance they rode on in silence; then Duncan turned again to the maiden, exclaiming in a calmer tone—
               
               "Disappointment has led me to use unbecoming language to you, Miss Graham. I crave your pardon, and own that you would be fully justified in driving me from your sight. I shall soon resign you to the care of your honored father, and—we shall meet no more. Say that you forgive me, and I shall less deeply reproach myself for the folly of which I have been guilty in aspiring to your hand."
               "Duncan I will never marry against the will of my father, neither shall his command ever cause me to give my hand where I cannot my heart," she said, in a sad and serious voice.
               "How am I to interpret your remarks?" he said, glancing keenly in her face.
               "In whatever way you please. Interpret it as a sign of pardon for your late rude and angry speech, if you choose."
               "Let us not separate without coming to a full understanding," said Duncan, wheeling his horse directly before Margaret, thus compelling her to stop. "I am to interpret your remarks as I please," he continued. "I pray you tell me if I may strive for the consent of Col. Graham, with any hope that his daughter will listen to my suit if her father permits my attentions? In other words, shall I join in the race for fame, hoping that the future contains the possibility of winning your love?"
               Margaret extended her hand, which was passionately pressed to the lips of the young soldier ere it was resigned.
               "Now that we understand each other, let us on, and overtake Ruth and the Mohawk," she said, gaily; and striking her horse, she cantered along the path before the admiring gaze of the Scot, till she drew rein beside Ruth.
               A short time brought the party into the midst of the camp; and leaving the females in the care of Lindsay and Margaret's old nurse, Duncan sought the quarters of his superior officer, to report his return to his regiment. His next duty was to find Col. Graham, whom Margaret was anxious to meet after a long separation. While hastening through the camp in search of the Colonel, he found himself followed by White Hawk. Stopping, he asked the Indian why he pursued him thus, at the same moment pointing towards the part of the camp occupied by the red warriors.
               "Where is my white brother lodged? White Hawk seeks the tent of the Long Knife," was the reply.
               "Hah! they will not admit you to the prisoner without a pass. But come with me, and I will see if I can obtain permission for you to visit your white brother."
               Thus saying, he hastened on; and learning that Graham was at the quarters of Burgoyne, he turned his steps thitherward, and gained ready admittance to the presence of the Commander-in-Chief.
               Meantime, the Mohawk waited his reappearance without; and ere long Duncan came forth with Col. Graham.
               "Here is your pass," said the former. "Wolcott is lodged in a tent in a rear, near where yonder flag waves over that cluster of trees. Inquire for him there, and show this paper to the guard."
               With a grave inclination of the head, the Indian took the scroll and glided away in the direction pointed out, when Graham signed him to follow, as he led the way to a spot where their voices could not be heard by the cluster of men stationed near the tent of the General.
               "Before setting out for the Mohawk country, you refused to name the compensation you expected to receive," said the officer. "Name it now, and forthwith the sum shall be paid over to you."
               "I want no recompense," said the Scot hastily.
               "You want no recompense?" replied the other, incredulously. "If not for money, allow me to ask your motive in going on this service?"
               "My motives are nothing that can concern Col. Graham, if the mission is accomplished to his satisfaction," said Duncan, with an air of manly dignity.
               "If you positively reject a reward, I shall as positively insist on knowing your reasons for such rejection," said the officer, haughtily. "Further, if your motives were worthy an honorable man, you would feel no reluctance in openly revealing them."
               "In owning that I went not for hire, I am none ashamed to confess; further, that I did go for love of a noble maiden," said the young soldier, manfully. "You have extracted my secret, and I see that it is offensive to your pride; but remember that I spoke only by your command."
               "What are you, that you should dare aspire to the love of my high-bred daughter?" exclaimed the angry man. "Answer me, fellow! Has your senseless infatuation led you to breath aught of your folly in Margaret's ear?"
               "I might refuse to answer a question which is offered in terms that come not short of abusive; but I will not refuse. Col. Graham, I have stated my hopes and wishes to Margaret. Your daughter knows that to win and to become more worthy of her love, the poor marksman will strive with his lowly fortunes, and seek untiringly after honor and promotion in the royal cause. The road to martial distinction is open to me as to others, and I will win an honored name, or die in the struggle!"
               There was something elevated and noble in the face of the youthful speaker that excited admiration in the officer's mind, in spite of his angry emotions; but quelling the sentiment, he exclaimed, sternly—
               "Has Margaret been weak enough to encourage this rhapsody of a disordered brain? Speak, young man!"
               "Miss Graham is a noble, high-souled woman. She will never wed against the wishes of her father, neither shall his command ever force her to give her hand where she cannot give her heart. Such was her answer, and you may term it encouragement or otherwise, as best suits your knowledge of her character. But one word more, ere we part. Judge me according to my deserts, Col. Graham. Know that dear as Margaret is to me, I would not accept her hand against your will were she now willing to forsake her father and follow my uncertain fortunes. I am not a thief to steal from a parent's heart the most precious object of his love; yet if fate favors me in the struggle for military honors, I will openly strive, through you, to lay my laurels at your daughter's feet."
               "Your hopes of renown are visionary, barely within the compass of a possibility," said Graham, coldly; "and I may as well inform you that I have other views for Margaret. Therefore, young man, banish these aspiring fancies from your mind, and limit ambition within rational bounds. My consent to your union with my noble-reared child will never be given!"
               Little did Graham know the dark events which fate was even then preparing to weave in the web of his hitherto brilliant life, else would Duncan Gleig have received kindness where he met only with coldness. Each turned away after the officer's decision, Duncan hastening to join his comrades and the other walking onward in a musing mood to meet his daughter.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               ON the retreat of the British to the heights, after the battle of the 7th, Wolcott had been removed from his prison hut, and placed in a tent in the rear of the camp. His present quarters offered better facilities for escape than those previously occupied, hence his guard confined his limbs with cords; and thus bound did White Hawk find him on gaining admission.
               The British soldiers were reduced to half-rations, on account of the difficulty of procuring provisions, and the American prisoners fared even worse. Consequently, hunger and confinement had wrought a change in the person of the prisoner. His features were pallid and sunken, and his frame much emaciated; but he bore his privations with the equanimity of a man whose hours were nearly numbered.
               An expression of pleasure flashed over his face as a portion of the tent was raised to admit the wild figure of the Mohawk. But knowing the peculiarities of his visitor, he suffered some moments to pass in grave silence ere giving expression to his thoughts. Meanwhile, the sentinel glanced keenly from the Indian to the pass which he held forth for inspection; and then, lazily reclining on his rifle, he noted the appearance of the warlike intruder with emotions of idle curiosity.
               "White Hawk has come on a long path to see his white brother; he is welcome as water to the thirsty deer," exclaimed Wolcott, in the Indian tongue.
               A grave bend of the head was the only reply.
               "The Long Knife is doomed to die when two more suns have set," the prisoner continued, still in the language of the Mohawks. "His hours are counted; but his thoughts are much with his mother, who is also the white mother of the Mohawk tribe. Did her lips give my red brother no message for Long Knife?"
               After a moment passed in silence, the warrior bent his head upon his breast, and begun what was intended to be a recitative chant of the virtues of the deceased woman. Delicacy and regard for Wolcott's feelings led him to announce her death in this manner; and his accents were soft and plaintive as he enumerated her worthy qualities, skilfully ending the wild chant in words that signified her sudden removal from life, because the Great Spirit had need of her in the bright land of the white man's Manitou.
               "I longed for my mother's blessing," he muttered; "but now I can thank God that she is spared the grief of finding herself childless in her old age. But where is Ruth?" he exclaimed, turning in anxiety to the Indian.
               "The maiden, with the dark-eyed daughter of the English chief followed the trail of White Hawk to the great river. A young warrior of the pale faces has led my brother's captive to the lodge of her father."
               "It is well," said Wolcott, calmly. "My aged parent has gone where I shall soon follow, and the child whom we have reared will dwell with her kindred. White Hawk, my tried and trusty friend," he continued, looking with affection in the other's dusky face, "a few hours more will sever us who have been brothers since the day that I, a weary and foot sore stranger, asked the shelter of your lodge. Hearken now to my words. In the old block-house are skins and a box containing silver and wampum. To whom can Long Knife leave these stores? He gives them to his brother. They will make him the richest warrior of his tribe. Let him remember the councils of his white brother, who has asked mercy for the captives of the Mohawks. The Mohawks are a brave people; when they follow a war-path their prisoners are many as the forest leaves; but the Great Spirit gives life to the false and thieving Iroquois as well as to the brave Mohawk. He will be angry with his children if they take the life which he has given, by cruelty and torture."
               "My brother shall keep his skins and wampum," muttered the Indian, in grave accents. "He shall look on many suns, and his voice shall be heard again when our chiefs gather in council. Are his ears open? Is his spirit faint, that he sees not what is in his brother's thoughts? Let him hearken, and have trust in the words of a warrior," he added, extending his arm with the lofty pride of an Indian.
               Startled by the wild attitude assumed by the visitor, the guard turned angrily to the prisoner.
               "What means the devilish redskin?" he exclaimed. "By the way, I like not the demeanor of your savage guest over and above well, sir captive. There is treachery stamped in every line of his tawny visage, and I doubt not that he is ready for any mischief. Bid him cease his gibberish or speak in plain English, else I will kick him out of the tent for a vile Indian dog as he is."
               "Nay, moderate your anger, friend," said Wolcott, calmly. "So long as the Indian commits no offence further than speaking in the language of his tribe, you have no right to molest him. You saw that his pass allows him free ingress to this tent while I remain in it, which will not be long, at the farthest. He meditates no harm, I assure you; therefore, allow him to proceed, and you will the sooner be rid of his presence."
               "The dusky imp can understand English, I know by the ferocity of his look when I called him 'Indian dog.' Why, then, does he not speak it?"
               "If you suspect him of understanding our language, take my advice, and apply less discourteous titles to him than 'dog' and 'imp.' He is a chief among his people; therefore is he sensitive on the score of respectful treatment. Treat him civilly, and I will be answerable for his conduct."
               The muttered reply of the guard was not distinctly heard; for, raising his canteen, he took a long draught before the words had scarcely escaped his lips. Wolcott signed to the Mohawk to proceed, and composing his features into an expression of stern dignity, he continued—
               "White Hawk has counted many moons since the Iroquois bore him to their country a captive. The Iroquois are cowards. Their chiefs are women. They hide from our warriors, for they are afraid. Like wolves they stole upon your red brother, when he slept, and they carried him a prisoner from his tribe. Did White Hawk ask for life; No! He scorns the Iroquois dogs! He laughed at their tortures, and bared his head to their knives. Look!"
               And to verify his boast of courage, he uncovered his breast, displaying the marks of Iroquois barbarity, wherewith they made trial of the fortitude of their captive ere depriving him of life. As his tawny chest, crossed with innumerable scars, was thus exposed, the guard turned with a laugh to Wolcott.
               "There is a pretty jumble of seams as could be well got together," he exclaimed, "and the red-skin must have been hard set if his scars were won in fair fight. But an Indian has as many lives as a cat, and 
                     would't
                     wouldn't
                   think of dying if flayed and hacked into inch pieces." Grave and silent, the Mohawk waited till the guard ceased, and then resumed his remarks, as if the interruption had not occurred.
               "Did the Iroquois drink the blood of their captive? No; for the Long Knife came with a present of wampum and skins. The Iroquois are greedy, and they took a ransom for their prisoner. Is White Hawk blind that he sees not the bonds of his brother? Is he like the cowardly Iroquois, who steals away and leaves a friend in the power of a foe?"
               Comprehending something of the drift of the Mohawk's remarks, Wolcott hastened to undeceive him.
               "I read the thoughts of my red brother," he exclaimed; "but the English are not greedy of gain, like the Iroquois. White Hawk, all the wealth of your tribe could not purchase my ransom; therefore we will not speak of it."
               "The pale faces are children, and not warriors," he replied, contemptuously. They tie the hands of my brother with cords, but the cord can be loosened. They have built him a lodge—it covers him from the sun; but a serpent and a cunning Mohawk can creep under its folds. His eyes are dull," added the Indian, darting a glance from his own glittering orbs to the unconscious guard. "His ears cannot hear; but the Long Knife will listen for the rustle of a leaf, when a serpent winds into his lodge. Let him hearken when he hears the wolf howl, and the night-bird cry in the darkness."
               A melancholy smile flitted over the face of Wolcott as he heard the proof of the other's intention to effect his escape from confinement; yet there was but little of hope in his accent as he replied—
               "I know the courage and caution of my red brother; but there is danger in what he purposes. At sunset my guard is doubled; and often the English soldiers come hither for shelter."
               Before answering this unexpected difficulty, the Mohawk glanced at the sentinel, who was at that moment employed in examining the priming of his rifle; while the indifference with which he alternately whistled and hummed a well known march, showed that he had no suspicion of the scheme for the prisoner's escape.
               The Mohawk tongue was like a sealed book to his understanding; and as Wolcott and the Indian conversed in the language of the tribe, guarding each look and tone from aught that could excite mistrust, he manifested but little curiosity respecting the subject of conversation.
               After a secret but keen scrutiny of the guard, the Indian resumed the discourse.
               "White Hawk will bring fire-water to the lodge of his brother when the sun sets. Like wolves that come thirsty to the stream, the palefaces will drink. Their ears will be deaf, and their eyes closed. But Long Knife will know where to look for a creeping serpent," he added, suffering his dark eyes to roll over surrounding objects and rest for an instant only on a corner of the tent where a slight inequality in the ground was perceptible, rendering a secret entrance easier than where the canvass was secured to a level service.
               Though in the midst of his enemies, escape seemed possible, even practicable to the mind of Wolcott, with so cautious and effective an aid as the Mohawk. Resigned as he was to his fate, he yet experienced the desire of life which seldom deserts entirely the breast of man. He knew, also, that to refuse the proposal of his dusky friend would cause the deepest grief, surprise, and resentment; therefore he was prepared to yield to the influences which were silently tending to prolong his existence.
               Bidding White Hawk come again on the morrow to concert their final arrangements, he saw him depart; and then throwing himself on the straw allotted for his couch, he gave himself up to gloomy rather than hopeful reflections. He thought of his mother, who for many years of hardship and sorrow had been the companion of his pilgrimage. Mutual affection had strengthened the natural love that united their hearts. But where was she now? Alas! Death had removed her from the affection of her son.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               As Col. Graham drew near to his recovered child, his reflections were not altogether happy. Knowing Margaret's high spirit and generous disposition, he felt intuitively that her knowledge of Ruth's existence and subsequent history would weaken her sentiments of respect and affection for himself. He had now also to meet a full-grown daughter whom he had abandoned to fate, and of whose education, character, and person he knew comparatively nothing, save that she had grown to maturity with the marks of her mothers insane violence still distorting her figure. Painful as must be his meeting with Margaret, he felt that to see this unfortunate child of infamy would cause him yet deeper suffering. He had no affection for her, and she could feel neither regard nor reverence for him. What was she like? Whom did she resemble? Would he see in her features the likeness of the fair and frail woman whom he had lured from the sanctity of wedded life to become—what? Alas! a sinful erring creature, lost to the respect of every virtuous heart, abandoned by the upright, and at last abandoned by himself.
               Conscience reproached him bitterly, but pride was stronger than conscience; and with a secret determination to settle an annuity on Ruth, and remove her to a distance, after the execution of Wolcott, he entered the presence of Margaret.
               Guilt is always suspicious; and although Miss Graham met her father with a smile of joy, and exclamations of attachment, he fancied that her beautiful eyes beamed less affectionately upon him than previous to her discovery of the infamous secret.
               "Margaret, you are thin and pale," he said, drawing her back to look in her face. "The hardships of this unjustifiable and iniquitous captivity have worn upon you sadly."
               "I regret none of the hardship that I have undergone," she answered, gravely, as if touching upon a serious subject; "for now I can aid my beloved father in fulfilling a long-neglected duty. Henceforth I shall cheerfully share your parental care and affection with another."
               "Daughter, spare me yet a few minutes from discussing this painful subject. I cannot at this moment speak calmly of the unfortunate person who forces disgrace upon us both by appearing to publish my former guilt to the world."
               "Hush!" exclaimed Margaret, directing an anxious glance towards a certain division of the tent. Then bending forward, she said, in a low tone—"You will meet her kindly, father; you will let her abide with us, and try, at least, to love her."
               "Ay, kindly as circumstances permit, girl; but she must not remain here, a living reproach to me, an object of shame and sorrow to you. She shall have money, Margaret, all that she asks, if all my fortune goes to supply her demands. But to a distance from our home must she be removed."
               "Then she goes not alone," was replied, in low and determined tones. "Ruth is your child, and my sister. If the affection of a father is denied to the unhappy girl, then does she doubly need the love of a sister."
               "What mean you Margaret? Into what rash folly would your headstrong impulses lead you?"
               "I will cast my lot with that of my sister. What you term rash folly is a moral duty imposed upon me by conscience and justice; and I will not offend my Maker by uniting with you in oppressing one whose claims upon our kindness and love are just in the sight of Heaven."
               "Foolish girl! Have you no regard for my feelings?—no respect for my authority? Have you no pride to restrain your perverted generosity?"
               "Pride!" she exclaimed, bitterly. "Yes, I have pride, else the discovery that guilt was attached to the name of my father would not have so tortured my heart. And I have told Ruth that you were noble and generous; I have told her that our united affection should make her forget the ignominy of her birth. Alas! I cannot be so cruel as to undeceive her," she concluded, bursting into tears.
               "Do not weep, Margaret," said a tranquil voice; and turning round, both father and daughter beheld Ruth. An opening in the tent permitted the rays of sunset to steal within, and the person of the deformed girl seemed enveloped in a flood of golden light, which flickered amid her bright hair, and illuminated the spiritual loveliness of her features, till her face beamed with the beauty of an angel's face.
               "Let there be peace between you," she said, in sweet and untroubled accents.
               "Peace!" exclaimed Margaret, vehemently. "There shall never be peace between us till the veil has been removed from my father's eyes, and he sees you as you are—his own ill-used, neglected, and innocent child. Remember, Ruth, my promise to her whom you called grandmother. It was a promise made to the living, but it now belongs to the dead, and is therefore sacred. I said that you should share my home, and you shall, even if the unnatural cruelty of our father compels us to go out into the world together and earn our daily bread!"
               "I command you to be silent, ungrateful girl!" said Graham, sternly. "None shall sit in judgment on my actions, least of all the child who owes me respect and obedience. Come forward," he continued, addressing Ruth with more mildness, "and state definitely what you expect of me. I have never denied my obligations to make suitable provision for you; and more, I have repeatedly urged large sums upon your guardian for your maintenance, but he invariably rejected the money. Tell me now what you expect, what you wish."
               "I expect nothing, and I wish for nothing at your hands, save that you be reconciled to Margaret, whose generosity in my behalf overcomes her sense of daughterly respect and submission. It pains me to know that I am the cause of dissention between hearts that should be always united."
               "You have good sense, and therefore I have reason to hope that you take a rational view of our relative circumstances," said Graham. "As for Margaret, she will not have my pardon till she shows contrition for her offence. But you, Ruth—you do not think your happiness would be secured by a residence with us?"
               "Far from it, sir."
               "Your conclusions are correct. Such an association as Margaret proposes could not be otherwise than unpleasant to us all. Humiliation, coldness, and reproaches would inevitably creep into a family circle formed as ours would be. But on the contrary, you may find happiness with the fortune which I shall give you, though removed from the society of your kindred."
               The dark eyes of Margaret flashed keen reproach upon her father, as he uttered these words; but silence restrained the expression of her sense of his injustice.
               "Col. Graham, I cannot accept your bounty more than I could receive charity from the hand of a stranger," said Ruth. "We are in reality strangers; dread of each other's presence, perhaps I may call it repugnance, stands in the place of affection. Here is your child," she added, lightly touching Margaret's arm, "and amid yonder tents is my father. He is doomed to die, and I have come hither, not to claim love or kindness of you, but to look for the last time on the beloved face of Gilbert Wolcott, my father. Keep your fortune for the child of your love. Ruth needs it not, nor will she receive it."
               "This must not be. I insist upon your sharing with Margaret the wealth which I possess," he answered.
               "Nay, sir, you have no right to insist upon exercising control over my actions; but if you seek to change my present sentiments of indifference into unnatural abhorrence and resentment, then strive to make me dependent upon you. Listen. The thought of my mother awakens emotions of tender sadness. The presence of him whom for the first and last time I call my father excites a feeling that borders on dislike. I warn you not to deepen dislike to unqualified disgust by compelling me to accept your charity."
               "You will think better of this by and by, dear Ruth," said Margaret, gently.
               She was always gentle with the poor girl now; showing her the forbearance and indulgence which a mother bestows upon her sickly infant.
               "You pain me by scorning the gift of our father," she added, in tones of mild reproach.
               "Why should it pain you? I love you, Margaret, but him I cannot love. Nay, hear me, ere you censure my conduct. For one moment imagine yourself in my situation, and then say if you would accept the long-delayed charity—I can call it by no other name—of this man? You have the pride natural to your birth, beauty and expectations. I have the pride that is inseparable from the circumstances of my existence. We are both proud, my sister, each in a different way; and dependence on your father would be the bitterest drop in Ruth's cup of affliction. I will say no more," she concluded. "When the sod is laid on the breast of my adopted father, the doors of St. Catharine will open to the mourner, Her last wish, ere retiring from the world, is that you two may live in affection, and forget your present cause of estrangement. Let there be peace between you, I repeat once more," she said, taking a hand of each and joining them in a gentle clasp.
               Before either could reply, Ruth glided away like a shadow, disappearing within the division of the tent from which she had issued when the dispute respecting herself waxed warm.
               "Shall there be peace between us, Margaret?" said Graham, still holding his daughter's hand.
               "Yes, my father, if you pardon my hasty words, and permit me to urge Ruth to take the portion you would assign to her. I see now that she cannot find happiness with us; for the past hour has given me a new view of her character. But she must not go from us penniless. Such a course would grieve me to the heart."
               "You are not more anxious than I am, regarding her refusal of a settlement; so on one point we are agreed. Endeavor to persuade the poor girl to accede to our wishes. She may yield to your entreaties, if you introduce the matter at a favorable moment. My persuasions would avail nothing, with her present feelings towards me; and to relieve her of my presence, I will find other lodgings while she remains here."
               Thus saying, Graham left the tent, not more on Ruth's account than his own; for if his poor child regarded him with sentiments bordering on dislike, he found her society anything but pleasant. Her face recalled the memory of her mother to his heart, a painful memory, that he would fain have banished forever; while her reproaches, uttered in cold indifference rather than resentment, occasioned pain to his guilty conscience.
               Meanwhile, Margaret was allowed but little time to reflect upon the best course to pursue with regard to her unfortunate sister, for scarcely had her father retired ere Lindsay appeared to learn if she would see Maj. Holbrook, who was without, and waited only her permission to enter the pavilion.
               "Always intruding when least welcome," she muttered, with a look of angry impatience. But after a moment of hesitation, she bade Lindsay bring in lights, and admit the officer. The sight of his round, unmeaning visage dissipated the gloomy thoughts that filled her mind; and the sound of his voice, giving utterance to high flown compliment, brought back to her fine eyes the old look of sarcastic ridicule.
               At last, when his stock of compliments was exhausted, Holbrook turned the conversation upon himself, explaining his pedigree, and prospects of succeeding to the family title, with a prolixity that was hardly endurable. But his egotistical disquisition did come to an end at last; nor did it terminate altogether as Miss Graham could have wished, since the gallant Major wound up with the offer of his hand and heart! If the suitor regarded the smile that played over her beautiful features in the light of a favorable omen, he was doomed to disappointment.
               "My dear Major! Would you really lay a train for your own destructions? As we say in Scotland, are you actually bent upon '
                     puting
                     putting
                   a gray filly into your stable at home?'" she said, giving a side-long glance, full of arch meaning, to the listening officer.
               "A gray filly, Miss Graham!"
               "Yes, and one that may 'prove the better horse,' as the saying goes. You do not comprehend me?"
               "I must confess myself ignorant of the knowledge you would convey in your allusion to the filly. But permit me to say that if your country-women prefer a gray to a black or a white filly, they show good taste in the preference."
               "Ay, a true Scots-woman, like myself, has a natural liking for the 'gray filly,'" she said, laughing, "but not in the sense which you take my remark. However, I cannot explain."
               "I can readily excuse explanation respecting the animal in my present state of anxiety. Deign to relieve my mind of suspense, adorable Miss Graham, and render me the happiest or the most wretched of men!"
               
               "I have no inclination to make you wretched; therefore, I bid you seek a less refractory helpmate than Margaret Graham. Depend upon it, Major, my contumacious spirit would raise an insurrection amongst your kith and kin which would never be put down"—
               "I entreat, beautiful Miss Graham"—
               "And I entreat, persevering Major Holbrook, that you drop this subject, and not resume it again. Another may be delighted to share your wealth and rank, blessings which will win favor for their possessor with many a fair lady. But Meg Graham cares naught for the acquisition of rank or fortune. Moreover, she has in her brain a half-formed resolve of returning to the Mohawks, and accepting the hand of a chief who has made love to her, and who would endow her with the rank, if not the fortune, of a princess! You look surprised, my friend; but on the word of a Graham, the proudest chief of the Mohawks sued for my hand; and, admiring his noble qualities, I solicited, yes, actually entreated him to come hither with me; and he is now in the camp. My dark-browed lover, bating his war-paint, and the string of scalps wherewith he adorns his person, is a noble specimen of manly beauty as my eyes e'er saw."
               Holbrook gazed for a moment in astonishment and anger in her face. Then seizing his hat, he rushed from the tent, as yet scarcely believing that his hand had been rejected in unqualified derision by the daughter of one who stood not so high in military rank and in fortune as himself.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIX.
               THE night concerted for the escape of Wolcott proved favorable in every respect. During the latter part of the day, a storm begun to gather amid the hills east of the Hudson; heavy gusts of wind swept across the river, and a little before sunset, the rain poured steadily from the mass of dark clouds that were driven westward by the gale.
               The prisoner had seen Ruth at an early hour in the morning, and had succeeded, notwithstanding the presence of the guard, in imparting his resolve to attempt an escape, with the Mohawk's aid.
               Knowing that if pursued his life would depend upon the speed he might be able to make, Wolcott rubbed his fettered limbs to restore the circulation; and now that the hope of life was revived, contrary to his usual practice, he stood upright, even attempting to move about the tent, when the eyes of the sentinel were not engaged in watching him. Gradually the discouraging sense of weakness deserted him; muscular power was in some degree restored to his limbs; and though faint from hunger, he felt that were he once free of the tent, and released from his bonds, escape would not be impossible, although pursuit might follow close upon his heels.
               At dusk, his supper was brought in, a morsel of stale bread, for the extremity to which the British were reduced for provisions rendered the prisoners in danger of dying of famine. Denied his customary rations, the guard surveyed the captive's unsavory meal with longing eyes, probably begrudging him the possession of the food which his own hungry stomach craved.
               As night settled upon the camp, some four or five soldiers sought the tent to escape the rain that now poured down in torrents. They paid no attention to Wolcott, but enlivened the gloomy evening in singing songs, and listening to the yarns of one of the party, a veteran who had seen much hard service. Accustomed to privation and hardship, careless of danger, and used to the vicissitudes that wait upon military life, these men seemed none affected by the serious difficulties which menaced the safety of the entire army. In the midst of their hilarity, the curtain before the entrance of the tent was raised, to admit for the second time that day the person of White Hawk.
               The Indian halted at the threshold; and as the cold wind rushed in at the opening that admitted him, the eyes of the group were simultaneously turned upon the intruder. His uncovered head was shaven to the crown, where one solitary lock of coarse black hair appeared, surmounted by a cluster of feathers. A hatchet, with a long knife, was thrust into his deer-skin belt, and the skin of some wild animal covered his otherwise naked shoulders. His left hand carried a rifle; and in his right and was a small cask, held beneath the shaggy blanket that screened his chest, though not so cunningly concealed but that the scrutiny of the soldiers detected the precious burden.
               "Hah! My tawny friend! Advance, and we will kindly relieve thee of thy load," exclaimed the veteran story-teller. "What, dost thou hesitate?"
               
               With a wave of the hand, the Mohawk signified that he brought the cask for the prisoner's benefit.
               "Curses on the rebel spy! The liquor sha'n't wash his lying tongue; so come forward, you dog, and give us honest soldiers a taste of the cask. We'll drink to the rebel a sure and speedy passage to the other world!"
               White Hawk did not move, and Wolcott's guard exclaimed—
               "My orders are strict. Nothing must approach the prisoner which passes not through my hands. Bring hither the vessel, redskin, and if it holds wholesome liquor I'll not refuse the rebel a glass."
               With seeming reluctance, the Mohawk obeyed, silently depositing his burden on the block of wood in the midst of the party, where a single taper dimly revealed the eager faces of the men. Placing the cask to his mouth, the sentinel took a deep draught, smacking his lips as he finished the potation.
               "The spirit is palatable enough; but to my taste it seems raw and biting. Try it, Corporal, and let's have your opinion," he said, passing it to the veteran. Thus was the cask passed from mouth to mouth, till it returned to the guard with its contents considerably diminished.
               "It seems scarcely proper to distract the mind of the prisoner," said the fellow. "He's nearly done with the small matters of eating and drinking; and a taste of this fiery stuff may make him regret the impossibility of soon taking another draught. However, I promised the redskin that the rebel should have a drop, and so he shall."
               With this avowal, he filled the pewter drinking-cup of the Mohawk and, bade him carry it to Wolcott.
               The Indian placed a tawny hand on the cask, but snatching it from his grasp the guard bade him let it remain. Assuming an angry look, White Hawk pointed to the liquor, and holding out his dusky palm, asked for powder.
               "Here, you avaricious wretch!" exclaimed the veteran Corporal, emptying his powder-horn into the hands of the Mohawk. "Let that satisfy you for the cask; and now be off, before I give thee a drubbing for smuggling the liquor in for the rebel when our poor fellows are cut down to half-allowance."
               The Indian took the cup to Wolcott, muttered a sentence in his native tongue, and then with noiseless tread glided from the tent.
               Meanwhile, the soldiers drained the cask ere they composed themselves to slumber. Not one of the group was in a state of positive inebriation, though affected in some degree by their deep potations.
               The guard, however, was not oblivious of his duty; and sensible, perhaps, that drowsiness might overcome his vigilance, he directed the soldiers to lie in a circle about the prisoner.
               With muttered curses upon the rebel, the men complied, surrounding Wolcott, who lay in a corner, apparently lost in sleep. After one or two ineffectual endeavors to get between the sleeper and the angle of the tent, the Corporal gave the slumbering prisoner a kick, and walked with unequal steps to the side of a comrade, by whose side he bestowed himself for the night.
               Ere long no sound broke the silence save the heavy breathing of the slumberers, and the roar of the wind, as it dashed the rain upon the tent. At midnight the guard would be relieved, and drawing from his pocket the fragment of a book of songs, he strove to beguile his lonely watch in humming the different tunes. But his voice had a drowsy tone, and the words seemed like an indistinct mass of letters to his besotted perception.
               The dim light, the mournful sound of the storm, and the heavy respiration of his comrades, combined with the effect of the liquor, gradually locked his senses in oblivion. Fainter came the roundelay from his lips, and lower sunk his head upon his breast, until a half hour before the expiration of his watch he became unconscious of storm, song, book and prisoner. Indeed, the poor fellow had committed no ordinary breach of trust in permitting drowsiness to seal his eyes; for, exasperated at the successful deceptions of the spy, Burgoyne had separated him from the other prisoners, and caused him to be vigilantly guarded to prevent the possibility of escape. Knowing that a watch was continually stationed over his person, the English General had yielded to Duncan's request that Ruth and the Mohawk might visit the condemned at pleasure.
               Cautiously the corner of the tent was raised sufficiently to admit the person of White Hawk, who wound his way within its folds without disturbing the sleepers.
               Stretched at full length beside the prisoner, he severed the cords that confined his hands, and was about liberating his feet, when a slight movement of the guard arrested the operation. Motionless as those around him, the Indian lay amid the sleepers till assured by the breathing of the unconscious guard that he was again slumbering. Then, cutting the cords from Wolcott's limbs, he rolled his dark eyes over the tent, placed a finger on his lip to denote the necessity of silence, and pointed to the aperture by which he had entered.
               Wolcott needed no urging, and he crept towards the opening, using every precaution in dragging forward his stiffened limbs, which in the first moment of release from the cords seemed reluctant to fulfill their natural office. However he succeeded in clearing the tent undetected; nor was the Indian less fortunate in his retreat, though burdened with the rifle of one of the soldiers, which he guardedly took from the side of the sleeper and put into Wolcott's hand, on joining him outside the tent.
               Avoiding the camp-fires and patrols of the British, our adventurers attempted to make their way without the line of sentries. The darkness of the night was favorable to their ultimate escape, yet they were obliged to proceed with great precaution, sometimes creeping past a bivouac, and anon, crouching amid the bushes as a patrol passed on its round so near their place of concealment that discovery and recapture seemed certain. At last they succeeded in passing the immediate line of the British camp, and advanced more boldly, though vigilance was still necessary in order to avoid the out-posts.
               The Americans now occupied the ground which the English had abandoned on their retreat to the heights; and shortly before the break of day, Wolcott with his faithful confederate gained the American pickets. To the challenge of the sentinel the Mohawk remained silent; but Wolcott answered with a shout of exultation—"God preserve the liberties of America!" Then, after recounting his capture and escape from the enemy, he was permitted to advance, and carry to General Gates intelligence of the actual state of Burgoyne's army, reduced in number, dispirited, and suffering for lack of provisions!
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XXX.
               IN making his escape from the enemy, Wolcott had left his nephew in the hands of the British. However, scarcely a week elapsed ere the surrender of Gen. Burgoyne restored the young Lieutenant to liberty, and he was enabled to rejoin his friends.
               On the 17th of October, the last act of this military drama closed in the disbanding of the English army. Unable to retreat or advance, and hopeless of receiving supplies for his famishing men, or obtaining immediate aid from Clinton, Gen. Burgoyne was compelled to subscribe to the terms of the American commander, Gen. Gates.
               While the treaty so humiliating to the Royalists was in progress, there was one brave officer who felt neither grief nor shame at the humbling event that closed the campaign. Mortally wounded in a recent skirmish with a party of the enemy, Col. Graham suffered no anxiety to disturb his last hours, save solicitude for Margaret.
               Ambition had been his ruling passion. It had deadened every kindly impulse of his heart, causing him to desert one daughter in her helpless infancy, and urging him on to sacrifice his other and better-loved child to the curse of an unhappy marriage, that fortune and rank might gild her future years. The union of Margaret with Holbrook had been the first wish of his heart.
               But death is a stern leveler of ambition; in view of his approaching dissolution, the proud man thought less of a handsome settlement for the weeping girl who hovered round his couch, and more of her real interests. Soon she would be an orphan, in a land of strangers, with no relative near except poor Ruth. He had heard from her own lips the rejection which she had given to Holbrook's suit; and with his ambitious hopes lost in the near prospect of an eternal separation from his child, he did not regret her refusal to marry the wealthy but vain and arrogant Englishman.
               It was near the hour of sunset, and the curtains of the tent were raised, that the sufferer might feel the reviving influence of the air, which came cool and fresh upon his pallid features. The surgeon had just left, after administering a cordial to the dying officer, which for the moment renewed the failing powers of nature. His daughters were beside him; Ruth with calm tenderness smoothing his pillow and wetting his parched lips with the cordial; while Margaret abandoned herself to the wild agony of her passionate nature, reproaching herself for every unkind word spoken to her departing parent, and in her insane grief even reproaching Heaven for her great affliction.
               Suddenly the entrance of the tent was darkened.
               A man in coarse vesture but with dignified mien appeared at the threshold, and after a keen survey of the scene, he approached the couch of the officer. Graham turned his dying eyes upon the intruder, and a faint glow for an instant tinged his colorless cheek.
               "What would you have?" he muttered. "Death will ere long relieve me of your persecutions, and as you would have your own death-bed peaceful, I pray you to disturb not my last hours. Gilbert Wolcott, your presence pains and agitates me."
               "Not thus would I have it, Col. Graham" answered Wolcott. "It is to render your departure less painful that I am here. As life recedes, penitence and remorse will wring the coldest heart; and then the simple word forgiveness will fall like precious dew upon the memory of guilt."
               "Can you speak that word to me? Man! you cannot. Now I know why you are here. You would extort contrition from the dying and give taunts instead of pardon."
               "Hast thou drank the bitter waters of repentance?" said Wolcott, solemnly. "Dost thou rightly see the enormity of thy sins, and is thy spirit truly contrite? Look back through a long vista of years, and tell me what thou seest, John Graham. There is a cottage-home, replete with the cheerfulness and contentment that dwells with the honest children of toil. The roof, humble though it be, shelters one in the brightness and bloom of early womanhood. You can remember if you cannot see, the spiritual loveliness of a face on which rests no unholy shadow. Her life is innocent, her thoughts pure, and her gentle presence is joy and light to a poor man's hearth. Reverse the picture, and behold the angel fallen! Her glaring eye-balls burn with the fearful blaze of insanity! Hark! She is shrieking curses—not on herself, not on him who has wrought destruction to soul and body, but on her sin-born infant! She seizes her victim, and behold! there are the marks of her fiendish fury," he concluded, pointing to Ruth.
               Margaret sprung forward to arrest the words that were like torture to her father's guilty conscience; but Graham signed to her to be silent; and hiding her face in the bedclothes, she sobbed convulsively.
               "You have raised a terrible vision, and to what purpose?" said the sufferer, in bitter accents. Deeply as I have wronged you, Wolcott, you act not the part of a Christian, of a man, in thus adding fuel to the remorse that preys upon my heart. Go! go!—if there is mercy in your unfeeling nature."
               "You do feel remorse!" exclaimed the other, his harmonious tones ringing sweet and clear through the tent. "Graham, I am a man, and a Christian! The forgiveness extended to a guilty and dying woman shall not be withheld from her partner in sin, though her sin was white in comparison to thine!"
               "You will forgive him! O, say that you will, and Margaret will bind herself your friend, ay, your slave, for her whole life" said the weeping girl, kneeling before him in passionate, sorrowful entreaty.
               "In thy pride and prosperity I have abhorred and cursed thee, John Graham! In thy dying hour of penitence and remorse, I will strive to forget the blight thou hast brought upon my life. I forgive thee thy sin against me!"
               "I have not deserved this," muttered Graham, overcome by the other's magnanimity. "The scales have dropped from before mine eyes, and now do I see clearly. Wolcott, may God forever bless thee for the consolation thou hast brought to a tortured spirit! My life is speeding to a close. Dare I ask thee to continue thy generous protection over my neglected child? Wilt thou still be guardian, friend, and father to the poor girl?"
               "I will, Graham. I promise it in the sight of Heaven."
               The dying man closed his eyes, and seemed to whisper a prayer of humble thankfulness, while Margaret crept forward, and pressed her tearful face on his hand. Suddenly unclosing his eyes, he looked tenderly upon her, all the father's love and solicitude expressed on his features, for her, the idolized daughter of his heart.
               "Margaret, you will soon be deprived of my love and protection," he murmured. "It is a bitter thought that I must leave you, so young, to tread the perilous pilgrimage of life with no parent's hand to guide your inexperienced steps. Could I have seen you the wife of a kind and honorable man, one half my anxiety would have been allayed in the thought, that, come good or come evil your welfare would be in the charge of a friend, an affectionate guardian."
               Faint with the exertion of speaking, and agitated with emotion, he stopped to recover breath, while the sobs of Margaret were the only sound that broke the solemn stillness of the tent.
               "It is no time to talk to you of love," he continued, in a weaker voice, "yet there is one who loves you—one whose humble suit I have scorned, although were he now here I could place your hand in his without a fear of his proving false to so sacred a trust. Open your heart to me, daughter. My breath is failing, and ere I go, I must know if you love this honest Scottish youth."
               "Only you, my father! I love only you! Would that God were merciful, and I could die with you, my own dear father!" she exclaimed, in the vehemence of grief.
               "Hush, Margaret! I would have you live many happy years. But I will entreat you no more upon the subject of your regard for Duncan Gleig. Only remember that I have faith in his honor, and that I give thee, in this solemn hour, permission to bestow thy hand on him if thou hast given him thy heart. He will be true to you, for he is not more brave than noble."
               Again he stopped, his failing respiration checking the worlds that faltered on his lips; but soon his hand groped feebly over the couch, and he muttered—
               "It is dark; I cannot see you, dear child."
               Wolcott and Ruth exchanged a quick glance, and the latter softly placed Margaret's hand in that of the dying man. He lay silent a few minutes, and then muttered incoherently as he struggled for breath. Suddenly raising himself; he waved his hand and shrieked—
               "Charge, my men! No quarter to the rebels!"
               It was the final exertion of nature, and he fell back dead upon the pillow, his features wearing a stern aspect 'mid the ghastly paleness of death. Wolcott stepped hastily between Margaret and the couch; and the same hand that had closed the eyes of the faithless wife sealed also the eyes of her betrayer.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXXI.
               MANY of those ladies who had shared the privations and sufferings of the British soldiers with unexampled fortitude, were now about to return to their native land; and being warmly attached to Margaret Graham, she was urged to go with her friends to England. But Margaret could not now endure the thought of a separation from Ruth. Before depriving her of a father, Heaven had kindly given her a sister, whose gentle and tender affection was a consolation in this dark epoch of her life; hence she clung to Ruth as the only being who could sympathize in her grief, and who could mourn with her for the dead. Her impulses were too violent and her feelings too keenly sensitive for the exercise of calmness in the first out-pouring of sorrow; and viewing life through the medium of a first bitter affliction, she longed for solitude, where, undisturbed, she might indulge the gloomy memories which now occupied all her mind. Influenced by this morbid dislike, of aught that could draw her thoughts from sorrowful reveries, she was the first to propose a return to the spot which she had quitted in disgust, but little before the death of her father.
               The ancient block-house, with its time-blackened walls, hill-girt and solitary, rose like a haven of rest before her mental vision; nor was the thought of her old home scarcely less dear to Ruth. But who would protect and guide them over the leagues of forest land that lay between the Hudson and the distant lakes? Neither Wolcott nor Oliver; for after procuring lodgings for the helpless girls now dependent on his care, Wolcott, with his nephew, had been summoned to military duties; and probably months would elapse ere either could revisit the ground of the late battles. The American army was withdrawn from the vicinity of the Hudson, and the British forces scattered till scarcely a red-coat was seen on the field of their recent surrender. Yet one, a young and brave soldier, lingered in the neighborhood, having no ties of kindred or interest strong enough to draw him from the spot around which his affections and hopes centered. So long as Margaret remained in gloomy seclusion, Duncan Gleig would not intrude upon her retirement, neither would he depart till he had learned whether happiness or disappointment would be awarded for his long attachment. Ignorant of Graham's last words to his daughter, he did not know that the dying man had done him justice; and that in his solicitude for Margaret's welfare he had counselled her to give her hand where, as he suspected, her affections were already bestowed.
               But chance brought about a meeting between Ruth and Duncan, and the latter learned Miss Graham's desire to return with her sister to the block-house.
               It was with some hesitation that the young Scot ventured to intrude upon Margaret's seclusion to offer his services as a guide upon the journey. The season was now verging upon winter; consequently the cold would render their passage doubly tedious; but by taking a route that led through the settlements, Duncan thought the journey would be attended with less hardship, as these hamlets in the wilderness would offer places for rest and refreshment. Much to his delight, Margaret eagerly assented to his proposition; and, gathering hope from so favorable an omen, he prepared for the toilsome journey.
               The trees were now stripped of their foliage, and the ground frozen; but ere winter set in, Duncan had the pleasure of seeing Miss Graham and Ruth securely established in the rude shelter of their choice. During their passage, Margaret had frankly trusted herself to the vigilant care of her guide, with a child-like dependence upon his honor and courage that made his heart glad; and after their arrival at the block-house, when he asked, with the hesitation of uncertain hope—"Shall I go or stay, Margaret?" she freely gave him her hand, and the tears sprang into her eyes, as she answered—
               "Stay with us, Duncan. We poor girls are too selfish to spare you yet."
               "Would to Heaven, dear Miss Graham, that you would always remain thus generously selfish!" he said, with heartfelt emotion.
               "And why should I not" she answered, with a look of frank and serious regard.
               "Your father," muttered Gleig. "I know your respect for the slightest wish he ever expressed; and knowing, fearing, at least, your knowledge of his prejudice against my humble rank, I have been doubtful"—
               "Doubt no more, my dear friend. The last words addressed to me by my beloved father respected yourself. He said that you would be true to me, for you were not more brave than noble."
               "Thank God that he read my character aright in his last moments! Tell me now, Margaret, if you can trust me with the charge of your happiness, a sacred charge, which, in the sight of Heaven, I vow never to betray."
               "I have faith in your noble, generous heart, Duncan. Remain with us, and give to us the brotherly protection which we need, and you will richly merit our gratitude."
               "My heart craves a warmer return than gratitude," he said. "Give me some prospect, some hope that eventually I may win this dear hand, and I ask no greater reward, for earth contains none."
               "My feelings are crushed 'neath the burden of sorrow," murmured Margaret. "Give me time to overcome the bitterness of grief; then if hope and affection come back to my bruised heart, I will remember that with his last breath my dear father expressed a wish that our destinies might be united."
               At that moment, it seemed to Margaret that hope and affection would never shed brightness and bloom over the desolate waste of the future; but Duncan Gleig had a truer knowledge of the human heart. He knew that in an ardent, impulsive nature like Miss Graham's the intensity of grief would exhaust itself, and then would follow a reaction; the chastened spirit would break from a bitter communion with sorrow, and the enjoyments of life would resume their usual sway. Time demonstrated the accurateness of the young man's judgment. With each passing month, Margaret became more reconciled to her bereavement. Again were her features animated with the old smile, full of arch meaning; and again did she look forward with the ardent hopes and expectations natural to her years and character. As her mind regained its native cheerfulness, she manifested a lively interest in passing occurrences; assisting Ruth in the care of their little household, watching the approach proach of Duncan as he came down the glen, laden with the game he had trapped or shot; and in the fortunes of White Hawk and the Wild Flower she concerned herself deeply. The latter was now established in the lodge of the Mohawk chief, and, true to her promise, Margaret had presented the dusky bride with a handsome gift.
               But these amusements failed to satisfy one who loved excitement, and who had been accustomed to the enjoyment of society. Margaret longed for a change in the monotony of her present life, and her thoughts turned fondly toward her Scottish home, whither Lindsay and her old nurse had preceded her in the previous autumn.
               At length her wishes were laid before Duncan and Ruth. She would revisit the Hudson, to look for the last time on the mound beneath which her father reposed, and then sail for her native Scotland. To neither of the listeners was her announcement unexpected. Ruth knew that her beautiful sister was not formed for a life of seclusion, and for weeks she had anticipated a declaration like that which she now heard. Though pained at their approaching separation, Ruth steadily refused the urgent entreaties of Margaret that she should abandon the old block-house, and accompany herself and Duncan to Scotland; and finding her prayers fruitless, she was compelled to bid a sad and final adieu to the sister whom she had found only to leave probably forever.
               On a fine day in midsummer, Miss Graham and Duncan, with Ruth and White Hawk, halted on the last point of land from whence the block-house was visible. Thus far on her journey had Ruth attended her, and here they were to separate. It was a spot endeared to Margaret by memory; for she well remembered, on first approaching the block-house, the scene that now lay before her—the lake, outspread in brilliant beauty, the rugged hills, and the wreath of smoke curling above the trees in the glen. The landscape was the same, but not with the same emotions did she now regard it. Through blinding tears she gazed on lake and hill; then passionately embracing Ruth, she again urged her to be the companion of her journey, while Duncan and the Mohawk retreated to a short distance, not to intrude upon their parting moments.
               "It is not yet too late! Say that you will go with us, Ruth, and, O! how careful will we be of your happiness!" she exclaimed.
               "I cannot, my sister! My lot is cast in another sphere, where duty and inclination lead me."
               "Inclination!" she replied, with something of the old tone of haughty scorn. "I see now that your attachment to Oliver Wingate exceeds your sentiments of sisterly affection. It is love for him that chains you here; but if you become his wife he will never have the tender interest for your welfare that I shall always cherish."
               "I shall never marry," said the deformed, a faint glow stealing over her delicate cheek.
               "You will, Ruth! And this rebel Wingate, already in arms against his king, will treat you with neglect, and your sensitive heart will break under his cruel coldness."
               "Nay, dear Margaret. I am not fitted for social ties, and I regard the happiness of Oliver in too precious a light ever to become his wife. In my solitary existence, thought will centre round my sister, in her distant home; nor will she, in future years, forget poor Ruth. I know, Margaret, that a bright, untroubled life awaits you; and I know, also, that in your prosperity you will sometimes spare a moment to memory—to me. Go, beloved sister, and take with you my love and my blessing," she concluded, beckoning Duncan to approach.
               Deeply agitated, Margaret could reply only with sobs; and after a sorrowful embrace they parted, never to meet more.
               Widely different were the fortunes that waited on the orphan daughters of Colonel Graham. Ruth returned to her solitary abode, where she remained alone till the close of the war permitted the return of Wolcott and Oliver. Seven years of active service, attended with the extremity of hardship and suffering, had not detracted from the native cheerfulness of Oliver's disposition, nor blotted from his heart his early affection for Ruth. Again and again did the frank-hearted young soldier plead with her to become his wife; and although Wolcott now joined his entreaties to those of his nephew, she remained firm to her prior determination. Though grieved and half angry at her repeated refusals to marry, Oliver did not desert entirely the scene of his disappointment. The old block-house was still his home, and though he passed a somewhat wandering and erratic life, he would remain sometimes for weeks and months beneath its venerable roof. None knew how dear to Ruth were these temporary visits, when, after a long hunting excursion with the Mohawks, or a successful expedition as a fur-trader, he came to cheer their solitude with his frank affection and the lively narration of his adventure.
               "Hark you, Ruth!" he would sometimes say, when about to leave home, "have things in readiness against my reappearance; for if prospered in my present expedition, I mean to change my skins in Montreal—not for silver, whisky or tobacco, but for Simon Thackery's black-eyed girl. The old man has told me, a thousand times, that for an extra lot of furs I might take his Mary and welcome. Ten chances to one that I do bring back a wife, just to show you that all women are not as scornful and obdurate as a certain maiden I wot of."
               Knowing that this, and similar declarations, were uttered in jest, Ruth yet experienced anxiety and sadness as she thought that Oliver might, and probably would, some day marry. Though resolved that he should never share her misfortunes, she prized his affection, and looked forward to his marriage as an event that would separate them entirely in attachment and interests. But year after year slipped away without the dreaded appearance of black-eyed Mary Thackery, while Oliver was evidently becoming wedded to the comforts and freedom of his bachelor life. Bold, adventurous, and habituated to scenes of peril and excitement, he could follow the bent of his roving fancy, free from the family ties which would have placed a restriction upon his chosen amusements. Indeed, as time passed on, he ceased to importune Ruth upon the subject of marriage, and his regard for her, though none diminished, grew into the sentiment of fraternal affection, which was cherished through life. Not until his own black locks were threaded with silver did he behold the grave open to receive the form of his aged and beloved uncle, who died blessing Ruth for the care and affection that rendered his declining years, tranquil and happy.
               While Ruth found peace, and it may be enjoyment, independent of society, Margaret pursued a more brilliant career. Proud, beautiful, and the mistress of an affluent home, she commanded the respect and admiration of all, while her good sense and firmness, combined, restrained her from entering too freely into the dissipation of the world. She had never cause to regret her marriage with Duncan, whose upright character and inflexible regard to mortal rectitude won the esteem of his superiors in rank and birth. Still, it was sometimes whispered among their shrewd Scottish neighbors that Gleig's handsome wife "was nane o' the meekest, when her blude was up!" In fact, these far-seeing worthies plainly intimated to each other that Duncan had "found the gray mare the better horse," a discovery that Margaret had kindly withheld from Holbrook, in rejecting his suit. Perhaps the intimation was not wholly groundless, for, remembering that he was indebted to his union with Margaret for his present prosperity, Duncan was induced by gratitude no less than affection to allow her in full the wife's share of domestic rule. But, tenderly attached as they were, with no divided affection or interests, the demon of family discord was always kept out of their 
                     pleaant
                     pleasant
                   home.
            
            THE END.
         
      
   
