
    ----CITATION----
        Leslie, Madeline, (1815-1893). Old Moll and Little Agnes, or, The Rich Poor and the Poor Rich .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5712
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            
                
                  I HAVE GOT ALL I WANT. 
               
             
          
          
             
             
               OLD MOLL AND LITTLE AGNES; 
               OR, THE RICH POOR AND THE POOR RICH. 
             
            BY MRS. MADELINE LESLIE, AUTHOR OF "COURTESIES OF WEDDED LIFE," ETC. ETC. 
             
                
                  
                     "There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches."
                   
                  -SOLOMON. 
                
             
            
               BOSTON: 
               SHEPARD, CLARK AND COMPANY.
             
            1857. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by SHEPARD, CLARK & CO., in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the District of Massachusetts. 
            
               STEREOTYPED AND PRINTED BY W.F. DRAPER, ANDOVER.
             
          
          
             
            This Small Volume IS AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED TO MY DEAR CHILDREN, IN THE HOPE THAT IT MAY AID THEM IN THE FORMATION OF A GOOD CHARACTER AND IN THE PRACTICE OF EVERY CHRISTIAN VIRTUE. 
          
       
      
         
            Old Moll and little Agnes, or, The rich poor and the poor rich 
             
             
            OLD MOLL AND LITTLE AGNES. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               EARLY in the afternoon of a rainy day in September, any one passing the great house of --, on Broadway, might see an old woman, whose furrowed cheeks and worn and patched garments denoted extreme destitution, collecting her small store of fruit preparatory to her return home. The sight of her there was nothing new; for, winter and summer, spring and fall, for many a year, she had occupied the same post, gaining a wretched subsistence by the sale of apples, pears, and peaches, together with nuts and candy. Indeed, when the magnificent freestone block of stores was completed, the owner no sooner took possession thereof than she established herself, rent free, in front of it. For the first few months she certainly was regarded as a nuisance, and was often rudely driven away, to take her station in a more humble position; but she invariably returned with the new day, until, wearied with her persistency, and finding her really harmless and otherwise unobtrusive, Mr. -- suffered her to remain, until now she considered herself an important part of his great warehouse. Who she was, or where she went when her duties for the day were finished, no one knew, and no one cared. When the porter came in the morning to remove from the long windows the heavy, iron-bound shutters, he found her there before him; but, though for nearly seven years he had daily accosted her with "Good morning, Old Moll!" which was the only name by which she was known, yet he had advanced not one step toward any further acquaintance. 
               In summer she wore an old black straw bonnet, of ancient form, the fore part deep enough to serve her eyes as a shade from the sun, reflected from the opposite block. This was tied under her chin by a wide piece of ribbon, which had been so long exposed to the sun and rain that it was impossible to tell its original color. A black bombazette petticoat, and a shawl pinned across her dress, completed her attire during the warm season. In winter a brown hood, with high puffs, surmounted by little bows, supplied the place of the straw bonnet, while a gray linsey-woolsey gown and a large shawl did their best to protect her from the chilling blast; for the day must be extremely cold and stormy which detained her at home. 
               But the present season was her golden harvest. There she sat at the end of the broad granite steps, the lofty walls rising story after story above her, her rude wooden tray pushed close to the building, to be out of the way of the gayly-dressed throng who were continually passing in and out of the store. It was indeed a favored spot for her traffic. One equally so could hardly be found in the whole city; and its undisturbed possession rendered Old Moll an object of bitter envy as well as awe to all her compeers. Here came the millionaire with his wife and children; and, even if they passed in without heeding her wistful look, as she held up to view the tempting fruit, she often found a generous customer in the well-dressed coachman, who was glad to beguile the tedious hour he stood at the door, with no other employment than to keep the flies off his superb span of horses, by exchanging some of his coppers for the contents of her basket. Then came young ladies, with their bright eyes and sparkling glances, eager to witness the astonishing treasures-silks, shawls, and laces-advertised as "just received" by the great house within. These were generally accompanied by gentlemen, dressed in the height of fashion, many of whom considered society at large, and Broadway in particular, indebted to them for elevating the standard of good taste in the community. Some of these are so consecrated to the welfare of the rising generation that they devote the morning to Monsieur Chalieur, the celebrated French barber, and the afternoon and evening to gratuitous advertisements of the same, together with the latest styles of coats, vests, neck-ties, and pantaloons, sold by Mr. Newland, the prince of merchant tailors. 
               When such a company approach, Old Moll- who, with her long experience, is a shrewd judge of character-selects her choicest specimens, and, with a voice meant to be soft, says, "Nice Jersey peach, miss!-Juicy pears, sir, fresh this morning,-only a shilling the half-dozen!" This appeal seldom fails to bring into her withered, gloveless hand a perfect shower of loose change, even though her tempting fruit remains untouched. 
               Here, then, the apple-woman remained from sunrise to sunset, and retired, when the store was lighted for the evening, whether or not her basket was relieved of her stores of fruit. 
               On the occasion referred to above, not a little curiosity was excited among the busy throng of clerks and accountants at the early hour when she was observed preparing for her departure. Even Mr.--, as he passed into the street, stopped for one moment to address her. "Well, Moll, you retire from business early to-day." 
               The old woman turned her withered countenance and lustreless eyes toward the speaker, but made no reply. The gentleman passed on; but, every now and then, a remembrance of that one glance into her face, so pallid and ghastly, flitted across his mind, and he formed a determination that, on the morrow, he would inquire if she were ill, or in want; and, if she was, he would render her aid. 
               But he was one day too late. Old Moll never returned, and though prompted by charity, not unmixed with curiosity at her sudden and unprecedented absence, he made many inquiries for her, yet he could not learn the reason of her quitting her post. 
               But we will take the liberty to follow her to the place she called home. Passing slowly and wearily along the wet and muddy pavement, she at length turned down a narrow street until she reached an old stone building near the wharf, which had formerly been occupied for storage. Taking a key from her pocket, she unlocked the door, and passing inside drew a heavy bolt, which seemed almost too much for her strength, for she was obliged to seat herself upon the stairs before she could mount them, and then ascended to a room in the third story. 
               "Get up, Agnes!" she said harshly, to a child lying on a bed of straw, in the corner of the wretched apartment, "get up, child, and bring some chips for a fire. I am sick." 
               Agnes quickly obeyed, and ran into an adjoining room, from which she brought wood and matches to light the fire. 
               The old woman then with difficulty made her way to the same place, and with the assistance of the child brought out a small hair trunk, or what had once been a hair trunk, but of which now only the worn yellow skin remained. Taking a key from her pocket, she brought forth a bottle and held it to the light, but not a drop did it contain. With a muttered expression of impatience she bid Agnes put on her hood and go to the apothecary's for one gill of brandy, at the same time counting out a few cents into her hand. "Tell him," said she, "it's for your granny, and she is very sick." 
               Agnes ran down the stairs, but immediately returned, saying she could not unbolt the door. At the same moment a spasm seized the old woman, and she realized the necessity of instant relief. After a momentary delay she arose and made her way down the stairs, unbolted the door, and, bidding the child to lose not a moment, again attempted to mount them. But she was obliged to rest repeatedly, and had only reached her chamber when Agnes returned. It was proof enough she was in great distress that she did not once call to mind the fact that the door, which for years she had so carefully guarded, was now open to any one who might choose to enter. Agnes, having mixed the contents of the phial with some hot water, gave it to the old woman, who drained the cup without taking it from her lips. For a few moments this revived her, and she called the child to her side, and said, "Agnes, perhaps I shall go away; when I do, I will give you all that is in my trunk; but you must put it in a safe place, and let no one know that you have it. If your uncle Sandy comes, don't let him see it, or he will take it from you. I am sorry I have been so cross to you, for you are a good girl, and somebody will take care of you. I wish I had placed you--". Here another and more violent spasm shook her whole frame, and interrupted what she was saying; but, after a moment, with almost a scream, she resumed, 
                  "Take good care of the trunk!" and then fell back, clinging to the chair for support. 
               The little girl, who was scarcely six years old, was very much alarmed. She ran to the corner where the bed lay, and with the exertion of all her strength succeeded in drawing it toward the fire. Old Moll threw herself upon it, and with the muttered words "My-trunk," upon her lips, sank into a state of insensibility. 
               After sitting for a long time in silence, wondering that her grandmother had fallen so suddenly asleep, Agnes crept close to her side, and, pulling the soiled blankets around her, nestled herself close to the old woman, and went to sleep supperless, as she had often done before. 
               It was near midnight when she was aroused by a noise in the lower hall, and, holding her breath to listen, she distinctly heard the creaking of the stairs, as of some one stealthily mounting them. Feeling around in the dark, she at length put her hand upon the wrinkled face of her grandmother, and called out softly, "Granny, do wake up. Somebody's coming." 
               "Yes, child," whispered the old woman, "Sandy's coming home. Here, put your hand on his soft curls. They are just like silk. Say, Mary, did you ever see a fairer skin?" 
               Agnes listened in wonder, but, as the noise had suddenly ceased, her thoughts soon became indistinct, and at length her senses were again locked in the profound slumber of childhood. 
                
               Not so the old woman by her side. She was living over again the days of her early womanhood. The hour was eve. She was at the door of a vine-covered cottage; a merry child was playing before her, and in the distance she saw a tall form approaching, leading by the hand a beautiful boy. He was her darling, and that was his father. Five years she had been the happy wife of Alexander Ross, and the mother of little Mary, his black-eyed daughter. Smiles played about her wrinkled mouth, wholly unmindful of the deep furrows time and care had placed there. Her heart glowed, as it had not done for two-score years. She was again innocent and happy. Yes, in that midnight hour she lost sight of a long course of sin, by which she had gradually become the hardened wretch she was at present; and she was looking forward to bright years of happiness and prosperity. "Perhaps I shall," she fancied, "even be rich, and, instead of this little cottage, shall be the owner of that noble mansion I see in the distance; then Sandy, dear Sandy, shall ride in his coach and we--". 
               "What's that you are saying about me, mother?" whispered a grum voice in her ear. 
               Poor Moll! Her visions quickly vanished. No longer was she a happy wife and fond mother, twining her fingers lovingly in the soft curls of her fair boy. No, her home was destroyed, her husband dead, and, with his daughter Mary, sleeping beneath the sod. But her son, where was he? Alas! by the light of a dark lantern she saw him kneeling before her old leather trunk, and hurriedly searching for her hard-earned gold. Collecting all her strength, Moll sprang from the bed, and endeavored to wrest it from his grasp; but she was weak as an infant in his hands. He threw her from him, saying with a curse, "I have got all I want. You'll never see me again," and, before she could rouse herself to reply, he had the trunk in his arms, and left as silently as he came. 
               "All-all-gone!" groaned the old woman, sinking back upon her hard bed, "all gone-and Sandy too! O, Agnes! if I could but live till morning-O, this pain will kill me!-I would confess. But ah! it is too-too late!-O, Sandy, you have killed your mother!" 
               A dreadful convulsion rendered her speechless; but conscience was aroused at last, and she gazed with increasing horror into the darkness, straining her eyes to see her child once more; but even this poor consolation was denied her. The little one, who had been her companion in poverty and wretchedness, but whom she had always harshly repelled, was quietly sleeping, unconscious that the grim messenger, who will sooner or later come for us all, had entered their desolate abode and was summoning her only protector and earthly friend to the world of spirits. 
               When she awoke the sun was shining brightly into the room, and she was surprised and somewhat alarmed that her grandmother had not yet arisen. She lay for a long time gazing at the dusty cobwebs, reflected so strongly in the sunlight, and wondered as she gazed if the time would ever come when she should live in a pleasant house, and have brothers and sisters playing with her, as she had seen them in houses where her grandmother had sent her to beg. Alas! she little realized that on the morrow she would be houseless and homeless; that during the long cold winter the pavement would often serve her for a pillow, the star-spangled sky her only covering. Poor Agnes! 
               At length the cravings of hunger forced her from the place which she called her bed. Old Moll usually arose early, prepared her own breakfast, and when she went out, left some bread for her grandchild upon the table. Now she could see nothing but the market-basket, covered in the corner, and that she dared not touch. She searched the closet, and found a few crumbs, the remains of yesterday's dinner. These she eagerly devoured, but they did not at all satisfy the gnawing sensation produced by want of food. Looking carefully at the motionless figure upon the bed, she moved stealthily toward the basket and lifted the towel which concealed the tempting fruit from view. O, how tempting to the poor starving child! She cannot resist. One, two, three peaches rapidly disappear; then follows a nice juicy pear, a luxury such as the little creature never dreamed of tasting. But now she trembles with fear; her heart beats rapidly; she gazes at the bed; yes, it is so, her grandmother is awaking; but after waiting a few minutes she finds she is mistaken. Her eyes are fastened upon the countenance before her. For the first time she sees the eyes are wide open, gazing fixedly at the dusty ceiling. With mingled curiosity and horror the child approached the pallet of straw. The lower jaw has fallen, and death as he took his victim set his seal upon every feature. 
               Hour after hour passed away, and still Agnes sat and gazed. She had wept until she could do so no longer, and now, in the deepening twilight, she was straining her red and swollen eyes for one more glance at the familiar countenance. "Better that," she thought, "than to be alone." Suddenly she heard steps ascending the stairs, and presently a man and woman entered the room. 
               The woman gave a scream of horror at the sight before them; but the man, who was a police-officer, and more accustomed to such scenes, comprehended it at a glance. After stopping to ascertain that there was nothing of value on the premises to pay the expense of interment, and that the woman, who was a neighbor, would take away the child, he departed to make immediate arrangements for the burial, as it was easy to perceive that life had been extinct for many hours. 
               All that could be ascertained from the little girl was, that her grandmother came home before dark, and said she was sick; that she took medicine and went to sleep, and had not yet awaked. Agnes required but little persuasion to accompany the woman home, which she did at once, her companion pausing only to take with her the basket of fruit. 
               The house to which she was led was only a few doors distant, and as Mrs. McCallen, the name of the woman, drew a stool for her before the stove which warmed the room, and gave her a bowl of weak tea, into which she had broken some bread, smiles broke forth around the mouth of Agnes. She imagined her days would be brightened by affection. For a short time, indeed, the fitful kindness of Mrs. McCallen and the frolics of the baby drove away all fears regarding the future, as well as sorrow for the relative she had lost. But the woman at length grew tired of the charge she had assumed, and one morning, irritated by the abuse of her drunken husband, she bid Aggy leave her house, for she could no longer support her in idleness. 
               The child tearfully obeyed, and passed the day in wandering about the streets, occasionally ringing at the back gate of a house, and begging something to satisfy her hunger; but toward night she crept back to the place she had for two weeks called her home, and esteemed herself fortunate in being allowed to pass the night in the cold entry. 
               Thus weeks lengthened into months. When Mr. McCallen was at home, his wife dared not admit the desolate child within her house, and many nights were passed, either wholly or in part, in the open air. Sometimes the police-officers found her crawling ing close to the side of some alley, in the vain hope of keeping warm, and taking compassion on her, led her shivering and faint to the watch-house, where she was sure at least of shelter from the cold winds which chilled her tender frame. During the winter she met her uncle Sandy. At first he tried to pass without noticing her, but when she joyfully accosted him, and begged him to allow her to accompany him home, his heart was touched. He took her by the hand, and led her to a clothing establishment, where he procured for her a warm shawl, and then to an eating-house, where, for once in her life, she ate as much as she wished. From her, Sandy learned that his mother had long been dead, and that Aggy had no home. He told her he was intending to leave the city and go to sea, and advised her to beg for admission into the alms-house. When he left her she crept away behind the stone building where she had lived with her grandmother, and cried as if her heart would break. Poor child! as she sat upon the low step of the door, her face buried in her hands, which rested on her knees, her whole form convulsed with the violence of her sobs, she little imagined that an omniscient Eye was watching her, that the compassionate heart of her Saviour was touched with grief at her desolate condition, or that his hand would be stretched forth for her relief. She knew not of the existence even of such a Saviour. When she arose in the morning from her comfortless bed, no prayer fell from her lips for protection or food through the day; when she lay down at night, she rendered no thanks that in the midst of so much privation and want she was still alive. No; in the midst of a Christian community, where the gospel sheds a divine light, little Aggy wandered day after day, up one street and down another, a hungry, homeless heathen. 
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                     THAT'S THE IDENTICAL GAL. 
                  
                
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               IT was a cold and cheerless night in January. The rain had fallen incessantly through the morning, but toward noon the cold had increased to such a degree that it turned to sleet; and now this had ceased, and the streets were covered with ice. Those who were obliged to be out, wrapped their cloaks closer around them as they vainly endeavored to accelerate their speed. Indeed, all precaution seemed useless; for, by the light from the stores, men, women, and children might be seen taking a sudden and involuntary seat upon the slippery pavement. 
               In the well-warmed and brilliantly-lighted parlor of a four-story brick mansion on C-- street, a family group were assembled. A gentleman, apparently about forty-five years of age, was sitting directly in front of the grate, and with the poker breaking the large pieces of Liverpool coal to send up a fresh blaze. Farther back from the fire a lady was seated in a stuffed chair, and, with a beautiful child upon her lap, formed an agreeable addition to the picture. On a sofa at the farther end of the apartment two young persons were engaged in an animated conversation. One of these was a lady, a ward of Mr. Buckingham, the gentleman by the fire; the other, his son, a lad of fifteen. The lady, whose name was Florence Mowbrey, was skilfully parrying some question which the youth Louis asked her. At length her patience was exhausted, and she expostulated: "Now, Louis, why need you tease me so? Just tell me whether or not you have a letter for me". 
               In reply, the boy put his hand in his pocket, and drew out a thick package, which he presented her, and which she received with a scream of delight. In another moment she was seated by the table, and, having eagerly torn open the seal, proceeded to devour the precious contents, unconscious that three pairs of eyes were fixed intently upon her. A quiet smile passed between the gentleman and lady by the fire, as they saw her cheeks flush and her bosom heave with the intensity of her interest in her letters; but, turning toward the fire, Mr. Buckingham remarked: "This is what I call comfort;" and he again thrust the poker into the fire, as was his habit when talking. "It is terribly uncomfortable out of doors. I became thoroughly chilled, coming from the store. I was obliged to creep along upon the ice." 
               "Yes," responded his wife, "the change is very great; after a whole week of mild weather, this has come on so suddenly. Come, Lily, darling," she continued, addressing the child, "mamma will ring for Bessie to take you to your nice warm bed." 
               At this moment the door opened, and a face black as ebony peeped into the room, and then Bessie entered, and advanced to the side of her mistress. "Please missus," she urged, "come to the kitchen. There's somebody by the fire as calls herself Aggy; but I has my 'spicions she's a ghost;" and Bessie rolled her white eyes around to see what effect this announcement had upon her auditors. 
               Mrs. Buckingham caught the hand of Louis, to detain him, as he sprang from his seat to leave the room, and asked, "What does she want?" 
               "She don't want nothing, ma'am; she didn't come herself. Robert found her crying in the passage, and he took her up in his arms and brought her in. But, la! I could lift her as easy as I could lift a feather. She's nothing but a living skeleton, and she shakes so I shouldn't be at all 'stonished to see her drop to pieces." 
               "You may put Lily to bed, and I will see who the child is," replied her mistress, arising from her seat. She left the room, after imprinting a kiss upon her daughter's lips, and went below, followed by her son. In a few moments she returned with a child only a year older than her own little pet; but it would be difficult to select two children more unlike. Lily was as frail and fair as the flower whose name she bore, with deep blue eyes and soft flaxen ringlets. Aggy, as she called herself, was as dark as a gypsy. Her long black hair hung loosely over her shoulders, falling in front over her thin sallow cheeks. Her hands and lips were blue with the cold, and there was something repulsive in her whole appearance. 
               As Mrs. Buckingham drew her to the fire she raised her eyes and gave one quick, frightened glance around. It was wonderful to observe the change caused by this simple movement. It was like the noonday sun darting suddenly through a dark cloud. For a moment all gazed at the child in wonder. There was something about her so strange, almost unearthly, as she stood before the fire, with her thin fingers spread out to imbibe the grateful warmth, appearing far more like a dwarfish old woman than a child. Her dress, too, was unsuited to her age. A tattered woollen gown of coarse material reached to her feet, while a black shawl was placed around her neck, then passed under her arms and tied together behind. 
               "What shall we do with her?" inquired the lady of her husband, in a low voice. 
               "O, let her stay here!" entreated Florence, eagerly advancing to the group. 
               Aggy again raised her eyes, and gave a lightning glance at the speaker. The look was expressive of wonder as well as gratitude. 
               "Where can she go, if we send her away?" asked the gentleman, speaking for the first time. 
               "She says she has no home," replied Louis. 
               Florence stooped down and took the hand of the child as she inquired, "What is your name, my dear?" 
               "My grandmother called me Agnes," whispered the child; "but everybody else calls me Aggy." 
               "Aggy what? What is your last name?" 
               "I don't know, ma'am." 
                
               "What is your mother called?" 
               "Old Moll; but she is dead now," and the child burst into tears. Her sobs were so violent that it really seemed, as Bessie had said, that she would shake to pieces. Florence drew a taboret toward the grate, and lifted the child to her lap, notwithstanding a deprecatory shake of the head from the lady by her side. 
               "There, dear; don't cry so," she whispered, soothingly. "I'll be your friend, and make you some warm clothes, and you shall go to school and learn to read." 
               Aggy gradually grew calm under the influence of the gentle tone and cheering words of the lady who called herself her friend. Poor child! It was her first experience of kindness, and she could hardly realize it. But presently the room, which had seemed to her so light, grew dark; the sweet voice, indistinct. Florence felt the weary head lean more and more heavily upon her arm, and at length, with a low moan, the child fainted. 
               All sprang to their feet. Louis ran for water, Mrs. Buckingham applied hartshorn, and her husband took the cold hand, which hung lifelessly down by her side, and vigorously endeavored to impart to it some of his own warmth and vitality. 
               "O, look at her!" murmured Florence, "she is dead." 
               "No, no, child," responded the gentleman, putting his ear to her heart to listen whether she breathed, "she has fainted; perhaps from hunger, but more likely from the heat, after being long exposed to the cold air." 
               After a few drops of water sprinkled in her face, Aggy revived, and slowly opened her eyes. At the same moment, Bessie, curious to know what had become of the little creature, whom she still suspected was "no more nor less than a spirit," made an errand to return to the parlor, and was immediately ordered by her mistress to bring some simple refreshment from the kitchen. 
               As the child lay in the arms of Florence, who would not suffer her to be removed, she looked so much unlike the sweet Lily, who often occupied the same place, that the mother and brother gazed with horror and aversion mingling largely with their pity. Louis caught the contemptuous expression of his mother, and asked, in a low voice: "Isn't she ugly?" When he glanced back to the object of his remark, he almost started at the brilliancy of her eyes, which were fixed upon him; then the child turned wearily toward the breast of the only friend she had in the world, and tried to cover her face with her emaciated hand. But the thin fingers could not prevent the tears from streaming through them, and flowing down her wan cheeks. 
               Florence bent a reproachful glance upon him, and then turned anew to the task of soothing her young charge. 
               After partaking of the food, which she devoured with such eagerness as brought tears to the eyes of those watching her, an animated discussion was carried on in French as to the manner of disposing of her for the night. Mrs. Buckingham proposed to give her to the charge of Bessie, if that personage could be prevailed upon to allow so suspicious a character to partake of the hospitalities of her room; but Florence implored her aunt, as she was in the habit of calling the lady, to allow a pallet to be carried to her own chamber, and that she might have the pleasure of administering to the child in her own way. She urged that Aggy was exceedingly feeble, and, if not properly attended, might lose her life, in which event, the young lady declared she should always consider herself accountable. As she said this, she involuntarily pressed the coarsely dressed, and by no means attractive pauper to her quickly-beating heart; an action for which she was more than paid by a gleam of joy which flashed from Aggy's eyes, as a wondering smile played for an instant about her mouth. That moment was an era in the child's life. She had found some one to love her as she had seen other children loved, and life, which to her had heretofore been so dark and drear, seemed to dazzle her with its brightness. Her joy was so keen as to be nearly allied to pain, and she placed her small hand upon her heart in the vain endeavor to hush its wild beating. Poor Aggy! Adversity has been to thee a stern teacher. If sent forth into the cold street, in quest of some sheltered nook to hide thyself from the piercing cold which shakes thy quivering frame, a few tears might have fallen, as they have often before done, but with an undefined feeling of submission, thou wouldst have passed on, saying, "It is my lot." But at the unexpected kindness which is shown thee, especially as loving arms encircle thy wasted form, and the thought, "Somebody loves me, even me," warms thy whole being into a new life, thy young heart aches with the intensity of its emotions, and thou fearest to awake, as from a dream, and find thy head pillowed as often before upon the marble steps of some lofty mansion. A chord has been touched in thy breast, which will never cease to vibrate until thou yieldest thy spirit into the hand of Him who gave it. 
               Having procured a night-dress from the wardrobe of her young mistress, Bessie, though with great unwillingness, conveyed the child to the chamber of Miss Florence. There she was placed in a warm bath, after which her closely-matted hair was combed out, and, being dried, was placed under a neat cap. Having attended carefully to her physical wants, Florence wrapped Aggy in a large blanket, and, drawing a chair close to the cheerful fire, took the child in her lap, in order to ascertain how far her intellect had been developed. 
               Refreshed by the unknown luxuries of cleanliness and warmth, and unrestrained by the presence of others, Aggy opened her full heart to her new friend, and freely answered, so far as in her power, all the questions put to her. 
                
               "Aggy," asked the lady, "how long has your grandmother been dead?" 
               "I don't know, ma'am; but it's a long while ago, for it wasn't cold when she died." 
               "And where have you stayed since?" 
               "Nowhere, ma'am; I hav'n't any home." 
               Inexpressibly affected by the mournful tone, Florence with difficulty continued her questions. 
               "But where have you slept, and where did you get your dinner and supper?" 
               "When it is warm enough, I sleep in the alley where Granny lived, but for a good while the woman let me come into the entry, it was so cold out doors, and then I rocked the cradle while she went for water and got the breakfast, and she gave me a piece of bread." 
               "Who was the woman?" asked the lady, secretly determined to ascertain from her something of the child. 
               "I don't know, ma'am; I don't want to live with her again;" and Aggy clung to the arm of her benefactress. 
               "No, you shall not go back to her; but can you find the street where she lives?" 
               "Yes, ma'am," feebly answered the child, at the same time a pallor spread around her mouth, as all her bright hopes seemed fading away, and she saw herself back in the place she would that very morning have gladly claimed as home.
                
               Florence quickly noticed the change in her countenance, and asked the reason. 
                
               "I don't love Mrs. McCallen," sobbed the child, "and I want to stay with you." 
               "Aggy," replied her friend, "I told you I should not send you back, and I shall not tell a lie. If I did, God would not love me. Do you know who God is?" 
               "No, ma'am, I never saw him." 
               "We cannot see him, because he is a spirit;" and Florence's voice assumed a tone of seriousness, as she continued, "but he is here in this room, and he hears every word we say." 
               Aggy started forward, and gave a quick glance around the chamber, then nestled closer to her friend, and clasped tightly Florence's hand with her tiny fingers. 
               "God is very good and very kind to little children," added the young teacher, "and they should obey all his commands. We can't see him, but sometimes we hear his voice. When I saw you so cold and hungry, I heard him whisper to me, 'Florence, take care of that poor child, or she will starve.'" 
               "O, did he?" burst out the little wanderer, whose eyes had been every moment dilating with fresh wonder that she had found another friend. "Did he? Then I love him." 
               Tears sprang to the eyes of the lady at this artless reply. "Yes, Aggy," she said, "I heard his voice, and if you listen for it you will often hear it. He loves you, and wants you to be a good little girl, so that sometime you can go to live with him in a beautiful home above the sky." 
                
               "And shall you go too?" 
               "Yes, I hope I shall go. Now I want you to kneel down by me, and ask God to help you to be good, and to love him as you ought." Florence arose, and Aggy imitated her example, and repeated after her the simple petitions. Then she listened in wonder to the fervent ejaculations of prayer and praise, which poured forth from the full heart of the lady by her side. After that, she was tenderly placed upon her low bed, while Florence drew near the lamp, and perused, for the second time, the precious epistles she had that evening received. After she had done this, she sat for a long time gazing into the fire, her thoughts far away with her absent friend. Then, recalled by a sigh from the low bed in the corner to the recollection of her little protg, she asked herself, "What is my duty to this little orphan? What would my mother have done?" And her bright eyes became dewy, as she thought of the self-sacrificing labors of love of her sainted mother. "I cannot refuse to share some of my abundance with her." Suddenly a bright thought flashed through her mind, and, after pausing one moment, to ascertain that her plan was feasible, she approached the bed, satisfied herself that Aggy was asleep, and then hastily descended to the parlor. 
               "I was just going to find you," exclaimed Louis; "I was afraid that ugly little ghost had carried you off, and father wants you to play." 
               Florence playfully patted his cheek, as she replied plied, "Well, you see I am here, bodily. The poor little thing is asleep now." 
               "I wonder at your taste, Florence," said Mrs. Buckingham; "I never saw a worse-looking child; nothing could have induced me to take her in my arms as you did. But what do you expect to do with her?" 
               "We will talk of that by and by," answered the young lady, forcing herself to be calm, though every feeling of her heart was aroused by the cold, unfeeling words of her aunt; "now I will bring my harp." She did so, and in a low, sweet voice, into which she unconsciously threw an unusual pathos and expression, she sang her uncle's favorite tunes. When she had finished Auld Robin Gray, he turned, and saw that her eyes were filled with tears. "Why, Florence," he asked, quickly, "what is the matter? There, child, put the harp away for to-night;" and he arose and led her to a seat by his side. "Have you heard any bad news, my dear?" he inquired, tenderly. 
               "No," she replied; "I was thinking of my mother. Dear uncle," she added, determined to take advantage of his softened manner, "I have a great favor to ask of you. It will make me very happy if you will grant it." 
               "Well, well, child; if it's anything in reason. You remember you have had one quarter part of your next month's allowance, and you promised--" 
               "O, I don't want any more money!" she responded sponded eagerly; "I want"-she hesitated and glanced at her aunt, then changed her seat, and caught Mrs. Buckingham's hand. "If you say yes, I am sure he will," she urged, addressing the lady. "I want to keep the poor beggar-girl and take care of her until Andrew comes home. It will give me employment, and help to pass the time which I thought so long. Ten months more, only think!" 
               "Florence Mowbrey, are you crazy?" interrupted her aunt. "If you want to adopt a child, do for mercy's sake take one who looks like a human being! Why, I should die, with such a hideous creature about the house. Her skin is as sallow and withered as an old monkey. You may take that little girl we saw in the asylum. Lily would not object to her for a playmate." 
               Florence had a quick, impulsive temper. If she had not early learned to control it, she would now have given utterance to some of the bitter words which rose to her lips; but though for a moment her eye flashed, when her aunt ceased speaking, she answered mildly though earnestly: "The little creature is not to be treated with contempt on account of her ill looks. I acknowledge she is not handsome, and yet there is something which attracts me to her. Probably it is that she is so entirely friendless. It would hardly be charity to take that sweet child from the comfortable home provided for her, and turn this orphan away." 
               "But," persisted Mr. Buckingham, "she will only be an expense and a trouble to you, and you will soon tire of the charge." 
               "As to the expense," urged the young girl, eagerly, "If you will consent to my plan, I will gladly give up the set of brilliants you promised me on Andrew's return, and the money they would have cost will compensate you for her board and clothes. All other expenses will be trifling; and as the money you paid me last month enabled me to establish our old Thomas in his new home, I shall not want any more for a long time." 
               Mrs. Buckingham watched the countenance of her husband, and, seeking that he was beginning to relent, she exclaimed: "I never will give my consent to such an absurd proposal, never!" 
               Poor Florence burst into tears, at which Louis thought it was quite time for him to interfere. He put his arm around her neck, and began to whisper something, in which the name Andrew was often repeated. At the same time, Mr. Buckingham having given his wife a meaning glance, which she appeared to understand, he said, soothingly, "Cheer up, Florence; I'll contrive to win her approval. At any rate, as you have taken such a fancy to Aggy, as she calls herself, she shall stay for the present, until we can find some other way to dispose of her." 
               Florence glanced in his face, saw that he was in earnest, and, understanding that this compromise was only intended to satisfy his wife, she got up, gave him a grateful kiss, then saying good-night to her aunt and cousin, returned to her chamber. 
                
               Mr. Buckingham's house was not entirely a prayerless one; for from one altar, morning and evening incense was offered; and on this night, when the increasing severity of the cold made her tremble even in her warm apartment, Florence thanked her heavenly Father that he had given her the heart to provide for the comfort of one, at least, of the suffering children of poverty and distress. She then retired to rest, and in her dreams the beloved friend, whose image filled her heart, was strangely changed into a little girl with brilliant black eyes and long dark locks. She put out her hand to assure herself it was really her own Andrew, when a low sob awoke her to the remembrance of her protg. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               FLORENCE MOWBREY was left in the care of Mr. Buckingham by Mr. Loring, a gentleman who married her mother when her own father had been deceased two years, and when she herself was but twelve years old. He was a kind and indulgent father to the lively girl, nor did his fondness decrease when, a year after his marriage with her mother, he became the father of a small specimen of humanity, so feeble and so small that but slight hopes were entertained of its life. Nevertheless it did live, and thrived so well that when, two years after, a dear brother came to claim a share of its mother's tenderness and affection, the little girl was well able to relinquish her place to the wee stranger. 
               For a few months the united family enjoyed happiness such as is seldom allotted to mortals; happiness, alas! which rendered the succeeding grief far more difficult to endure. At the end of one short year from the birth of little Frank, Mr. Loring stood before the tomb to whose silent walls he had, in speechless, tearless agony, just committed the last of his household treasures. Yes, the cherished companion of his life, with her infant boy upon her bosom, was at last peacefully resting in the grave. Her bitter tears, her moans of anguish, her frantic cries of distress, had alike ceased. Her bleeding heart, pierced even to death by the fatal stroke which had torn her lovely daughter from her arms, had now awoke to new life, and she was rejoicing in the presence of her Saviour and her God. But the childless, wifeless mourner could not yet follow her in spirit to the mansions of the blessed. The thoughts which pressed him to the earth with a crushing weight of grief were his deserted home, his desolate heart yearning with an unconquerable desire for the restoration of the precious ones whom he had been compelled to resign to silence and darkness for ever. "She cannot be dead! She would not leave me to despair! I will, I must go to her!" were words which burst from his pale lips as he frantically sprang from the side of the weeping Florence, and would have rushed into the tomb. "Yes; I would call her back, even though her reason was forever dethroned," he answered those who gently strove to comfort him. 
               Unsustained by religion, and completely prostrated by his repeated and aggravated afflictions, Mr. Loring at length sold his beautiful estate on the Hudson, and leaving Florence, who inherited from her father a large fortune, in the care of Mr. Buckingham, he went to India, and had not since returned. Within a year she had heard of his marriage to an English lady, widow of an officer, and that, in consequence, his return to his native country was indefinitely postponed. 
               The latter part of this intelligence was a great disappointment to the young lady, for she had fondly hoped that he would remove her from her present residence in the family of her guardian, who was a distant relative of her mother, and repurchase his old estate, allowing her to be his housekeeper. Not that she had experienced any unkindness from Mr. and Mrs. Buckingham. On the contrary, they were too well pleased with the handsome income which her residence with them added to their annual receipts, not to be exceedingly indulgent to her. But Florence felt that they were not congenial. Mrs. Buckingham, in particular, was a worldly woman; fashion ruled her with a rod of iron, and the only altercation between her and her husband's ward was when she could not make Florence bow to the same god. 
               Mr. Buckingham was an easy, good-tempered man, fond of his family; and Florence thought that he, far more than his wife, understood and appreciated her. Under her mother's careful religious instruction she had developed rapidly, and at nineteen, her present age, was much more than commonly mature. She was unusually frank and truthful; and when, about the time of her disappointment on account of her father's continued stay abroad, Mr. Andrew Hanley asked her if she could return his love, she frankly answered, "With all my heart." 
               Mr. Hanley had been her adviser ever since her mother's decease, and her friend for some time before, so that Florence felt that she had her mother's sanction to her attachment. She was, as we have said, ardent and impulsive, and she did not exaggerate when she promised her whole heart; so that it is not to be wondered at that when, after having placed a ring upon her taper finger, her friend hastened his preparation for departure to France, where he was obliged to remain a year before his business would authorize him to claim her hand, the young betrothed was sad. 
               "A whole year!" she exclaimed, as he came to bid her adieu. "It seems so very long. If it were but a few months, I would try to be patient; but a whole year!" 
               "I shall write often," was the reply, "and the time will pass sooner than you think. Try to employ your time not only profitably to yourself, my Florence, but usefully to your fellow-creatures, and you will be happy even though we are separated. If we would be really happy we must strive to make others so; and there is abundant opportunity in this great city for the exercise of your powers. Then, Florence, twice every day we shall meet at the throne of our heavenly Father. You will not forget me there, love?" 
               Florence smiled through her tears as she shook her head; but they quickly flowed again, as, having pressed his betrothed tenderly to his heart, Mr. Hanley hastened away, that he might not add to her distress by the sight of his own grief. Nearly two months had passed, and Florence, though striving to employ herself usefully, was far from happy. She yearned for the society of him upon whom, for many years, she had been accustomed to lean. He alone of all her friends could understand her struggles with her own heart, or aid her to attain the standard of moral excellence which she found in the word of God. 
               In accordance with the wish of her guardian, she had limited herself to a certain sum, to be received monthly; and, as she was extremely impulsive in her charity, she often expended every cent during the first week. She was naturally fond of dress, which taste Mrs. Buckingham cultivated with great assiduity; and it was often a source of annoyance to her that Florence, by giving all she had to the first beggar she met with, should thus be obliged to deny herself many articles which fashion declared necessary. During the preceding month one great wish of Florence's heart was answered. Thomas Dane, an old servant of her mother, was, by her bounty, established in a little shop of his own, where he sold bouquets and flower-seeds; an employment for which he was eminently fitted by his many years' service as gardener in the family of Mrs. Loring. While the young lady was actively engaged for him in searching for a small and suitable tenement, purchasing the stock he needed, and furnishing for his use a neat room opening out of the shop, she was comparatively happy. But now this was done, and Thomas was fairly established and at work, she craved excitement and employment. In company with her aunt,-whom she had persuaded suaded that it was fashionable to be a lady patroness,-she had visited the asylum for the deaf and dumb and blind, the orphan asylum, and the different alms-houses of the city; but, though deeply interested, yet she chose for herself another sphere of charity. The extravagant praise bestowed by her aunt upon a little girl whose flaxen ringlets and snow-white complexion reminded her of her own darling, suggested for a moment the idea of adopting her,-an idea which prepared the way for her to receive the little homeless wanderer, who was so unexpectedly brought to her notice. The sight of Aggy, notwithstanding her sallow complexion, matted locks and poverty-stricken garments, drew her toward the child with a force she could not understand, but which she made no effort to repel; and when, at a later hour, in the retirement of her own chamber, the thought returned of choosing one upon whom she could expend not only a share of her wealth, but also a portion of the affections of her full heart, she received and cherished it as a whisper of the great and good Spirit. 
               The next morning Florence awoke with a start of consciousness that some unusual happiness was in store for her. Nor was she disappointed, when, springing from her couch, the small pallet in the corner recalled the events of the previous evening. She quickly advanced to the low bed, where her little charge lay quietly awaiting her, the large brilliant eyes, which had haunted her benefactress even in her dreams, bathed in tears. 
                
               "Don't cry, dear," whispered Florence, bending over her caressingly, "you are now my little girl." 
               At these kind words she sobbed aloud, and it was some time before her friend could soothe her sufficiently to speak. But at length, placing her small hands upon her heart, she sobbed out, "O, I'm so glad! I love to cry now. It makes me feel better in here," laying her hand on her heart. 
               Florence turned quickly to wipe the tears which filled her eyes, stooped, and gave the child a warm kiss of affection, and then rang for the servant to make the fire in her room. 
               Little did she realize the effect of her kiss, the first Aggy remembered to have received. It seemed to the child to impart a new sense, a confidence and even respect for herself, at the same time a going forth of her whole soul toward the one who had volunteered such a delightful proof of affection. She was no longer Aggy the beggar, dependent upon the bounty of surly porters or their fellow-servants in the houses of the rich for her daily bread. No, she was a loved child of somebody (she knew not even the name of her benefactress), and she was promised a home. She lay watching with interest the efforts of the girl who was kindling a fire in the grate, then the making of the young lady's toilet, a matter of curiosity and wonder to her, who had never owned a change of dress; and when left alone, her thoughts wandered in search of that Being who she had been assured was ever present, beholding the evil and the good-whose heart was full of love and tenderness toward the poor as well as toward the rich. Imitating the language of the prayer she had repeated the previous evening, she lisped, softly, "O God, I love you; I want to stay here and be your little girl all the time. Please let me, O God!" 
               Dear child! her heart was going forth to "seek the Lord, if haply she might" "find him, though he be not far from every one of us." 
               In the new and charming occupation which absorbed her thoughts by day and her dreams by night, Florence found no time to repine at the absence of her friend. First came the wardrobe of her little protg, and here the young lady gladly availed herself of the experience of Mrs. Buckingham, who, now that she was really one of the family, was solicitous that, in dress, at least, the child should not disgrace them. Then came the delightful task of unfolding to the ardent, hungry mind of the scholar the mysteries of redemption. The tenderness of a Saviour's love, the price he paid for our salvation, his cruel death upon the cross, were themes upon which the teacher loved to dwell; while the deep sigh, the dilated eyes, and the thickly-falling tears of the pupil, were evidence sufficient that the sacred seed fell upon good ground, and would yield an abundant harvest. 
               And how did Lily regard the stranger? On the first morning after her admittance into the family, when her cousin Florence led her to the chamber where she had determined to seclude the child until she had provided her with suitable dress, and introduced Agnes to her notice, Lily regarded her exactly as she would have done a pet dog or a monkey; as something which was to cause her merriment, but toward whom she owed no courtesy or even kindness. In spite of the disapproval of Florence, she talked freely, as if the child could neither hear nor be wounded by her remarks. "O, coz! isn't she horrid? She looks just like one of the rope-dancers in my picture-book. What shall you do with her? Does she go around with the organ-player, and dance to the tambourine?" 
               "No," answered Florence, taking the frightened and trembling child upon her lap; "she is to be my little girl now, just as you are your mother's, and you must treat her kindly, or I cannot allow you to come to my room." 
               "I won't have her here!" screamed the child, the idea of a rival in the affections of the family for the first time entering her mind. "I'll ask mamma to send her right away, and lock her up in jail. She's a horrid ugly girl, and I won't let her live with me!" The fair face of Lily was distorted with passion, and she ended by a burst of angry tears. 
               It was with difficulty Florence commanded her temper sufficiently to soothe the little orphan who clung so confidingly to her for protection. She had for years seen Lily petted, caressed, and indulged in every whim; she had often witnessed in her violent bursts of passion, but she never realized till now the effect they were having upon the morals and temper of the child. She rang for Bessie to take Lily to her mother, and then applied herself to restoring her little one to some degree of calmness. "Better, far better," she said to herself, "the condition of this child, amidst all her poverty, than Lily, the heiress of thousands. "There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.'" 
               The impression made upon the children by this short interview was more lasting than is usual at their age. Lily had imbided a violent prejudice, which she was at no pains to conceal. Agnes was timid and fearful of trusting one who had expressed herself in such strong terms of aversion. In the feelings of her daughter Mrs. Buckingham shared, and, in secret, was violently opposed to the willingness her husband manifested to gratify his ward. But, as he told her he had his own reasons, and powerful once too, for the course he pursued, she contented herself by cutting sarcasm about the poor child when her benefactress was not present, while at other times she acted as if wholly unconscious of her presence. 
               Florence felt keenly the unkind treatment of her little protg whose interests she had made her own, and in consequence confined herself much more to her own apartment, or to such places as she could with propriety take the child with her. She particularly avoided courting the attention of Lily to her young companion, preferring that the companionship of the latter should be sought as a favor. 
               This was the case much sooner than she expected. Agnes, the protg of her favorite Florence, dressed as handsomely as herself,-Agnes, gentle, obliging, but dignified,-was a very different person from Aggy, the beggar-girl, shrinking, fearful, and arrayed in coarse woollen garments. After waiting to receive homage from her companion, the little beauty thought it was quite time to demand it. She began by a little less haughtiness in her manner, and then asked, "Don't you wish your cheeks were round and red like mine?" 
               "Yes, I do," frankly confessed the child, gazing with delight at the rosy complexion of the questioner. 
               "Well, they never will be. I heard some ladies tell mamma, yesterday, I was as handsome as a doll, and they said they wondered what cousin could find to like in you." 
               Thus repelled, Agnes repressed the warm feeling which the first approach to kindness had kindled in her grateful heart, and turned again to the contemplation of her picture-books. 
               Gradually, however, the conceited little miss grew more condescending, and, whenever she did so, her forgiving companion forgot the past abuse in the present kindness. They would, after a time, have become the best of friends, for Agnes looked with an admiring eye upon the beauty and grace of Lily, and was willing to yield her own wishes to hers, had it not been for the injudicious remarks of her parents. 
               "Well, pet," her father would say, "have you been taking lessons in dancing of Miss Agnes Mowbrey (for, in default of another, Florence had given the child her own name), or has she been learning of you? You must take care, or she will eclipse you in her accomplishments;" thus keeping alive the feeling of rivalry between them. 
               Mrs. Buckingham's remarks were still more unwise. "Lily, dear," she said one day, "when ladies call, let Agnes sit by you, for it makes you look much more beautiful from the contrast. She is an ugly little creature at the best, and it is a constant annoyance to me to have her about." 
               The child naturally repeated what her mother had said, to her cousin, in the presence of her to whom it referred; and again Florence was forced to draw a comparison between the worldly, uncharitable spirit of the woman of fashion, who was blessed with wealth, education and rank, and the simple, trusting child, with whom fortune had dealt so hardly, and she said to herself, "Mrs. Buckingham is a rich poor woman; Agnes, a poor rich child. How infinitely is the latter condition to be preferred!" 
               All this time nothing has been said of Louis; for the next morning after the addition to their family he returned to school, where he remained for six weeks, when he was expelled, after repeated expostulations from his teachers, on account of his unruly conduct. 
               Louis was not a bad boy, though a very wild one. He only carried out at school the instructions he received at home, and was disposed, in regard to study as well as play, to do as he pleased. His cousin, who fully appreciated his better qualities, and did her utmost to undo some of the pernicious teachings of his parents, had written him that she had adopted the little girl, about whom he was so interested, and that if he loved her, as he professed, he would treat the child kindly. The boy laughed merrily at the idea of the ghostly-looking creature being in constant companionship with his beautiful sister. He entertained his companions with an account of her appearance, and anticipated much fun to be made of her on his arrival at home. But, when there, he found her so much changed that he decided to be her champion. Perhaps the joy which lit up her countenance, as he unexpectedly entered the parlor, and the light which flashed from her eye, helped to form this decision. Henceforth, woe to the one who slighted her whom he had taken in charge! Agnes did not, however, gain as much as might be expected, for Louis was a most inveterate tease, and practised this accomplishment upon her to his heart's content. He gave her the nick-name of Beauty, and never called her by another. He manifested great indignation if his mother called her ugly, and yet he was continually ually asking, "Don't your face ache, dear?" I should think it would;" or making some other equally consolatory remark. Agnes knew not what to think. Just as she had decided that he was her friend, he addressed her in a way which so jarred upon her sensitive feelings, that she was thrown back upon her old opinion. One day he entered Florence's chamber, when she was absent, and found the children alone. Lily was in a towering passion at the disposition manifested by Agnes to maintain her own right to a book she had that day received, and was dealing blow after blow upon her victim, with the exertion of all her strength. Louis sprang forward, caught her arm, and shook her until she could hardly stand. "You naughty girl," he exclaimed, angrily, "how dare you strike her so? I'll tell mother the first chance I get." 
               "I don't care if you do, you ugly boy! I hate her, I do, and I wish she had never come here! I'll tell mamma you struck me, and hurt me awfully, so I will;" and the passionate girl walked off to her mother's room. 
               Agnes's lip quivered, and it was with difficulty she kept back her tears as she picked up leaf after leaf of the precious book which Lily had torn to pieces. 
               "Here, Beauty, bring them to me. Did Lily tear them?" asked Louis, seating himself by the fire. 
               The child, after an earnest glance into his countenance tenance, obeyed, put the scattered sheets into his hand, and stood quietly by while he arranged them in their proper order. 
               "Now, if I had a needle and thimble," continued the lad, "I would soon have them as nice as ever. Do you know where Florence keeps her work-box?" 
               "Yes," replied Agnes, running to the table, "here it is." 
               "Don't you think that I am a remarkable man, Beauty?" he inquired, with a laugh, by no means unconscious of the admiration he excited. 
               "Are you a man?" she asked, innocently; "I thought you were a boy; but I like you. I'm sorry, now, I didn't let Lily take it." 
               "Why?" 
               "Because she isn't good when she does so, and God don't love to see her." 
               "Don't you ever get angry?" 
               "Yes," she whispered, quickly dropping her eyes, while the color flew into her face; "I was angry then, but I'm sorry." 
               The words were spoken in a tone of the deepest humiliation, and the boy was at a loss for a reply. But not-approving the serious turn the conversation had taken, he said, gayly, "Come, now dance a jig to pay me for mending your book;" and, taking her hands, he whirled her around and around until she could see stars. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               NOTWITHSTANDING the return of their son from school in disgrace, and his unwillingness to apply himself to his studies at home, Mr. and Mrs. Buckingham had never passed so gay a winter. Parties, balls and card-playing, the theatre, and opera, occupied all their evenings, while receiving and paying ceremonious calls filled up, for the lady, the greater part of the day. In addition to the family carriage which had heretofore contented Mrs. Buckingham, she now induced her husband to purchase for her exclusive use an expensive phaeton. This involved the necessity for another coachman and outriders; but Mr. Buckingham made no objection, and at length the lady found herself in the condition, to attain which all her energies for years had been bent, namely, leader of the ton. Her sayings and doings were quoted as patterns for her admirers and imitators. Her dress, style of living and equipage, the beau monde pronounced models of fashion and beauty, and the carriage of the elegant Mrs. Buckingham seen at the door of a house immediately stamped the inmates as belonging to the first class of society, and they were henceforth treated with due consideration. But, now that she was at the very pinnacle of popular favor, was she happy? 
                
               Let us enter her splendid residence, where taste, art and skill have exhausted their resources to make it a fit abode for their goddess. It is a bleak, windy day in March, but within doors the air is as balmy as June. As we advance into the parlors, costly lounges, divans, and easy-chairs, beautiful Italian statuary and rare paintings, meet our eye whichever way we turn. A cheerful fire is blazing in the open grate, and seated in a luxurious chair in front of it is a lady so nearly asleep that she does not notice our entrance. Let us take advantage of this, and, seating ourselves in the recess formed by the heavy folds of crimson damask draped from the back window, listen to what will follow. Presently a little girl runs across the hall and enters, passing at once to the side of her mother. 
               "Mamma! I say, mamma, wake up! Cousin Florence is ugly, and won't let me into her room." 
               "There, child, do go to the nursery; you are the bother of my life." 
               "I say I won't I'm tired staying all alone with Bessie, and cousin Florence is hateful that she won't let me in." 
               "I dare say you deserve to be shut out," said Mrs. Buckingham, impatiently, now thoroughly aroused from her slumber. "What tricks have you been at now, miss, I should like to know? I declare it's enough to wear one's life out, the way you go on." 
               "There's where I perfectly agree with you, Mrs. Buckingham," said Louis, advancing into the room with the air of a finished dandy, and, after a low bow, taking a seat near his mother. I consider your daughter, ma'am, quite a bore;" and he complacently stroked the place where his whiskers would be if he had any. 
               The lady could not restrain a smile, as he imitated the manner of her most devoted admirer, Lord Esterhall, from London. But she immediately responded, 
               "Louis, how can you? There, do go away, and take Lily with you. I want to be quiet." 
               "Presently, mamma, after you have done me a slight favor;" and Louis bowed again in the most approved style of London lords. 
               "Well, what do you want?" she inquired in a voice not as soft as it might have been. 
               "Fair lady," rejoined the youth, sinking on one knee, and pressing his lips upon her hand, "bless my ardent affection with a return of but a tithe of the love which burns in my heart for you, and I will be content." 
               The rouge which covered the lady's cheek could not conceal the angry flush which mounted to her brow as she understood that her son had overheard a declaration intended only for her ear. For one moment shame and vexation kept her silent, as, to tell the truth, the original declaration had done; but she instantly rallied and said, "Nonsense, Louis; that was all a joke. Lord Esterhall has a wife at home." 
                
               "A joke, however," replied the youth, resuming his natural tone and manner, "which my wife would be a party in but once. Yet my memory shall be oblivious of the fact, if you will advance me a little of the needful." 
               "Again!" she urged, holding up her hands in astonishment. "Why, Louis, what have you done with that hundred dollar bill I gave you last week?" 
               "Gone, ma'am," he answered, with mock gravity, "gone to meet necessary expenses, and I need another bill of the same amount." 
               "Louis, you will kill me with your extravagance. I insist upon knowing what you do with so much money." At this moment a violent scream was heard from Lily, who was again pounding upon the door of her cousin's room, and, Mr. Buckingham entering the parlor, Louis left it after a hasty whisper to his mother, that she had better not mention the joke to the old man. 
               "I do wish Florence had never taken a fancy to that ugly beggar!" exclaimed the lady, irritated by the scream of passion from her child. "Before that, she used to be fond of Lily, and took a great burden off my shoulders." Her husband gazed steadily into the fire, and made no response. 
               "I might have known I should have no sympathy from you," added the lady, in a vexed tone. "You can never see any fault in Florence, and I dare say you think more at this moment of that hideous pauper than of your own child." 
                
               "I was not thinking of either of them," at length answered the gentleman, gravely; "but I certainly am of opinion that our daughter would do well to imitate the example of her companion. I have, however, subjects of far more importance to contemplate;" and he heaved a sigh which, from its depth, startled his wife from her anger. She continued, therefore, in a more softened, though complaining tone: "And there is Louis going on to ruin as fast as he can go. I don't see what will become of us all." 
               "Go to ruin with him!" muttered he between his teeth. 
               "Mr. Buckingham, I do wish you would have some consideration for my nerves," screamed the lady, almost in hysterics. "It's enough to frighten one to death to hear you. I can't think what has changed you so." 
               "Ahem!" was the only reply, and the lady, no longer able to control her feelings, arose hastily, and putting her embroidered handkerchief to her eyes,  la Buckingham, retired to her chamber. 
               After she had gone, her husband sat looking into the fire. He was indeed changed, for he hardly noticed her absence, but seemed revolving some important point. From a genial, warm-hearted man, Mr. Buckingham had become moody and fretful. Every demand of his wife for money increased his irritability to the highest pitch; yet still he insisted that no change should be made in the household, and, by his silence, encouraged the most lavish expenditure. With regard to his son, as they rarely met, except at meals, he seemed wholly ignorant of, or indifferent to, the course of dissipation he was pursuing. Toward his ward alone, his treatment was unchanged. He was invariably kind and courteous to her, and this kindness extended in some degree to her protg. At least, his conduct toward her was marked by more affection than toward Lily, who had formerly been his plaything and pet. But, now that he was depressed and careworn with some secret anxiety, the caprices of the wilful child annoyed him, and he looked with comparative pleasure upon one who was uniformly sweet-tempered and quiet. 
               After sitting a while, shading his eyes in the deepening twilight, and twice sending away the girl who came to light the lamps, he at length started from his chair, saying, in an excited under tone, "That is the only way I can save myself." He paced the long parlor to and fro with uneven steps, occasionally stopping short, as if the motion interrupted his thoughts, and then sank into his seat again. "If Hanley were out of the way, there would be no danger," he again muttered; "the trouble would be to account for it! He is so clearheaded, I couldn't pull a cap over his eyes, and there would be certain disgrace!" and with repeated sighs he seemed to relinquish as not feasible the plan he had formed. 
               When Mr. Buckingham arose, in obedience to the summons to tea, and reluctantly joined his family in the breakfast-room, the recording angel unrolled the book of God, and wrote therein: "There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches." 
               In a large front room, on the second floor, at an earlier hour of the day, sat Florence Mowbrey and her little charge. Though the rain beat against the windows, and the prospect without was gloomy, yet their faces were bright and happy. The countenance of the younger was almost beautiful in its eager expectation of pleasure, as she gazed at the nimble fingers of her benefactress. Florence had promised her pupil a large doll when she had advanced in her reading through the first primer, and to-day the toilet of Miss Rose was complete, and the prize was to be awarded. There beside them was the small trunk, in which the young lady's wardrobe was to be kept. Agnes had folded the articles again and again. She could not sufficiently admire her new treasure, upon which her dear Florence's skilful hands had been employed for a week. 
               "Florence, see, I have left the nightgown and nightcap on the bed, just as Bessie does mine," repeated the little girl, for the dozenth time. "Shall you have it done time enough for me to put it to bed, and may Rose sleep with us?" 
               Florence raised her eyes for one moment from the work to glance at the animated countenance of her little questioner, and then answered, pleasantly, "I don't know about sleeping three in a bed; but if you will be sure to keep her over your side, I will try it for one night." 
               Agnes laughed a low, musical laugh. She was brim full of happiness, and when her kind friend had arrayed Miss Rose in her neat crimson merino dress and black silk apron, with a tiny handkerchief sticking out of the small pocket, the enthusiastic child could not contain her joy. "O! O!" she exclaimed, dancing up and down, " it's mine! it's my own! Rose is my own doll!" Not content with kissing again and again the bright face which reflected so fully her own happiness, Agnes repeatedly pressed both the dear hands to her lips. 
               For some minutes Florence sat watching the manuvres of the child as she caressed the doll; her voice sometimes sinking into a low lullaby, and then exclaiming in joyful tones, until she was startled by a knock at her door. It was Bessie asking permission for Lily to come and play with Agnes; and she urged her request by saying, "I'm just tired out with trying to please her. It does my eyes good to see Miss Agnes's bright face. La! Miss Florence, that child is no trouble at all." 
               The young lady hesitated. She had had abundant experience of the difficulty complained of by the sable nurse; but Agnes entreated, "Do, please do, let her come; I want to show her my pretty Rose;" and she reluctantly gave her consent. 
               Lily soon entered, seated herself in Agnes's chair, and then looked about her in a manner that showed she considered herself condescending to be amused by anything her young companion could show her. 
               Florence turned to her writing-desk, and was soon wholly absorbed in answering a letter to her absent friend; but her attention was suddenly called to what was passing in the room by a cry of pain from Agnes. 
               "Do take your ugly doll, then!" screamed Lily. "I don't think it's a bit pretty;" and she threw it violently to the floor. 
               The face of Agnes was perfectly crimson with anger at this outrage, and she raised her hand to return the blow which had caused her to cry; but, meeting a glance of sorrowful reproach from her only friend, she covered her face with her hands, and burst into a passionate fit of tears. 
               Florence quietly arose and rang the bell for Bessie to take Lily from the room, knowing, from repeated trials, that she could exert no beneficial influence over the child while under the excitement of angry passions. 
               Lily kicked and screamed when the nurse came, and could only be removed by force, when she ran to her mother with the complaint mentioned in the commencement of the chapter. The young lady had only time to take the weeping Agnes on her lap, with an attempt to soothe her, when Louis entered. She did not look up to greet him, as she usually did, but kept her eyes bent upon the floor. She did not even cling to Florence, when he tried to induce her to come to him, but sat upright and mournful, as if she felt herself unworthy to lay her head against the dear breast of her friend. 
               "Why, what is the matter with Beauty?" at length he asked, in surprise. "She looks as demure as a church-mouse. Have you been whipping her, coz?" 
               She shook her head, and said, "Lily has treated her unkindly." 
               "But that a'n't what makes me cry," sobbed the child, bursting out afresh. 
               "What is it, my dear?" asked the young lady, soothingly. 
               "Because I was so naughty, and I'm afraid God won't love me any more; and I don't want Jesus to know I was going to strike Lily, and write it down in his book! O, dear, dear!" 
               Louis looked very sober, and seemed to understand that in this instance his joking would be out of place; so he merely took her hand in his, saying, as he patted it, "There, don't cry so; I dare say you didn't mean any harm," and then left the room. 
               As soon as he was gone, Florence arose and locked the door, but not before Lily in a loud tone, demanded admittance. 
               "Please may I ask her to forgive me?" asked the penitent child, trying to suppress her sobs. "I am sorry I did so." 
               Florence gave her consent, and rose to open the door, when she perceived a deep scratch the whole length of the child's cheek. "How came your cheek scratched so badly?" she inquired quickly. 
               Agnes's lip quivered again, but she replied, softly, "Lily wouldn't let me take Rose, and I wanted to." 
               "So she did it!" continued the young lady, angrily. "She ought to be whipped. No, you shall not ask her to forgive you! She ought to ask your forgiveness." 
               Lily, not being able to gain admittance, continued to pound rudely upon the door, until her mother passed through the hall, and called her nurse to lock her up until she could behave better. 
               When the noise ceased, Florence drew her chair closer to the fire. It was growing dark, and she tried to compose her ruffled feelings. She was conscious of speaking impatiently, and was dissatisfied with herself, but did not like to confess to the child. "Come, darling," she said, when lights had been brought, "we will undress Miss Rosy, and put her to bed. I don't think she will need any supper." 
               Agnes partially arose from her chair, and then sunk back again. "Will you please," she whispered, "put her in the drawer for to-night? I a'n't good now." 
               Florence sighed at the mournful tone in which this was spoken, and something whispered to her, "Learn a lesson from your child; for out of the mouths of babes and sucklings God hath ordained praise." She quietly raised the doll from the floor, replaced its clothes in the small trunk, and laid it carefully out of sight, with a fixed determination to remove from the house of her guardian as soon as the weather would permit. Then, having bathed the eyes and smoothed the hair of her young charge, she led her down to tea. 
               It was a silent meal. The hostess was out of sorts, and vexed that her husband did not notice it. The host was continually falling into fits of abstraction. The tender conscience of his ward had received a wound, and she was disinclined to converse. Louis was serious at the thoughts called up by the remark of his favorite Beauty, about God's book. To divert his mind, he occupied himself with helping her to every delicacy upon the table, at the same time motioning her to eat; but she mournfully shook her head. All were relieved when the form of sitting together at table was complied with, and they could retire to their own apartments. 
               Florence resumed her writing until it was time for Agnes to go to bed. The child sat in her low chair close to the fire, watching the shadows which played upon the carpet, as occasionally a flame burst up from the Liverpool coal. Once or twice she started uneasily, and her lips parted, as if she were about to speak, but, remembering that her friend was busily engaged, restrained herself. At length she arose softly, and, kneeling by her chair, clasped her hands, while her lips moved as if in prayer. 
               Florence was not an unmoved spectator of all this, though she appeared not to notice it. The tears almost blinded her, but, wiping them away, she wrote as follows: "Agnes grows every day and every hour more dear to me, and I am rewarded a hundred fold for all that I have been enabled to do for her. She is a tender lamb of the great Shepherd. She goes to him with all her griefs and sorrows, as naturally as to a kind parent. Even now she is kneeling beside me, her hands clasped, while the pure devotion which fills her heart renders her upturned face almost angelic. O, how precious are the prayers of such a child! I feel stronger, and better able to bear the trials and afflictions allotted to me, when I remember how fervently she implores blessings for me. How much of beauty, as well as of truth, is there in the sacred words, 'Of such is the kingdom of heaven!' How much more is she to be envied than Lily, to whom nature as well as fortune has been so profuse in her gifts; who, as a beauty and an heiress, will be caressed and courted, but whose heart is destitute of all that is really lovely! My child, though bearing in her countenance the marks of six years of poverty and destitution, and who, if I should be removed from her, would again be cast forth to starve in the streets, literally having no place to lay her head, yet carries about with her a gem from the Saviour's crown,-a gem which will shine brighter and brighter forever. I have this very evening been learning, or trying to learn, a lesson of charity and forgiveness from this little one. Pray for me, dear Andrew, that these lessons be not lost upon me, for I confess that sometimes I am tried beyond my strength. My situation here would be unendurable were it not for Agnes; but, as you say, the contrast will be so much the more delightful when we have a home of our own. Scarcely a day passes without some pleasant imaginings, on the part of Agnes and myself, as to where and what that home will be. Already we have planted our flower-beds, laid out shady walks, and arranged every article of household furniture. You can hardly realize (because men shut up their thoughts in their own breasts) how delightful it is to have one to whom I can confide all my joy, sure of the fullest interest and sympathy." 
               "Please, dear Florence," urged Agnes, when, an hour later, she came to give her benefactress a good-night kiss, "please to let me ask Lily to forgive me! I want her to know how sorry I am, and then I can go right to sleep." 
               Florence was in no disposition to resist the appealing look and tone of her darling, and without a word, she threw a shawl around the child, arrayed as she was in her night-dress, and carried her across the hall to the nursery. Lily was in bed, and her cousin, advancing to her side, put Agnes upon the floor. 
               "Lily," plead the child, in a trembling voice, "will you forgive me for wanting to strike you? I am very sorry, and I've asked God to forgive me." 
                
               "No!" answered Lily, irritated by her punishment. "All the folks hate me since you came, and treat me as bad as they can; and I wish you would just go away. 
               "Shame! shame! Misse Lily," exclaimed Bessie, who was wiping away her tears at the astonishing request of Agnes. 
               Florence was surprised that so unfeeling a reply did not bring a flood of tears to the sensitive child, who only returned with a grieved expression to her and said, "Please carry me back now." Bessie sprang forward, took the child in her arms, and placed her in bed, then, beckoning her young mistress to the door, she whispered mysteriously, "I allus said there was something powerful strange about that child. I used to think her a ghost, but now I know she's an angel. There a'n't no human natur' in her, and some day she'll just stretch her wings and fly right away up to heaven she talks so much about. La! Misse Florence, don't take on so! You'll be jess as well off as you was afore, and ma'be she'll stay till Mas'r Hanley comes home." 
               That night, while all the inmates of No.7 were locked in the arms of slumber, a fire broke out in the next square, which, in its fury, threatened to carry all before it. But God had heard the infant prayer, 
                      
                        "Now I lay me down to sleep, 
                        Let angels guard my bed." 
                     
                   and, perhaps, for the sake of the little suppliant, he changed the course of the angry element, and gave vigor and strength to the noble army of firemen who were endeavoring to extinguish the flames. 
               Blessed child! poor in this world's goods, but rich in faith. Rich indeed, for your "angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven." 
                
             
             
                
               
                   
                     MISS ROSE RIDING IN TRIUMPH. 
                  
                
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               IN pursuance of a resolution mentioned in a foregoing chapter, Florence Mowbrey wrote early in April to an aged aunt, residing near Albany, requesting leave to pass the summer in her family. The answer was as cordial as she could desire; and nothing now remained but for her to impart her intention to her guardian. But, upon doing so, she was surprised that he expressed himself unwilling to part with her. 
               "There is no telling what may happen before the summer is gone," he said, in some embarrassment, as he witnessed her start of astonishment. "Everything is so uncertain." 
               "That is very true," rejoined Florence, a gleam of joy darting from her eyes at the thought. "He at length realizes that his wealth cannot afford him happiness, and wishes me near him to assist him in his search for something more enduring. Dear uncle," she continued, clasping his hand, "if I can be of any real service to you, I will readily give up my summer excursion; but in truth I am heartily tired of city life." 
               "I didn't mean exactly that-that is-you see you don't understand me-hem. Florence," he asked, recovering himself by an effort, "when do you expect Mr. Hanley?" 
                
               "He wrote that I must not be disappointed if he did not reach New York until quite the last of December; but he would try to pass New Year with us." And the young girl blushed when she remembered what he had said must take place the very next week after his arrival. 
               "So soon!" exclaimed Mr. Buckingham, turning from the eager gaze of his ward. "Well, if you want so much to go to S--, perhaps it will be the best plan, after all. If I need you, I can send for you." 
               And she went, early in May, taking with her not only her child-teacher, as she loved to call Agnes, but their entire wardrobe; for she had fully determined never to return to her uncle's residence. In the quiet country farm-house which she had chosen for her retreat, both the young lady and her pupil passed a delightful summer. To Agnes every moment came laden with health and happiness. The fresh green fields,-the swelling buds,-the delicious breezes,-the tiny violets,-each, in turn, called forth exclamations of gratitude and delight. Florence lived over, in the joy of her child, the happiness of her young days. Again she wandered in the fields in search of buttercups and wild roses; again she made curls of dandelion stems, and wreathed them in the hair of her gay companion; and again she picked green cheeses, with which to supply her miniature store-house behind the rocks. Miss Rose was the companion of all their rambles, and well sustained her part in the important cares which housekeeping brought upon her little friend. At least, Agnes always gave her credit for the best intentions. 
               "O, Rose!" exclaimed the child one day, "how I do wish you could talk, and tell me that you are as happy as I am." Agnes knew now that dolls were made of wood, and could not go to heaven; but, for a long time, she used to include Rose in her daily petitions, and ask God to help her conquer her naughty feelings, and make her a very good girl. 
               From the family on C-- street, Florence seldom heard, except a line now and then, informing her of their health, in an envelope which enclosed a letter from Mr. Hanley. But in August she was pleasantly surprised by a visit from Louis, though pained at the marks of late hours and dissipation upon his once bright and intellectual face. 
               "Where's Beauty?" he inquired soon after his arrival. 
               "There," replied his cousin, pointing to a pretty picture in front of the house. Agnes was walking by the side of a large house-dog, of the Newfoundland breed, which she had unwillingly impressed into her service, while Miss Rose was riding in triumph on his back. The wreaths of gay flowers, with which both she and her canine companion were decked, gave beauty to the scene, while the sparkling eyes and rosy cheeks of the young girl, as her merry laugh rang out clear and full on the still air, presented a pleasing contrast to the demure countenance of her sedate companion. 
               Louis gave a stare of surprise, and then sprang out to meet her. "Don't you know me, Beauty?" he inquired gayly, as she shrunk back with the dignity of a queen from his familiar greeting. 
               "Yes, I know you now;-has Lily come too?" 
               "No, no one but me; and I might as well have staid away, for you are not glad to see me." 
               "Are you sick?" asked the child, gazing earnestly into his face. 
               "No, no," was the reply, as he turned away from her searching glance. "Here, coz," he added, returning to the house, "I almost forgot that I was the bearer of two letters to you." She took them eagerly, and tore them open. One was postmarked Paris; the other was from Catskill, about thirty miles below Albany, on the Hudson, and contained an invitation from a New York friend to join a party in an excursion to the mountains. The plan delighted her, and the next morning, in company with Louis and Agnes, she went to Albany, and took the boat for Catskill landing. At the hotel, on the main street, the party were only awaiting her arrival to proceed on their way, ascending the mountain through the Clove. 
               Here they found a large and merry company, assembled to pass the month which was so debilitating in the valley below. Every day, parties were made to the falls and other places of interest. The excitement of being followed by a guide with a loaded gun to keep off the panthers and wolves, which then abounded in that region, added greatly to their enthusiasm. Here ladies, who in New York would scream at the sight of a helpless worm, or busy spider, walked courageously, in the very face, as it were, of danger; while young gentlemen, whose only aspiration had been to be more elegantly dressed than any of their fellow-dandies on Broadway, threw off their shackles of fashion, and appeared for the time like sensible men, who had been formed in the image of their Maker. So much for the influence of Nature. Even those who had been too long grovelling to appreciate the sublime and soul-inspiring beauties which surrounded them, seemed raised for the time from the dust, and elevated to the knowledge of joys to which they had never reached. 
               Among the many agreeable acquaintances formed by Florence,-for among the visitors to the mountain-house, cut off as they are from all other society, there exists the freedom of one family,-she was particularly pleased with Mr. and Mrs. Van Lennep. Nor did her interest decrease when informed that they owned the beautiful place where the first years of her life had been passed. As their acquaintance progressed, she cordially accepted an invitation to return with them and revive the associations of her youth. Mr. Van Lennep, who had purchased Beech Grove of her father, assured her that she would find it but little changed. To be sure, the hedge of sweet brier was taller by half, and the grape vines now furnished a welcome shade to the arbor, but the brook gurgled the same sweet music as of old, and her rocky house on the bank was unharmed. 
               "I think," added his wife, laughing merrily, "that I saw there, within a few weeks, a piece of broken china, which was probably one of your plates. When we first moved to Beech Grove, there was quite an assortment of crockery set out in the little cave." 
               A shade of anguish passed over the face of Florence at this unexpected reminiscence; and it was with difficulty she commanded her voice to reply: "That cave was a favorite resort of my dear little sister. Every bit of broken china was carefully preserved for her play-house; but I cannot bear to think of it; the recollection is too painful." 
               "Ah, yes; I understand that it must be so. I remember well the excitement it caused at the time," added the lady. "Excuse me, dear, if I pain you by the question; but I think I heard that your mother never recovered her reason after the fatal catastrophe was announced to her." 
               Florence sadly shook her head. "No," she replied, in a tearful voice; "it caused the breaking up of our family. Dear mother died, calling upon Adelaide, and Frank followed her the next day. They were buried together in the tomb at the bottom of the garden." 
               "This, in compliance with my promise to your father, I have sacredly kept from intrusion," resumed sumed Mr. Van Lennep. "With regard to the little girl, I think her body was never recovered." 
               "Never," repeated Florence, "though father paid large sums of money to have the river dragged. But there is no doubt the dear child was murdered for the sake of the jewels she had about her, and then thrown into the water. A part of her muslin apron was found hanging on the bushes, and her little shoe was discovered half full of sand. It was a dreadful affliction to father to be deprived of mother's religious fortitude at such a time. He used to come home from New York, where he was vigorously prosecuting his search for the murderer, and hear her frantic cries for her child, while she seemed to have forgotten that an infant was pining away for want of the nourishment which she could no longer give him. Oh!" exclaimed the afflicted daughter, as bitter memories of the past came crowding into her mind, "how vividly the scenes of that never-to-be-forgotten day are before me! It was the anniversary of Adelaide's birth, and was a gala day with the whole household. The children from all the neighboring families were assembled, and sweet little sister was crowned as queen. We had a nurse, who had taken care of Ada from her birth, and who was excessively attached to her. After the little creature was chosen to occupy the garland-covered seat, Ruth called me aside, and asked me to add my entreaties to hers, and obtain mother's consent to deck the darling with jewels. I think Ruth must have had a strange fancy for ornaments, for I never saw such an overloaded toilet as Ada presented when she returned. There were the whole contents of mother's jewel-casket about her; and the child cast down her eyes, as if conscious she presented a ludicrous appearance. Mother remonstrated; but Ruth, who was greatly pleased by the dazzling show presented, begged that she might retain them until dark, when she would replace them. How the child could have been enticed away from her companions, or who committed the dark deed, remains to this day a profound mystery." 
               "Has your father ever returned to his native country?" inquired Mr. Van Lennep, after a pause. 
               "Never; and now that he has married again, I despair of seeing him." 
               Early in September, Florence accompanied her new friends to Beech Grove, and was alike saddened and pleased by a visit to each of her old haunts. Agnes accompanied her when she extended her walk to the tomb at the end of the garden, but was seized with such violent trembling when he told in that silent retreat lay all that was mortal of the mother of her friend, that Florence sent her back to the house. An hour later, when she joined the family in the parlor, her host was reporting to his wife his conversation with Agnes in the garden. "I followed you," he resumed, addressing Florence, "but turned back upon perceiving where your steps were bent. I walked slowly toward the brook, when I heard an exclamation from Agnes. I hurried to the cave, as she was not in sight; and there I found her kneeling on the stones, her hands folded on her breast, while her countenance expressed astonishment mingled with delight. She did not perceive me, and I stood back to watch her. In a moment she caught a glimpse of some broken china, and instantly darted toward it, caught it up and pressed it to her lips. She then crept behind a shelf, and presently brought out from some hiding-place her apron full of broken ware of bright colors, when, looking up, she saw me, and eagerly advanced to show me her treasures." 
               "She is full of enthusiasm," rejoined Florence, her eyes beaming with pleasure. "Do you remember how she was entranced by the view of the sunrise from the Mountain House? A lady near us, seeing her standing so quietly, with her lips parted, as she gazed upon the glorious spectacle, asked, "How do you like it, Agnes, my dear? "She put up her hand imploringly as she whispered, 'Please, ma'am, don't speak.'" 
               The visit of Florence to Beech Grove was nearly completed, when her young charge met with quite an adventure. The grounds about the place were so secluded, that Florence felt no hesitation in allowing her to play for hours by herself. She therefore experienced no alarm upon being told, on her return from a ride with her friends, that the child had not been in door since she left. But as night advanced, and she did not return, fears were excited lest some accident had happened to her. In company with her friends she visited the cave, and every place where the child was in the habit of playing, but without success; and they were returning in haste to the house for assistance, when they heard the voice of Louis Buckingham shouting to them from the road. Agnes was with him, but bore the marks of such violent agitation, that for a time her friends forbore to question her. Florence conveyed her to her chamber, bathed her swollen eyes, and, after giving her a cordial, left her to sleep while she sought from Louis an explanation. 
               "I left the Mountain House this morning," he commenced, "and stopped to make you a call, as I promised. On my way from the landing, I passed a low house back from the road, from which I distinctly heard loud cries of distress. I approached cautiously, intending to make an excuse by inquiring the shortest way to Beech Grove, when I heard a disagreeable voice exclaim, 'Stop your noise, I say, or I'll gag you! I tell you, I shan't hurt you if you will only be still. Come, now, that's a good child, go with me, and I'll give you a lot of money." 
               "'No, no!" screamed a child's voice, 'I want to go home; I love Florence best, and I want to stay with her.' 
               "'You fool, you!' added the man; 'but I won't be balked by a child, now I've begun. So come along;' and he caught her by the shoulder, when I knocked loudly at the door. The man loosened his hold, and the moment Agnes saw me she threw herself into my arms. I soon succeeded in quieting her; but when I turned to look for the brute, he was gone. She said he was her uncle Sandy; but she begged me with tears not to let him carry her away with him." 
               The next morning, when the little girl was more composed, she related to her friend the events of the preceding day. She played for hours in the garden and in the cave, when, toward night, she grew weary, and, supposing Florence had not returned, walked upon the road to meet her. She had already gone some distance, when a man came out from the woods and called her. "In the name of wonder, Aggy, how came you here?" he asked eagerly. She told him she was visiting with Miss Florence. "Well," said he, "I've got a home now, and I want you to live with me." 
               "He was very kind at first," Agnes continued, "and told me if I would go with him to the old house in the field, he would show me something he had brought for me. But as soon as we went into the house, he shut the door, and told me I must go with him to New York. When I began to cry, he struck me, and said if I made a noise he would gag me. I was so glad when Louis came, and took me away with him!" 
               Neither Florence nor her friends could account for this conduct on the part of the man, who had hitherto manifested no particular affection for his niece; but the thoughts of the young lady were soon diverted from Agnes by a hurried message from her guardian, requiring her presence in New York. Taking an affectionate leave of her kind friends, she went on board the next boat for New York, where she arrived in a few hours. 
               Mr. Buckingham had been seized with a fit of apoplexy; but, as it was not severe, when Florence reached him he was convalescent. His spirits were much affected, and at times he was peevish in the extreme. Finding her aunt exceedingly averse to the confinement of the sick-room, the self-denying girl immediately established herself as head-nurse, though at first she could plainly see that her guardian would have preferred another. 
               "It shocks my nerves to witness the change in your uncle," exclaimed Mrs. Buckingham to her niece. "I should soon be in the same state that he is, if I were to remain with him. You are so cool and self-possessed, and never answer him sharply when he is cross; you are just the one for a nurse. So, he is vastly better off in your hands." And having convinced herself of this, the worldly-wise woman lost no time in recommencing the life of gayety which had for a short time been interrupted by her husband's sickness. 
               Florence soon found herself in a trying condition; her patient was exceedingly impatient, being detained at home when every moment was precious in the settlement of some important business. Florence gathered, from his hints and half-muttered exclamations, that his affairs were embarrassed, and that he feared a failure. Several times, when his gentle nurse had been endeavoring to allay his irritation by chafing his partially benumbed hand and arm, he seemed on the point of making some confession to her, but with awkward hesitation restrained himself. The young lady, after a few days, allowed Agnes to bring her toys and books, and occupy a retired corner of the invalid's apartment. She was so quiet, that he hardly seemed to notice her presence; but one night, as Florence was unable to leave her patient, the child, by her desire, kneeled at her side and offered up, in a low whisper, her simple petitions for pardon and protection. 
               Mr. Buckingham had lain for some time with his eyes closed, but, hearing the continuous sound, he turned quickly toward the little suppliant in time to listen to her prayer in his behalf. "Heavenly Father," lisped the sweet child, "please make Mr. Buckingham well, and make him good, so that he can be happy. When he dies, and looks in God's great book, may he find his name written there, and then go and see Jesus who died for sinners just like me." 
               Florence glanced anxiously toward the bed, fearing her patient would be seriously displeased; but what was her astonishment when she saw his breast heaving with emotion, while great tears were rolling down his cheeks! She arose quietly when the child resumed her seat, and led her from the room, deeming it best to leave the petitions of Agnes to produce their own effect upon his heart. In her own room she passed a few moments in earnest supplication that what he had heard might prove the "word in season" which should arouse him to a sense of his condition as a sinner before God, and awaken in him a desire to embrace Jesus as his Saviour and Almighty Friend. After this, she returned softly to his chamber. 
               A few moments past midnight, she resigned her place to Bessie, and, in passing to her own room, encountered Mrs. Buckingham, who was but just returned from a party, and who, in suppressed tones, declared herself wearied to death. "I really envy you, Florence," she added quickly, as she witnessed the expression of devotion which lighted the features of the young girl. "You're a strange child, and I can't understand you." 
               No, she understood nothing of the holy joy which burned in the bosom of her young relative, who had passed the silent hours of her midnight watch in lifting up her heart to that great Spirit, whose presence surrounded her, for blessings upon herself and the dear objects of her affection. She knew nothing of all this; but in the midst of her ceaseless pursuit after pleasure, herself the object of envy as well as admiration, she secretly acknowledged the unsatisfying nature of her pursuits, while her very soul craved something more substantial and enduring. 
                     "She was rich, yet had nothing."
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THOUGH soon released from her close confinement by the convalescence of her guardian, yet the months which followed proved wearisome to Miss Mowbrey, in consequence of his extreme irritability, and a certain foreboding of evil to herself or her absent friend, which she could neither account for nor throw off. Perhaps the latter was in part owing to the fact that in Mr. Hanley's letters, received after her return to New York, he had spoken less confidently of being able to return before New-Year, or even at that time, in consequence of the dangerous illness of one of their firm. But he urged her to make all necessary preparations for the event which he hoped she would consent should take place within a few days after his arrival; and, if she could find a house in a desirable location, to secure it at once. He told her that for her sake he already loved the little girl who had proved such a comfort to her, and longed for the time when he could share both in her care of the child, and in the return of her grateful affection. 
               As the time drew near when he might be expected, Florence, though with a heavy weight upon her spirits, applied to her guardian for the necessary funds with which to make her simple preparations. His manner of acceding to her wishes caused her not only astonishment, but indignation. 
               "Just what I expected," he muttered, impatiently, "at a time when money is worth two per cent. a month, to be called upon to spend it for foolish decorations. I heartily wish I had never accepted the arduous trust of guardian." 
               "You will soon be free from it," answered Florence, trying to restrain her temper, and to speak calmly. "Mr. Hanley will relieve you from all embarrassment on my account." And, taking a check which he had reluctantly filled out, she withdrew hastily to her own room. It was some time before she recovered her equanimity. In vain she reasoned with herself that Mr. Buckingham intended only to express his interest in the profitable investment of her property, that he might account satisfactorily to her friends for his stewardship. In vain, also, she called to mind the fact that his irritability was produced by his recent illness; his words had been so abrupt, and his manner so unkind, that she could not restrain her tears, while her whole feelings were concentrated into one longing desire that her dearest friend would return, and take her away from such exposures. 
               In the midst of her sorrow, she found inexpressible comfort in the sympathy and affection of Agnes, who seemed to comprehend and enter into all her grief. Indeed, the situation of the child was far from pleasant. Since her return from the country, Mrs. Buckingham had openly expressed her annoyance at her presence, and Lily was not backward in imitating her example. Louis, as usual, took her part when present; but he was seldom at home; and, when Florence remonstrated with him upon his evil courses, he told her he thought any young man excusable in trying to find comfort elsewhere, when there was none at home. Mrs. Buckingham on all occasions poured out to her niece complaints of her husband's conduct, the unaccountable change which had taken place in his disposition, and her belief that the family were going to ruin. "I would far rather live in a cottage on one meal a day," she said, enthusiastically, "and dwell in peace, than be subjected to such trials as at present." 
               "Your sincerity may be put to the test, madam, sooner than you imagine," replied her husband, entering the room. 
               Both his wife and his ward urged him to explain his mysterious speech; but he only said, "You will know soon enough." 
               Florence looked back one year, and could hardly comprehend that in so short a time such a change had taken place in this once happy family. Then, her uncle, though a worldly man, was courteous and kind, while his wife prided herself upon making her guest comfortable and happy. Louis, whom she had loved from a boy, was disrespectful to his parents, and impatient even at her kindly-expressed reproofs, while in Lily the seeds of vanity and self-will, which had been so diligently planted ed in her tender mind, had taken deep root, and now yielded an abundant harvest. When she went to church she occupied herself wholly in watching the dress and affectedly assuming the manners of those she thought sufficiently fashionable to be worthy of imitation, and on her return accurately described the apparel of those who sat within her notice; so that on one occasion her mother remarked, with an air of triumph, "I believe Lily observes the toilet of those around her as minutely as I do." After the departure of visitors, the conversation between mother and daughter was wholly upon their dress; and no parent was ever more desirous of restraining a child from improper remarks upon the appearance of her associates than this thoughtless mother to cultivate so injurious a habit in her child. For instance, one morning a lady called with her daughter to endeavor to interest Mrs. Buckingham in some charitable object; and no sooner were they out of hearing than the lady said, "Lily, did you notice Mrs. Harper's dress?" 
               "Yes, mamma. It was horridly old-fashioned; and how ugly her daughter looked in that brown merino, and plain lace collar!" 
               "She was awkward, too, and blushed like a school girl, when I addressed her. I do believe that you, Lily, young as you are, would appear with more confidence and ease than she did." 
               "Never fear for me, mamma," urged the child, approaching a mirror, and making an affected courtesy, "I've had a good chance to see elegant manners, and I ought by this time to know how to enter a room. O, I long for the time when I shall go to balls and parties as you do. I intend to have a great many admirers; but I won't get married-husbands are so cross." 
               "Well, Lily," replied Mrs. Buckingham, with a smile, at the implied compliment to herself, "I acknowledge you have had a good opportunity to learn, and I hope you'll do justice to my teaching." 
               The child of six years old daintily caught up one corner of her embroidered silk dress, and began to pirouette around the room in the most approved style, when her manuvres were cut short by the entrance of visitors. 
               On New-Year's day poor, 'Florence received a letter which converted her misgiving and fears of coming evil into a certainty. Mr. Hanley wrote that his partner had died, and that he was constrained, though with the greatest reluctance, to remain in Paris for another year, and perhaps to go to Calcutta. Though every line was expressive of the keen disappointment which he experienced, yet he urged upon her to be cheerful, and bear up under this prolonged separation. He also advised her to leave the city, and pass the time with her aged relative in S--. Nothing, he added, but the extreme unhealthiness of the climate of India prevented him from asking her and Agnes to accompany him. 
               Florence was at first almost stupefied with grief, while her young companion sat at her feet pressing her hand, and bathing it in tears. There was something so touching in this silent sympathy, that Florence was deeply moved, and exclaimed, as she caught the child in her arms, "O, God, forgive me for murmuring at thy will, and help me to be grateful for this treasure!" 
               Poor girl! she needed to fortify her heart, for greater trials than any she had ever experienced were in store for her. 
               On her guardian, the intelligence of the prolonged absence of her lover produced emotions of joy which he found it difficult to conceal. He retired at once to his own apartment, where he could give vent to his pleasure; and, locking the door, commenced a vigorous walk across the room. "It really seems," he soliloquized, "as if Heaven favored my plan. Hanley away, I shall have no difficulty in appropriating as much of her property as will relieve me of my embarrassment. In the mean time, I will reduce my expenses, and live so prudently, that, before he returns, I shall make it all right again. Then there are ten chances to one that he never will return, and-"here he fell into a reverie. He asked himself whether in such a case he should return the whole, or only a part of the borrowed funds, which by a train of sophistry he had persuaded himself it was really his duty to use in order to save himself and family from ruin. 
               The relief which this decision afforded him was manifested for a time by a return of his former cheerfulness, and indulgence to the wishes of his wife and daughter. He even consented to a favorite project of his wife to have a fancy ball, which by its splendor should establish her right to the place she held as leader of the ton; and his ward, who would by no means consent to mingle in such scenes, took the opportunity to return to S--. Here she set herself vigorously at the work superintending the education of Agnes, and seeking objects of charity to employ her time and attention until she heard from Mr. Hanley; for she had written him at once that it was her wish to join him in India, which she could do with propriety, as her father still resided in Calcutta. 
               When disposed to repine, she called to mind the mercies she still enjoyed, and how much her condition was to be preferred to that of her city friends. She had an Almighty arm upon which she could lean in her trouble, while they were without support. She was glad, also, to remove her young charge from the influence of Lily, from whose constant companionship she feared much evil. 
               She communicated to her aunt in S-- her intention to go abroad as soon as she heard from Mr. Hanley, and, after explaining her motives, obtained her approval. She then imparted the same to her guardian, but received in return his positive refusal to sanction her wild scheme, and that he should deem it his duty as her guardian to withhold the funds necessary for such a purpose. By the same mail she received also a letter from his wife, complaining that he had returned to his old habits, that he was even worse than before, and that Louis was the trial of her life; that his extravagance exceeded all bounds, and his last demand for money had caused an open rupture between him and his father, who had declared that if Louis did not mend his ways, he would bind him out to a trade, or send him to sea. 
               The singular conduct of her guardian gave Florence great anxiety. She could hardly persuade herself that he would really thwart her dearest wishes, or what could be his motive for such a course. She longed for some friend who could advise her, and at length determined to apply to Mr. Van Lennep, who, though comparatively a stranger, had proved himself a true and sympathizing friend. A few hours after this decision found her sharing the hospitalities of Beech Grove. When the friendly welcome had been extended and received, the host remarked that his guests had of late been quite the subject of conversation in the village near which they resided. 
               As Florence expressed much curiosity to know the subject of the gossip, Mr. Van Lennep continued: "In my walks to and from the village, I several times met a man who seemed to be watching my house and grounds, and at length I found that he followed me home. He was a short, stout man, with faded yellowish hair, red whiskers, and a sinister cast of countenance. Certainly his looks did not prepossess me so much as to desire to cultivate his acquaintance. But the reluctance was all on my side, for he dogged my footsteps, and gave me no peace until I spoke to him. When I had answered a few questions, which he put with much cunning, he seemed satisfied, abruptly left me, and the next day I heard he had left town. My wife was much amused at his inquiries, and vexed that I did not ascertain his object in making them." 
               "Yes," added Mrs. Van Lennep, with a laugh, "I have tried in vain to imagine his reasons for asking whether I were the first or second wife; whether I was a widow before I was married; how many children we had; how many years we had lived on this place; and who was the previous owner. I questioned Mr. Van Lennep whether he had any rich relative who would be likely to make us his heirs, thinking this man meant to cheat us out of our rich legacy." 
               "But I don't see," remarked Miss Mowbrey, "how Agnes or I am involved. Will a portion of the property fall to us? If so, it would be convenient to receive it now, as it would relieve me at once from my embarrassment. 
               "I forgot to tell you," resumed the host, "that though he said nothing to me, he asked the landlord of the inn if a young lady by the name of Mowbrey didn't reside at Beech Grove part of the year, and whether you were intending to adopt the child you had befriended. Of course, the landlord knew nothing at all about the matter, and he told him so." 
               "Did the man wear ear-rings?" asked Agnes, quickly,-"great round ones?" 
               "Yes, he did." 
               "Then it's my uncle Sandy!" she exclaimed with a deep sigh. 
               The eyes of all the group were turned upon the child, whose cheeks were flushed with excitement, while her large, brilliant orbs were dilated with fear. 
               "I am afraid you will never see him again, for he has gone to sea, on a long voyage. One of our townsmen saw him upon the wharf just as he was going on board the ship." 
               "I heartily wish him a good voyage and a long one," said Florence, entirely relieved of all her apprehensions. "For what port did he sail?" 
               "O, he went out in a whale-ship." 
               "Then, Agnes, we shall not be likely to meet with him in Calcutta." 
               Begging her friends to excuse her while she accompanied her little girl to bed, Florence then unfolded her plan, and begged the advice of her friends. 
               Two days after, when she returned to S--, she had concluded to abide their decision, which was, to wait until she had received an answer to her letter, informing Mr. Hanley of her desire to join him, since he might not find it necessary to remain abroad; but if his business required his personal attention there for two or three years, to go to him at once. She also accepted an invitation from this lovely Christian pair to pass most of the summer at their delightful abode. 
               The winter months passed quickly in the midst of her pleasing duties. Florence gave herself no time for repining, but entered with zeal into all the measures of her pastor for the improvement of the quiet village. Then, by her untiring energy at home, she soon rendered herself almost indispensable to the comfort of her aged aunt, and at the same time acquired a knowledge of domestic concerns which was afterwards of invaluable use to her. 
               Agnes, too, improved rapidly. In the months passed in the country she had added several inches to her height, and it would have been difficult to recognize, in the tall, blooming girl of eight years, the bending form, and wan, sallow countenance of the little Aggy, when first introduced to her. 
               In the mean time, what had become of the family of Mr. Buckingham? During the spring and summer, Florence received occasional letters from her aunt; but they were usually filled with lamentation and complaints, varied with accounts of gay balls which she had attended, and at which she had shone as the particular star; and on one occasion a little slip was cut from a daily paper, giving a description of the dress and appearance of the elegant Mrs. B-- at Almack's. 
                
               In the summer, she heard of them as among the most gay and fashionable of the company assembled at Saratoga; and the friend who met her there told Florence Mrs. Buckingham had never seemed so irresistibly fascinating, or in such fine spirits, as at present; while her lovely daughter bid fair to be as brilliant and charming a character as her mother. She already had scores of admirers among the heartless youth at the United States Hotel, whose hearts she kept in a most delightful state of excitement by her alternate coyness and coquetry. "As for Mr. Buckingham," added the lady, her voice falling to a whisper, "rumor does not speak very favorably of his habits. He is certainly much changed for the worse; his manners are abrupt, and he falls, even in company, into such moods of abstraction that nothing can arouse him. I have heard that he has lost large sums at the gaming-table." 
               Miss Mowbrey sighed, as she feared this report was too true. If so, it gave her a key to much which had been a mystery to her for the past two years; and for the first time the idea that he was not a suitable person to have the care of her property flashed through her mind. 
               A few days after meeting the friend of Mrs. Buckingham, Florence received the following note from her aunt: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "United States Hotel, Saratoga.
                            
                           "DEAR FLORENCE,-I believe my heart would break if I could not unburden it to you. Mrs. H-- reported to me the account she gave you of me; but, believe me, Florence, when I say that my smiles are put on to hide an aching heart, my gayety is all assumed; for, among this vast throng from every State in the Union, there is not one poor wretch so miserable as your aunt Buckingham. Yes, it is so; for (I hardly dare confess it to you) I am in daily fear of my life. I honestly believe my husband is insane, or else his pecuniary embarrassments have driven him to the verge of distraction. Last night, at a late hour, I left the brilliantly-lighted hall, and retired to my own apartment. I found my husband almost in a frenzy at a casual remark made by a gentleman at table concerning the trustees of some savings bank, that these men were as much to blame for their improper investment of the funds they held in trust, as any individual guardian would be who should prove unfaithful, not talking judicious care of the property of his ward. I tried to convince him that the gentleman could have intended no personal application to any one present; but he was furious. And at last I, too, grew angry, and said, 'I shall think there is some reason why you apply this to yourself, if-' 
                           "He flew across the room, and hissed out, 'Madam, take care what you say!' I was so frightened my heart actually stood still; but in an instant I recovered myself sufficiently to run into Lily's bedroom, which is within ours, and lock the door. What shall I, what can I do? I cannot stay here. I dare not go home to be alone with him. You always had some influence with your guardian. Will you not accompany us to New York? O, Florence, how I envy you! In the midst of trials, you are always happy. How many times has your remark when we parted occurred to me! I said if I were you, I should sink under such tidings as you had just received from Mr. Hanley. You answered, 'I know that a friend, and not an enemy, orders my path, and that he doeth all things well.' I have no divine friend. I have never sought one; and now I must bear up as best as I can. O, how mistaken are those who envy me my riches and station in society! I feel to-day, as I have never before felt, my own poverty, and need of help. 
                           
                              "Your wretched friend, 
                              ANNA BUCKINGHAM."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               Miss Mowbrey at once decided that it was her duty to comply with the wish of her aunt, and return to New York. With the promptness which was a part of her character, she wrote to Mrs. Buckingham, announcing her determination; but was providentially detained in S--, by the sudden illness of Agnes. In a few days, however, the child had so far recovered that she took the day-boat from Albany, reached New York city at dark, and, having procured a hack, drove to C-street, where an awful scene awaited her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               ON arriving at the residence of her guardian, Miss Mowbrey hastily discharged the coachman, and, being admitted by the porter, perceived at once that some unusual event had occurred. The servants were crowded into the hall, and, as soon as they saw her, made signs of distress, at the same time pointing to the chamber at the head of the stairs. 
               "Robert," inquired Florence, speaking as calmly as possible, "what has happened? Is your master ill?" 
               'He's dying, miss!" answered the man, wiping his eyes; "but I'll never believe he meant to kill himself," he added, sinking his voice to a whisper. 
               "He wouldn't do that." 
               The women pressed forward to relate particulars; but at that moment Bessie came cautiously down the stairs, and beckoned Miss Mowbrey to go to Mrs. Buckingham. Passing the door of her master with a mysterious and solemn movement, the nurse entered a darkened chamber, whither Florence followed her. Mrs. Buckingham was seated in a low chair, rocking herself back and forth, in the extremity of her grief. As soon as she saw Florence, her tears burst forth afresh. The young lady advanced to her side, and for a time allowed her own tears to flow in sympathy with her afflicted friend. At length the lady whispered, "Do you know?-have you heard?" 
               "Robert told me his master was very sick." 
               Mrs. Buckingham gave her niece a piercing look of inquiry, and gasped, "No more?" 
               "I did not stop for any particulars," answered Florence. "Bessie heard my voice, and called me to you." 
               "It is dreadful!-it is shocking!" exclaimed the lady, seizing Florence with both hands. "He has committed suicide! Two physicians are with him now. O, I cannot endure to have it so! Think what a terrible disgrace to his family!"-and the lady covered her face with her hands. 
               "Think, rather," added Florence solemnly, "of his poor soul! Think what a dreadful doom awaits him! Horrible, horrible thought!" 
               For one moment the lady of fashion forgot herself in the awful reality held up before her; but she soon replied bitterly, "I expected consolation, or at least sympathy, from you, Florence, and you only aggravate my distress by the most awful suggestions!" 
               "Dear, dear aunt!" exclaimed the young girl, throwing aside her bonnet, and seizing the hand which the lady had withdrawn, "I do indeed sympathize with you! I am myself afflicted in your affliction; for was he not for many years as indulgent to me as a parent? But how did it happen? Is there no hope that he will recover?" 
                
               Mrs. Buckingham sadly shook her head, while the tears, which had ceased to flow, poured like rain down her pale checks. 
               In a short time she grew more composed, and Florence gathered from her that Mr. Buckingham had occupied a separate apartment since their return to New York, and, on the morning of the day in question, rang for his breakfast to be brought to his room. The chamber-maid, who carried it to him, said he was writing at his desk when she entered, but immediately arose, and walked the floor while she arranged the table, then made an impatient gesture for her to leave the room. No one saw him again until nearly two in the afternoon, when the report of a pistol, followed by a heavy fall, alarmed the whole household, and they rushed in terror to his apartment. The door from the front hall was locked; but his private entrance had been forgotten, and by this they speedily gained admittance. Mr. Buckingham was found lying upon the floor, speechless, though the ball had only pierced the fleshy part of his arm. The family physician had been hastily summoned, and now had called in Dr. -- to consult. Mrs. Buckingham said she could not command fortitude to visit his chamber; but she had seen the physician, who assured her that, though the wound was but slight, he could not recover, and would probably live but a few hours. 
               At this moment, Florence heard the door of the next room open, followed by a low knock at the entrance of the chamber where she was sitting. She opened it, and Dr. --, whom she had long known, gave a start of pleasure at seeing her. "You are the one, of all others, I am most glad to see here," he said, in a suppressed voice; "but you have a severe task to perform. Do you know all?" 
               Florence bowed. 
               "Mr. Buckingham has had a second fit of apoplexy, much more severe than the former one. In falling, probably, the pistol, which was loaded, went off, and wounded his arm. We have not thought it best to extract the ball, as he will probably never be conscious. But, while he lives, he must have care. I will endeavor to pass the night with you. Now I must go, and shall send Robert, who is a good nurse, to remain until I return." 
               Contrary to the expectation of the physician, during the night Mr. Buckingham revived from his dreadful stupor, and for a few moments seemed returning to consciousness. The sight of Florence bending over him seemed to annoy him, and Dr. -- stepped forward and took her place. The following day, his arm was so much swollen that it was thought advisable to remove the ball. The operation so much exhausted the patient, that for twelve hours he lay hovering between life and death; but at length, by the blessing of God upon the prescriptions of his physician, he rallied, and at the end of the week was pronounced out of immediate danger. 
               Now that the horrible calamity which had threatened ened them was for a while averted, Miss Mowbrey tried to collect her thoughts, and to form some plan for the future. From sundry hints which had fallen from Dr. --, as well as remarks of the faithful Robert,-who, more than any other individual, had been received into the confidence of his master,-she feared that her guardian had met with pecuniary losses to such an amount that, in order to avoid the disgrace of a failure, he had conceived the awful project of putting an end to his life. In the first warmth of her gratitude that his attempt had failed, the noble girl generously resolved to devote the greater proportion of her own property to enabling him to resume his business whenever his health would allow. But soon a doubt entered her mind whether it would be right for her to do this without consulting her absent friend; and, though she had not yet heard of his arrival in Calcutta, yet she at once seated herself at her desk to write him. Before she commenced, however, a low knock called her to the door, where she received from Robert a note directed to herself, and which he said he had found upon his master's desk the day of his dreadful attempt at suicide, but which, amidst the anxiety which followed, he had forgotten to deliver. 
               Supposing this letter was to commend his wife and children to her care, Florence again fastened the door, and sat down to its perusal. She glanced at the direction, and her heart beat rapidly as she read, "Miss Florence Mowbrey. To be delivered when I am dead." Fearing, she scarcely knew what, the young girl paused, and lifted up her heart to God for strength to bear any affliction he might send upon her; then, with feelings more composed, she broke the seal, and glanced at, rather than perused, the following lines: 
               "FLORENCE MOWBREY: When you read this, I shall be beyond the reach of your reproaches, but not beyond that remorse which has driven me to put an end to my life. Yes, Florence, I am ruined for this world; and, if there is another beyond this, I am ruined also for that. I have appropriated every cent of your property to try to save myself; and, believe me, at first I fully intended to replace it; but all, all is gone. You, as well as my family, are beggars, and I dare not live to meet the disgrace. But, Florence, it is an awful thing to die unprepared! I would at this hour give all I ever possessed had I the simple trust in God which Agnes expressed in her short prayer, 'Please make Mr. Buckingham good, so that he can be happy. When he dies, and looks in God's great book, may he see his name written there, and then he can go and see Jesus, who died for sinners just like me!' Those words have haunted me ever since; but it is too late!-too late! Poor Florence, farewell!" 
               For a long time Florence sat with her hands pressed upon her heart, her face and lips growing momentarily whiter and whiter, as anticipations of the future and remembrances of the past came crowding into her mind. Brought up in affluence, she could not yet realize all the bitter meaning of the word poverty. She thought of Andrew. He had sought her, supposing she was an heiress. Her first care should be to release him. That was her only honorable course. Then her plans for the education of Agnes were completely frustrated, and tears, against which she had steeled her heart at the thought of her separation from her betrothed, now flowed freely. But they were bitter tears. She reproached her guardian, she reproached herself, she almost thought hard of her Maker for allowing her to be so tried. Ah! that was a sad hour for the poor girl, and sorely was she tempted to evil. But the good Spirit who had ever watched her path came to her rescue. He presented new thoughts, and a brighter picture, and at length tears of sorrow for her unbelief streamed from her eyes. "God forgive me!" she exclaimed, fervently, "for I am a poor, guilty creature. In my wrath, I ceased to remember thy mercies." 
               In her calmer moments, she called to mind her late decision with regard to her absent friend. "No, no!" she exclaimed, earnestly, "I will not do it! My anger rendered me unjust. I have no right to ascribe to him such mercenary motives. I will love him still! And what a comfort my little Agnes will prove to me! O, I have still many, many mercies-far more than I deserve!" 
               In the meantime, a scene of an exciting nature was taking place in an adjacent room. Enclosed in an envelope, directed to himself, Robert had also found a note addressed to his mistress; and, on the arrival of the physician, he had requested him to deliver it. After receiving an intimation as to the subject of the letter, Dr. -- proceeded at once to her room. He began cautiously, by speaking of her husband; stating that, though in all probability he would be a confirmed invalid, yet he might live many years. 
               "A very doubtful kind of consolation, doctor," suggested Mrs. Buckingham. "A fretful, irritable husband, such as he invariably is when indisposed, is not the most agreeable addition to a family." 
               "But surely, madam," replied the doctor quickly, shocked by her heartless words, "it ought to be a matter of gratitude to you that God has given him space for repentance. Think what a dreadful thing it is to rush unprepared into the presence of our final Judge!" 
               The lady put her embroidered handkerchief to her eyes, and, after a short pause, her companion went on: "Have you any idea of the cause of his conduct? Has he ever adverted to any embarrassments in his business?" 
               Mrs. Buckingham started forward at the serious tone in which he had unconsciously made the inquiry, and asked, earnestly, "Do you know anything? Has any evidence been discovered?" 
               "It is rumored," continued the doctor, "that your husband has been, for a year past, losing the confidence of those connected with him, and that of late he has been known to insist upon forcing sales at a great personal sacrifice. When his friends endeavored to reason with him, his reply was, 'I must have money!'" 
               While he was speaking the lady gazed earnestly in his face, and when he ceased she sighed heavily. 
               "I have in my hand," added the kind doctor, "a note from your husband, directed to you, in which he probably gives the reasons for his deluded state." 
               She caught it quickly from his hand, tore open the seal, and read: "Your extravagance has ruined me! Remember it, for it is truth! I loved you, and, to gratify your pride, I have ruined my own soul; and now you will be a beggar!" 
               Giving a loud shriek, as the letter dropped from her hand, she instantly sprang to her feet, and attempted to rush from the room. 
               "Madam," urged the doctor, detaining her, "where are you going?" 
               "To my husband-to accuse him of falsehood and cruelty! He has charged me of crimes which he himself has committed!" 
               "But it would be at the price of his life. And, even were it not so, his mind has not recovered its tone; he could not understand you." 
               "O God!" exclaimed she, with a passionate burst of tears, "what have I done to deserve such a blow? I shall die! I choose to die, rather than live to endure such disgrace!" She sobbed so violently that her whole frame was convulsed; and her companion was so shocked with the heartless, hardened character she exhibited, that he could say nothing to soothe her. At length she started suddenly from her seat, exclaiming, "But Florence is rich! She will aid us! Perhaps, after all, we can prevent our poverty from being discovered!" And, just as the young lady was beginning to turn from her own trials to the mercies which still remained to her, and to remember that she was not alone in her affliction, Mrs. Buckingham, with a hurried knock, burst into her room. 
               "Florence, you will befriend us! You will not forsake us in our poverty!" she exclaimed, throwing herself into the young girl's arms. 
               Florence made no reply, except to place in her aunt's hand the fatal note directed to herself, when a repetition of the former scene took place, and I need not repeat it. 
               Miss Mowbrey had not lived so many years in constant intercourse with this lady of fashion without discovering that she was wholly engrossed with the vain pursuit after pleasure,-that pride, envy, and ambition, were the predominating traits in her character. But she had never before realized how entirely the indulgence of these emotions had swallowed up every feeling of affection for her husband and children. She was astonished, she was shocked, at what she saw and heard. Yes, in that scene she learned to be grateful that her Father in heaven had taken from her so great a temptation to worldliness, and that before her affliction she had learned in whom to put her trust. 
                
               It was, perhaps, well for the young girl that she had no time to brood over her trouble. Upon her devolved the selection of a cottage, in the neighborhood of the city, to which the family could remove as soon as her guardian was sufficiently recovered to enable him to do so without danger. To her, also, came the servants for directions in preparing the house and furniture for sale, and to her the kind physician committed the charge of his patient. In the latter duty she found an efficient coadjutor in Robert, who had gained complete ascendency over the enfeebled mind of his master, and who in his attention was untiring. Mrs. Buckingham had never but once seen her husband since the sad change was made known to her, and at that time the effect upon both of them was so unhappy, that Florence determined to urge her attendance upon him no further, but to allow circumstances to bring them together, as it must do when they were in a smaller house. 
               Agnes still remained at Beech Grove, where Florence had left her on her way to New York; and, as soon as the loss of her property became known, her kind friends wrote, urging her to come to them at once, assuring her that their home and their hearts should ever be open to receive her and Agnes. It was Florence's first impulse to leave her unthankful charge to take care of themselves, and fly away to the peaceful refuge provided for her; but other and better thoughts withheld her. Providence had placed her here, and had given her duties to perform, and, however disagreeable, she would strive to fulfil them. Her guardian was as helpless as a child, and far more difficult to manage; while his wife remained passive and dejected. In the midst of her anxieties and cares, Louis reached home, having been absent several months on a tour of pleasure. In a distant city he had read an account of his father's failure, and attempt at suicide, and had immediately hastened home. Florence feared that his presence would only aggravate her cares; and, in a kind but free conversation, she pointed out the danger and folly of the course he had pursued, and besought him to begin life anew. She briefly alluded to the unhappiness in his own family, and the fearful crimes of his father in consequence of setting aside the precepts of the word of God, and endeavoring to conform to the world. 
               Louis listened, with tears. "I am not," he replied, "the heartless wretch I seem. During my tedious journey home, I have had time for reflections, and bitter ones some of them have been. I have seen enough of the heartlessness of those who are striving to be leaders of fashion to be completely disgusted; and I am ready now to devote myself, under your direction, to the support of my parents." 
               Florence learned that this was not a vain boast. In the care of his father she soon found he was an invaluable assistant; and thus Robert was relieved at a time when his services were of the utmost importance. Though at first Louis could scarcely conceal his horror upon beholding the meaningless and almost idiotic expression which had taken the place of the angry one seen upon the countenance of his father when they parted, yet, by accustoming himself to the sight, and instantly assuming the offices belonging to a tender son, he soon rendered himself indispensable to his father's comfort. He carried a low couch into the room, and from that time took the entire charge of his patient during the night. He soothed him, caressed him, and quieted him, as he would a fretful child; and all this not for a day or a week, but for a long period of time. 
               One day, just before they left the city for their new and humble home, Florence noticed him in earnest consultation with their firm friend, Dr. --. He had not been an unmoved spectator of the change in Louis; and, as he went below, Florence heard him say, "I will arrange a meeting for you at ten to-morrow morning." During the day, the young man requested her to remain with his patient for an hour, as he had business which would call him from home. To this she readily agreed, and when he returned she saw traces of deep emotion upon his countenance. 
               "Good news, Florence!-good news! I have been able, through the kindness of Dr. --, to obtain a situation in a store, which is far beyond my expectation. I am to have my board and five hundred dollars the first year, with an increase of salary afterwards, if I do well. I told my employers I had been spending my time idly and unprofitably for the last three years; but that I was determined, with the help of God, to live a new life. I concealed nothing from them of the past, and I spoke earnestly of what I hoped to be in the future. I mentioned the distance of our house out of town, and the absolute necessity of my remaining at home, to take the care of my father at night. Mr. Sampson, in the kindest manner, said my living out of town would be no objection; that, on the whole, he should feel easier about me if he were sure I was not exposing myself to the temptations of New York in the evening; that I could take breakfast and tea at home, and occasionally, he added, we shall want you to take dinner with us." 
               As Florence listened to his earnest tone, and especially as she witnessed, day after day, the hopeful change in the character of her young relative, and thought of what he was and might have been, had his father continued prosperous in business, she acknowledged the truth of the poet: 
                     "Sweet are the uses of adversity."
                  
                
               In his case she saw the beauty of the inspired passage, "There is that maketh himself rich, and hath nothing; there is that maketh himself poor, and hath great riches." In his poverty, the graces of filial love, Christian kindness, meekness and humility, had sprung up and borne fruit. Florence, for the first time, looked forward with the hope that this might also be the case with regard to the other members of the family. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               WE must now leave the stately mansion on C-- street, and follow our friend Florence Mowbrey with her charge to a humble cottage, three miles out of town. It was near the latter part of November, and Louis had been extremely busy in arranging the few articles of furniture, which they had been allowed to retain, to the best advantage. But the room of the invalid had been his chief care, and his constant adviser was often called from the other parts of the house, to say whether the couch would be pleasanter in this corner or that, drawn up beside the cheerful fire. At length all was arranged to his entire satisfaction; and never had the gorgeously draped parlors of his early home seemed so cosey and comfortable as this. It was the best room in the house, being on the first floor, and having a south-west view, the sun lay in it nearly all day. Fortunately there was a small room opening from it, so that the two single beds for the invalid and his nurse could be placed there, as this apartment was to serve for parlor, in case they happened to have any visitors; but this they did not expect. Beside these two rooms, there was a good-sized apartment in the rear with another bedroom leading from it, and a small kitchen beyond. In the attic there were four chambers, so that there was an abundance of room for their diminished household. Running along the side of the house, about the length of the dining-room, was a pleasant portico, which, as Downing remarks, gave expression to the whole building. At the end of this portico there was a flight of steps leading to a small garden, containing about a quarter of an acre. Here were currant, gooseberry and raspberry bushes, and quite a number of peach, cherry and plum trees. To this garden Florence looked forward as a source of great interest to the invalid, as well as to the children. 
               And now every piece of furniture was in its appropriate place, the family were called together to pronounce upon them, before Mr. Buckingham was led from his temporary quarters to take possession of his new abode. Bridget, who was a protg of Florence, and now the maid-of-all-work, followed at the call of her mistress, and warmly pronounced the parlor the "heartsomest looking room I've seen for many a day." 
               Mrs. Buckingham remained silent, as usual, until Louis, putting her arm in his, said, cheerfully, "Mother, isn't this pleasant?" 
               "It looks well enough," she replied, "if we could keep it so; but how is a sick-room ever going to be fit to receive callers?" 
               "Florence and I do not expect any," continued Louis, gayly; "and as you say you shall not see any who do call, why, I don't see that we need to set aside a room for the purpose." 
                
               The lady bit her lip, and said no more; and with one lingering glance around to see that all was right, and a little moving of the arm-chair to the front of the grate, the affectionate son stepped briskly out to introduce his father to his apartment. 
               Florence's eyes moistened as she witnessed his gentle care when he tenderly guided his father's steps over the sill of the door, and waited patiently until he dragged his palsied limb along the carpet. When he was seated, the invalid gazed around with the pleasure of a child, his eye resting a moment upon the family pictures which were hung upon the walls, then turning to the table in the corner, and then whistling a response to the merry welcome of the familiar bird, the cage of which hung from the window. 
               "It pays me for all," whispered Louis in Florence's ear, "to see how he notices everything, and how pleased he is." 
               "Tell her," lisped Mr. Buckingham, pointing to his wife, "to go away; she don't belong here." It was with difficulty that he could make himself understood, but now in his earnestness his words were terribly distinct. 
               No one answered; but presently the lady turned, gave him a withering glance, and walked haughtily from the room. Florence, who had been watching her, sighed heavily. She hardly wondered at the thought of the patient, "she don't belong here," for a heavy frown had settled upon her brow, and her mouth had become almost fixed in an expression of disgust. All else was bright and cheerful, and even to his enfeebled mind she seemed out of place. 
               In the evening Agnes unexpectedly arrived. Florence had sent for her to come the first opportunity; and, as Mr. Van Lennep had business in the city, she accompanied him. It was not his first visit to the cottage, for he had been unwearied in his search after one which would be a pleasant home for them, and was as much pleased as Florence herself, at finding this was to be let. 
               Agnes was almost wild with delight on being restored to her friend, and ran joyfully from room to room, expressing great delight at all she saw. Mr. Buckingham patted her hand, then tried to reach her head, to express his surprise that she had grown so tall. "Where's Lily?" he asked, when she turned to run away. 
               "Florence says Lily is coming at Christmas!" replied the child. 
               Amid the multiplied cares of superintending her little household, the weeks flew rapidly by. Louis entered upon his new business on the first day of December, and by his faithfulness and activity soon gained the entire confidence of his employers. It was Agnes's privilege to watch for the sound of the little bell which the affectionate son placed on the bed by his father when he left the house. As the invalid frequently slept late, and Louis always left a bright fire in his room, Florence determined that this should be Agnes's hour for study, until she began to attend school. This she was to do after the Christmas holidays, Mrs. Van Lennep having insisted upon paying her tuition, as Florence would not be able to direct her studies as she had done. She soon found great assistance from the child, in the care of the patient, who sang to him, combed his hair, related instances of the sagacity of her dog, and the surprising intelligence of Miss Rose, until he laughed as heartily as she wished. She soon became so expert in feeding him, that he would take food from no one else. However dark and gloomy the day, Agnes was always happy. Indeed, the thought that she was of use, rendered her spirits so buoyant that Florence, who had considered her a quiet child, was surprised at the change. She danced through the house, singing like a bird, and carrying sunshine wherever she went. The sick man always welcomed her approach with a brightening face, or a snap of his finger with his well hand. Where is Beauty, was Louis's first question, upon entering the house, if she was not in sight. But this did not often happen, for she almost always recognized his step coming up the yard, and flew to open the door for him, and to relate her day's experience with her patient. 
               Even Mrs. Buckingham was lured into occasional forgetfulness of herself by the enthusiasm of the child. When she went out, she always met with some adventure. She frequently brought home some little bunch of flowers which the market-man had sent to the patient. And "O," she used to say, "everybody is so kind!" 
               On these occasions, Mrs. Buckingham would drop her work for a moment, and listen with interest; but only to resume it with a deeper sigh, as she exclaimed, that she should be thankful when Lily came home-then she should have some attention. She didn't see why Mr. Buckingham need to engross all the cheerful company there was in the house. She usually sat from morning till night with some articles of her former fashionable attire lying loosely in her lap, trying to arrange them for present use, if any of her city acquaintance should call. But they never did call; and, from protesting that she would not see them, nothing should induce her to do so, she began to abuse them most heartily, and congratulated herself as well rid of such false friends. 
               The day before Christmas, Lily arrived, accompanied by a lady with whom she had been staying. Mrs. Storey resided in Philadelphia, and was a distant connection of Mrs. Buckingham. Their acquaintance had been renewed at the Falls the previous summer, where she had been struck with Lily's beauty and grace, and, having no children, she now came to offer to take the child and educate her as her own. She was intending to be absent on a tour to the south for two months, and would give the mother until the end of that time to decide whether she would consent to the proposal. 
               Mrs. Buckingham, with more of true feeling than she had exhibited since the change in her circumstances, promised to think of the subject and let the lady know her decision. She, however, soon came to the conclusion to be governed by Lily's conduct. If she proved as great a comfort as Agnes had done, nothing should induce her to part with the child. If, on the contrary, she were wilful and passionate as she had heretofore been, she would gladly be rid of her. The mother was innately selfish, and, in her decision, no thought of sacrificing her own ease or pleasure for the good of her child entered her mind. No question arose, "Is Mrs. Storey qualified to be a mother to Lily?" "Will she exert a right influence over her?" No, it was entirely this, "Will the tediousness of my life be increased or lessened by her presence?" 
               On this point, twenty-four hours enabled her to come to a decision. As might have been prophesied from her former character, Lily sneered at everything in and about the house, and was always comparing it with her city home, or the house she had just left. She looked upon Agnes, and even Florence, with contempt, for appearing cheerful under such circumstances, and declared she "never would be contented, never." 
               It was plain to see that her presence cast a gloom over the whole household; and as Agnes soon commenced attending school, Florence's heart sank within her. Poor Florence! It was a sad and weary termination to all her bright hopes. Though endeavoring to appear cheerful, she was sensible of a daily increasing weight upon her spirits, as the time had long passed when she ought to have heard from Mr. Hanley, announcing his arrival in India. In vain Louis watched the shipping-list. In vain Mr. Van Lennep made inquiries of ship-masters; no intelligence of him could be gained. Mechanically she went about her daily duties, but her cheek grew pale, the fire faded from her eye, and a close observer might see that she was weary and sad at heart. It was at night only, when all the other inmates of the cottage were locked in the arms of slumber, that she allowed herself to dwell upon her own sorrows; and sometimes the thought of them overwhelmed her. Bereft of property, home and friends, at a time when life generally appears most bright and hopeful; pressed with the agonizing fear that some evil had happened to him she loved, the midnight hours were often passed amid groans and bitter tears. 
               But Florence was a Christian, and the God upon whom she leaned for support in the hour of her trials, did not forsake her. Often, when her need was greatest, and her heart was ready to cry out, "My God, why hast thou forsaken me?" she felt a strong arm around her, and she realized the presence of her Saviour, while soothing words were suggested to her mind, and she could say with Job, "Though He slay me, yet will I trust in Him." 
                
               One day, about a month after Lily's return, her mother put a note into Florence's hand, requesting her to read and forward it. This was the first intimation which she had received of the offer made by Mrs. Storey, and she was not surprised that the letter contained the full consent of the mother to give up her child. Indeed, Lily's ingratitude was the subject of her complaint from morning till night. 
               Under the existing circumstances, Florence could utter no remonstrances, for she could hardly conceive a worse influence for the child than she at present was subjected to, and she could but feel that it would be a great lightening of her care to have Lily away. Louis, when consulted, or rather when his mother announced to him her decision, said, "There is no doubt but we should be a happier family if she were away, for she has done nothing but fret, and tease Agnes, ever since she returned; but how is she to be educated? Will Mrs. Storey teach her to control her temper? or will she, for the sake of her beauty, indulge her in every whim?" 
               "O," exclaimed his mother, "as she grows older, she will be ashamed of her conduct, and learn to govern herself." 
               When the kind offer of Mrs. Storey, and her mother's acceptance of it were made known to Lily, she took no pains to conceal her delight; and, from that time, her conduct became more unamiable than before. She addressed even her mother with a pertness and want of respect, which showed that she already looked down upon her, and felt herself wholly relieved of all the affection and respect due from a child to a parent. 
               Did no regret enter Mrs. Buckingham's mind, that she had so wholly neglected her child's moral culture? Did she never remember that she was responsible for the weak, selfish, and undutiful spirit which her daughter manifested? 
               Time, which stops for no man, went steadily on; days and weeks swelled into months, until the softened breezes and swelling buds announced that spring had come. Since the departure of Lily, no changes of importance had occurred in the household, except that Florence's step had grown slow and heavy; and Agnes, who was now a tall, capable girl of nine years of age, had gradually assumed many of the duties which formerly devolved upon her friend. When or why she consented to these new arrangements, Florence could not tell, for all seemed to come so naturally, that she had no opportunity to remonstrate. 
               "Florence, dear Florence, do come here!" Agnes called out one morning; and, so saying, the lively girl pulled her gayly to the door, then down the steps into the garden, where she showed her that the crocuses had come up, and needed immediate attention. While Florence stood doubtful, Agnes ran back to the house, procured an old bonnet, pair of gloves, and trowel, and, before she hardly knew what she was about, the young lady was busily engaged in digging around the roots of the young plants, which were just beginning to peep up from the earth. In the meantime, Agnes flew to the unfinished duties of Florence, which, with a light heart and active hands, she quickly disposed of, having coaxed Mrs. Buckingham to arrange the parlor. 
               "You have such good taste," she said, winningly, "that you know how to make furniture appear to the best advantage." And the lady, who unconsciously had been gradually yielding to the gentle influence of the child, suffered herself to be persuaded. The next morning, the same thing happened, with one great addition. The air was soft and balmy, the sun shone pleasantly upon the little portico, and Agnes, with her heart beating wildly at her own success, wheeled the invalid's chair out of doors, and then darting back, soon appeared, leading Mr. Buckingham slowly forth to enjoy the pleasant sunshine. He seemed quite as much pleased as she did; indeed, he laughed so heartily at the surprise he should give Florence, that it quite impeded his progress to his chair. 
               At length the young lady started at the sound of a merry laugh, and was quite as much astonished as they expected, to see her guardian, arrayed in his coat and hat, bowing and smiling with something of his old manner. Agnes was herself astonished, when Mrs. Buckingham consented to lead him back, if he wished to return before Florence was ready to come in, and hurried away to school with her heart overflowing with happiness. 
                
               "O," she soliloquized, "who could wish to be rich? While Mr. Buckingham was so, how miserable we all were! Now, I think even Mrs. Buckingham is happier, if she would only say so; and dear Louis, how good he is!" But here her thoughts turned to Florence, and she sighed again and again. Before she reached school, Agnes had made a plan, so great she hardly expected to realize it, but she would try. This was, to write herself to Mr. Van Lennep, and tell him Florence was not well, and ask him to invite her to Beech Grove. How to make her accept the invitation, was indeed the great point; but she thought she could succeed by representing how much better it would be to give Mrs. Buckingham an opportunity to be more with her husband, which she must be if they were alone. 
               That very night she drew Louis to the further part of the room, and intrusted to him her great secret, which he fully approved, and encouraged her to persevere in. She then related the events of the morning, which he considered a great achievement, particularly the tact with which she had left her patient in the care of his wife. 
               "It is plain enough to me," said the youth, taking her hand, as she, in her enthusiastic way, went on to tell all her hopes for the family, and her anticipations of health for Florence in consequence of her visit to Beech Grove, "it is plain enough that you were born to be a blessing to us. Now, Beauty, say what do you think we should do without you?" 
               "O I don't think you could do at all," she answered swered, laughing gayly. "Mr. Buckingham would have nobody to amuse him; and you"-she turned her bright eyes full upon him for one moment-"would have to open the door for yourself, and eat your breakfast alone." 
               "Yes," he added, "and I should have the thought of no smiling face to cheer me as I came home weary from my work; nor could I be sure that my slippers would be at hand, and a nice supper prepared to welcome my return." 
               Agnes's cheeks flushed brightly with pleasure, but she immediately turned away to assist Florence in the next room, and Louis returned to his father to tell him the news of the day. 
               Though the young girl was earnest in her desire for Florence to visit her friends, yet it was not until July that the way seemed plain for her to do so. At that time Agnes had a long vacation of two months, and was so desirous of making a trial of her skill as housekeeper, that it seemed a pity she should not have an opportunity of doing so. Besides, her health was so delicate, that even Mrs. Buckingham urged her going. 
               Three months passed away, and still Miss Mowbrey remained at Beech Grove. She was really improved in health and strength, and, if not cheerful, was much benefited by the Christian conversation of her valued friends, and enabled to be resigned to the afflictive dispensations which had befallen her. Every week she received a joint letter from Agnes and Louis. Agnes kept a journal of daily events, which were of the greatest interest to the reader; and then Louis took the letter to the store, and made many comments upon home affairs. His father had suffered at times from great restlessness, and could not be persuaded to remain in doors; but his mother grew every day more tender in her care for him, and Agnes had exhibited wonderful skill in assuming other cares, so that she could feel that it belonged to her to attend to his wants. 
               I will give the reader an extract from her journal: "Dear, dear Florence, last night Louis brought home a box of excellent strawberries for his father, and this morning he made a nice breakfast. Do you know, he eats with us now sometimes at breakfast, and always at dinner? Mrs. Buckingham sits at the head of the table, and he next her, so that she can cut up his food. She speaks so softly and pleasantly to him, that sometimes he stops eating, and gazes at her. I tell her it is because she is growing so handsome, and that I want to gaze too. Sometimes I have seen the tears come into her eyes, when she thought she was not observed; but she quickly wiped them away. Since you went to Beech Grove, Mr. Buckingham likes to have me read a chapter in his room, as you used to do, and offer a prayer. Lately, his wife has come in and staid until we were through. I can't help thinking she is trying to be good. I wish I could tell her how happy it made me to give myself to my Saviour, and feel that he will order all things for my good. But I can pray for her, as I do every day, and ask God to give her the comfort of his presence." 
               Florence had not expected to stay half as long; but her friends persuaded her that her family were at present better without her, and that she needed recruiting; so she suffered week after week to pass away without forming any definite plan for her return, until a letter from Agnes was put into her hand, with only these words: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "O, Florence, come home! Come quick! Mrs. Buckingham is very sick,-I fear, dying!
                            
                           
                              "AGNES."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               IN the small chamber leading from the dining-room, at the suburban cottage, four persons were assembled. Mrs. Buckingham, once the pride and ornament of the gay circle in which she moved, lay in bed, propped up by pillows. Louis stood before her, from time to time waving a large fan to assist the sufferer in her difficult respiration. Agnes knelt by the side of her dying friend, the woman and the child by turns gaining the mastery over her. If the feeble lips moved, she checked by a strong effort the sobs which were choking her, and bent her ear quickly to catch the faintest sound. With the thoughtfulness of one much her superior in years she wiped the cold dew from the damp forehead, or held the cup of wine to the parched lips; and then, when there was no further need of her services, she buried her head in the pillows, and gave way to her grief. 
               At the foot of the bed stood the faithful Bridget, trying to control her own sorrow, that she might the better administer consolation to her kind friends in their deep affliction. The sight of Agnes's distress deeply moved her; and, advancing nearer to the child, she said, "And sure, Miss Agnes, didn't ye say the mistress was going straight to heaven,-and wont she be a dale better off whin she gits there? Don't be crying the very heart out of ye for sure the blessed Jesus knows what's for the good of yees, entirely." 
               These words aroused Agnes, and, wiping her swollen eyes, she raised herself from her reclining position, when her attention was fixed by the countenance of her departing friend. 
               The dying woman lay as if in a glorious trance. Her eyes shone with a divine lustre, a bright smile played about her mouth, while a heavenly radiance rested upon her brow. All present stood entranced. They knew that Death had come to claim his victim; but he came not as the king of terrors, but as a messenger from God to call a redeemed soul home to the skies. Once more her lips move; an expression of rapture lights every feature, and with the whispered words, "Jesus, my Saviour," a slight shudder passes over her, and death is swallowed up of eternal life. 
               It was some minutes before those present could realize that the spirit had taken its flight. At length, Bridget ventured to call the kind neighbor, who was trying to keep Mr. Buckingham from intruding into the sick-room, and herself remained to pacify and soothe him. Her task was not an easy one. With the fretfulness so common in his complaint, he exhibited great impatience that he should be kept from going where he pleased. At least, he wanted Agnes to come and amuse him. The sickness of his wife had excited and annoyed him. He had become accustomed to her gentle ministrations, and could not be made to understand why she absented herself from his side. The orders of the physician were imperative that he should be kept from her room, as it would not only be a great injury to her, but might subject him to an attack of his complaint. The ingenuity of Bridget had been taxed to the utmost to invent excuses any way consistent with truth, for the neglect of Agnes, or his accustomed attentions from his wife and son. On this day he seemed unusually silent and depressed, as if he had a foreboding of evil; but, as hour after hour passed, and he neither took his accustomed walk, nor was allowed to stroll about the house, Bridget's patience gave way. Her whole heart was in the sick chamber of her mistress, and she had eagerly accepted the offer of a lady, who lived near, to remain with her patient. 
               It was but little more than an hour after the death of Mrs. Buckingham, that Florence arrived. Her presence at first only seemed to aggravate the grief of her young friends; but as, unmindful of time, hour after hour was passed in detailing an account of the blessed change which had taken place in the character of their departed friend, and relating the most minute particulars of her sickness and triumphant death, the minds of each became more composed; and Florence, though mourning deeply that she could not have been present to administer to her friend and receive her parting blessing, yet was comforted by the glorious hope of spending an eternity with her in praising the Lamb who was slain for our sins. 
               The following letter, which she wrote after the funeral to her friend Mrs. Van Lennep, gives an abstract of what she gathered, not only from Louis and Agnes, but from Mrs. Rose, who had been much in the family since Florence left home: 
               "VERY DEAR FRIEND: In my brief note announcing that all was over when I reached home, I had neither time nor strength to give you any particulars of the sickness of our deceased friend, nor of the blessed assurance which her last days afforded that she was prepared for a change of worlds. It is my privilege now to state many incidents which lead to such an assurance; and I do so, fully believing you will rejoice, as I have no doubt the angels in heaven are rejoicing, over a soul redeemed by the blood of Christ, and sanctified by the Spirit of grace. 
               "It now appears that, since early in the spring, Mrs. Buckingham has been disturbed with thoughts of her past life, the folly of the course she had pursued, and the uncertainty of her own life. These thoughts for a long time she carefully concealed in her own breast, until, soon after I left for Beech Grove, Agnes one day found her in tears. Upon earnestly inquiring the cause, the poor burdened soul begged the child to tell her what she must do in order to be a Christian. God looked down in tender pity upon her distress, and put words into the mouth of the child, which greatly comforted and strengthened her in her new search after her Saviour. At her request, Agnes knelt by her side, and implored for her pardon and peace in believing. The lady wept tears of penitence; and afterwards expressed her astonishment that so young a child could offer such a prayer. But the answer came not then. For weeks she sought her Saviour, sorrowing. The way of salvation was not clear to her. The Bible, so long unread and uncared for, was a sealed book; but she grew more and more importunate in prayer, and felt that she could not be denied a blessing. 
               "All this time, with a disinterestedness foreign to her natural character, she concealed her sorrows from her family, and even endeavored, in the presence of her husband, to appear cheerful. She had now become uniformly tender and affectionate in her manner to him, administering to his wants, indulging his whimsical fancies, and soothing his restless unquiet, in a manner those who witnessed it will never forget! 
               "Once, however, she confessed to Louis, with a burst of grief, that the remembrance that it was her own wicked extravagance which had brought her husband to such a state, caused her many hours of anguish; and she expressed also, as she had never done to me, the deepest regret that I also should suffer by her worldliness and folly. 
               "Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings God has perfected praise. It was the unspeakable privilege lege of my dear child to lead this sorrowing sinner to the foot of the cross. One evening, after most of the family had retired, Agnes stole softly into the room which she occupied with Mrs. Buckingham, and knelt in the moonlight to offer up her simple prayer. 
               "'Pray aloud, Agnes,' said Mrs. Buckingham; 'I am not sleepy. I cannot sleep with this weight of guilt upon my soul!' 
               "Agnes sprang to her side, saying, 'O, why will you keep such a load, when Jesus is waiting to take it and bear it for you! He knows you will sink without his aid. His arm is outstretched to save you. O, cling to it! Give up trying to save yourself, and lean upon him.' 
               "The words came with power. For one moment neither spoke; then, with a feeble cry for aid, the sinner threw herself at the feet of the Saviour, saying, 'Lord, save, or I perish!' 
               "When Agnes knelt again, it was with a heart swelled almost to bursting with gratitude and praise. Hour after hour of that eventful night was passed in alternate conversation and prayer, while the young disciple was called upon again and again to repeat a part of a psalm, in which a new-born soul might give expression to her gratitude to God. 
               "The two days following, Mrs. Buckingham enjoyed much in the society of Mrs. Rose, an eminent Christian in the neighborhood, and the one who related to me most of the above. The change was very apparent. She said she could hardly contain her joy, and it kept breaking forth in sacred song. Even her husband noticed it, and, though he could not understand the cause, he was much pleased. 
               "On Tuesday night she was seized with an attack, in its first stages, somewhat resembling cholera, and said at once, and with the utmost calmness, 'I shall never recover.' Throughout her short sickness, though suffering the most acute distress, her mind was clear, and she gave directions about many family matters, especially about the care of her husband. She left many messages for Lily, and also for me, and then gave herself up to the contemplation of the joys which awaited her in heaven. Not for one moment did her faith seem clouded. She rested entirely upon the merits of her Saviour, again and again expressing her wonder that she, a poor, guilty sinner, should have been made a subject of saving grace, and often repeating the words which had been read to her, 
                      
                        "'All my trust on thee is stayed; 
                        All my help from thee I bring; 
                        Cover my defenceless head 
                        With the shadow of thy wing,' 
                     
                   In this state she continued until Friday evening, when she departed with the words, 'Jesus, my Saviour,' upon her lips. 
               "I asked Agnes why she had not written me more particularly of the state of Mrs. Buckingham's mind. She replied, that she had considered the conversation as confidential, and had felt a delicacy in speaking of it even to me." 
               Throughout the winter Agnes was pale and languid, and showed plainly that her system had been overtasked. For some weeks following the decease of Mrs. Buckingham, Florence supposed that her listlessness was occasioned by the reaction from the great excitement through which she had passed, and did not urge her attending school, though the term had been some time commenced; but as month after month passed away, and the usually active child lay most of the time upon the sofa, or walked feebly from room to room, her friends became alarmed, and at length Florence asked advice of the physician who paid occasional visits to Mr. Buckingham. 
               Agnes was a great favorite with the old gentleman, who had remarked her dutiful attentions to his patient, and more particularly her womanly forethought and care during the severe sickness of his wife. 
               The child confessed to him, what she had never mentioned before, that she was afflicted with constant headache, generally more severe in the morning, and which was greatly increased by the slightest exertion. She had little appetite, and her pulse denoted a prostration of her whole system. 
               The physician advised a more strengthening diet, with an occasional glass of weak porter, as she could bear it. As she had no tendency to fever, he prescribed powders of iron to stimulate her appetite, and give tone to her system; and recommended that, as soon as she was able, she should go a journey for change of air and scene. 
               Under this regimen she soon began to gain strength, and in March consented to accompany Louis to Philadelphia, to visit Lily. This short trip was found to be so beneficial, and Agnes seemed on her return so much like her former self, that Florence urged her to accept an invitation from Mrs. Van Lennep to visit her in May. She remained in Beech Grove until September, when she returned to take her place in the school, from which she had been absent a year. 
               To Florence the summer passed very quietly away. Mr. Buckingham was so much improved in bodily health that he was able, by the aid of a cane, to walk about the house; and, after being assisted down the steps into the garden, often spent most of the day there. He grew hearty, and gained much in flesh, but Louis and Florence perceived with anxiety that his mind was completely shattered. He would sit gazing at some object for an hour, and, when aroused, would seem as if awaking from sleep. He called Florence, Anna, and Louis quite as often by any other name as his own. 
               When Agnes returned home she was much distressed that he appeared not to have the least recollection of her, and could hardly realize so great a change in him in so short a time. 
               Their kind physician informed them that he was liable to be taken away at any moment, as the deep stupor which had fallen upon him was usually a precursor of the sleep which knows no waking. 
               During his summer vacation, Louis passed a week with Agnes at Beech Grove; and, on his return, took charge of his father, while Florence did the same. They were each delighted with the account Mr. and Mrs. Van Lennep gave of their favorite, and also with the improvement in her health and appearance. It was true there was a great change in Agnes. She was now in her eleventh year, was tall and graceful in her figure. A rich color mantled her cheeks and lips, while her whole countenance glowed with animation. Circumstances had developed her character prematurely, and she looked perhaps upon life in a different point of view from most of her age. To her it had been sunshine, shadowed at times by heavy clouds. But there was a buoyancy and enthusiasm in her disposition, which sprang forth and rejoiced at the first ray of returning light. Her sweet temper and obliging disposition, 
                     tegether
                     together
                   with her conscientiousness and unconquerable determination to adhere to what she knew to be right, rendered her a great favorite at Beech Grove; and Mrs. Van Lennep, with the cordial assent of her husband, would gladly have adopted her for her own. 
               When, however, she mentioned the desire to Florence, the sad, heart-broken tone with which the young lady replied, "She is all that is left to me," precluded any further mention of the subject. 
               Mr. Hanley's silence was a subject upon which her friends had almost ceased to speculate,-certainly they abstained in her presence from any comment upon it, or even the mention of his name. But did she forget? Let her daily prayer to God for strength to submit to this allotment of providence, bear testimony. Let her tears, as she occasionally indulges herself with a glance at his image, or reads for the hundredth time the assurance of his love; let the firmness with which, during the summer following the decease of Mrs. Buckingham, she replied to the overtures of a gentleman whom she honored as a friend, bear witness to the constancy of her attachment. 
               "I thank you, sir, for your proposal, but I have no heart to give. If I knew Mr. Hanley was not living, I might in time return your affection, esteeming you as I have long done; but, until I hear of his decease, I consider myself his betrothed wife." 
               Poor Florence! this trial was to come far sooner than she anticipated. Late in the fall, a gentleman called at the store where Louis was now head clerk, and, having requested a private interview, ascertained that Miss Mowbrey still remained in his father's family, and gave him a large packet directed to her. He said, in consequence of the sickness of his brother, who had been detained in England on his return from India, the packet had not sooner er reached its destination. More than a year previous to the present time, Mr. Hanley consigned the bundle to his brother, wishing him, if possible, to deliver it either to the young lady herself, or to her guardian for her. Finding himself unable to do this, he had embraced the present opportunity of sending it to her address. 
               The contents of the box which came to light, after tearing off the numerous wrappers, contained little except the stunning information that, though Mr. Hanley still lived, he was dead to her. There was the locket which she had taken at his earnest request. She could hardly believe that young, hopeful face ever resembled her. There, in a small box, lay the ring which he had said should never leave his finger until he was authorized to place the mystic symbol upon hers; and at the bottom of the box were closely packed all the letters she had written him during his absence, even to the scrap she had secretly inserted in his pocket-book, to be read on his voyage, and in which she gave way to the grief she experienced at the thought of their long separation. This bore marks of having been read and re-read; and Florence saw traces of tears having fallen upon it. Her own tears fell thick and fast, as she re-perused it, and considered the language she had used almost prophetic. Tremblingly she removed one paper after another, hoping to find some explanation of his cruel act. But, alas, there was none! and she was forced to the conclusion, that he wished to be free, and had re turned to her all that could remind him of the past. 
               Until Florence received this packet, she had not realized how hope had upheld her. She had invented all manner of excuses for the non-receipt of letters,-the irregularity of the mails, the change of her residence, and a thousand other casualties, but in her thoughts he had always been faithful. Not one doubt of his truthfulness had impaired the deep respect, as well as affection, with which she regarded him; for was he not a Christian? Now he had voluntarily given her up. Perhaps he had already formed other ties; and it must be the business of her life to tear his image from her heart. 
               Only once more did she examine and review the record of her own affection to him, reading her letters according to date, and his in reply. In doing so, she discovered the absence of the letters she had written to him in India, containing her desire to meet him there, and urging his immediate return home. There was only one directed to him after leaving Paris, and that was a hasty note she had added to a long letter in a separate envelope, in consequence of hearing, a day or two later, that the vessel had not yet sailed. The note was as follows: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           "I have only time to repeat that my mind is determined upon the subject of my letter, where I have given you my reasons in full. I have had another interview with my guardian, who is still strongly opposed to my wishes, and says, at any rate, I must wait for your consent to so rash a step. My situation here is so uncomfortable, that I shall hasten my preparations to change it as soon as possible. In great haste, 
                           
                              FLORENCE MOWBREY."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               This was the last date he had returned, though she could distinctly recall four long letters subsequently written. 
               After devoting a day to these sad reminiscences, Florence resolutely put out of her sight everything which could remind her of the happiness which had been so rudely destroyed, and endeavored, by entering with renewed ardor into present duties, to give herself no time for reflection upon the loss she had sustained. Louis sympathized deeply with her in her affliction, and wished most heartily that she would form another attachment. Agnes exerted herself to the utmost to supply the want of any other affection; but, notwithstanding all these kind attentions, the work would often drop into her lap, and her eyes be fixed on vacancy, while her thoughts wandered over sea and land, in the vain endeavor to assign some reason for the course Mr. Hanley had pursued. At length she became persuaded that, on finding his business required him to remain in India, he had thought it better for both of them to form other ties. Gradually she grew accustomed to the idea of his being now at the head of a family of which she formed no part Certainly this was better than the suspense which she had endured for so many years, and as time, with his healing wings, flew on, she regained in a great degree her former cheerfulness. 
               The spring following the decease of his wife, Mr. Buckingham was conveyed to the tomb. For three months he had been confined to his bed; and, for the most of that time, lay in a deep stupor, which nothing could arouse. His bodily wants were carefully supplied; but, in mind, he was as feeble and helpless as the infant when it draws its first breath. This event had long been expected, but it came suddenly at last. Upon trying to arouse him one morning to receive his food, Louis found his sleep was the sleep of death. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               THE noble ship Neptune, bound for New York, was leaving the port of Calcutta. The passengers crowded to the side of the vessel to bid a last adieu to friends who had accompanied them out to the channel, and were now returning with the pilot. Handkerchiefs waved, a last farewell was wafted across the water, the sailors echoed a hearty song of "Ho, heave ho!" as the sails began to catch the breeze, and their voyage home was fairly commenced. 
               As the rapidly increasing distance rendered the pilot-boat but a small speck on the horizon, the company on board turned with a sigh to the contemplation of their accommodations and of each other. 
               In a few hours the deck is deserted. Only one solitary passenger continues leaning over the side of the vessel, with his eyes strained to catch in the distance one more glance of the shore he has left. 
               Is his heart still in India? We shall see. 
               For several days the passengers are obliged to keep their berths, occasionally creeping on deck, supported by the captain or one of the officers; but the giddiness and sickness which seize them warn them to return below. The melancholy man, as the sailors call him, is the only exception. He walks firmly back and forth upon deck, or sits in a retired part of the ship, gazing on the boundless prospect spread out on every side, occasionally reading a passage from a small golden-clasped book, which he carries in his breast-pocket. 
               Notwithstanding his reserve, he is a favorite with the crew. They speculate much upon the cause of his sorrow; but they love him, for they see that it has not hardened his heart. The little cabin-boy will never forget the kind words which recalled him to his senses after a heavy fall upon deck during the second day out; nor the tenderness with which the stranger bound the cold bandages around his aching brow. He believed that the sorrowful man must have had a wife and children, and that he had buried them in India; and when, after a week, he was able to resume his duties, his merry voice softened and his step grew lighter, as he passed the spot occupied by his new friend. 
               When the passengers recovered from their sickness, and were able to pass most of their time on deck, the stranger drew the mantle of reserve still closer around himself and his sorrowful heart. But this course, together with the praises of the crew of his interest in everything concerning them, and his kindness to their young comrade, only stimulated their curiosity to draw him out, or increased their determination to cultivate his acquaintance. 
               Among the passengers were a gentleman and his wife, who were leaving India after a residence of more than twelve years. The gentleman, whose name was Loring, was a tall, noble-looking man, with an eye keen as an eagle, and which would have given an expression of sternness to his countenance, had it not been for the mildness and benevolence which shone forth from his other features. He was of very dark complexion, but that was probably owing to many years' residence in a warm climate. His wife appeared to be his equal, if not his superior, in years; and, with her husband, was much interested in the taciturn stranger. 
               "Strange," exclaimed Mr. Loring one day, "how that man's face haunts me! Sometimes I meet his eye, and his countenance is as familiar as that of a household friend, and then it is all lost again. Who can he be?" 
               "Why don't you ask the captain by what name he has shipped?" 
               "A happy thought. I will do so before I am an hour older!" 
               "Hanley?" said he, when the captain pointed to the name; "Hanley,-it sounds very familiar. Ah, I have it now; but no, it can't be possible," he soliloquized, as he walked away. "He was my junior by a dozen years." 
               "Hanley," he repeated, on entering his cabin, in answer to an inquiring glance of his wife. "Andrew Hanley." 
               "And do you remember any one by that name?" 
               "A gentleman by the name of Hanley used frequently to be at my house before I left America, and is associated with some of the most afflictive scenes of my life. I learned afterwards that he was engaged to be married to my daughter, Florence Mowbrey. After a time, however, she ceased to mention him in her letters, and it is many years since I have heard his name." 
               Upon a closer examination of the features of the gentleman, Mr. Loring was convinced that, though grown prematurely old by care or sorrow, this was the Mr. Hanley whom he had known in America, and that he was recognized. He determined to lose no time in renewing his acquaintance. But this he found much more difficult than he had imagined. Every step that he advanced, the other drew back two, and at length changed his seat, which had been directly opposite, to the further end of the table. Even the direct appeal made to him, "I think, sir, I have had the happiness of meeting you in America," produced no other response than a reluctant assent; and, at length, seeing that from some cause Mr. Hanley wished to maintain his reserve, Mr. Loring refrained from questioning him farther. 
               In the close companionship of a ship's company, all the other passengers had become like one family, occupying their time with reading, sewing, and writing, and daily exercise upon deck when the weather permitted. But the melancholy man kept as much aloof from them as ever. His influence, however, was increasingly powerful among the crew. In pleasant weather, and when their duties did not interfere, he read to them hour after hour from the Bible, or some interesting tract. He was always ready with a word of advice, and the captain remarked that he never had heard so little profanity since he had commanded a vessel. The cabin-boy, with the consent of the captain, he had taken especially in charge, and had already carried him through the rudiments of reading, beside giving him much oral instruction. 
               When the Neptune had been out a little more than two months, she encountered a terrible storm, in which the lives of passengers and crew were in immediate danger. Now, for the first time, the calmness, the presence of mind, the forethought of the strange gentleman, were known and appreciated. By a cheerful word to the crew he encouraged them to persevere in the performance of their duty. By his calmness he imparted hope to his fellow-passengers, while, at the same time, with his own hands and such aid as he could command, he made hasty preparations in case they should be obliged to leave the ship. In this hour which tried men's souls he pointed the trembling sailors to Him who holds the waters in his fist, or repeated to his frightened companions the promise of God to take care of those who put their trust in him. Wherever the storm was most fearful, there his tall form might be seen by the side of the captain, assisting, encouraging, and prompting all to their duty. For the first time he was seen to smile, but it was a heavenly smile, such as is sometimes seen upon the countenances of those who are about to exchange earth for heaven. All reserve was forgotten. His fellow-passengers approached him freely, and sought from time to time to learn from him if he still hoped they might be saved. 
               "I am little used to the sea," he replied one day, with a sweet smile, "but my trust is there," pointing upward. 
               At the end of three days the storm abated, and the sun shone out upon their noble ship, dismasted and a complete wreck. It was sixty miles to the nearest land, and to attain this point all their energies were bent. Fortunately, a few days after their arrival, another vessel landed for a supply of water, and most of the passengers from the Neptune embarked in her. This was an English ship from Canton, bound for Liverpool; and thus they were obliged to return home that way. 
               During the remainder of the voyage, Mr. Hanley seemed disposed to be more communicative, or perhaps his fellow-passengers gave him no opportunity to relapse into the state of gloom in which they had first seen him. They were too grateful for his kindness in the time of their danger, and entertained too high a respect for him as a man and a Christian, to give up his society. On board the steamer from Liverpool to New York, Mr. Loring gradually won from his old friend the sad story of the event which had cast a gloom over his whole life. Though he said nothing in reply (what could he say?), yet the warm pressure of his hand told of the cordial sympathy he felt for Mr. Hanley's misfortune. 
               "Wealth has flowed in upon me," continued the gentleman, "but it came too late. I have no immediate relatives, and she for whom I wished wealth is lost to me forever." 
               "I suppose you are aware," replied Mr. Loring, after a pause, "that Mr. and Mrs. Buckingham are both deceased, and that he defrauded his ward of a great part of her property?" 
               "I have heard nothing since the fatal letter which deprived me of all hope," said Mr. Hanley, in a hoarse voice, after rising and pacing the cabin with rapid steps; "and has she suffered want? O, why was I ignorant of this!" 
               "You said," continued Mr. Loring, "that you received a letter from Mr. Buckingham, announcing the approaching marriage of his ward, and also a letter from her confirming the same." 
               "I considered it so. In short, I was almost beside myself with the suddenness of the intelligence. She hinted that her guardian was strongly opposed to her wishes, which he expressed to me in full, but that her situation was so unpleasant she should change it at once." 
               "Have you preserved her letter?" 
               "Ah, no! I immediately, as in honor bound, returned everything which could remind me of her. I could not trust myself while I retained her image; but, alas, I have never been able to forget her!" 
               "Mr. Hanley," exclaimed his friend, one day as they were nearing port, "will you grant me a favor?" 
                
               "Anything in reason, for the sake of your relationship to her." 
               "Accompany us to the hotel, and do not make yourself known to any one until I have made some inquiries, and conferred with you." 
               "I will readily promise that." 
               Mr. Loring was so much interested in his fellow-passenger, that, on arriving in New York, he lost no time in inquiring for the store of Sampson & Co., where he knew Louis Buckingham was a partner. 
               Six years have passed since we took leave of the young man, and we should hardly recognize, in the upright bearing of the rather portly gentleman who introduced himself as the one inquired for, the tall but slender Louis of former days. 
               "My name is Loring," said the gentleman, cordially extending his hand. "I arrived in the city yesterday from Calcutta, and I came to make inquiries with regard to my daughter, Florence Mowbrey." 
               "Allow me to welcome you in her name," exclaimed Mr. Buckingham, warmly. "I will accompany you to her at once." 
               "Stop, my young friend," answered Mr. Loring, smiling at his companion's warmth; "I have one or two inquiries to make. Is she married?" 
               "O, no, sir! Marriage with Florence is quite out of the question." 
               "But why so? She was uncommonly attractive in person, and was possessed of a handsome property. Excuse me for the allusion, but I heard a report that a part of her funds were swallowed up when your Father failed." 
               Mr. Buckingham grew very pale. This was a sore point with him; but, after a moment, in which he endeavored to control himself, he replied, "Every cent of her property was lost; but it has been, and still is, the darling purpose of my life to make her amends. Of this, however, she knows nothing. In reply to your question, which you, as her father, have a right to ask, 'Why has she not been married?' her answer would be, 'Because I have no heart to give.' After the cruel desertion of her by Mr. Hanley, she received eligible proposals of marriage, which I urged her to accept, but her answer was always the same." 
               "What about Mr. Hanley?" inquired the gentleman, rising and walking the room to conceal his emotion. 
               Mr. Buckingham then related particulars already known to the reader. 
               "Mr. Hanley's version of the story is quite different," urged Mr. Loring, when he had concluded. "He received a letter from her guardian, soon after he reached India, saying that Florence was on the eve of marriage with a gentleman of this city; that he had remonstrated with her, but to no effect; and that he had told her that at least she ought to inform Mr. Hanley of the fact, which she reluctantly consented to do. This letter is the only one he received from her after he left France. Mr. Hanley returned in the same ship which brought me and my wife, and is at this moment undeceived with regard to her marriage." 
               Mr. Buckingham covered his face with his handkerchief, as he replied, "I fear, sir, my father,-alas! I cannot think of it. He was pressed for money. He was tempted beyond his power to resist. Soon after, he lost his mind, and, though he lived several years, he never knew enough to make confession of the deceit he had practised. Poor, poor Florence! All those years she was to my parents the most dutiful and attentive of daughters!" and tears, which no personal suffering would have drawn from him, trickled down the young man's cheeks. 
               "Cheer up, my friend," said Mr. Loring, in a pleasant tone. "The past has gone, and cannot be recalled, but we must hope for the future. Mr. Hanley's affection has survived all these trials, though he dares not cherish it, supposing her married. From your account, she is free to renew her attachment to him. The next thing is, to bring them together." 
               "Let us go to her at once," replied his companion; and they were soon on their way to the house. 
               Florence and Agnes still lived in their suburban home, though it had been so enlarged and improved that we should hardly recognize it. A large lot of land was added when Louis became the proprietor; the cottage was moved back, and raised another er story, while ornamental vines clung lovingly around the graceful pillars supporting the roof. 
               When the carriage containing Mr. Loring and Louis stopped at the gate, Agnes Mowbrey, now a beautiful girl of seventeen, bounded to the door, not anticipating the sight of a stranger. On perceiving that Louis was not alone, she blushed deeply as she drew back, without noticing the effect her sudden appearance had produced. 
               "Where is Florence?" asked Louis, in an excited tone;-and in a moment he had ushered Mr. Loring into the parlor, left him to tell his story, and joined Alice in the garden to impart to her his wonderful news. 
               It was nearly an hour before Mr. Loring's voice was heard, as he descended the steps. Louis sprang to follow him, and the carriage whirled away, Agnes only hearing the order, "To the Astor House," as the coachman drove off. She then returned to the house, and, softly entering the parlor, she found Florence seated upon the sofa, her hands pressed closely upon her heart, while her countenance denoted the excitement of the past hour. She looked up, as Agnes quickly advanced to her side, and asked, timidly, "Has Louis told you, my father has returned?" 
               "Yes, and somebody else with him," answered Agnes, archly, while a bright flush stole over Florence's face. "I am glad he did not see you when you were so thin; now your cheeks are as plump and rosy, and your eyes as bright as-" 
                
               "Yours, for instance," said Florence, interrupting her with a sigh. She arose, and approached a mirror, exclaiming, "O, I am sadly changed! I am sure he will not recognize me." 
               Agnes ran gayly up stairs and brought down a miniature of her dearest friend, given her on her sixteenth birth-day. It was the same which had been returned from India. "Here you are!" she exclaimed; and, taking Florence's hand, she led her back to the mirror. "See for yourself." The lady gazed as she had never gazed before. She tried to look with his eyes; and a feeling of regret, for the first time, crept into her mind, that she was no longer young. 
               "I suppose ten years in a hot climate cannot have improved his appearance much," remarked Agnes, divining her friend's thoughts. "Now to me you have the decided advantage, for you are certainly handsomer than you were then. And, O, if he only knew how good you are!" and she put her arm around the waist of her trembling friend. "Shall you love me, dear Florence? I am beginning to have dreadful heart-burnings already." 
               After an hour, a carriage stopped opposite the house, and Florence trembled so violently, that she could hardly retain her seat; but Agnes ascertained it was not the one that was expected. It proved to be only a servant with a message from his mistress, who could not alight. 
               "It is not time to look for them yet, so do compose yourself, or you will be sick." She had hardly ly time to finish her sentence before the sound of wheels was again heard; and this time it was the expected guests. Agnes arose, and walked calmly to the door, saying, "I will see who it is," giving Florence time to recall her thoughts. Presently Mr. Loring alighted, followed by a gentleman, who, to the young girl's excited imagination, seemed at least fifty years of age. They walked quickly up the steps, and, with a bow to Agnes, passed at once into the parlor. 
               "If I am not much mistaken," thought Agnes, "he will have as much difficulty to retain his composure as she will. Dear, dear Florence! O, how very glad I am she is to have her reward at last! And how astonished she will be to know that Louis purchased this place in her name, and that it is all secured to her! How pleased Louis was that I approved his plan. It is the first and only secret I have had from Florence." Thus occupied with her own thoughts, she had passed out to the garden, and did not notice that Mr. Loring had followed her, until she heard a voice by her side. 
               "And this is Agnes?" he said, taking her hand with the tenderness of a father. "I suppose I must introduce myself,-Mr. Loring, from India. Do you know that I feel already acquainted with you? My companion from town, Mr. Buckingham, spoke warmly of your attachment to my daughter." 
               The rich bloom deepened on Agnes's cheek, as she replied, with enthusiasm, "She has been more than a mother to me!" 
                
               A shade of anguish passed across the countenance of the gentleman, not unnoticed by his companion; but, instantly controlling himself, he led her on to an account of her residence in the family since her adoption by his daughter; and she soon found herself conversing as freely with him as though she had known him for years. He grew every moment more interested, but sometimes a glance or motion from her seemed to recall vividly some painful scene, and he turned suddenly away to conceal his agitation. 
               The time passed so quickly, that Agnes was astonished when Bridget came to her for orders about supper. "This," said the young girl, addressing Mr. Loring, "is our faithful Bridget, who has continued with us through seasons of prosperity and adversity, and whom we prize as a friend." 
               Bridget blushed and courtesied with pleasure; and, when her young mistress informed her that the gentleman was father to Miss Florence, her delight expressed itself in every feature. 
               Though urged much to do so, Mr. Loring declined stopping to tea, but only tarried to appoint an early hour for bringing his wife to claim relationship with her new relatives. "I suppose you must take me for a grandfather," said Mr. Loring to Agnes, as she stood at the gate to bid him goodbye. 
               Her voice assumed a tone of sadness, as she answered, "I had much rather it would be 'father.' I have never known a father's love." 
                
               Mr. Loring hastily gave the order to drive on, sank back into his seat, and gave way to the emotions he could no longer control. Agnes in figure, voice and manner, so resembled his deceased wife, that it seemed as if he had just parted from her. "Strange," said he again and again, "passing strange, that a young girl should have moved me thus! What a treasure she is to Florence! I would give all I possess for such a daughter." 
               At the tea-table, Agnes was introduced to Mr. Hanley, and was soon relieved of all fears with regard to a diminution of her friend's affection. Mr. Hanley rendered himself so agreeable a companion, that the evening passed quickly away, and when, at a late hour, he took his leave, she confessed to Louis that she had seldom seen a happier or a handsomer couple than 
                     Forence
                     Florence
                   and her restored lover. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               IT may be interesting to the reader to relate what passed between the father and daughter after their long separation. 
               When Mr. Loring had expressed his pleasure at once more seeing the child of his deceased wife, he narrated some incidents which occurred during their voyage; their wreck and consequent detention; at the same time endeavoring to interest her in the strange gentleman who had excited so much attention on board the ship. 
               "And did you not succeed in drawing from him an account of his afflictions?" asked Florence, eagerly. 
               "Yes, I did; but it is the old story of disappointed affection. The lady he loved and was engaged to marry dismissed him without a word of explanation." 
               "How very singular!" said Florence, catching her breath with excitement. "Did you ascertain his name?" 
               "His name is Hanley-Andrew Hanley. I saw it on the ship-book." 
               Notwithstanding Mr. Loring had expected that Florence would be agitated at the sudden mention of the name of her former friend, he was not prepared for the death-like pallor which overspread her countenance at this announcement. She clasped her hands upon her breast, and, with her eyes closed, sank back in her chair faint and trembling. Her father sprang to her side, and, after partaking of some cold water which he passed her from the side-board, she motioned him to proceed. He did so, after which he told her that he was acquainted with the facts as far as she was concerned, and he only waited her permission to bring Mr. Hanley to her side. 
               On receiving the account of the deception which had been practised upon him, and the real purport of the letter to which she had added a hasty postscript, Mr. Hanley's indignation was only controlled by the thought of the suffering he must have caused the gentle girl by the return of her letters. 
               "How can I ever appear before her? How base she must have thought me! O, what years of misery the cruel deception of her guardian has caused us!" 
               With the hope that their sorrow was all in the past, and the prospect of a bright future which Mr. Loring held out before him, Mr. Hanley eagerly accepted the assurance of Florence's forgiveness, and was as impatient as his companion could wish to be on his way. 
               We draw a veil over the meeting of these two hearts. Mr. Loring had prepared his friend to expect a great change in the appearance of his daughter. "Years of care and sorrow have done their work," said he, as they drove to the door of the cottage. 
                
               Mr. Hanley waited impatiently for him to conclude, and then said, "The changes you speak of will only render her more dear, if she will again receive me." 
               A few words of explanation sufficed to convince the now happy lovers that they had been the victims of a cruel deception, and then they gave themselves up to the contemplation of the happiness still in store for them. 
               When Mr. Loring returned to his wife, who had been impatiently waiting to hear the success of his undertaking, he made no mention of his meeting with Agnes. She rejoiced most sincerely at the happy termination of his visit, and agreed with him that it was well worth a voyage to America, even if they returned in the next vessel. 
               "Yes," said he, throwing himself into a large chair, with the air of a man well satisfied with himself, "it is rather new business for me, to be sure, to make peace between offended lovers. I have done a good day's work; but I must not leave it until they are fairly wedded. She has nothing, but I have more than enough." 
               At an early hour the next morning, Mr. and Mrs. Loring drove to the cottage out of town, but found Mr. Hanley had preceded them. Florence was very much pleased with her new relative, who clasped her to her heart like a daughter. 
               Agnes also came in for her full share of attention; and, after the kind notice taken of her by the lady, whispered a request that she too might make use of the dear name of mother. 
                
               At this request, Mr. Loring rose abruptly, and walked to the window. He had endeavored to persuade himself, as he thought of their interview during his wakeful hours at night, that it was all the effect of imagination, and that another meeting would dispel the illusion. But no, it only increased the sad memories of the departed. A thought flashed through his mind, as he sat gazing at her from the opposite side of the room. She was sitting by his wife, from whose head she had removed her bonnet, and, with the hand of the lady affectionately clasped in hers, was fast winning her way to the heart of her new friend. Mr. Loring had seldom seen his wife so much interested in a stranger. His bosom heaved, as he thought, "Can it be possible that I am right, and that she-"when, overcome with the thought, he snatched his hat from the hall table, and rushed from the house. 
               It was the intention of Mrs. Loring to make a call during the morning, and then return to the Astor House, until her husband should decide where to locate himself for the summer; but Florence would not part with her so readily, and when Agnes added her entreaties that their new mother should remain with her children, she consented to their wishes, if her husband approved the plan. The young girl ran eagerly to the garden to find him, and though at first he said he could not think of adding to their care, yet the name of father, uttered by Agnes, put all his objections to flight, and she drew him back to the house, delighted that she had so easily accomplished her purpose. 
               After some hesitation, Florence consented to Mr. Hanley's wish for a speedy marriage. At this announcement, her father was much pleased, and forthwith took Agnes into his confidence, as he was determined to provide the bridal 
                     trosseau
                     trousseau
                  . The young lady herself, however, expressed her wish to have the ceremony performed in the most quiet manner, and said that, with regard to her outfit, very little preparation would be necessary. Agnes gave her father an arch look, as if to say, "We know better." Mr. Loring, who was by no means a quiet man, delighted in the bustle which surrounded him, and his wife smilingly entered into all his plans for the advancement of the happy union. But his younger daughter, as he delighted to call the ardent girl, was the one to whom he communicated his dearest wishes, both because she was better acquainted with Florence's tastes, and because his wife was an entire stranger in the city. There was a great deal of whispered consultation, and many starts when they thought themselves overheard. One morning they left home, and did not return for two days. When closely questioned, they only replied by mysterious nods and a shake of their heads. It was plain enough that Mr. Loring was in his element, and that Agnes enjoyed it highly Louis regretted exceedingly that this was his busiest season, so that he could share little in the joyful preparation. 
                
               "O," replied Mr. Loring, playfully, "Agnes will act for herself and for you! I suppose you can trust her." 
               The young man cast upon her a glance so full of confidence and affection, that her father was convinced of what he had before suspected, and that his services would be required at no distant day for another wedding. He arose and walked to the window, rubbing his hands in delight; and from this time he did not cease, by sundry sly hints and jokes, to call the bright blushes to Agnes's cheeks. 
               One morning, only a week before the wedding was to take place, Agnes accompanied her new friends to a jeweller's to select some bijouterie which Mr. Loring declared indispensable on the occasion. Here he purchased a beautiful service of plate for a bridal gift, from his wife, who had in the meantime selected a handsome watch and chain for her younger daughter. After expressing, in her usually enthusiastic manner, her pleasure and thanks at the beautiful gift, Agnes stood looking over the counter at some brooches, which lay in a case under the glass. 
               "Select whatever you like, my dear," whispered Mr. Loring; "you must accept something from me, and wear it on a certain occasion." 
               "I was not thinking of myself," she replied, in a low voice. "Florence is not generally fond of trinkets, but I was wishing it were in my power to give her a brooch which should always remind her of my gratitude and affection." 
                
               "No danger of her forgetting it," thought the gentleman, as he placed a well-filled purse in her hand, and walked rapidly to the other part of the store. 
               He was recalled almost immediately by a cry from the young girl to come and see what a curious mark was on the inside of the pin. There was a heart pierced by an arrow, and, underneath, the letters, "F. M. from E. L." He glanced at the trinket, then hastily, almost rudely, snatched it from her hand, and, advancing to the man who was waiting upon other customers, demanded, in a hoarse voice, where he obtained that, and how long it had been in his possession. 
               The man knew nothing about it; but referred him to the owner of the store, who was at that moment in his counting-room. 
               Forgetting entirely the presence of his wife and Agnes, he walked rapidly toward the back room, and entering demanded a few moments' conversation with Mr. Gray; during which, he discovered that the brooch, with a number of other trinkets more or less valuable, had been presented him only a week before, by a man who claimed that they had belonged to his mother and sister, who were now deceased; that he had been unfortunate in business, and was obliged to part with them. 
               "The man," continued the jeweller, "had a sinister expression, and I distrusted his story. There was a coral necklace, and sleeve-ties, with gold clasps, of considerable value, together with quite a number of rings, and it seemed hardly probable to me that he came honestly by them. But as I had no proof of the fact, I reluctantly allowed him to leave them here for sale, as I wholly declined purchasing them of him." 
               Mr. Loring briefly related the circumstance of the abstraction of his child, and described with great accuracy the various articles she had about her person. He designated the mark upon the necklace, which Mr. Gray found answered to the trinkets in every particular. 
               "These are the jewels you describe, without doubt," observed the gentleman, passing the box to Mr. Loring. 
               "But how can I get hold of the man, sir?" he asked, pushing the box from him. "The jewels are worthless, except as a clue to the discovery of my child." 
               "He has already come in twice," replied the other, "to see if they had been sold. Perhaps it will be necessary to arrest him." 
               "I will at once procure a constable to do so. Let him remain in your store until the culprit comes in, be it longer or shorter. We must not let him escape. In the meantime, I shall be a frequent visitor, for I am impatient to know if my daughter still lives." 
               A tear glistened in the eye of the warm-hearted merchant, as he witnessed the deep emotion of the father, and, with many wishes for his success, they parted for the time. As he passed through the store, he seemed surprised to see his wife and Agnes; but, only stopping to tell them he had found a clue to his long-lost child, he bid them return home without him, and, giving Agnes the brooch, darted from the store. 
               After paying its price to the shop-man, she postponed her other calls, and drove directly home. 
               Florence was not a little agitated, as Agnes put into her hand the little gift she had selected, and related the event to which it had led. She recognized at once the favorite brooch of her mother, and said no other gift could have given her equal pleasure. They waited with no little impatience for Mr. Loring to return. 
               The family, however, were obliged to retire without seeing him; and at breakfast he refused to answer any questions until he had something to say. Agnes had often thought him abrupt, but on this morning he appeared in such a state of excitement as to be almost rude. It was with difficulty his wife persuaded him to eat any breakfast; and when, as he was going out, Agnes approached and said, "Please, father, don't stay long, I fear you will be sick," he drew his hand from hers and left the house. In one moment, however, he returned, caught the astonished girl in his arms, whispered "Forgive me, child," and then hurried off again. 
               Mrs. Loring urged Louis to follow him. She said he did not close his eyes through the night, and that though naturally impulsive and ardent in whatever ever he undertook, yet she had never seen him so wholly absorbed as at present. 
               Without stopping a moment, Louis seized his hat, and succeeded in gaining the same omnibus in which Mr. Loring was seated. The gentleman hardly noticed him; but, when he reached the city, commenced a brisk walk in the direction of the Tombs, Louis still keeping him in sight. He passed directly in at the door, where Louis was obliged to wait, as he knew not what further step to take. He was just on the point of leaving, thinking that he would go to his business and then return, when he saw the gentleman in earnest conversation with a police-officer near the door of a cell. As soon as he perceived Louis, he came forward and drew him one side, where, in a brief, incoherent manner, he told the young man that the thief was arrested, and, under promise of pardon, had confessed that the child was brought up in the family of Mr. Buckingham, where she still remained. He had been urging the officer to release the prisoner long enough to identify the young girl; in reply to which, it was suggested to bring her here. 
               "I can't go," he said, holding his head with both hands, "my brain whirls, and I dare not trust myself." 
               "I will have her here very speedily," exclaimed Louis, almost as much agitated as his friend. Then, only waiting to give Mr. Loring in care of an officer, begging him to procure him a cordial, he called a carriage, and was soon whirling at a rapid pace to his country home. Fast as the vehicle went, it did not fly so swiftly as the thoughts darted through his mind. He was glad, and he was sorry, all in a breath. Agnes, if this was true, would be an heiress,-how should he dare to ask the prize? Hope, regret and astonishment, by turns occupied his thoughts until the carriage stopped. 
               Agnes was in the entry when he reached the door, and, alarmed at seeing him so agitated, sprang forward and took his hand. O, how strong was his impulse to press her to his heart, and tell her, let what would come, he should, he must, claim her for his own; but, repressing such a desire as dishonorable at such a moment, he hastily made known his errand from Mr. Loring, that they were to lose no time in accompanying him to the city. 
               "New York is really a busy world," observed Mrs. Loring, when they were seated in the carriage. "You and I, Mr. Hanley, would hardly have accomplished as much in a year in India." Louis was then called upon to give an exact account of what took place after he left them. He was embarrassed, as, if Agnes should not prove to be the one, she might be disappointed. He therefore said that he believed Mr. Loring had secured the thief, and wished them to see him. 
               When they arrived at the Tombs, the impatient father was on the watch, and, as they hastily alighted, singled Agnes from the rest, and, drawing her arm through his, pulled her rapidly along toward the cell of the prisoner. 
                
               Sandy, for it was he, called out, the moment he saw her through the gratings, "That's the identical gal;" when Mr. Loring, turning to take her in his arms, fell senseless to the floor. A crowd immediately began to gather, but the officers waved them off, and, taking the fainting man in their arms, they bore him into a more retired room, where he soon revived. 
               Louis, in a low voice, explained to the excited group that Agnes was the child who had been stolen from her parents, and was now recognized by the man who had always called himself her Uncle Sandy. 
               The astonished girl submitted passively to the caresses bestowed upon her by all present, Louis alone excepted, being completely stunned by the wonderful revelation. The moment, however, that her father revived, she threw herself at his feet, and, with streaming eyes, thanked God that he had given her so beloved a parent. 
               Mr. Loring feebly raised her to her feet, and imprinted a kiss upon her lips and brow; Louis went out to procure some medicine for him to take, preparatory to his being carried home, while Mr. Hanley remained to obtain the promised discharge of the prisoner. 
               This being done, he conducted him to a place appointed by Mr. Buckingham, where he might make the confession of his crime, and the circumstances attending the abstraction of Agnes, which he had promised, and which her friends were so eager to hear. 
               To this story the young man and his companion listened with deep emotion, and at its close could not help admiring the chain of providential events which carried the afflicted and forsaken child to the very door of the house where her sister resided, before her heart was hardened by ignorance or guilt. 
               I shall give the substance of his story in brief, as it fell from Sandy's own lips. 
               "My name," said he, "is Alexander Ross. My first remembrance is of a pleasant cottage, where I lived with my father and mother. I had one sister, Mary, the child of my father's first wife. While he lived, we were happy, for he was a good man, and exerted a great influence over my mother, who even at that time began to thirst for wealth. The sight of a fine house or a gay carriage caused her heart to burn with envy, and she inwardly resolved that she would one day be mistress of a splendid mansion, and ride at her ease. I was sent to the best schools, and was constantly reminded that I should at some future time be a gentleman. As I had good natural endowments, I became a thorough scholar in whatever I undertook, and, when my father died, I was prepared to enter a counting-room as book-keeper. This was when I was sixteen; but my mother had other projects, and she kept putting me off from year to year. Now that she was released from the restraining influence of her husband, she determined to sell her cottage home to the highest bidder, and to come to New York. Here she thought she could devise some plan by which she could become rich. At first we rented two comfortable rooms, and lived respectably. Mother sewed, washed, or did anything which would procure money; while I was sometimes employed in a store, sometimes sold papers, gradually losing all love for employment, as she grew more a slave to it. I cannot tell you all the steps by which we descended in the social scale, until we lived in an old shattered building, upon little more than one meal a day. The only thing human that seemed left to my mother was her fondness for me; my half-sister had long ago been made to understand that she must support herself, and, as she remained in the country, we had not seen her for many years. At this time I suspected that mother was laying up money, for she had long occupied her stand in front of Mr. --'s store; and, though she represented herself as very poor, yet I often watched her, when she thought I was asleep, and saw her get up from her straw bed on the floor, and count pieces of silver, and even gold, which she put into an old leather trunk. One day she told me that she was going to visit our old home, and wished me to occupy her stand as fruit-vender until her return. This I was very willing to do, thinking that I would improve the opportunity to see what her trunk contained; but to my disappointment she carefully concealed it before her departure. She was absent four days, and on her return she brought a little girl apparently about three years of age, which she told me was the child of my sister Mary. She said she had taken compassion on the little thing, and meant to give her a home for the present. But this story I doubted from the first, taking care, however, to keep my suspicions to myself. Agnes, as mother called the child, lay in a kind of stupor for several days; whenever my mother or I approached, she would cover her eyes and tremble with affright. As mother immediately resumed her post, it became my duty to stay with the child; and many times she lay so quiet and still, I thought she was dead. I used often to wonder why she lived, and wished that she would die; but I don't remember as the thought ever entered my mind that I would kill her. One day I saw advertisements posted in the streets, offering a great reward for a child who had been stolen from her parents, in a place called Beech Grove, on the Hudson. I mentioned this to mother, who gave me an awful scowl, and then walked to the bed where the child lay, as if she would strike her dead. But Agnes lay in a quiet sleep, and she turned back to me. 'What do you suspect?' she asked, in a hoarse voice. 
               "'That she is the stolen child,' I answered doggedly. 
               "'And what do you mean to do?' 
               "'To give her up and get the reward, unless you make it worth my while to keep silent.' 
                
               "'And have your mother hung?' she added, bitterly. 
               "'I want money,' was my only reply. 
               "She sat and mused for a long time; after a while, she said, 'If we could devise some plan to get rid of her, procure the reward, and secure ourselves from danger, I would be as glad to do it as you, for I can't have the trouble of the sickly brat. We could divide the money, which would set us above want.' 
               "'Where are the jewels you got with her?" I asked, looking her full in the face. 
               "'Jewels!' she exclaimed; 'I never owned she was the one. I was only saying what might be.' Angry words followed, and we parted as we had never done before,-I threatening to give her up to justice, and she by turns cursing me, and deploring her fate in having so ungrateful a son. I was on my way to the office, where I was determined to give the information, when I was arrested by a police-officer for some trifling crime, was tried, and condemned to three months' imprisonment. After I procured my discharge, I went immediately to the place where my mother lived, and found Agnes still there. The advertisements had been withdrawn, and, on going to Beech Grove, I found that the family had gone to India. This piece of intelligence I was careful to keep to myself, as I intended to use the power which her crime gave me over her, and extort money for my secrecy. This I did until she died, though she gave sparingly and grudgingly, often saying I should bring her to actual starvation. In the mean time the child lived and grew in spite of hunger, cold and neglect. While mother was out, which was from early in the morning until night, Agnes was locked into her room, and lay in winter most of the time in bed. She was so quiet and obedient, and, as she grew older, so desirous of being helpful, that she won her way to what little affection remained in mother's heart, and so they lived together until the old woman's death. I had long waited with impatience for this event, and though I seldom went home, yet I contrived to hear every few days of what was going on there. One night something prompted me to make her a visit. After knocking some time to no purpose, I found, to my astonishment, that the door was unbolted. I went carefully up the stairs, secured the valuable trunk, and left her. I afterwards learned that she died that very night. The trunk contained, beside considerable money, the jewels, which had been carefully preserved. Fear of detection prevented my exposing these for sale, and I determined to dispose of them at some future time. I did not intend to lose sight of the child, and was glad to learn, after a few months, that she was adopted by a lady in your father's family. When my money was spent, I formed the plan of giving up the child, and trying to make something in that way. She was then at Beech Grove, and I think you are the young man who appeared just as I had got her in my grasp. After that, I enlisted as a sailor, and was many years absent from port. Thinking, after so long a time, there could be no danger of discovery, I carried the jewels to Mr. Gray, wishing him to purchase them. But he refused, and hinted plainly that he feared they were stolen. I made as good a story as I could, and at length he consented that I should leave them there for sale. The result you are already acquainted with, and if you will give me the reward you promised for my frank confession, I shall leave this country, never to return." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               DURING the remainder of the day, the now happy father was content to lie passively on the sofa, occasionally falling asleep, tenderly watched over by his dutiful daughter. The words "papa" and "mamma" came so sweetly from her lips, and he took such delight in replying to the endearing title, that he could not bear to have her out of his sight. 
               The idea that all the years he had been mourning her loss she had been in the care of his daughter, and that, if he had returned from India, he too might have enjoyed her society, at times almost overwhelmed him with grief. But the thought of the good providence of God, who had directed her weary feet to the door of her friends, and had inclined Florence to take the pauper child to her bosom, filled him with gratitude and praise. 
               "What would have been my affliction," he exclaimed, one day to his wife, when Agnes was for a moment absent from the room, "if I had found her dissolute and vicious, or even illiterate and rude! My heart would perhaps have gone forth toward her as a child, but I could have had no comfort in her society. Now she is all that my heart craves in a daughter. It seems too joyful to be true, that she is my own, dear, lost Adelaide." 
               Mrs. Loring had never before experienced the bliss of having an affectionate, dutiful child, and her heart responded warmly to every kind feeling of her husband toward their beautiful and virtuous daughter. 
               Agnes lost no time, but informed her friends at Beech Grove of her newly-found relatives, and also announced to them the time of Florence's wedding, and said that the bride was anxious to have her dearest friends with her on the joyful occasion. 
               The same mail carried a confidential letter also to Mr. Van Lennep, which was answered in person the very next day. Mr. Loring was still confined to the house in consequence of his undue excitement, which had brought on a rush of blood to the head; but when Mr. Van Lennep arrived they had a long and private interview, to which Agnes alone was admitted. 
               The wedding-day at length arrived. The bridal pair intended to start for the Falls of Niagara directly after the ceremony, where Louis and Agnes were to have accompanied them; but, as her father was still feeble, the young girl would not consent to leave him. 
               The wedding was appointed at an early hour; Mr. Hanley and Florence, Louis and Agnes, rode together to the church, where a small but select company had gathered to witness the solemn ceremony, after which they returned home to partake of some refreshment before they started on their journey. 
               When Mr. Loring approached his daughter to give her his blessing, he put into her hand a deed of a beautiful place he had purchased for her. The lands joined those of her friends at Beech Grove, and it was a situation which Florence had always admired. Thus Agnes's mystery was revealed. This purchase had been accomplished mostly through the agency of Mr. Van Lennep, who had entered into the project with all his heart. 
               Just as they were leaving, Louis called Mr. Hanley aside, and in a few words told him what had always been his intention with regard to the property of Florence, at the same time presenting the deed of the cottage and checks to a considerable amount. 
               Mr. Hanley deliberately stepped to the door, and called "Florence," then put the papers into her hand, briefly explaining their import. 
               "Dear, kind Louis," she exclaimed, seizing his hand; "this is just like you, and does you honor. For your sake I rejoice in it with all my heart. Are these mine,-my own?" she asked, holding them before him. 
               "Certainly they are," he replied, smiling. 
               "Then," said she, "I, Florence-Hanley," she added, hesitating slightly, "being of sound and disposing mind, do make over all right and title in the same to my beloved cousin, Louis Buckingham; and you, Andrew Hanley, bear testimony to the same." 
               "Gladly," he responded, with emphasis. 
               She attempted to put the papers in her cousin's hand, but he refused, saying, "You have no idea, Florence, how much you pain me by not accepting this place, which is legally your own." 
               "I did accept it joyfully and thankfully, dear Louis; but I have seen proper to give it away again. I am a bride," she said, playfully, drawing herself up with dignity, "and brides must be respected." 
               "It shall be my first business, on my return," added her husband, "to see this matter properly adjusted and recorded." 
               "Stay one moment, Louis," said Florence, as he was leaving the room, and she motioned Mr. Hanley to the door. "I would like to make your wife a wedding present; perhaps you would prefer I should give it to Agnes." 
               Louis gave her one searching glance, then abruptly left the room, and joined the party in the entry. 
               "I am very sorry," said Agnes, without observing him, "that Lily was away travelling, and could not be at the wedding. If she had come, Louis could have gone with her. He looks pale of late, and the journey would have done him good." 
               "Louis prefers staying at home," whispered a low voice close at her side. 
               She turned quickly, to meet a pair of eyes fixed earnestly upon her, and her own drooped beneath their gaze. 
               "Why don't the fellow propose?" exclaimed Mr. Loring, impatiently, calling his wife into the parlor and vehemently shutting the door, when the bridal pair, accompanied to the boat by the groomsmen and bridemaids, had driven away. 
               "He loves her, if I am any judge; but he don't walk right up to the mark, and say, 'Will you have me, or not?' That is the way to do up the business,-and he is a smart fellow, too. What can be the reason he holds back so?" 
               "Perhaps he thinks you would not consent to give her up so soon," responded Mrs. Loring, more calmly. 
               "He is right enough about that. I never expect to give her up, but-"Here he relapsed into a profound reverie, from which he did not arouse until the sound of the returning voices drew his wife from the room to welcome them. 
               "Walk in here," called out Mr. Loring from the parlor. He was lying upon the sofa, and Agnes took a seat by his side. 
               "Ahem!" sounded the invalid, making an effort to commence a conversation. "Well, you saw them safely off, hey? Agnes, our turn will come next." 
               "Why, father, you are not going to take me away from home?" and she bent a distressed glance upon Louis. 
               "Why, whose house do you take this for, child?" asked her father, quickly. 
               Agnes blushed deeply, but turned to Louis, expecting he would say it was made over to Florence. 
               "The house is the property of Miss Agnes Loring," replied the young man, endeavoring to speak calmly. 
                
               "How so?" inquired Mr. Loring and his daughter, in a breath. 
               "As a present from her sister. Mr. Hanley intends to have the title changed on his return." 
               "Dear, kind Florence!" exclaimed the young girl, bursting into tears, "she knew how I loved this sweet home." 
               "It will be a very pretty place for you when you are married; but for the present-" 
               "O, father!" she cried, interrupting him, "you won't go away and leave Louis here alone." 
               "Why couldn't I for the present be a boarder in the family?" inquired Louis. "It would be a most agreeable arrangement for me." 
               "I never liked the idea of taking boarders," responded Mr. Loring, utterly regardless of the wistful look of his daughter. "I expect Agnes will be wanting to be married soon, and then-" 
               "O, father, don't! I shall never be married. I shall always live with you." 
               "Pshaw! you'd make a nice old maid. Wouldn't she, Louis? I have a young man in my eye who would make a noble husband for you." 
               Mr. Buckingham arose and walked to the window, when the arrival of company prevented for the time any continuance of the conversation. But the young man was desirous of renewing it the first opportunity. He determined, however, it should not be in the presence of Agnes. Had she not been discovered to be the daughter and heiress of Mr. Loring, he would have besought Florence to give her beloved protg to his care. Now, the fear of being accused of worldliness, together with a doubt whether Mr. Loring would give up his newly-found treasure to the son of a man who had proved recreant to his trust, deterred him from asking her hand. Dear as the child had always been to him, never until now had he realized what an influence her lovely Christian deportment had had upon him. During the night following his conversation with her father, the years since he first knew her passed in review before him; her conscientiousness and fear of sin, as soon as she had been taught to distinguish right from wrong; her sweet, forgiving temper toward his wayward sister; her truthfulness, her gratitude to him for his boyish and often captious kindness toward her; then her devotion to his invalid father; her thoughtful care and tenderness toward his mother; her dutiful affection toward Florence, and the life-long interest she had manifested for him. And could he stand calmly by and see her married to another,-she, whom for many years he had considered as a part of himself, who had been the sunlight of his home, and connected with every plan for his future life? No, he would know his fate. And if Mr. Loring had other views for his daughter, as he had hinted, he would tear himself away, and bear the loss of his dearest hopes as best he might. 
               For three days Louis watched in vain for an opportunity to speak in private with Mr. Loring; but as he was still feeble, and mostly confined to the house, and as Mr. and Mrs. Van Lennep were passing a few days with them, he always found the parlor occupied on his return from town. He observed, too, that Agnes had put on a certain dignity, which he had never seen in her before, and a degree of reserve wholly unknown in their former intercourse had stolen in between them. 
               One morning, at breakfast, and on the day when their friends were intending to return to Beech Grove, Agnes urged them soon to renew their visit, saying, with a heightened color and a stolen glance at Louis, "It is such a pleasure to me to have a home of my own, where I can receive and entertain my friends as long as I wish!" 
               Poor Louis! He was in just the state of mind to suppose she meant an allusion to him, and, as he had not received a particular invitation to stay, he answered, with some bitterness, "Well, Agnes, I shall not claim your hospitality much longer, for I leave the country in three weeks." 
               The young girl gazed at him for a moment, as if she found it difficult to comprehend his meaning, then, with her handkerchief at her eyes, rose abruptly and left the room. He instantly started to join her, when her mother rose also, and he reluctantly resumed his seat. 
               "Whew!" exclaimed Mr. Loring. "It is a new thing for Agnes to be in tears." 
               "I have observed that the great excitement, of late, has rendered her nervous," remarked Mrs. Van Lennep, kindly. 
                
               Louis sat silent and self-condemned, until Mr. Loring inquired, "Is it really so, Louis, that you intend to leave us?" 
               "I do, sir," was the brief reply. 
               "You give us short notice, sir," added Mr. Loring, imitating the reserved tone of the other. "Wife." he continued, as she and Agnes reentered the room. "we must idle away no more time. Here we have orders to quit, just as we thought ourselves comfortably established for the summer. I have a great mind, Mr. Buckingham, to insist that you take us along. I appeal to our friends, Mr. and Mrs. Van Lennep, if it is not a hard case. After being abroad so many years, we return, choose our friends and settle down, and, just as we have become so attached to them that we can't get along comfortably at all without their society, they pull up stakes and are off, leaving us to shift for ourselves." 
               This was said in a petulant tone, like that of a displeased child, and the whole company burst into a hearty laugh, in which the young man could not resist the desire to join. Mr. Loring, as if highly indignant, walked from the room, slamming the door after him. After hesitating one moment, Louis followed him to the parlor. 
               "Well, sir," said Mr. Loring, locking the door, putting the key into his pocket, and advancing with a fierce look to his companion, "I hope you have come to your senses, and mean to ask my pardon." 
               "If I have offended, it has been unintentional, sir," replied Louis, growing very pale, but putting on an appearance of calmness. "Can I have a few moments' conversation with you?" 
               "Certainly, certainly. I thought you didn't realize what you were about." 
               "Mr. Sampson, our senior partner, proposed that one of the firm should go to Paris for the purchase of goods during the summer or fall. For certain reasons, which I will explain, I thought it better for me to go, and I volunteered to do so." 
               Mr. Loring, who had expected a different topic, tried to restrain his impatience, and then repeated, "The reasons, sir, the reasons!" 
               Louis turned, walked to the other end of the room, then, coming back, seized his companion's hand, and said, impetuously, "Ever since I can remember, I have loved your daughter, but"- 
               "No buts, Mr. Buckingham; you shall have her, sir. If it had not been for the squeamishness of my wife, I should have given her to you weeks ago. But she insisted it was your right to propose the question. Now that you have come up to the point like a man, I should like to be informed by what rule of propriety you have kept me in such a state of anxiety for the past month;" and Mr. Loring rubbed his hands in glee, while the young man detailed the fears and doubts which had deterred him from claiming her father's consent to his wishes. Then, expressing his gratitude, he begged to have an opportunity to see if Agnes's choice corresponded with his own. 
                
               The father hastily unlocked the door, and soon drew the blushing girl into the room. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Van Lennep only waited to congratulate their young friends on their engagement, which, indeed, they had long anticipated, and then took their departure, having received a promise of a speedy return of their visit. 
               Upon reaching Saratoga, Mrs. Hanley wrote her friend an account of their trip, and a lively description of the society at the United States Hotel, where they were stopping. She said Mr. and Mrs. Story were there, with Lily Buckingham, who, in beauty of person and fascination of manner, was all that her childhood gave promise of being. "She is, indeed," wrote Florence, "a thoroughly finished woman of the world. In company she is calm and self-possessed, receiving the most flattering attentions with the dignity and composure of a queen, evidently claiming them as her right. It is difficult to approach her, for she is always surrounded by a crowd of admirers, among whom, I am sorry to say, are many whose countenances bear the marks of dissipated habits. Report says she has attracted the attention of Hon. Mr. Hosford, a member of Congress, a man of high standing in society, and of great wealth. I cannot say how this is, as I have seldom seen them together, though I have observed that he frequently enters the parlors, but, seeing how she is surrounded, retires as quietly as he entered. Evidently he does not intend to engage gage in competition with the light-minded fops who occupy so large a share of her attention. 
               "At table, Lily invariably enters late, thus drawing upon herself innumerable pairs of eyes, as, taking the arm of her adopted father, she walks gracefully the whole length of the hall." 
               A week later, Florence wrote again. "We have made the acquaintance of Mr. Hosford, though for the introduction we are indebted to his interest in our fair friend. Rumor speedily brought the report of Mr. Hanley's wealth to Saratoga, and many, who would probably otherwise have passed us with a glance of contempt, have shown us great attention. From the first, Lily seemed pleased to meet us; and one morning, as my husband and myself were at the springs, she joined us. I never saw her appear so well. She conversed with Mr. Hanley like a rational being, and I felt self-condemned that I had pronounced her so trifling. Mr. Hosford, after watching us for a few moments, sauntered toward us, and was introduced by Lily. He is very agreeable in person, with great fluency in the use of language; and I could see that, though he directed his conversation to Mr. Hanley, his eye constantly turned toward the lady opposite him. He seemed to be perfectly captivated by her charms. After this he frequently joined our party, and expressed his great pleasure that we had concluded, on account of Mr. Hanley's fondness for the water, to extend our stay at the springs. This has brought Lily much into our society ciety, and enables us to see them together. I heard him say once, with a heavy sigh, 'Beautiful, fascinating creature!' He was standing where he could watch her without being observed. I turned my eye in the same direction, and did not wonder that he sighed. She was standing alone, the centre of a group of gay fops, who were striving to emulate each other in the adulation they were offering at her shrine. 
               "Several times he has invited me to walk with him to the pavilion, and has turned the conversation to the various ladies of the company. As I did not refer to Lily, he directly asked me if her mind and heart were cultivated in any proportion to her manner. I answered, reluctantly, that for many years I had seen little of her; that I had understood from her mother that she was very accomplished,-could play and sing with brilliancy, spoke French and Italian as if they were vernacular. 
               "'Of course,' he answered; 'of course! Those accomplishments are deemed indispensable at the present day.' 
               "He spoke with some sarcasm in his tone, and I said, 'You are severe, sir.' 
               "'Perhaps so,' he responded; 'but it annoys me to see a young lady, gifted with beauty and grace enough to make home a paradise, degrade herself by allowing those senseless fops to bestow their flatteries upon her.' 
               "'Lily is a beauty,' said I, 'and it cannot be expected pected that she should be ignorant of it. I have feared that her adopted parents, in their pride at the sensation she creates, do not exercise the most salutary influence over her.' 
               "'I have seen it all,' he responded, sadly, 'and I have sometimes thought, if she had a friend, one whom she respected and loved, she might be led to see the folly of her present course." 
               "'No doubt of it,' I answered, warmly. 'The surest way to govern Lily would be through her affections.' 
               "It really amuses my husband to see how closely Mr. Hosford adheres to our party since he gave me his partial confidence. Last evening his sister arrived, and was immediately introduced to us. Though not strictly handsome, she is a pleasing, warm-hearted girl, with a simplicity and naturalness which carry all before them. Not many minutes after she entered the parlor, she touched her brother, exclaiming, 'O, Lucius, look! Who is that beautiful lady, crossing the room? Isn't she lovely?' 
               "He was evidently much pleased, as he replied, 'That is Miss Story. 'I will introduce you to her;' and, taking her arm in his, led her to the sofa at the further end of the apartment. They soon returned, and Lily with them; and, before the evening was through, the young ladies had advanced to a great degree of intimacy. Mr. Hosford was charmed with the attention paid to his sister, and thanked Lily in a low tone for making this the happiest evening of his life. I rather think, before they parted, he said something still more pointed, for she glanced in his face, while a natural blush gave a deeper tint to her rose-colored cheeks. Early this morning, as Mr. Hanley and I were returning from our early walk, he approached, and said to me, 'You were right; Miss Story has convinced me that she has a heart, and she only needs right influences to mould her into a noble character.' 
               "'I see you are intending to do your part toward her reformation,' I replied, smiling. 
               "'I do not wish to conceal from you,' he rejoined, 'that she has interested me more than any lady I have seen; but reformation is a strong word. She only needs to see through the hollowness and extravagance of these fashionable fops and dandies, in order to despise them as heartily as I do. I believe she is formed for domestic happiness.' 
               "I kept my eyes upon the ground, for I could not give my assent, knowing Lily as well as I did, and I did not wish him to consider me prejudiced. After walking by my side for a few moments in silence, he bade us good-morning, and hastened on. 
               "Later-A great sensation has been created here by the arrival of a young southerner,-a dashing fellow, with imperial and whiskers in the highest state of perfection. He has a colored valet, and an elegant barouche with two coal-black horses, which he sports back and forth in front of the hotel, to the admiration of all the young ladies, and the envy of half the young men. In consequence of his wealth, or his rank, or his horses, he takes the liberty to set aside all prescribed rules of etiquette, and even decency, and to act according to his own will and pleasure. 
               "This conduct, though frowned upon by the substantial part of our little world, is applauded, and, to some extent, imitated by others. 
               "But to return to our friend Lily. She is engaged, actually engaged to Honorable Lucius Hosford; and she seems very happy. His sister told me they were to be married in the fall, and that she was to pass the winter with them at Washington. Fortunate Lily! she has won a noble heart. I hope she will make him happy. I can see that Mr. and Mrs. Story are very proud of the alliance." 
               After rejoicing with Agnes over her prospect of happiness, and stating something of their own plans, Florence adds, "The evening after the arrival of Mr. Stapleton, which is the name of the dashing southerner, Mr. Hosford and Lily were slowly promenading the piazza, when he appeared, followed by his servant. When opposite the betrothed couple he stopped, and with an oath, said, 'By --, what a handsome creature!-perfectly divine!' Mr. Hosford boiled with indignation, and stepped forward as if intending to knock the fellow down; but Lily drew him back, and the impertinent fellow was allowed to pass on. She told me of it herself, and said she did not see why Mr. Hosford need to have been in such a passion because a man chose to admire her. 'He must expect to be told I am handsome some,' she added, petulantly, 'though he never has acknowledged it himself.' 
               "'Lily,' said I, quite indignantly, 'Mr. Hosford paid you the highest compliment a gentleman can pay a lady, when he asked you to be his wife. No doubt he disapproves the senseless flattery to which you have so long been accustomed. He considers you endowed with common sense, and addresses you as a rational being.' 
               "'Well,' she exclaimed, as she turned away, 'if he expects me to give up all society, and to live only for him, he is very much mistaken.' 
               "'O, Lily!' I thought, as with a pout she walked haughtily away from the room, 'how can you throw away your own happiness?' With all her follies, I had not before deemed her so utterly heartless. 
               "We have just returned from Cincinnati, spending a few days at the Falls, both going out and on our return. We have wished much that you and Louis could have been with us. Though absent from this place only three weeks, there are great changes. Almost an entire new set of faces fills the halls and parlors. Of those with whom we became most intimate, Mr. Hosford and his sister alone remain. From her I learned the particulars of the disgraceful affair which is the constant theme of conversation here at the present time. After we left, Mr. Stapleton managed to procure an introduction to Lily, who accepted an invitation from him to ride. On her return, Mr. Hosford, and even her parents, remonstrated; but she insisted there was no harm in her riding in open daylight with a distinguished southerner. The very next day she rode horseback with him by her side; and this time everybody began to talk of and to look at Mr. Hosford as a rejected suitor. This he was too proud to bear; and the same evening demanded an interview with her in the presence of her parents, when he told her it was his wish she should at once and forever make her choice between him and Mr. Stapleton; that he never would consent that his betrothed bride should conduct in such a way as to be a by-word to every one in the house, and that she must promise to give up encouraging Mr. Stapleton's insulting attentions, or he should consider their engagement dissolved. 
               "Lily cried, and her parents plead with her to have nothing more to do with a man of whose character she was entirely ignorant; but she would make no promises; indeed, she would not speak. 
               "The next morning, Mr. Hosford and his sister arose earlier than usual, and went to the pavilion. On returning, they met Lily walking with her southern lover. She drew down her veil hastily, hoping they would not recognize her. But Mr. Hosford coolly bowed, saying, 'Good-morning, Miss Story,-good-morning, Mr. Stapleton,' as if they were the merest strangers. He returned to the hotel, and wrote Lily a formal note, announcing her free, which he inclosed to her father, with his reason for the same, saying that he had entirely misunderstood her character, and that he was happy to have discovered it in season to prevent his becoming too much attached to her for his own comfort. 
               "Miss Hosford wished to leave immediately, but he would not consent to do so, and insisted she should occupy the same seat at table as she had done. In company, he treated Lily with politeness, and once, when she was alone, walked with her to the hall table; but every one could see, from his manner, that the charm was broken. This was for the poor girl the most mortifying course he could have pursued; and, about a week later, early one morning it was discovered that Mr. Stapleton, his valet, horses, and-Lily, all were gone. He left all his bills unpaid, and a note of three hundred dollars, which he had borrowed, undischarged. 
               "Mr. and Mrs. Story left immediately, but Mr. Hosford still remains, and says he never had so much cause for gratitude as since his wonderful escape. 'I have learned wisdom,' said he to me. 'Next time I shall look with suspicion upon a pretty face, or, rather, I shall not allow my reason to be carried away by my eyes.'" 
               When Mrs. Hanley returned to New York, she found preparations going briskly forward for the marriage of Agnes. The wedding was to take place the first of October, when the bridal pair, accompanied by her parents, were to sail for Havre. Agnes would not consent that Florence should leave her until that time; and, as their new place, which they had named, needed a thorough repair, they concluded to remain in New York for the winter. Mr. Hanley took an early opportunity to have Agnes's title to the house made out in legal form, and, to please Louis, as a present from her sister. The tourists expected, after remaining a few weeks in Paris for the performance of Louis's business, to make a rapid tour of Europe, and return home by the way of England in the spring. 
               Early in October, the daily papers announced "A Marriage in High Life.-On the third instant, by the Right Rev. Bishop --, Mr. Louis Buckingham, of the firm of Sampson & Co., to Miss Adelaide Loring, daughter of Edward Loring, Esq. The bridal party expect to sail for Havre in the Gazelle on the sixth of the present month." 
               In concluding, I would say that in after years, when Mr. Louis Buckingham had attained a station in society, both as regarded wealth and rank, above that which his father had enjoyed, neither he nor his lovely wife ever forgot that riches were from the Lord; that "the Lord maketh poor and maketh rich, he bringeth low and lifteth up;" the sacred words of Scripture often recurred to them, "Let not the rich man glory in his riches. But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the Lord which exercise loving-kindness, judgment and righteousness in the earth." 
               The love of money had been the curse both to Mr. Buckingham and to Old Moll. Though one was surrounded with every comfort that wealth could bestow, and stood high in the esteem of his fellow-men, and the other was destitute even of the necessaries of life, yet their haste to be rich proved equally the ruin of both. In the one case it rendered the guardian unworthy of his trust, tempted him to appropriate the funds of his ward to supply the means for the extravagance of his family, and finally to an awful attempt at suicide. 
               In the other, the desire to become possessed of the rich jewels which decorated the person of little Adelaide, led her to steal from the afflicted parents what they prized far more than gold; and, in order to save herself from the effects of her crime, to a life-long system of cruelty and deception. The little foundling, guided and watched through all the years of her loneliness and sorrow by an Eye which never slumbers, became rich in faith, though deprived of her earthly possessions. 
               To Mrs. Buckingham and her son the loss of wealth proved the greatest blessing, even the hope of a heavenly inheritance; while to Florence it added Christian patience and resignation to her other graces. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Loring lived under the same roof as their daughter, for they never would consent to be separated from her; and in the large city where they resided, he found ample opportunity for the exercise of his activity in searching out and relieving cases of suffering among the poor; and in his employment Agnes was ever his efficient associate. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
