
    ----CITATION----
        Brinton, Bulah, (fl. 1866-1886). Man is Love .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5892 wright2-0366
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         

            
               MAN IS LOVE.
            
         
         
         

            
               MAN IS LOVE.
               AN AMERICAN STORY.
            
            BY ONE WHO KNOWS.
            
               
                  "God hath showed me that I should not call any man common or unclean."
               
            
            
               
                  
                     "Who shall show us any good?"
                  
                  The Cry of Philosophy.
               
            
            
               
                  
                     "All is vanity and vexation of spirit."
                  
                  The Wail of Wealth and Power.
               
            
            
               
                  
                     "What is the chief end of man?"
                  
                  The Problem of Life.
               
            
            TO BE LIKE GOD. TO LOVE AND BE LOVED.
            
               PUBLISHED FOR THE AUTHOR BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1873.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, by J. B. LIPPINCOTT
                  & CO., In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
            
         

         
            PREFACE.
            I MUST confess that appearances are somewhat against the title of this book. But did
               not our copy-books teach us that "appearances are often deceiving"?
            Were we to pass judgment upon Nature during earthquake or tempest, we should say "she
               is a malicious vixen." But spite of thunder-storms and tornadoes, we stoutly affirm
               Nature is a good mother. So, in spite of all the evil in the world, we say God is
               love.
            In the name of human rights I demand the same principle applied to our judgments of
               humanity. It is the natural, inalienable right of every human being to be loved and
               thought well of. The burden of proof is on the one who would make us out bad. I claim
               for "old Jones," "Mr. Rosewell," Aunt Polly, Southern soldiers, and Northern sinners,
               the "benefit of every doubt."
            And if the reader will attentively study the characters herein represented, and also
               those he meets in daily life, he will, no doubt, come to the conclusion that if it be
               not quite the whole truth that "man is love," it certainly
                  ought to be. He has the root of the matter in him. (The
                  her being understood.)
            Living on the border at the time of the war, I know whereof I write. I have traded
               with Uncle Ned,—had good times with him in meeting. I have sat beside Aunt Polly, as,
               trembling all over, every nerve quivering with pain, she has told me the sad mystery
               of her blighted life.
            
            There is one thing to be proud of in this book; and that is the picture of American
               family life. And I invite comparison with the home-life of other countries. Some
               object to the "children's talk" in the first chapters. It surely couldn't be a
               "correct likeness" unless Young America had his say. Tom and Eva—oh, what's the use?
               If any one wants to know what is in this book, one has to read it.
            The press and public justly complain of the leanness and emptiness of American books.
               Are we not sometimes demanding "bricks without straw"? Suppose some of us, who enjoy
               the poet's blessedness of being "little and unknown," have something to say which we
               think will do you good to hear, how shall we get a chance to say it?
                  Money is the only answer. Ask the publishers. Do money and genius
               always go hand-in-hand together? Ask history. Whether I have genius or not I can't
               say; the public must decide. But one thing I do know, the money I have
               not. Therefore, if this book is circulated, it must be for "love" and merit.
            And I ask all that love their fellows, and believe this work can please and instruct
               them, to aid in its circulation; "Published for the author" is all one that works for
               a living can afford. If the book be truth, this will be done. If not,—if, as some
               assert, "man is selfishness" instead of love,—the quicker it is dead and buried the
               better.
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               PART I.
                I.-The Rosewell Family 9
               
                II.-The Little Watchman 24
               
                III.-Experimenting 41
               
                IV.-The Long Day 57
               
                V.-Asking 63
               
                VI.-Will he Fire? 74
               
                VII.-Returned Home 82
               
                VIII.-The Two Napoleons 86
               
                IX.-The Slave-Catchers 99
               
                X.-The Night of Sorrow 106
               
                XI.-The First Kiss 118
               
                XII.-Partial Discovery 126
               
                XIII.-A Boy Fight 133
               
                XIV.-A Review of the Past 141
               
                XV.-A Review of the Past-Continued 149
               
                XVI.-The Wise Mammy 156
               
                XVII.-The Quarrel 164
               
                XVIII.-The Vexed Question 172
               
                XIX.-Something New 181
               
                XX.-The New Sunday-School 190
               
                XXI.-Parting View 197
               
            
            
               PART II.
                I.-War Clouds 205
               
                II.-Another Lover 210
               
                III.-The Old Lover 218
               
                IV.-The Meeting 224
               
                V.-The Indescribable 225
               
                VI.-War Begun 230
               
                VII.-The Lull before the Storm 238
               
               
                VIII.-The Iron Grip 241
               
                IX.-The Bit and Bridle 243
               
                X.-Soul Poison 252
               
                XI.-Tom at Home 259
               
                XII.-Last Hours 267
               
                XIII.-The Work of Death 272
               
                XIV.-Evil out of Good 277
               
                XV.-The Funeral 282
               
                XVI.-Arrived There 287
               
                XVII.-The Great Conflict 293
               
                XVIII.-The Great Conflict-Continued 305
               
                XIX.-The Conflict Ended 310
               
                XX.-Frank at Home 319
               
                XXI.-The Black Teacher 328
               
                XXII.-Man the Sovereign 337
               
                XXIII.-The Letter 347
               
                XXIV.-"Believe in Me," 356
               
                XXV.-Heaven on Earth 365
               
                XXVI.-The Great Mystery 371
               
                XXVII.-Another Mystery 376
               
                XXVIII.-The Loved and the Lost 378
               
                XXIX.-The New Philosophy 385
               
                XXX.-The Smoked Letter 388
               
                XXXI.-The Great Crisis-Gettysburg 397
               
                XXXII.-Woman's Sovereignty 402
               
                XXXIII.-Possibilities of Spirit-Talk 407
               
                XXXIV.-Rest for the Weary 413
               
                XXXV.-Lovers' Quarrel 425
               
                XXXVI.-A Philosophical Chapter 430
               
                XXXVII.-Coal, and Diamonds 436
               
                XXXVIII.-The Time that tries Men's Souls 443
               
                XXXIX.-The Baby 451
               
                XL.-The Banquet of Death 455
               
                XLI.-What Freedom has cost us 463
               
                XLII.-Last Look 467
               
                APPENDIX 471
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Man is love
            MAN IS LOVE.
            
               PART I.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE ROSEWELL FAMILY.
                  WE never know how slowly the minute-hand of the clock moves along until we
                     begin to watch it. For a full half-hour four pairs of bright eyes had been
                     watching the old clock, and thinking the time never would pass away. At last
                     Eva got out of patience, and said,—
                  "I do declare, old Granfer Time never walked so slow in all his life before.
                     He's just trying to tease us."
                  "That shows how little you know about it," said her mother. "The dear old man
                     is going just the same trot he has been going the last six thousand years. He
                     never goes a bit faster or slower, no matter how hard impatient little feet may
                     kick at him, and try to make him go differently."
                  But at last the "slow old fellow," as Eva called him, got around, and the clock
                     began to strike one, two, three, four, till it had struck seven. The children
                     began to clap their hands before the "one" was fairly out of the clock's mouth.
                     Chit shouted out,—
                  "There, ma, now you have to give us our supper!"
                  "Give you your supper?" said Mrs. Rosewell. "Why, haven't I given you all the
                     bread and milk, and bread and butter and apple-sauce, you could eat?"
                  "Yes, ma," said Eva., "But you know we have two stomachs, and only one of them
                     gets hungry for bread and butter,—the other is always getting hungry for
                     stories. We want our story-supper now."
                  "Very well," said her mother, "you shall have your story-supper; but you must bring me my
                     knitting-work. With forty little fingers and forty little toes, that are always
                     peeping through mittens and socks, I must keep knitting to keep them
                     covered."
                  Mrs. Rosewell could knit and tell stories as easily as a baby can sleep and
                     grow fat. Eddie perched himself on a stool at her feet, where he could nestle
                     down and go to sleep like a chick under its mother's wing, if the stories got
                     too dry to keep him awake. Frank, Eva, and Chit (as they called her) sat up as
                     straight as little soldiers in front of her.
                  "Well, you know, children, that we eat the last of our story-loaf last
                     evening," said Mrs. Rosewell, "and we must hunt a new one; so what shall our
                     stories be about this winter? You know it is the first day of winter, and you
                     must pick out a loaf big enough to last all winter, else you will be as bad off
                     as bees that eat up all their honey and have to go hungry till the flowers come
                     again."
                  "Oh, tell us stories about good boys and girls, and people that did brave
                     things, and were good to everybody!" said Eva. "I like to hear about good
                     folks."
                  "Oh, yes," said Frank, "I know what you want: you want to hear about some good
                     little boy and girl that was awful pious and then died. For my part, I hate
                     that kind of boys; they are nothing but girl-boys: milk-and-water things, with
                     no grit in them. I like folks as know enough to knock back when they are
                     hit."
                  Frank straightened back and doubled up his fists, as much as to say, "That's
                     the kind of a boy Frank Rosewell is."
                  "Well, I want to hear about brave folks too," said Eva. "I don't like cowards,
                     but I like folks to show their bravery by daring to do right, not in killing
                     people like soldiers do."
                  "That kind of folks that Eva wants to hear about are all made up by
                     story-writers," said Frank, "just as she makes up her rag young-ones. I want to
                     hear about real folks, so I go in for history."
                  "Oh, I hate history!" said Eva. "It is so dry; I never will take a book that is
                     named any kind of history. We shall all go to sleep, except Frank, if you have
                     got to tell us history. I had as soon you would tell us stories out of the
                     Arithmetic; it is nothing but a mess of names and dates I can't remember."
                  "That's just the way with girls," said Frank: "they never can learn anything
                     that's of any use. All they want is something as sounds good, no matter whether
                     it's true or not. A made-up story is just as good as any for Eva. But I go in
                     for truth as 'll learn you something."
                  "So do I go in for truth," said Eva, rather pettishly; "but I want it fixed up
                     nice. It ain't any more interesting to me to hear history than it is to study
                     out the dry bones of a skeleton. I wouldn't do either if I wasn't obliged
                     to."
                  "Do you remember the story we read the other morning, of the vision of the
                     valley of dry bones?" said Mrs. Rosewell.
                  "Yes, ma'am," said Eva; "and how funny it was!"
                  "Can you tell me where it is to be found?" said Mrs. Rosewell.
                  "I can't," said Eva; "I was so busy thinking how funny the bones must have
                     looked, dancing around, that I never thought of the place."
                  "Just like you," said Frank; "you never half know anything."
                  "Well, if I don't know just where to find it, I know all about it; and that is
                     the most consequence, ain't it?" said Eva to her mother.
                  "It is well to know both," said Mrs. Rosewell. "So Frank may tell us where to
                     find it, and you may tell the story."
                  "It is in the thirty-seventh chapter of Ezekiel," said Frank, very proud of his
                     exact knowledge.
                  
                     EVA'S STORY OF THE VISION.
                     "The prophet was taken and set down in a valley of dry bones. And he walked
                        around among them; and he saw there were a great many bones, and they were
                        very dry. Something asked him, 'Can these bones live?' He couldn't tell.
                        Again it said, 'Prophesy to these dry bones, and say, O ye dry bones, hear
                        the word of the Lord.' And God said he would make them live. So the prophet began to preach to them,
                        and soon he heard a noise, and then he saw the bones shaking; and they shook
                        themselves together. The finger-bone came to the hand, and the hand to the
                        arm, and the arm to the shoulder, and the toes to the feet, and the feet to
                        the legs, and the legs to the body, till the skeleton was all fixed. Then
                        the flesh came on to the bones, and the skin came on to the flesh; but there
                        was no breath in them. Then Ezekiel talked to the wind, and said, 'Come from
                        the four winds, O breath; breathe upon these and make them live.' So the
                        breath came to them, and they stood up a great army of living folks, just
                        like us."
                     "Now," said Mrs. Rosewell, "can't we do with our dry bones of history just
                        what the prophet did with his? May we not begin to talk to them, and see if
                        they won't begin to shake, and the right bones come together, and the flesh
                        come on to them? Then we will talk to the good goddess Imagination, and say
                        to her, 'Oh, pray breathe upon these dead figures; that they may stand up,
                        and be living men, women, and children like ourselves.'"
                     "Oh, that would be so nice!" said Eva. "Let us try it. It would be nicer to
                        make dead bones shake and dance, and get to be live folks, than to make new
                        stories."
                     "So then it is settled we shall have history," said Mrs. Rosewell. "And now
                        the next question is, What shall it be about?"
                     "Tell us about wars, and heroes, and great generals," said Frank; "and see
                        if you can make the fighting real,—just as it was to them who fought and got
                        killed."
                     "Oh, pray don't tell us anything about war, it is so dreadful," said Eva.
                        "It makes me shudder every time I think of it. There's Lilly Green, that I
                        knew up North, and she cries every time she hears any one talk of war: she
                        feels so bad about her pa, that was killed in the army. And now she and her
                        ma have to work so hard; and she don't have any new clothes,—and she used to
                        have such nice ones. Before her pa went to war she had more new things than
                        any girl in school. Oh, it is dreadful to think of it,—and then what she has
                        to wear now!"
                     "Who cares for her crying?" said Frank, who had no notion of letting
                        sympathy for Lilly Green interfere with the glories of his favorite heroes.
                        "Some girls are always sniveling. But what has old clothes to do with wars,
                        and heroes, and all that sort of thing? It is a good thing she has to work;
                        it is what she was made for."
                     "Well, I don't see how I can please both of you," said Mrs. Rosewell. "One
                        wants sweet, and the other sour. Come, Chit, you will have to decide which I
                        give them."
                     "Tell her to tell us about wars and heroes, that's a good little sister, and
                        I'll mend your sled for you," said her brother.
                     "And I will make your doll a new dress if you will say, 'Tell stories about
                        good folks.' All those heroes of Frank's only just kill folks," said
                        Eva.
                     Chit looked as wise as a monkey with a judge's cap on. She couldn't tell
                        which she wanted to please most, her brother or her sister; nor which she
                        wanted the most, her sled fixed or her doll a new dress. In fact, she wanted
                        both very much. So, after puzzling her little brain for awhile, her face
                        brightened with a new idea, and she said, "Give both, ma; just as pa puts
                        sugar and vinegar both on his lettuce. Then I'll have my sled fixed, and my
                        doll a dress too."
                     "Bravo! Chit, you are a sharper!" Frank cried out. "You'll pass, if you
                           are a girl."
                     "Well, then, we are to have stories of all kinds,—of heroes good and bad,"
                        said Mrs. Rosewell, "and sweet and sour, all mixed up together. A funny kind
                        of a loaf we'll be eating this winter, I'm thinking. But do you know I found
                        something real nice the other day that I've never told you about? Shall I
                        tell you now?"
                     "Oh, do! do! I am dying to hear," said Eva.
                     "Then, if you are dying now," said her mother, "it won't do you any good to
                        hear, for what I found was for live folks, not dead ones."
                     Eva looked quite ashamed of her extravagant speech, and Frank looked bushels
                        of contempt out of his eyes and nose as he said,—
                     "Oh, mother, don't mind what that silly girl says; tell us quick what it
                        was."
                     "I'll let you try your chance at guessing first," said Mrs. Rosewell. "If
                        you guess right I'll tell you."
                     
                     "It is the Philosopher's Stone," said Frank.
                     "No, it is a new book to tell us stories out of," said Eva.
                     "No, it is a nice picture," said Chit, as Mrs. Rosewell shook her head to
                        the others' guesses.
                     "It is a bid new wocking hossy," said Eddie, whose horse was getting to be
                        quite a cripple, besides losing his mane and tail and both eyes.
                     "None are right. So you give it up?" said Mrs. Rose-well. There was a chorus
                        of "yes's" and entreaties to be told at once.
                     "One day last week I went to see that dear good lady that is called
                        Imagination," said Mrs. Rosewell. "You know some people call her a goddess.
                        I was there all alone with her, and I asked her if she would please tell me
                        how it was that she could see so many more nice things in the world than
                        anybody else could. The dear lady shook her head, and there, right at the
                        top of her nose, looking as natural as your grandma's spectacles, I saw a
                        pair of magic spectacles. 'Oh, pray lend them to me,' I said, 'so that I can
                        see nice things too.' 'No, no,' she said; 'my spectacles were given to me to
                        make everybody happy with, and I can't give them to one person. But when you
                        want to make children wise and happy by showing them things they couldn't
                        see themselves, if you will just give me this kind of a wink (and she winked
                        to show me how), I will put a pair on to your eyes that will make you see
                        things you never saw before. But mind you,' she said, shaking her finger at
                        me and laughing, 'if you let any one see you give me the wink, I sha'n't
                        bring you the spectacles.' And away she tripped as lightly as though she
                        were flying with the wings of the wind. So you must all shut up your eyes
                        while I give her the wink, so that she will put the magic spectacles on to
                        my eyes."
                     They all very much wanted to see the wink, but they were afraid to look lest
                        their ma shouldn't get the magic spectacles. When they opened their eyes,
                        they told her she hadn't any spectacles on. She looked just as she did
                        before.
                     "Oh, yes, I have them," said Mrs. Rosewell; "but they are on the inside of
                        my head, instead of the outside, and you can't see them."
                  
                  
                     MRS. ROSEWELL'S STORY OF THE TWO HEROES AS SEEN THROUGH THE MAGIC
                        SPECTACLES.
                     "I see a quaint, old-fashioned little village in England. Over one hundred
                        and fifty years have passed since the time I am going to tell you of. There
                        is a small church there; and near it is a small house, such as we call a
                        parsonage, but they called it a rectory. In one corner of the building is a
                        little room that the rector of the parish (the same that we call a minister)
                        has for his study. At the desk sits the rector, a fine, noble-looking man,
                        somewhat like Daniel the prophet. He was as brave as Daniel, too, for he
                        wouldn't do what he thought was wrong for all the kings in the world. His
                        face looked pleasant, as well as brave, and there wasn't a little boy or
                        girl in the parish that was afraid to shake hands with him and say, 'How
                        d'do, sir?' He looks now as though something troubled him,—as though he
                        hadn't any money in his pocket and his children hadn't much to eat. But he
                        don't know what to do for them; so he takes up his pen, and goes to 'beating
                        rhymes,' as he calls it, but we call it making verses."
                     "He did not think his children could eat his verses, did he, ma?" said
                        Chit.
                     "No, he couldn't have thought that. But, then, they could read them; and if
                        one stomach was empty, the other would have something in it, which would be
                        better than to have both empty. Besides, he knew their mother would find
                        some way to get them something to eat. So he went on with his verses, and
                        forgot all about the breakfast and dinner, and felt as happy as a bee in a
                        flowerbed.
                     "In another room sits his wife, with all the children around her. The baby
                        is in the cradle; the oldest boy Samuel is getting his lesson: so is a
                        younger one, John, and one of the girls. Another one of the girls is trying
                        to mend a pair of little pants for Charley, a bright-eyed, mischievous
                        little fellow as ever tore his pants to pieces. He has such a big hole in his pants now that
                        his sister can't find a piece in all the patch-bag large enough to cover it.
                        She feels as though she would like to give the curly-headed rogue a slap for
                        tearing such a big hole.
                     "Charley sits near by, with his book open as though he were studying; but he
                        kept looking at his sister to see how she got along with his pants. He was
                        as great a hand to make verses as his father. So, forgetting that he was in
                        school, and mustn't talk out loud, he began, saying: 
                           
                              "'Charley tore a big hole,
                              Susie got out her roll;
                              But in all of the bag
                              Not a piece could be found
                              To cover the hole all around.
                              So the poor little wag
                              Had to——'
                           
                         Here he was stopped by his mother, saying,—
                     "'Charley, what are you doing?' He looked up, and saw all the children
                        holding their noses, while their cheeks were swelled out as though they had
                        the mumps, with laughing-gas; they dare not let out, because it was against
                        the rules to laugh in school. Charley was scared when he saw what he had
                        done. So he said,—
                     "'Indeed, ma, I am very sorry; I didn't mean to make that noise.'
                     "'How came you to do it, then?' said his mother.
                     "'Indeed, I didn't make it, ma. It made itself,' said the unfortunate
                        boy.
                     "'Well, if the verse did make itself, it was your tongue that spoke it out;
                        so I must punish that for disobeying me. Come here,' said his mother, 'and I
                        will see if this string is strong enough to keep it in its place the rest of
                        the day.' So the poor little 'wag' had to go with his tongue tied up till
                        school was out.
                     "Charley's tongue safely tied up, she went on with her account-book,
                        stopping every now and then to show Susie how to make a patch big enough to
                        cover the hole, by sewing pieces together; hearing lessons; attending to the
                        baby; thinking what she could get for dinner, etc.
                     "At last the accounts were all straightened out, and she took them in to
                        show her husband how much each man in the parish owed of his tithes. They
                        owed a great deal more than they had paid; and that was what made the family
                        so short of food and clothes."
                     "What are tithes, ma?" said Eva. "Is it the same as pew rent?"
                     "Not exactly," said Mrs. Rosewell. "The church that he preached in belonged
                        to the state,—just as our public schools do,—and the people were taxed to
                        support it. They didn't have money to pay, so they gave a certain portion of
                        what they raised from the land. England was then an agricultural country;
                        now it is still more a manufacturing country. It is said that she don't
                        raise enough now to feed her people one-fourth of the year."
                     "Where do they get their food, then?" asked Chit.
                     "Some of it comes from this country, and some from others. They send cloth,
                        and iron, and such things to these countries; and their swapping cloth and
                        iron for grain, and sugar, and such things, is called commerce. So this
                        minister was to swap with the people of his parish: he, to give them food
                        for their souls; they, to give him food for his body. But they did not seem
                        to care a great deal for his food; or, if they did like it, they didn't like
                        to pay for it. So when the minister's wife showed him the bills, he took his
                        bag and started out in the fields where the people were gathering their
                        crops, to make them give him his share. A history of the time says he saw
                        one man who, every time he put an ear of corn into the minister's bag, would
                        break off a piece and sly it into his own bag. The minister watched awhile;
                        then he took him by the coat collar with one hand, and the bag of broken
                        ears in the other, and drew him along to the market, and poured out the
                        broken ears to show the people, and told them what he had done."
                     "Served him right!" said Frank. "He was a rascal, and I'd a' kicked him in
                        the bargain, if I had been in the minister's place."
                     "I hope he didn't leave the corn there, did he?" asked little Chit. "I
                        think, after he had shown it, he ought to have carried it home to his
                        children."
                     "Well, I can't see the corn through my spectacles, but I think he must have
                        carried it home, and let the children have it for their dinner or supper, because I can see them all together,
                        playing some sort of a game of skill and chance; looking as rosy and happy
                        as though they had had all the mush-and-milk they could eat. I notice that
                        children who don't get enough to eat never have that look; nor do those that
                        eat cake, pie, and sweetmeats for supper have such a nice fresh look,
                        either. And although this woman found it hard to fill the mouths of so many
                        little robins, and hard to find patches to mend their old clothes, she
                        didn't have any more trouble than those who have too much of nice things.
                        And if my spectacles could talk, I think they would tell us that it is a
                        great deal harder for rich people to keep away from their children those
                        things that will hurt them, than it is for poor people to get what they need
                        to make them grow nicely."
                     "Well, I should rather have the money, and all the 'hard' that comes with
                        it," said Frank, "and let them that want it have the 'easy' that comes
                        without it."
                     "Oh, I think it was so beautiful to be like that family!" said Eva. "So much
                        nicer than to be rich, and buying new clothes, to have Susie trying to mend
                        the old ones, and Charley making verses for her, to make them all
                        laugh!"
                     "Well, if you think it is so beautiful to mend torn clothes, I wish to
                        goodness you'd try it on mine," said Frank. "I never can get a thing mended
                        without more fuss than it is worth."
                     "Oh, well, you are a great, rough fellow, always plaguing me, and I don't
                        like to do anything for you. But if you were a nice curly-headed little poet
                        like Charley, it would be fun for me," said Eva.
                     "Eva is like a great many grown-up people, who think it a great deal nicer
                        to sit in an easy-chair and praise other people for doing their duty, than
                        to take hold of the rough work of life themselves. Well, I confess it must
                        have been something worth seeing: to see the mother of nineteen children
                        bringing up some dozen or less of them, and educating them herself to fill
                        stations of the highest usefulness and power in the world; and all done with
                        so little money. But I think most folks, like Eva, had rather look at and
                        admire such wonderful industry and economy from a safe distance, than to try
                        such an experiment themselves. I think English ladies must have been very
                        unlike their American cousins, or she would have made her husband attend to
                        his own accounts," said the mother of five children; one of whom was working
                        very hard in the cradle, trying to watch the light and suck his toes at the
                        same time. It was no fool of a job for a baby, either. For while he was
                        straining to get his toes in his mouth, his eyes would lose track of the
                        light; and then, while he was hunting that up, off would go his feet, as
                        though they weren't made to be sucked like a bear's claws.
                     "It was his business to keep his own accounts, and not put everything on to
                        his wife's shoulders," said Eva. "I wouldn't have such a lazy man, that
                        would sit in his study beating rhymes, and put all the work on to his
                        wife."
                     "Don't be alarmed, sis; you never will be troubled with a lazy man, or any
                        other," said the roguish boy, who was always watching his chance to teaze
                        his sister. "You'll be a dried-up old maid, just like Aunt Polly."
                     "No more of that stuff," said his mother, "or I shall send you to bed
                        without any more supper." Order restored, she went on with her story.
                     "The minister's way of serving people right, as Frank says, got him into a
                        great deal of trouble. A great many of the folks got to hating him, and they
                        thought they would burn his house down. I can see a man that had got mad at
                        him talking to another man about setting fire to the rectory. It is a very
                        dark night, and they have their faces blackened, so that they think nobody
                        will know them if they should happen to see them; and when they think the
                        people are all asleep, they creep softly up to the house and set fire to
                        it."
                     "Oh, ma! I hope it didn't burn up, did it, with all the little children in
                        it?" exclaimed Chit.
                     "Well, I can see the fire burning for awhile, when the minister wakes up; I
                        can't see what makes him. But it may be that when the men were talking about
                        firing it, one of their little girls heard them, and waited till her pa got
                        back and into bed, so he shouldn't see her. She jumps out of bed, and runs
                        right through the darkness, without
                        being afraid at all,—because she thinks an angel has hold of her hand, and
                        is leading her along,—till she comes to the house and sees the fire. Then
                        she runs right up to the window of the room where the man sleeps, and shouts
                        out at the top of her voice, 'Fire! fire!' The man opens his eyes and sees
                        the fire; jumps right up and puts it out. Then he looks around for the
                        little one who waked him, but he can't find her; because the little girl was
                        afraid they would find out what her pa had done, so she ran home as fast as
                        she could, and jumped into bed again; and no one knew that she had been out
                        of bed at all."
                     "Dat was a weal dood little dirl!" exclaimed Eddie; "and if she tomes here,
                        I dim her a tiss."
                     To Eddie the imaginary little girl was just as good as a real one. Eddie was
                        very much like other folks in that respect.
                     "The next morning," continued Mrs. Rosewell, "the good minister told his
                        children how near they came to being burned out the night before. And he
                        said he thought God must have sent an angel to wake him up. In that day, if
                        there was any good thing done, and they couldn't tell who did it, they
                        always thought it was the angels who did it; but it is my opinion that it is
                        a great deal better for the little girls and boys, and big folks here, to
                        have the fun of doing all the good deeds,—it makes them so happy,—than it
                        were for the angels to come and do it for them. It would be just as bad for
                        the girls and boys here, if the angels should come and do all the good
                        deeds, as it would if they should come and eat all the candy away from
                        them."
                     "Don't they have candy enough in heaven without coming after ours?" said
                        Chit, who had often found comfort when she was refused candy,—because it
                        would rot her teeth, in the thought of having all she could eat in heaven.
                        Mrs. Rosewell didn't try to answer her question.
                     "The next morning the wicked men see the house standing, and they were more
                        angry than ever. They shook their fists at the house, and said, 'Ha! ha! you
                        got saved last night, didn't ye? But we'll fetch ye next time, see if we
                        don't.'
                     "So a little while after they set fire to the house again. There was no one
                        to wake the family up now, and the fire burned on and on, and no one waked
                        up. There, with the fire and smoke all around, just ready to devour them,
                        the little children were sleeping as sweetly as though the angels were
                        rocking their cradle and singing them their sweetest lullabies.
                     "The fire had got into the room where the father and mother and the little
                        baby slept, and——" The clock began to strike eight, and Mrs. Rosewell
                        stopped as sudden as though it had struck out her tongue.
                     "Oh, do tell us, ma, whether they got out of the fire or not!" exclaimed the
                        children.
                     "Not one word more after your bed-time comes," said their mother.
                     They knew it was no use to tease, so they got right up and started for their
                        chamber. Eva sighed, and said:
                     "Oh, dear! if I only knew whether they got out of the fire or not."
                     "And we might have known," said Frank, "if you hadn't kept sticking in your
                        gab all the time. I wish to goodness you had a sticking-plaster on your
                        mouth, and see then if it would keep shut."
                     "It is the old story of 'The woman thou gavest me,' that caused all the
                        mischief," said Mrs. Rosewell to Miss Polly, as the children left the
                        room.
                     "Now, cousin," said Miss Polly, "you needn't try to lay that boy's sins on
                        to Adam's shoulders. He's an awful wicked boy; and if he was my boy, I'd
                        wallop him till he hadn't a bit of skin left on his back."
                     Miss Polly had overheard his remark about the old maid. That was touching
                        her in a very tender spot, and she felt as though it would do her good to
                        see the rascal take a good thrashing. She was too full to stop, so she went
                        on:
                     "I don't know what the world is a-comin' to, when such a boy as he can git
                        into his bed without bein' covered with blood. It wasn't so in my day; and
                        if I don't miss my guess, that boy will come to some awful end."
                     "You certainly will miss your guess if you are guessing evil of my boy,"
                        said the fond mother. "Frank has plenty of faults: so he has plenty of good
                        qualities. It is no use to keep
                        harping at him all the time about his faults; such a course would only force
                        them into unnatural growth. To give so much attention to boy's faults, is
                        like putting the best of the soil around the weeds. He has many manly, noble
                        qualities. I shall devote my time and attention to cultivating these, and
                        the faults will gradually die out for want of sustenance."
                     "You'll see how much his faults has died out, arter he has brought down your
                        gray hairs with sorrer to the grave," said Miss PoHy, as she strode off to
                        her chamber, as straight and stiff as a bean-pole.
                     Mrs. Rosewell smiled to think of herself looking out of her grave to see
                        Frank's faults; and taking up the fat baby to put on his night-dress,
                        exclaimed, "Oh, you little jewel! How would the ownership of such an object
                        as you take the old-maidish conceits out of her!"
                     And Mrs. Rosewell was right about it too. Nature had cut out Miss Polly for
                        one of the happiest of wives and lovingest of mothers. But man's folly and
                        blindness had thwarted the kindly purposes of the good dame, who it is said
                        has made a "Jack" for every "Jill." So the sweet wine of her nature had
                        turned sour by standing; and sour enough it was too, but not quite so bad as
                        most people thought. There was a soft spot in her heart, and that spot had
                        been touched by the sight of that happy home scene. She looked at Mrs.
                        Rosewell, and saw how her face glowed with gratified pride, sweetened and
                        flavored by motherly love and tenderness, as she tried to amuse and instruct
                        her loved ones. And she said to herself, "Surely in the one word 'Mother,'
                        the mystery of woman's being finds its full explanation. God has chosen her
                        to be his helpmeet in forming characters that shall glorify and adorn heaven
                        itself." She contrasted Mrs. Rosewell's life with her own pinched and
                        solitary existence; and she had to leave the room to hide the tears her
                        woman's eyes could not force back.
                     Ah, Miss Polly, you need not have run away to hide those tears. If you had
                        let the children see you cry, they would not again have called you "the
                        dried-up old maid." Your tears would have formed an electric link between
                        you and them, through which their sympathy and love would have warmed and
                        cheered your cold and lonesome heart. As she sat weeping thus alone, the
                        heartless words of Frank came to her ears.
                     The ancients shot their enemies with an arrow on which was a drop of fatal
                        poison. So there are people that fire at their enemies words so charged with
                        poison that all the kindly, pleasure-giving feelings of their hearts are
                        instantly turned to hate and madness. Truly, "the poison of asps is under
                        their tongues." So Frank's words, that he had not thought of her hearing,
                        turned the woman's tears to gall, her kindly impulses to hate and revenge.
                        She bounded up like a stricken deer.
                     "How came I to be an old maid? Did woman ever love more than I? So did he
                        love me as much as man is capable of loving, till that treacherous, pretty
                        face came between us like a snake in the grass and stole him away."
                     Miss Polly ground her teeth and clinched her fists, as though it would be
                        bad for the "snake" if she had hold of her. And yet, such are the
                        contradictions of woman's nature, the pretty woman that had robbed her of
                        her early love, that had so rudely dashed the cup of happiness from her
                        lips, and that had turned the wine of her life to vinegar and gall, had many
                        times been in her power; but she gave to the woman who had robbed her only
                        helpfulness and kindness. People said, "Surely, if there ever was a
                        Christian, Miss Polly is one." They little knew the elements of hate and
                        revenge that were seething and boiling within. But what if her neighbors had
                        seen and known all? Would they have had any right to say she was no
                        Christian? Certain I am, that Christian or no Christian, she went back to
                        that happy group with feelings very like those that Satan had when he used
                        to go visiting Adam and Eve, enjoying their honeymoon together.
                     Her chamber door safely locked, and she alone with herself, who would
                        believe that the dried-up, stiff old maid bowed her head and wept like a
                        maiden over her first love quarrel? But it was even so. It was true she did
                        not know what was the matter with her. But, then, who does know exactly what
                        they are crying about? Can anybody tell which cup of water it is that sets
                        the pail to overflowing? Is it the first you put in or the last?
                     
                     It matters not which, of all the vexations and trials she had to endure, it
                        was that set her crying; it is certain that her cry did her good. She felt
                        better after it. Her tears were like summer showers to withered, dried-up
                        plants: her withered hopes grew green and fresh again under their refreshing
                        influence. And shall we blame the lone woman if she allowed the angel of
                        hope to whisper to her ears of a "coming man," who should be wise enough to
                        prefer her sterling virtues to a "pretty face"? one who should prefer a
                        honey-bee to a butterfly as a helpmeet for life? Was any human being the
                        worse for it if in her dreams that night there were visions of a manly face,
                        sharing her lonely pillow? of a fat baby sucking his toes,—that should owe
                        its life with all its possibilities to her? Or shall we call her a
                        hypocrite, if in her fairy castle there was a mischievous boy like Frank,
                        who should be always breaking up the dull monotony of her life by his wicked
                        pranks?
                     Surely it was the highest wisdom for the poor old maid to turn a deaf ear to
                        the stern logic of facts and the hateful reports of the looking-glass, and
                        listen to the sweet messenger, that spoke of home and love, till the silver
                        twilight of her early hopes faded away before the golden sunshine of the
                        coming day.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  THE LITTLE WATCHMAN.
                  HAD Frank Rosewell been one of the "good little boys" we read of, he would have
                     felt very bad for what he said to his sister about her "gab." He knew that his
                     mother always liked them to talk when she was talking to them. She told them
                     that was the way to learn to express their ideas.
                  But instead of feeling bad over his cruel words to his sister, as a "good
                     little boy" would have done, he never thought of it after she was out of his
                     sight. He no more thought of going to bed without saying his prayers than of
                     jumping into bed without taking his pants off. But he had got so that he could
                     say them as easily as the water in a river can run. There were two currents to
                     his thoughts to-night as he dropped on his knees. This is the way the
                     upper-current run: "Our Father, who art in heaven, hallowed be thy name." And
                     this is the way the under-current run: "Oh, I wish I'd been right in the bushes
                     behind that fellow that was firing that house, and had my gun cocked; I'd a'
                     drawn the trigger just as he put the match up, and bang would a' gone the gun."
                     And "bang" went Frank Rosewell right out in his prayer; just when he ought to
                     have been saying, "Thy will be done on earth, as it is done in heaven." The
                        bang brought him back to his prayer, as the scream a dreaming
                     person often gives wakes him up; and he opened his eyes to see if anybody had
                     seen him shouting while he was praying. He found he was all alone. "Let's see;
                     where was I?" he says to himself. "In heaven? Oh, yes, in heaven; that's the
                     place. Give us this day our daily bread. And forgive us our
                     trespasses——Wouldn't he ha' jumped and squealed like a stuck pig when the shot
                     come into him? "Oh, I'm a dead man! I'm dead! I'm dead!'" And Frank came to
                     himself again to find himself squealing out, as he thought the shot man would
                     have done, "Oh, I'm dead! I'm dead!" just as he ought to have been saying,
                     "Lead us not into temptation but deliver us from evil." His conscience gave him
                     a little prick now; and he began to feel a little ashamed to think of his
                     mixed-up praying. So to stop the pricking, he says to himself, "Well, I'll make
                     it all 'square.' I'll throw this in for nothing, and I'll go over the whole
                     thing again, and won't think of nothing else." So again beginning with "Our
                     Father," he went through it this time till he got out the "amen." But without
                     the excitement of the shooting he got very sleepy; and no sooner had his
                     clothes dropped off, and his head touched the pillow, than he was sound asleep.
                     He was a hearty, full-fed, healthy animal; and the boy that so overflowed with
                     animal spirits that his folks thought they could hardly live with him, lay as
                     quiet as a lamb, with no more thought
                     of mischief than the clothes that covered him.
                  A little while after his mother came round to see that all was right; but she
                     wasn't at all deceived by his quiet face, she knew he was only getting up steam
                     for the morrow. Mrs. Rose well was surprised to find Eva awake. She thought she
                     had got excited with the stories. But instead of that she had been thinking
                     about Frank's cruel taunts to her; and the more she thought about it, the
                     madder she got. There is nothing that grows so fast as an unkind word or act,
                     if you keep looking at it and thinking about it. The growth of Jonah's gourd is
                     nothing to the growth and spreading of such a word. So Frank's words grew and
                     grew on Eva's mind, till at last she went to sleep saying, "He's the meanest
                     boy I ever saw, and I never'll speak to him again. So there, I won't!"
                  The next morning Miss Polly was up bright and early, as was her custom. The
                     morning sun never found her with her night-cap on, no matter how early he
                     looked through her window-curtains. She smiled (a strange, sad smile) as she
                     thought of her foolish fancies of the night. But who don't feel rested by
                     throwing off his burden for a little while, even though he knows he must soon
                     put it on again, as heavy as ever? It certainly feels lighter for awhile after.
                     So the lines on Miss Polly's sharp features did not look quite so deep as usual
                     this morning. She even looked kindly and somewhat hopefully upon Frank that
                     forenoon, as she handed him a doughnut from the pan she was filling. Frank was
                     astonished. He had never got a doughnut out of her before without a "regular
                     scrape," as he said: a scrape in which she always got worsted, and he came out
                     with overflowing pockets, and full mouth, and stuffed stomach; and she with
                     rifled doughnut-pan and temper badly riled up. And now that she offered him a
                     doughnut of her own accord, instead of attributing it to the right cause, he
                     thought she was afraid of him, and threw out the one doughnut to save the rest,
                     as a traveler throws his dinner to the hungry wolf to save himself.
                  "Guess she'll find I ain't so green as to be sucked in by her bait," he
                     muttered to himself, as he went to the back yard, his hands in his pockets, his
                     nose in the air, as though he were looking at the sky instead of looking after
                     Miss Polly's chickens. He crumbled up his doughnut and threw it down to them;
                     and while they were busy picking up the crumbs, he picked one of them up. He
                     held its mouth tight, so it could not make a noise, till he plunged it into the
                     swill-barrel.
                  "There, squawk as loud as you please now," he said to the unhappy chicken. The
                     chicken did "squawk"; and Miss Polly, supposing the chicken had been eating on
                     the edge of the barrel and fallen in, ran to help it out. Meanwhile Frank was
                     running round the house; and no sooner was Miss Polly safely away from the
                     doughnut-pan than he was at it, filling all his pockets, and even his hat; but
                     he made haste to get out of reach before the chicken was taken care of.
                  Miss Polly went back to her kitchen filled with joy at having done a good turn,
                     even to a chicken, when—oh, horror of horrors! She looked into the rifled pan,
                     and at once the whole truth flashed upon her. She knew as well as the reader
                     does now, how her chicken came in the swill-barrel, and what it was put there
                     for. Talk about Job on his ash-heap scraping his boils, and pronounce him the
                     most patient being that ever lived, ye who know nothing of woman's trials.
                     Could Job have stood in that woman's tracks that morning, and witnessed the
                     ravages in that doughnut-pan, with all the aggravating circumstances that
                     attended it, without even opening his mouth to blast with his not breath the
                     day he was born? But Miss Polly stood like "patience on a monument," and took
                     in the whole scene without the movement of a muscle. Not a sound escaped her
                     closed lips. It is high time that the old saying were altered, and instead of
                     saying as "patient as Job," it should be as "patient as a woman." We never read
                     of Satan's trying to get leave to try his skill on a woman. If the boys can't
                     upset their temper, he knows it is useless for him to try his hand on them.
                  Not but that Miss Polly's temper often got upset. But it was always from some
                     lighter temptation than she was called to endure this morning. The stanch woman
                     was like an iron-clad monitor. Cannon-shot and bomb-shells roll off its mailed sides like playthings, but
                     the proud vessel is finally stranded on the reefs made by the little coral
                     insects.
                  Frank couldn't half enjoy his triumph till he had some one to tell it to. So
                     after he thought the storm had blown over, he crept from his hiding-place, and
                     went in search of Eva.
                  "Come behind the barn, sis; I've got something to tell you. It's rich: no
                     mistake. 'Twill make you bust your sides laughing." He opened his hat and let
                     her take a peep at the contents. Eva's eyes brightened at the prospect of such
                     rich fun; but suddenly recollecting her resolution of the previous night,
                     "never to speak to him again," she drew down her face and shut her lips, so
                     that no word should get through them. Frank looked at her a moment, as though
                     he was reading her face, and exclaimed,—
                  "Why, what's in the wind now? Something got cross-ways your gizzard?" Not a
                     word. Lips drawn tighter than ever. "Oh, poutin', are you?" he said, as he saw
                     she wasn't going to talk back. "Guess you'll come to your milk before long."
                     And off he started, his nose in the air, whistling away, as though that would
                     help bring on the "making up" between himself and sister, which yet he
                     desired.
                  Eva often got so vexed with his pranks, that she would declare she would have
                     nothing more to do with him. And when her kind heart triumphed over the bad
                     feelings, and she wanted to make up friends, he called it "coming to her milk,"
                     and it was for this process he was waiting now. To help it along he called Chit
                     and Eddie around him, and got them to eating doughnuts right before her. But
                     Eva "stuck it out," he thought, "stronger than common," for she never offered
                     to come near them, although Chit and Eddie kept calling her.
                  "Tome 'long, sissy," says Eddie, "dit nut tate. Dood tate. Weal dood." But Eva
                     wouldn't go a step.
                  "I sha'n't go an inch," she says to herself, "till Frank calls me. He was a
                     mean boy, he was, to talk to me so last night, and I won't speak to him again
                        till he speaks to me first."
                  She was fast "coming round," as Frank could see by her looks. Her lips weren't
                     near as tight together as they were a little before. It didn't look to Frank as
                     though it would be very hard for a word to squeeze through them now. Then there
                     was a soft, wishful look in her eye as she turned them on the happy group.
                  Frank didn't want to speak first, but he did want to hurry things up; for
                     although Chit and Eddie could appreciate and enjoy the "dood nut tates," they
                     couldn't enjoy and appreciate the way that he got them. So to help the "make
                     up" along, he picked out one of his nicest cakes and held it out to Eva.
                  Poor Eva! It was very hard work for her to keep mad. And her heart was
                     hungering for love, and her mouth was watering for the tempting doughnuts. All
                     these together swept away her angry resolutions, and she took the proffered
                     cake as the Indian takes the pipe of peace.
                  But for some reason she couldn't eat it at first. There was a choking feeling
                     in her throat; and first they knew she began to cry.
                  Frank's heart was really touched by her grief, and he asked as kindly as he
                     could, "Why, Eva, what is the matter with you? I never saw you act
                     so before. I hain't done anything to you; I don't see what you are mad at me
                     for." Here he spoke the truth; for he hadn't thought of his cruel words after
                     they were out of his mouth.
                  "Didn't you say I'd be a dried-up old maid like Aunt Polly? and didn't you say
                     you'd stop my gab with a sticking-plaster?" said Eva, sobbing.
                  Chit's heart was touched by Eva's distress, and she took her part. "You did say
                     so," said the spirited little girl; "and you ought to be ashamed to talk so to
                     your sister, and I won't like you if you don't stop it."
                  Eddie didn't fairly understand the merits of the case, but he felt sure that
                     Frank must have wronged Eva someway, or she wouldn't feel so bad. He had a
                     natural love of justice and right. So he pitched into Frank with all his might,
                     saying, "I lick you; you's a bad boy, hurt sissy, mate sissy try lite dat."
                  Frank had thought himself the injured party. But now he began to think perhaps
                     he was a little to blame. The seeds
                     his mother had watched so patiently and hopefully began to stir a little with
                     life. He wouldn't confess he had done wrong. But he felt, after such a victory
                     over Miss Polly, he could afford to be magnanimous. So he said, in a kindly
                     tone,—
                  "Now you know I was only in fun; I didn't mean anything. What should I want to
                     hurt you for? Didn't I knock that fellow down that was throwing puff-balls at
                     you? Don't I always take up for you?"
                  Eva knew he did. He never would allow any one to plague her but himself, so she
                     cried harder than ever, to think of his goodness to her, and of her injustice
                     to him.
                  "You oughtn't to blame a fellow for what he can't help. The stuff is in me, and
                     I can't help its coming out. You didn't blame Charley for letting the verse out
                     of him when he couldn't help it."
                  Eva was thoroughly convinced "he couldn't help it."
                  So crying harder than ever, to think of his goodness, she said, "I know it. You
                     are one of the best of brothers, and I never will get mad at you again."
                  This was quite a strong promise for her to make under the circumstances; but
                     she fully intended to keep it, as much as she did the promise the night before.
                     So the storm blew over, and left them all happy over their doughnuts, and let
                     us hope they knew a little more of each other's characters than before.
                  Neither Miss Polly nor Frank said anything to Mrs. Rosewell about the
                     chicken-doughnut scrape. But somehow it leaked out; and I am happy to say he
                     got a good scolding, as he richly deserved, for his wicked prank. But, from the
                     merry twinkle in Mrs. Rosewell's eyes, I didn't think she felt half as much as
                     she said. She looked to me like one who felt it her duty to reprove what she
                     felt a great deal more like laughing at. And when Frank went up to the fat baby
                     and offered him one of the stolen doughnuts as a peace-offering, I really
                     thought she would explode with laughter. But she managed to keep in till she
                     got out of his sight.
                  Well! well! If women are foolish enough to laugh over the mischievous capers of
                     their darling boys, I suppose, as Miss Polly says, their gray hairs must lie
                     with sorrow in the grave for it." I suppose Mrs. Rosewell would have tried to
                     excuse herself by saying, "Well, if he only shows as much perseverance and
                     ingenuity in doing good as he shows in his contests with Aunt Polly, he'll come
                     out all right." As though boys ever did, or ever would do, any such thing as
                     that! But Mrs. Rosewell had a theory that the overflowing animal spirit of
                     boyhood, that often spent itself in so much mischief, was the very sap and
                     sweetness of their nature. So when Miss Polly would come to her, scolding about
                     "them awful young ones of hers," she would say, "You might as well scold nature
                     for the sweet sap of the maple-tree, that you Yankees make such delicious sugar
                     from."
                  No wonder, then, that Miss Polly thought it not worth while to go to her this
                     morning with the tale of Frank's pranks. All the consolation she would have got
                     would probably be, "Only a little overflow of sap, Aunt Polly. Do with it as
                     your brother in Vermont does with the sap from his maple-trees. Make it into
                     sugar, to sweeten and flavor your life with. To a woman's heart the winsome
                     frolicsomeness of boyhood is the sweetest wine of life." Such kind of talk as
                     that always touched a chord in the heart of the childless woman, that she did
                     not want touched this morning.
                  The day wore away at last, just as days always do, whether filled with
                     happiness or misery, with fun or dullness, and seven o'clock found them all in
                     their places, Mrs. Rosewell with her magic spectacles on all ready for
                     business. She began where she left off.
                  "The fire burned till the smoke filled the room where the father, mother, and
                     baby were sleeping. The smoke choked them so that the father awoke. He hadn't
                     worked as hard as his wife, so he waked easier. He waked her, and she opened
                     her eyes to see the flames bursting into the room. He tried to get up-stairs to
                     waken the children. The mother caught the baby in her arms and tried to go out;
                     but the flames drove her back every time she tried to go through them; and she
                     began to fear they should all be burned alive. And if she had been frightened
                     about it, as some people would have been, so that she had lost her presence of
                     mind, they probably would have been burned up. But she said, 'If God wills it, I will go to
                     heaven in this chariot of fire, as Elijah did in his. But I'll do what I can to
                     save myself and baby.' So calmly, but very quickly, she wrapped herself and
                     baby in the flannel blanket that was on the bed, and giving herself into the
                     hands of her heavenly Father, she started through the fire, and came out as
                     safely as the Hebrew children from their furnace of fire."
                  "I should think she might," said Chit; "for God was just as strong then as ever
                     he was, wasn't he?"
                  "Safely outside the burning building, she laid the baby on the ground, and
                     sought for the other children. She found them coming down the stairs through
                     the smoke, and just as the last one got off the stairs they fell in and the
                     flames mounted to the roof in an instant.
                  "Oh, how happy they all felt when they thought that all were safe! The baby lay
                     on the ground looking at the fire, and clapping his hands like little boys at a
                     Fourth-of-July firework. The father called his children around him to thank God
                     for their deliverance, when, to their horror and surprise, they saw that one
                     was missing. Their darling John was up-stairs sound asleep, while the flames
                     were roaring and crackling around him, just ready to devour him. By this time a
                     great many people had got there, and they all ran to the stairs, but as you
                     know the stairs were all down, and it was all afire then. Then they ran to the
                     window and shouted as loud as they could. But they couldn't waken him. His
                     mother fell on the ground, and in an agony of soul cried to her Father, and
                     said,—
                  "'Oh, my God! save my boy, and I will give him to Thee to serve Thee by doing
                     good all the rest of his life!'"
                  "Why, ma! why didn't God send an angel to wake him up?" said Chit. "He has got
                     so many of them, they might have come as well as not; just as they did to
                     Daniel in the lions' den."
                  "God has provided plenty of watchmen to wake us up when the fire comes, and to
                     warn us of dangers, that are a great deal better to take care of us than angels
                     would be," said her mother.
                  "Why, ma! where are they? I never see any of them," said Eva, in
                     astonishment.
                  "You never see any of them, do you say?" said Mrs. Rosewell; "and yet they
                     stand so thick together all over your body that you can't touch yourself with
                     the point of a needle without hitting one of them."
                  "How very curious!" said Eva;" do tell us about it."
                  "But tell me first," said her mother, "did you ever think of thanking God
                     because the fire burns you when you go too near it?"
                  "Indeed, I didn't," said Frank. "A fellow must be a fool to be thankful for a
                     burn. I was always mad at it."
                  "Me lites 'e naughty 'tove,—he burn me," said Eddie, swinging his arms to show
                     how he did it. "Me lites, dat naughty fire burn itty boy, too. Me dit chold
                     he."
                  "Just like foolish children that are angry with their best friends and
                     teachers," said Mrs. Rosewell. "If it were not for these little watchmen, or
                     nerves of sensation, that are standing all over our bodies——"
                  "Oh, ma, don't stop to tell us about that!" said the impatient Eva. "Tell us
                     about the little boy in the fire."
                  "You dry up," said Frank; "that's just what we want to hear about."
                  "Well, as I was going to say, if it were not for these little sentinels that
                     warn us when we go too near the fire, by the stinging pain they give us, we
                     might have our fingers burned off, and we should know nothing about it till we
                     wanted to pick up an apple, or some candy, and then we should find our fingers
                     gone; or we might have our feet burned off, and we should know nothing about it
                     till we wanted to walk on them, and then we should find them gone."
                  "And has there ever any such thing happened?" said Chit.
                  "There has," said Mrs. Rosewell. "There was once a traveler that got his feet
                     frozen, so the little watchmen were killed; or, in other words, the nerves of
                     sensation were paralyzed. He came along to a coal-pit, and went on the top of
                     it to get warm. He went to sleep, and in the night the dirt covering of the pit
                     fell in, and let his feet right into the pit. When he awoke, and wanted to go
                        on his journey, he found he had no
                     feet to walk with,—he had to crawl away like a worm. If the watchmen hadn't
                     been frozen, they would soon have waked him up when his feet got into the
                     fire."
                  "Why didn't they wake Johnny up, then," said Chit, "when he got into the
                     fire?"
                  "They did," said Mrs. Rosewell. "When the fire got to his bed the little
                     watchmen felt it,—you see they have neither eyes, nor ears, nor nose, they can
                     only feel,—but when they felt the fire, they set up such a kicking, and
                     twinging, and jerking, as went up to Johnny's head like a message on the
                     telegraph-wire, calling out, 'Fire! fire! Wake up there, sleepy head! wake up!'
                     You may be sure Johnny didn't sleep long with such a racket in his head; but
                     when he awoke the fire was all around him. He jumped up, ran to the stairs, but
                     he saw they were gone. Then he ran to the window, and just as his mother rose
                     from her knees, she looked up and saw her boy at the window. She thanked God
                     that her boy was still alive. 'A ladder! a ladder!' the men cried out; but no
                     ladder was near, and one of the men ran for one.
                  "'Oh, don't wait for a ladder!' said the agonized mother. 'My boy will burn up
                     before they can bring it. Make a ladder of yourselves, and save him.' The
                     hearts of the brave Englishmen melted before the mother's anguish, and standing
                     on each other's shoulders right against the burning building, they made a
                     ladder high enough to reach him. Meanwhile, John was praying to his heavenly
                     Father, saying, 'Oh, Father! save me from this terrible fire, and I will be
                     your boy, and do all the good I can as long as I live.' He let go of the
                     window-sill, fell into the arms of the topmost of the ladder, and was saved.
                     The brave men got badly burned, but they saved a boy that afterwards became one
                     of the best and most useful men that have lived since the days of St.
                     Paul."
                  "Oh, ma! I know who you have been telling us about!" exclaimed Eva. "It is the
                     story of John Wesley."
                  "You are right, my child," said Mrs. Rosewell. "That boy, saved on that fearful
                     night by those brave Englishmen, became the great reformer,—the glorious
                     founder of Methodism."
                  "And was the little Charley that made up that verse about his pants the same
                     Charles Wesley that wrote those beautiful songs and hymns we sing so much?"
                     asked little Chit.
                  "The very same," said her mother. "That verse—"here she gave a sly look at Miss
                     Polly, who, as Frank said, "sat up as stiff as a mackerel," in the corner,
                     knitting—"was only the first dropping of that sap that afterwards distilled
                     such precious wine, that has sweetened and beautified so many lives."
                  Miss Polly maintained a dignified silence; but she seemed to grow a little
                     stiffer, as she thrashed her knitting-needles around, as much as to say she
                     would like to have done with all such nonsense. She declared that such
                     fine-spun theories were all the invention of the arch-enemy, to cheat young
                     ones out of the "lickings" they needed; "but if they was my young ones they'd
                     catch it." This she said to herself, but Mrs. Rosewell could see through her
                     magic spectacles that away down in the farther corner of her heart there was a
                     little chord that kept vibrating with love, and pity, and tenderness for the
                     little darlings, and all her scoldings and thrashings could not make it lie
                     still.
                  Mrs. Rosewell used to say that good Mother Nature put that tender chord in
                     woman's heart to guard and protect her helpless children. But that explanation
                     was hardly fanciful enough to suit Eva; so one day when she saw the stiff, prim
                     Aunt Polly hugging and kissing the fat baby, and the hard lines in her sharp
                     face became so soft, and her face became really beautiful with the light of
                     love shining in it, she ran up-stairs to her room and made up a verse, which
                     pleased her very much. So she ran into the garden, and found Frank, and, with
                     her face all aglow with poetic light, she told him she wanted him to hear what
                     a pretty verse she had made up. Frank was very busy digging angle worms for his
                     fish-hook.
                  "Well, spout it out, if it'll do you any good," said the unpoetic boy.
                  Eva wasn't very well pleased with such an ungracious reception, but she was so anxious to read her
                     verse that she choked down her anger, and began to read: 
                        
                           "When God first came down to the garden of Eden
                           To pay a short visit to Adam and Eve,
                           Poor Eve was so lonesome while God talked to Adam,
                           That God said, 'Tis not good to leave her alone:
                           So I'll give her a baby, that shall coo and shall sing;
                           It shall gladden her heart, make happy her home.
                           Through the bowers of Eden let its melodies ring,
                           Its songs be as sweet as the angels' in heaven.
                           "So, with her heart full of music, 'tis made by the baby,
                           No more will Eve——"
                        
                     
                  
                  "Oh, golly! ain't that rich?" exclaimed Frank.
                  "Which?—the last line?" exclaimed Eva, delighted at her brother's appreciation
                     of her poetry.
                  "That worm! See how fat he is!" exclaimed Frank, pointing to a long worm just
                     squirming at being uncovered.
                  Poor Eva's heart was broken. Tearing her verses to pieces, she stamped them
                     into the ground, and ran away to her room as full of grief and anger as she was
                     of joy and delight when she came.
                  "Oh, you needn't be so touchy about your verses; I didn't say anything against
                     them; but verses don't bait my hook," said Frank.
                  Eva ran to her room, and, throwing herself on the bed, had a good cry over it.
                     And when she had cried away her vexation, she began to feel very sorry that she
                     had torn up her verses; but she thought it no worse for her to get angry with
                     Frank's stupidity than for Moses to get angry at the Israelites for worshiping
                     the calf. After Frank had got all the worms he wanted, and started off fishing,
                     she went back to the garden, and tried to pick up her unfortunate verses; but
                     she could only recover the first lines, which she copied and saved.
                  So, through the dullness of that stupid boy, who was more interested in an
                     angle worm than in the darling offspring of his sister's brain, we shall never
                     know how it fared with grandmother Eve after she had "gotten a man from the
                     Lord."
                  But to return to the story-party. After Frank had kept quiet a few moments to
                     enjoy Miss Polly's vexation at his mother's charitable allusion to boys' pranks
                     in general, he says: "Now, mother, I want you to explain to us how it is that
                     these nerves of sensation work. I don't understand it."
                  "Don't call them by that big, homely name," said Chit; "call them little
                     watchmen, it is so much prettier. I love to think of them, standing as thick as
                     spatter all over us, with their little bells in their mouths, ready to jingle
                     and jingle them every time any danger comes near us."
                  "They are more like watchmen that touch the electric wire and wake up the man
                     at head-quarters," said her mother. "Do you know that the ground of a city is
                     filled with a net-work of electric wires, that start from the head-quarters of
                     the fire department? Then they branch off to every part of the city. You may
                     see the posts with little boxes on them every few steps through the city. Now,
                     when there is a fire breaks out anywhere, the watchman goes to the nearest
                     post, and touches the electric wire, and in a half-instant the alarm-bell
                     sounds at the engine-room, and off the engine starts to put the fire out. You
                     know what a kind of a twinging noise the wire makes when it is giving the
                     alarm. Now it is by exactly the same means that we get the alarm when the fire
                     begins to burn any part of our bodies. A French chemist says our bodies are
                     neither more or less than an electric pile,—a sort of galvanic battery. The
                     head-quarters are in the head. From this there branch out little tiny electric
                     chords, called nerves, that go to every part of the body; to every finger and
                     toe, and even to every little hair in your head. Now, when anything that will
                     injure or hurt us comes near these little sentinels, they give a little
                     twinging jerk of a pain that sends the news right up to head-quarters in a
                     hurry.
                  "Then there is another set of nerves, or electric chords, called motor nerves,
                     or nerves of motion. These carry a dispatch right back from head-quarters to
                     the muscles where the enemy is, saying, 'Out of the way! out of the way there!'
                     And the little muscles begin to jerk, just like india-rubber strings,—you see
                     they are elastic, just like
                     india-rubber,—and jerk the foot or hand, or whatever is in danger, out of the
                     way. These faithful little sentinels never sleep, and they take just as good
                     care of you when you are asleep as though you were awake. Only think how hard
                     it would be for you to have to keep awake all the time to watch yourself, and
                     see that the fire didn't burn off your toes!"
                  Here a sharp scream from the fat baby made them all look around to see what was
                     the matter. He had some time before given up the attempt to make his fat toes
                     lie still in his mouth and be sucked, and had gone to sleep with his feet in
                     the bottom of the cradle, where they belonged. Chit was standing at the foot of
                     the cradle with a pin in her hand.
                  "Why, Chit, what have you been doing? Did you wake up the baby?" asked her
                     mother.
                  "No, ma; I didn't wake up the baby," said Chit.
                  "Dat be's asul bid lie," said Eddie. "I seed her stit e' pin wight in itty
                     foot, so I did."
                  "And so I did stick the pin in his foot," said Chit; "but that wasn't what
                     waked him up. It was the little watchmen making such a fuss. I was trying to
                     see if they did keep awake and watch, as ma said they did when
                     folks are asleep. And they do; for his foot jerked right away."
                  They all, even to Miss Polly, had a good laugh over Chit's scientific
                     experiment. When they got through, her mother told her she needn't try any more
                     experiments with the baby's feet. "But," said she, "we will have Frank bring us
                     in a frog some day, and we will try our experiments with that. The frog's foot
                     is transparent,—that is, you can see through it, and see what is going on
                     inside. This wonderful nerve-structure, or electric-telegraph concern, looks
                     like a little white thread, made up of a number of finer threads twisted
                     together. But when you come to look closer through the microscope, you see that
                     each of these threads is a hollow tube."
                  "What is a tube, ma?" asked Chit.
                  "Pity if you don't know that without asking," said Eva.
                  "I'll show you a tube," said Frank, as he brought his squirt-gun.
                  "You see the tube is hollow," said the mother, "so that the water can flow
                     through it. So these little nerve-tubes are hollow, and through them flows all
                     the knowledge we have of the world or of ourselves. It is through these that
                     the little watchmen send all their news and dispatches to head-quarters up in
                     the brain. And it is through them that we send our orders and dispatches to our
                     hands and feet and legs and tongues, etc. Now you see that when Chit pricked
                     the baby's foot, the little thread that is called the nerve of sensation
                     carried the dispatch from the little watchmen right up to the brain. It said,
                     'Sharp pin! The pin pricks!' The pain was, no doubt, caused by the chemical
                     action of the electric fluid inside these little nerve-canals. Then the brain
                     sent back word to the foot, 'Get out of the way there! Out of the way of that
                     pin!' And all this was done before Chit could get a chance to say boo. Wasn't
                     it, Chit?"
                  "Indeed, it was," said the little experimenter; "just as quick as I touched the
                     pin to his foot it jerked. I don't see how it can be done so quick."
                  "They are very sprightly fellows, these little watchmen are; as any of you can
                     see for yourselves when you get hurt. And now tell me if you don't think these
                     little nerves of sensation are a great deal better to watch and take care of
                     our bodies than angels would be."
                  "I am sure they are, ma," said Chit; "for I don't believe an angel could a'
                     told the baby I was pricking him half as quick as they did."
                  They all voted that the watchmen with their telegraph-wires were much more
                     efficient guards than angels could be expected to be. But they didn't seem to
                     think of the pain these faithful servants often caused them.
                  "But, ma, you said that each of our hairs had a little watchman at the end of
                     it. I don't see what's the use of that," said Chit. "It is no matter if we do
                     lose a hair."
                  "But ain't these beautiful curls that my little girl feels so proud of," said
                     her mother, holding them up, and looking as though she was as proud of them as
                     their owner, "all made up of little hairs? It wouldn't matter much if you
                     should lose one hair; but if you should keep on losing one, and one, and one,
                     the time would soon come that your
                     curls would all be gone, and my little girl would be as bald-headed as Elisha.
                     So it is that our Father has numbered every hair on our heads, and set a
                     watchman to guard and protect each one."
                  Then they had a grand time pulling at their hairs, to see if they couldn't find
                     one without a watchman to make a fuss about it if it was pulled. If any of my
                     readers think they have a single hair without a nerve to take care of it, and
                     give a little jerk if it is pulled on, let them try and find it for
                     themselves.
                  Then they fell to pricking themselves, to see how long it would take for the
                     watchman to send the news. They tried to see if they couldn't find a place as
                     large as the point of a needle in between the watchmen, so they shouldn't know
                     anything about it if that place was pricked. In the midst of their fun and
                     frolic, the old clock began to strike eight, and they had to pop off to bed as
                     suddenly as though they had been rubber-jacks with a boy jerking the string,
                     instead of little philosophers studying into the great mysteries of life.
                  "There!" said Mrs. Rosewell to Miss Polly, with an air of triumph, as their
                     bright faces left the room; "didn't I always tell you children could be
                     interested in scientific subjects if they were put into every-day clothes,
                     instead of the stiff Latin dress of the schools?"
                  Aunt Polly's laugh seemed to have relaxed her a little, so she answered quite
                     graciously: "Well, it may be these new-fangled notions are all right; but
                     'tain't the way I got my larnin'. What book larnin' I got come by the hardest;
                     I didn't have any one to grease it and slip it into me, as you do into your
                     young ones."
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  EXPERIMENTING.
                  THE next day Chit was in a fever of impatience to know more about the little
                     watchmen that kept such strict watch over her body. She did not see how they
                     could stand it without ever going to sleep. She thought they must be awful
                     sleepy. She even thought she should be willing to keep watch herself, when she
                     was awake, and let them rest and sleep. Her little brain was crammed full of
                     questions she wanted to ask her mother. But since Miss Polly had been there
                     everything about the house was as regular as clock-work; and she knew that it
                     was no use to ask any such questions that time of day. So she was left to her
                     own resources. The more she thought of it, the more certain she was that she
                        must see how they gave the alarm when anything hurt. She
                     thought she would burn herself, and keep watch and see how they acted when the
                     fire touched them. But finally she thought it would be a better policy to have
                     Eddie try the experiment, and she would keep watch. Her ma had only told her
                     not to try any more experiments on the baby, so she began to sound Eddie by
                     saying, "Eddie, you dasn't put your finger on that stove; but I
                     dare do it." She knew the surest way to get Eddie to do a thing was to tell him
                     he dasn't. But he was too much for her this time, so he said:
                  "Me jon't want to. Me dot wun big wace. Mate my hossy beat."
                  "Oh, there's no fun in that race; they are only wooden horses," said Chit. "If
                     you stick your finger on the stove, you'd see how much quicker the little
                     watchmen would run to tell the news than those horses can go. It's fun to see
                     them, they go so fast."
                  "Me don't tare for itty watchmen," said the wise boy, who had no idea of
                     sacrificing his fingers to Chit's thirst for knowledge. He straddled his horse,
                     and tried, by his vigorous thrashing
                     of it, to show Chit that he wasn't afraid to do anything.
                  It wasn't long before Chit's curiosity overcame her fear of the fire. She was a
                     true daughter of Eve, and she must taste of the tree of knowledge, cost what it
                     might. She thought she would just put the tip of her finger on: that couldn't
                     hurt much. So she cautiously reached out her hand and touched her finger to the
                     hot stove. Oh, but didn't she jerk it back quick? She had no chance to see how
                     the alarm was given: it was done so quick. She couldn't help crying with the
                     pain at first. But then she happened to think it must be wicked to cry, when
                     the little servants had been so good as to save her hand and not let it burn
                     up, as the man's feet did in the coal-pit. So she forced her tears back like a
                     brave little girl as she was, and set her wits to work to find out some safer
                     way of getting knowledge.
                  When her father came in she went and seated herself on his lap, and put her
                     arms around his neck in such a coaxing way that he knew some great favor was to
                     be sought.
                  "Well, well, what's in the wind now?" said her father, stroking her glossy
                     curls. "Has Peggy Ann lost her nose, and have I got to buy a new one? or has
                     the sawdust all fled away, and must I fill it up? or is it a new dress, or new
                     feather, for Pegg Ann's mother, that is wanted?" he continued, as he saw by the
                     expression of her face there was something more important in the wind than a
                     new nose or sawdust for the doll.
                  "No, pa, I've got above caring for such things," said the young lady, with a
                     very important air. "I think it is a great deal nicer to study about myself
                     than to be playing with a doll."
                  Mr. Rosewell was as much surprised as though a kitten should turn into a
                     motherly cat right before his eyes. "And has my little frisky, curly-headed
                     Chit turned into a philosopher so soon?" asked the amused father.
                  "You don't understand me, pa," said the young lady, with an increased show of
                     dignity. "Maybe you did once; but you don't now. I have been your plaything
                     long enough; I am going to be a woman now. I want you to take me to the
                     telegraph-office."
                  "To the telegraph-office!" exclaimed Mr. Rosewell, more surprised than before.
                     "Why, what on earth can you be wanting at that place?"
                  "I want to study the subject of electricity," said the young lady. "Ma says
                     that we have got something in us like the telegraph-wires, that shows our hands
                     and feet what we want them to do, and our tongues what we want them to say.
                     And, pa, I want to go and study into it. I like it a great deal better than the
                     doll that hain't got any such nice thing about it."
                  "I see you are getting to be a very wise little lady; and if your mother don't
                     stop telling you so many stories, I expect the baby will be jumping out of his
                     cradle and asking for a telegraph to ride to the moon on," said the fond
                     father, who really felt distressed to see his pet play-thing turning into a
                     woman. "But I suppose," he continued, "that you must have your way about it.
                     And the next time I go to the city I will take you along, and you shall see the
                     telegraph all you want to."
                  Chit thanked him very politely, and was going to give him a kiss. But then she
                     thought that would be most too "babyish."
                  Frank felt as great an interest as his sister in the subject of the nervous
                     structure of the body. But he preferred to get his knowledge at the expense of
                     others rather than his own fingers. So filling his pockets with stones, he
                     started off to hunt for a frog.
                  "Golly, ain't that rich? It's a regular bull-paddy!" he exclaimed, as he found
                     a large frog. He stoned the poor frog till it got so helpless that he could do
                     as he pleased with it, when off he started with his prize, feeling as proud as
                     David after he had slain the giant. When he got home with it, he found that he
                     needed a microscope to see through, if he would find all the wonderful things
                     his mother said were there. But how should he get the microscope? To understand
                     what his chances were, it is necessary for us to know something about their
                     circumstances. And I am sure my readers would like to know something more of
                     the family we are visiting, and with whom we hope to have a good time
                     together.
                  Mr. Rosewell and his wife were Yankees from the New England States. He was a farmer, and after his
                     marriage he sold his rocky farm in New England and emigrated to the rich and
                     fertile fields of the Southwest. He settled in the State of Missouri, a land
                     flowing with milk and honey. At the time we write of it was a slave State. And
                     the blight of the system mildewed everything around it. Mr. Rosewell's people
                     were abolitionists of the New England stripe. They would have nothing to do
                     with slavery. They would neither hire nor buy a slave, if they had to do all
                     the work themselves. A busy, industrious Yankee family, set down in the midst
                     of the idle, thriftless Southerners of that day, was like putting a hive of
                     honey bees in a den of crickets. The crickets don't want to do anything but
                     sing, and the bees want to keep making honey. So the Rosewell children were
                     taught to work when they were small bees. "It is so much better," their mother
                     used to say to them, "to go out and gather honey for yourselves, than to have
                     some one else get it and put it in your mouth for you. You might just as well
                     ask some one to eat honey for you as to gather it. It is half the fun to gather
                     it."
                  So Frank knew that if he should ask his mother for a microscope, she would say,
                     "Get it yourself, my son. That will sharpen your eyes to see through it."
                  The reader has doubtless seen that such a course developed a certain
                     independence and feeling of self-consequence that was hardly justified by his
                     attainments. A boy that is set to do his own thinking at an early age, and has
                     to learn to depend on himself, is very apt to think that little
                        self of much more consequence than it really is; but when he
                     gets into the world, among his fellows, they soon prick the bubble of his
                     self-conceit, and he collapses like a pricked puff-ball to his proper size.
                     Mrs. Rosewell thought the advantages of training children thus, to think and do
                     for themselves, much more than over-balanced all the evils that necessarily
                     grow out of the early development of a child's independence. Every person that
                     becomes possessed of a positive self-controlling power must acquire it at the
                     expense of struggles, much pain and many failures, before their final victory.
                     It is the duty of parents to help their children over those pitfalls of
                     inexperience.
                  While Frank was studying how to get some money to buy the coveted microscope,
                     one morning a boy about his own age, the son of a planter that lived near by,
                     came galloping along on a spirited horse, calling out, as he tried to check the
                     speed of the fiery animal,—
                  "Hallo, Frank! What are you digging at there? Get on to your horse, and come
                     along with me. We are in for fun to-day. Old Jones's nigger has run away, and
                     the old miser says he'll give five dollars to any one that'll help catch him.
                     We've got lots o' dogs all fixed, and it's right smart fun."
                  Frank's eyes brightened. The handsome, spirited boy, full of life and vitality,
                     his cheeks flushed with rapid riding, was really a noble sight. For manly
                     courage, skillful horsemanship, and bold, daring adventures, you may put the
                     son of a Southwestern planter at the head of all boys in creation. Frank was so
                     delighted with the proud, noble-looking boy and the noble steed, that he never
                     gave a thought to the mean work he was doing. At any other time he would have
                     said, "Help catch a nigger! Guess when you catch Frank Rosewell catching
                     niggers you'll catch a weasel asleep." But the better nature of the boy was
                     asleep, and he said at once, "I'll go."
                  "Well, hurry up your cakes," said the spirited boy. "Send your nigger after
                     your horse, and I'll wait for you."
                  This last remark brought Frank to himself a little, and he drew himself up and
                     replied, proudly, "You know my father don't keep slaves. I hain't got any
                     nigger."
                  "Oh, I didn't think. But send your Dutchman after it, and I'll ride up and see
                     Eva while you're getting ready."
                  Frank began to feel ashamed of himself as he started off for his horse, to
                     think where he was going; but then he had promised, and he must keep his word.
                     Then he thought of what his mother would say; but he muttered to himself, "If
                     I've got to get my own things, I've got to get 'em as I can. I ain't going to
                     work like a nigger for money. I don't hunt the nigger for fun, as Tom Price
                     does: I go for money. And it's nobody's business how I get it."
                  Frank had a fine horse that he was very proud of, and he always took a great deal of pride in taking
                     care of it himself. But somehow, this morning, as he saw the planter's son
                     riding off, followed by his nigger, he began to feel as though it was beneath
                     him to take care of his own horse. He was out of temper, and his horse seemed
                     to catch the ill feelings of his master, and instead of being gentle and
                     docile, as he generally was, he was cross and fractious. Frank gave the horse a
                     kick, and the horse kicked back; and Frank got the worst of it, for he was
                     really hurt; so that when he rode up to the house for Tom Price, he was really
                     out of sorts, mad at himself and everybody else. When he came to where Tom and
                     Eva were having a little chat, Eva asked him:
                  "Where are you going, Frank? Mayn't I go with you?"
                  He answered, "None of your business where I am going. And I don't have girls
                     tagging after me, either."
                  Eva's lip quivered with grief and anger. She tried to force the tears back that
                     rushed to her eyes, but they wouldn't stay back; and Tom looked into her face
                     and saw she was crying.
                  "What's the matter, Eva?" he asked. "Are you crying for what Frank said? If you
                     are, I'll shoot him when I get him into the woods."
                  Tom was a chivalrous, tender-hearted boy as ever offered himself to protect a
                     girl. And he loved Eva Rosewell with all the passionate love of boyhood, and it
                     seemed to him that a boy who would make her cry was none too good to be shot.
                     Eva was frightened. She knew the Southerners thought very little of shooting
                     any one that offended them; and many were the men shot in those days with no
                     inquiry into the cause of the murder., or guilt of the murderer.
                  "Oh, dear, no," she replied to her protector, "it wasn't for what Frank said I
                     was crying. He was only in fun. He is one of the best of brothers, and if you
                     hurt him you will hurt me. I can't like anyone that don't like my brother."
                  "Then I'll like him," said the boy; "but he mustn't make you cry. I'd a heap
                     rather he'd talk saucy to me. I am going to take care o' you, and if anybody
                     makes you cry, I'll shoot 'em! I've got a new revolver here, in my pocket,
                     that'll show 'em what's what."
                  The handsome boy looked every inch a man, as he offered his protection to the
                     trembling girl before him.
                  Eva's feelings were terribly mixed. She was always scared out of her wits at
                     the sight of a gun, and she trembled with fright to hear him talk of shooting
                     her brother. But then the beautiful boy had struck another chord in her heart,
                     and, ah! what sweet music it made! To have such a nice boy care so much for her
                     that he wouldn't let any one teaze her any more! It is so sweet even for a girl
                     to be loved and taken care of. Never in her life was Eva to know a more
                     delicious thrill of joy than when she stood before the handsome boy, trembling
                     at the thought of his pistol. But she had learned to think of others before
                     herself, and even now she thought more of Frank's safety than she did of
                     herself; and the blush of girlish joy left her cheek as sisterly love took its
                     place; and looking up, her eyes sparkling through happy tears, she said,—
                  "But promise me you will never hurt Frank, but will always be his friend. I
                     shall feel safe then."
                  "'Pon my word and honor I never will hurt him if you say so. But other boys
                     must look out," said Tom.
                  Meanwhile Frank rode up to the house and told Chit to tell his mother to come
                     to the door. He says, "Mother, I am going out to hunt with Tom Price, and you
                     needn't look for me to dinner."
                  "What are you going after?" asked his mother.
                  Frank colored up and stammered out, "Oh, we'll find game enough."
                  "As you don't seem willing to give me your confidence, I won't ask it. I know I
                     can trust my boy, so go and enjoy yourself as best you can. But be sure and be
                     home before dark." Mrs. Rosewell couldn't have said anything half so cutting to
                     Frank just now as "I know I can trust my boy."
                  The first thought was, he was the meanest boy in the world to deceive such a
                     mother. He thought he would go right to Tom and tell him he would have nothing
                     to do with his mean slave hunt. But then he thought the proud, brave boy would call him a
                        coward. And he could stand anything better than that. So he
                     says to himself, "I'll go; but better than that. So he says to himself, "I'll
                     go; but darned a thing will I have to do with catching the nigger! I wouldn't
                     go a step if I hadn't said I would."
                  The two boys rode off together, Tom followed by the ever-present Sambo. Eva
                     stood and watched them out of sight, then she ran to her chamber to hide
                     herself, lest her face should tell her secret. It was the first thing she ever
                     wanted to hide from her mother. She did not know what to make of herself. She
                     really could not tell whether she wanted to laugh or cry, she could not tell
                     whether she was happy or miserable.
                  "I don't see what ails me," she said to herself, as she felt herself floating
                     on a sea of new and strange feelings that kept tossing her up and down like a
                     ship in a storm.
                  "Don't know what ails me," she said.
                  Well, we must tell the girl what ails her. The highest chord in her heart has
                     been touched. No hand ever before reached the octave of her heart. The hand
                     that touched it was strong and gentle, cruel and brave, manly and brutish. Her
                     feelings answered to the touch in harmony and discord. Oh, Eva! many, many
                     weary years must pass away before you know whether it is best to laugh or cry
                     over the throbbings of the love-chord in your heart,—before you can tell
                     whether it has given you more of joy or pain.
                  While Eva was alone, trying to solve the riddle of her new-born feelings, her
                     mother was alone, trying equally hard to solve the perplexing riddle of
                     boy-training. She felt a terrible anxiety and depression of spirits she could
                     not account for. Always before, Aunt Polly's taunts had bounded off the strong
                     armor of a mother's faith like cannon-balls from an ironside, but this morning
                     they made a dent in her heart. As Frank rode off she said, "You can trust him,
                     can you? I wouldn't trust him as far as I would a dog with my dinner." She
                     certainly hadn't much reason to trust him with her doughnuts.
                  It was the first time Mrs. Rosewell had felt the deep, motherly anxiety that
                     comes from a fear of failure in bringing up a darling son. "What if Aunt Polly
                     is right, and I trust too much to the power of the growing good to overcome the
                     evil of the boy's nature? This certainly seemed to be Nature's method; but
                     didn't the gardener often have to make free use of the pruning-knife to bring
                     forth good fruit? And hadn't she been too much afraid of causing pain to her
                     darling boy, to give him the correction he really needed?" She knew the early
                     Yankees trained their children on a very different principle from hers. And
                     they succeeded in developing as noble a race of men and women as ever glorified
                     humanity. "But considering their one-sided character, the many that were lost,
                     the impossibility of carrying out their ideas outside of New England, had she
                     any right to copy after them?" Then she thought of the many noble traits of
                     character the Southern plan of leaving boys to themselves developed. She
                     thought of Tom Price, with his noble, manly bearing, his self-confidence, his
                     frank truthfulness, his scorn of little meanness, his fearless bravery, his
                     keen sense of honor, his boyish enthusiasm; and she knew that all these came
                     from the unchecked development of his own nature. His was the growth of the
                     noble oak in the wild, free forest, as compared to the pruned shade-tree of the
                     garden.
                  "Oh that I could hold the reins of government, so as to leave unchecked the
                     growth of all his natural faculties, and at the same time guide them in the
                     ways of piety and right doing! What might we not expect of Tom Price if all his
                     noble qualities were under the control of sound moral principle? How can I
                     manage my boy so as to secure to him the benefits of both systems of education,
                     and save him from the errors of both?"
                  Surely the fond mother was seeking a great deal more in behalf of her boy than
                     Nature has ever been able to do for her children. She never has been able to
                     produce the strong, tough, iron frame of the North under the sunny skies of the
                     South. Nor can Nature alone produce the rich, blooming fruits of the tropics in
                     the cold regions of the North. But with men and glass houses to help her,
                     Nature has shown us some of the richest fruits of the South in the snow-bound
                     gardens of the North.
                  Mrs. Rosewell was determined to attempt the same thing in behalf of her
                     children. She would interfere as
                     little as possible with Nature's work, and limit her effort to providing
                     artificial protection to the growing plants. Those that have sat most patiently
                     at the footstool of Nature, and studied her secrets, are the most willing to
                     trust her. "If I succeed, it will be a stimulation and help to others; if I
                     fail, it will be a warning," she said. So with firmer trust and stronger
                     purposes to do her whole duty to her children, and trust the result in the
                     hands of the children's Father, she again took up the burden of motherly
                     watch-care and protection. But underneath the smooth, calm surface of her
                     convictions and faith, there was an under-current of fear and anxiety she had
                     never felt before. To her it was a long and weary day.
                  After the tumult of Eva's new-born feelings had subsided, the conviction
                     flashed upon her that she had told a lie. It was the first time she had been
                     betrayed into telling an untruth. She had feigned indifference to her brother's
                     remarks, with no more thought of the consequence than has the opossum when he
                     rolls over and pretends to be dead at the slightest touch of his enemy. And now
                     she was puzzled to know whether she ought to consider herself a liar, and
                     confess and seek forgiveness, or whether she had done only what she ought in
                     trying to protect her brother. These conflicting thoughts seemed to involve her
                     mind in a hopeless snarl.
                  Meanwhile the boys were enjoying themselves finely. It seems to be fate for men
                     to ride off and enjoy themselves, while the women stay at home and suffer on
                     their account. When they first started off together, hoping to find something
                     in the conduct of the nigger to justify himself, Frank said to Tom,—
                  "What made the nigger run away?"
                  "He thought he'd got a heap too good to be licked, so old Jones had him
                     walloped to show him he was nothing but a nigger, after all. And so he got mad
                     and cut for the swamps. He'll git a taste of dog's tooth before he's many hours
                     older, I'm thinking. Serve him right, too. A nigger's no business readin' the
                     Bible."
                  Frank thought there wasn't much prospect of finding anything to ease his
                     conscience in this direction. So he gave himself up to the excitement of the
                     chase.
                  It was glorious fun, bounding over the fields, through the woods, and across
                     creeks. They had few bridges in that place, and fewer roads, and they had to go
                     mostly by the guide of marked trees. There was enough of danger to give flavor
                     and zest to their adventure; and the boys chatted and rode along, as hour after
                     hour passed away, as gayly as though they were hunting a squirrel instead of a
                     man.
                  In other parts of the woods might be seen men ferocious as wild beasts. They
                     were a species found only in slave States, the outgrowth of a system that
                     degrades labor and leaves the native white American no resource but to steal
                     and hunt niggers. The first question they asked on going into a grocery was,
                     "What's the price o' whisky?" The next, "What's the price o' coffee?" The
                     thickest covering their bones had was the skin that was drawn over them like
                     the hide of a rhinoceros. They were as sapless as the "withered fig-tree."
                     Mosquitoes and gnats took all the blood that came to the surface, leaving only
                     enough to keep the internal organs in feeble motion. A traveler once said that
                     he had seen the serfs of Russia, the peasants of Europe, in all their
                     degradation, but whenever he met one of the poor whites of the South, he felt
                     that he had come in contact with one on whom misfortune had done its utmost. It
                     was with such specimens of men as these that the two boys, the one the flower
                     of Southern chivalry, the other the best fruit of New England Puritanism, were
                     hunting niggers. Nothing could show the practical effects of slavery more
                     plainly than this. Not that the boys took the men they were hunting with for
                     companions, they were no more to them than the dogs that were smelling after
                     the nigger's tracks.
                  About noon the boys began to get very hungry. Their rapid horse-back riding had
                     jolted down their breakfast, and their stomachs were quite empty. They thought
                     the next cabin they came to they would stop and see about dinner. They had got
                     away from the plantations, and they could find nothing but the cabins of the
                     poor white trash. Frank knew nothing of the "trash," and he wanted to stop.
                     They came to a low hut with a small chimney on one end. It was made of sticks
                     laid crosswise wise and daubed with
                     mud. The roof was made of the bark of trees, also daubed with mud. The wide
                     cracks between the logs were filled in with mud. A half-dozen half-starved,
                     half-clad, little animals were digging in the dirt around the door. When Sambo
                     saw the boys were about to dismount, he tried to stop them.
                  "Dat no place for gemmen, massa. Nothin' but white trash. Nothin' to eat
                     thar."
                  "Well, did you bring along a lunch?" asked Tom.
                  "Ha, ha!" said Sambo, grinning and showing his teeth. "Dis nigger no leab de
                     bacon. Here's whar you'll find yer hoe-cake," he said, pointing to a bag of
                     provision that was across the horse in front of him. The hoe-cake and bacon was
                     in one end of the bag, and the other end had "rocks" (as the Southerners call
                     every kind of a stone) to balance it.
                  But Frank was determined to see the inside of the cabin. So he said,—
                  "Well, we'll go in and get a dish for some water."
                  The children ran to hide themselves like wild rabbits, when they saw the boys
                     getting off their horses. They went in and saw a tall yellow being,—the remains
                     of the mosquitoes' feast of the night before. They had had such a feast that
                     she looked as though you couldn't draw blood on her with a hatchet. Her mouth
                     and teeth were colored with snuff, her hair a mat of tangles. Her body was
                     hardly half covered with a blue cotton patch of rags; it was innocent of soap
                     and water. But, in all her degradation, she had the true Southern instinct of
                     hospitality. She received her visitors with a graceful bow and courteous grace,
                     that showed she had been used to better things. She brushed around and tried to
                     get some stools to offer her guests.
                  "I've got right smart of cheers," she said, not willing to have the boys think
                     she had no chairs, "but the chilern have toted 'em off to pack wood on." If you
                     carry anything in the South you "tote" it.
                  Frank inquired if they could get water there.
                  "Dunno," said the woman, "I've got right smart o' buckets, but the chilern has
                     toted 'em off to pack water in. But I've got a jug 't 'll hold water," she
                     said, producing ducing the jug that answered the double purpose of whisky-jug
                     and water-pail. Tom looked upon the poor woman with proud contempt. He little
                     thought the woman's poverty was only the shadow cast by his own luxurious
                     home.
                  But to Frank the sight of that cabin and its wretched inmates was a revelation.
                     To see human beings brought so low stirred his New England blood as the smell
                     of fresh blood stirs the tame lion. As he stood in that wretched hovel he was
                     transformed from a thoughtless boy into a fiery abolitionist. In his heart he
                     vowed an eternal hatred of slavery.
                  The family had eaten nothing but roots and bark, with some black coffee, since
                     the day before. Black coffee is made by grinding the berry fine and then
                     drinking the whole thing, grounds and all. But the proud American woman would
                     have starved rather than beg. Her husband was off hunting the same nigger the
                     boys were after, and she expected that when he was caught her husband would
                     bring home some corn-meal and bacon. But the poor children thought more of
                     their stomachs than their pride; and when the boys, followed by Sambo with his
                     load of corn-cake and bacon, started off one side to get their dinners, the
                     whole pack followed like hungry wolves in search of food. Afraid to come close
                     up, as Sambo had told them to keep off or his master would shoot them, they
                     stood at a little distance, looking as though they could swallow all the boys
                     had and the boys too. Tom contemptuously tossed the bone of a chicken's leg
                     that he had picked over to them. They grabbed and snatched for it like so many
                     starved dogs. Their bony fingers clinched it, and they tried to grind it with
                     their teeth, as though it were meat instead of bone.
                  Sambo began to tremble for his and the dogs' share. So he said, "Please, massa,
                     don't throw away de bones on dat trash. The dogs must have 'em. 'Dem ain't
                     worth de notice of gemmen." As he said this, he gave a sly "sie" to the dog,
                     and the dog, trained to hunt human beings, pitched into the children to fight
                     for the bone. The savage animal tore the skin—there was no flesh to tear—from
                     their bones. The children screamed with pain and fright, and tried to run home, but the dog
                     held them fast. Frank was really a brave boy, and this was too much for him to
                     stand and see. Seizing a club, he dealt the dog a blow across the back that
                     made him release his grip on the children and howl with pain. And then he gave
                     the dog another blow, when Tom pitched into him.
                  "Rascal! What do you mean, killing my dog?" said the passionate boy. "Touch him
                     again, and I'll shoot you!"
                  "I wasn't killing your dog," said Frank; "and I don't mean to see him kill the
                     children, either. So fire away, if it'll do you any good."
                  Tom had his hand on his pistol in a moment, from force of habit; and Sambo,
                     scared almost out of his wits, was wringing his hands, and crying out, "Oh,
                     Lord de massy! what has I done! what has I done!"
                  When Frank saw that Tom was really getting out his pistol, he gave him a rap
                     with the same club he had hit the dog with, which sent him reeling to the
                     ground. Then he jumped on him and began to thrash him.
                  "I'll teach you to talk of shooting me," said he, grinding his teeth, and
                     striking his fists into the handsome face, which was anything but handsome now.
                     The Southerner was no match for the Yankee when it came to a question of
                     physical strength, and Tom got a sound thrashing. Then Frank wrested the pistol
                     from him, and throwing it off in the direction the dog had gone, exclaimed,
                     "There, go to the dog with yourself and pistol, and when you get me into such a
                     mean scrape as this again, you'll know it, I'm thinking."
                  Tom began to feel a real respect for the boy that had given him such a good
                     thrashing. He had never seen Frank "show fight" before, and he had thought him
                     a coward. But now he altered his mind. He thought, when he first got up, he
                     would run after his pistol, and have a shot at the boy that had given him such
                     a licking. But whether it was because of his promise to Eva, or a fear of
                     Frank's club, the second thought was that he wouldn't do it. He thought that he
                     had better make friends with him. So when Frank started for his horse to go
                     back home, he tried to coax him back.
                  "What! you ain't going to leave a fellow this way, are you? Come back and
                     finish your dinner, and we'll have fun yet."
                  But Frank had had enough of such fun. He was heartily sick and ashamed of the
                     whole performance, and was glad of an excuse to get out of it. So, without
                     saying a word, he mounted his horse and started for home. Tom went and hunted
                     up his pistol, and fired it off in the air, to convince himself and Sambo that
                     he was not afraid to fire it; then ordering Sambo to reload it,
                     sat down to finish his dinner, in a very unpleasant state of mind. Sambo,
                     wishing to soothe his master's troubled spirits, said:
                  "Dem ar Yanks may be good nuff in deir place, but dey no fit 'panyans for
                     gemmen. All dey's fit for is to drive de niggahs and take care de plantation
                     for gemmen. Dey's nohow fit to lib wid'm."
                  The only answer that Tom made to the darky's efforts at consolation was to give
                     him a cut across the mouth with his horsewhip. He found this a safer way of
                     showing his courage than trying his temper on Frank Rosewell. Meanwhile Frank
                     was riding towards home in a very disagreeable state of mind. He had paid
                     dearly for all the fun he had got out of the slave-hunt. He was hungry and
                     cross; mad at himself and everybody else. He was hardly the same joyous,
                     thoughtless, fun-seeking boy that rode so gayly over that same road a few hours
                     before. It takes but a small stone to turn the course of a river at its
                     beginning, and so small a thing as Frank's adventure often turns the current of
                     feeling and changes the whole character.
                  While the boys had been off by themselves, as we have described them, the men
                     in other parts of the woods had been earnestly seeking the fugitive. The one
                     that should catch him was to have an extra reward. So each one was trying his
                     best. But the slave had so cunningly contrived to throw the dogs off the trail
                     that for a long time it was impossible to follow his track. At last one of the
                     hunters in passing a large log found it very difficult to get his horse to jump
                     it. The horse would start back as though there was something he was afraid of.
                     Finally the hunter's whip made him
                     jump it. The hunter little thought how near he was to his coveted prize. The
                     hunter was the father of the family to which our readers have already been
                     introduced. If he had found him, it would have been meal and bacon for his
                     starving wife and children, and, what he coveted most, for himself whisky and
                     tobacco. To the one that brought all these to him he would have brought
                     floggings, raw flesh washed in brine, a degrading slavery worse than death
                     itself. So terribly are things mixed up in this world, that the joy of one is
                     the agony of another. And time is too short to unravel the tangled web, and let
                     each take the place he can occupy without upsetting or working any ill to his
                     neighbor. Verily, there must be such a place for each, but the days of man here
                     are too short to allow him to mold himself squarely into his proper niche.
                  While the hunter was riding along, his heart full of bitterness and cursing, on
                     account of his failure, his brother man was giving vent to his thankfulness for
                     the same cause in the impassioned eloquence of the negro.
                  "Tank de Lord! He hab heared me. He hab gib me de desire ob my poor heart, if
                     it black. He hear de cry ob de black heart well as de white one. Glory!
                     Hallelujah! A-a-me-n. He lub all de saints, de black as well as de white, de
                     bond as well as de free. Glory be to his name! He delibers his people. He turns
                     de slave-hunter way from de track ob de darky. De darky lays by de log; de
                     horse jumps at him; but de Lord turn de eyes ob de hunter anudder way; and he
                     know notin' ob what dar. Two tousand dollar niggah lay under de leaves, and he
                     tink it notin' but de log. Bless de Lord, oh my soul!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE LONG DAY.
                  AS the Rosewell family sat down to dinner on the day spoken of in the last
                     chapter, the empty place of their oldest son had never seemed so terribly
                     vacant before. He had often been away at meal-time, but never had his absence
                     filled the hearts of those that loved him with such undefined dread and gloom.
                     Mrs. Rosewell thought she was merely nervous, and her fidgets had made Eva
                     gloomy. So she exerted herself to throw off her sad feelings and impressions,
                     and try to make things pleasant as usual. But this was not easy to do. At
                     length Frank's empty seat was filled by one of the neighboring planters. Mr.
                     Rosewell had been surprised by such a friendly visit and greeting from him, as
                     they had been on very unfriendly terms; the one being what was called a strong
                     freesoil man, and the other strongly pro-slavery. They soon found out what had
                     dictated the friendly visit.
                  "They're havin' right smart of a chase after Jones's nigger. I think he'll
                     catch it this time. It's the second time he's tried to run away. If he catches
                     him, he might sell him for two or three thousand dollars, good field-hands are
                     gettin' so mighty scarce in the South. But the old fellow is so mad, I'm feared
                     he'll have him licked till he kills him. It's too bad, when niggers is got so
                     scarce."
                  "What was the cause of the slave's running away?" asked Mr. Rosewell.
                  "Why, he'd been to one o' them ar Methodist camp-meetings, and got religion.
                     He'd had it before, but he got what they call sanctified then, and
                     he wanted to turn preacher. So old Jones let him preach; coz he thinks it's
                     better for niggers to have some religion. But he got so then that he'd got to
                     read the Bible. So then he got so stuck up that he was no account at all. And
                     old Jones set his overseer to wallop
                     him. That ere overseer is a heap the meanest scamp that ever come from Yankdom.
                     He licked him onmercifully; and then he had his back washed in brine. 'Twould
                     serve old Jones just right if he never found him. But then 'twouldn't do to say
                     so out. The Dutchmen are gittin' in here so that we won't be able to keep a
                     nigger at all if we don't all hang together. I was mighty glad to see your boy
                     after him. Folks has tried to hint as you was agin' us; but I allus told 'm as
                     you was all right. They'll have to believe it now."
                  Mrs. Rosewell heard nothing of the last remark. The words he had spoken about
                     her boy gave her such a shock that she could hear nothing more. Faint from
                     heart sickness, she left the table and went to her own room. It was a mother's
                     hour of agony; her worst fears and forebodings had been more than realized. The
                     worst thing she had ever thought of was nothing compared to this. That her boy
                     should deceive her was terrible enough; but that he should not only deceive
                     her, but turn slave-hunter, was too much to bear. To think he should not only
                     disregard all the most earnest teaching of his parents, but should willfully
                     violate the most sacred precepts of the gospel! Ever since they had been there
                     they had tried to bear a consistent testimony, by example as well as precept,
                     against the sinful system of slavery. It had been the main object of their
                     lives to seek its overthrow. And now it seemed their son had turned traitor and
                     betrayed them into the hands of the enemy. If she could have seen into Frank's
                     heart at that time, and read his feelings and purposes, how different had been
                     her feelings! Surely "every man walketh in a vain show, he is disquieted in
                     vain" when he can't tell the thoughts and purposes of the heart that lies
                     nearest his own. Husbands and wives go mourning together all their days, when,
                     could the veil of flesh be rent in twain, and they enabled to get an insight
                     into each other's natures, they would be so much comforted. But only to a few,
                     and that in a limited degree, is this power of knowing the heart given; and so
                     we go through life, knowing as little of each other's deeper feelings, the
                     innermost nature, as we do of the inhabitants of the moon.
                  But if nature has withholden knowledge from us, has she not given us faith to
                     supply its place? This innate faith in human nature is the greatest boon to the
                     children of men. It then becomes our positive duty to cultivate faith in our
                     fellows.
                  The same faith that we exercise toward the God whom we have not seen we should
                     extend to our brother whom we have seen. In our human no less than in our
                     spiritual life, we are to walk by faith not by sight.
                  In the midst of a mother's grief and anxiety, Mrs. Rosewell heard a sweet
                     voice, that she knew to be Divine, saying to her, "Come unto Me, thou weary,
                     heavy-laden one, and I will give you rest."
                  To Him she went in earnest prayer, and her faith in her boy was strengthened,
                     and she could trust that all would come out well.
                  When she left her room and rejoined her family her face gave evidence of great
                     mental suffering; otherwise, she was calm and cheerful as usual. When seven
                     o'clock came she was at her post, telling the children their stories as usual.
                     But Frank's empty chair so oppressed them all that even Chit and Eddie were
                     hardly themselves, and they all seemed glad when the clock began to strike
                     eight.
                  After they were off to bed, Mr. Rosewell and his wife and Aunt Polly sat down
                     to consult together about the best means of punishing Frank. If the reader has
                     formed his opinion of Miss Polly's character from the tempest of passion in the
                     midst of which she was first introduced here, he has made a great mistake, as
                     would one who should judge the course of nature by one of her tempests. Now she
                     was one of the wisest and kindliest of counselors. Mr. Rosewell thought Frank
                     should have a severe flogging, and then be confined on bread and water till he
                     showed deep repentance for his guilt. Aunt Polly, who had so much faith in the
                     rod in her mad fits, was wholly against it now. She showed him the folly of
                     attempting to mold the character of a boy of his age and habits of independence
                     by physical force. "Do you let his mother deal with him. She's the one to bring
                     out all the good there is in him," said the now kindly-feeling woman. Of all chameleons the human heart
                     changes the quickest, and shows the greatest variety of colors.
                  "Well, what is your opinion of what we ought to do to that boy, under the
                     circumstances?" asked Mr. Rosewell of his wife. He had great confidence in her
                     judgment, and after giving his opinion generally left it to her to do as she
                     thought best. He believed that nature had given her a faculty of governing
                     which she had withheld from him. And he thought that every one should do that
                     which they could do best. So, like Mr. Wesley, he left the business of
                     child-training mostly to her. Let no father who is too lazy to take any trouble
                     with his children, and so tries to shirk his duty by turning it over to his
                     wife, try to ease his conscience by the example of these men. They only
                     followed the waymarks of nature, whose finger seldom points in that direction.
                     As a rule it is much easier for the fathers to control their children than for
                     the mothers to do it.
                  "Well," said Mrs. Rosewell, "I have come to the conclusion that at present it
                     is best to do nothing, but trust to the moral forces of his own nature to
                     convince him of his error, and make him repent of it. His conduct to-day, that
                     is giving us so much pain, is the effect of a disease incident to the childhood
                     of the moral faculties, and I would treat it as the wise physician does many of
                     the self-limited diseases of childhood,—leave the cure to nature; trust in the
                     developing powers of the moral faculties."
                  Imagine the consternation of an old-fashioned doctor of the bleeding and
                     purging school, if, in the presence of a terrible power which threatened to be
                     fatal, he should hear the little sugar-pills recommended. As much terrified was
                     Aunt Polly, and indeed Mr. Rosewell too, to hear such a sugar-pill treatment
                     recommended for the terrible crime of which they thought Frank guilty. Aunt
                     Polly regretted her hasty indorsement of Mrs. Rosewell's plan of governing. Mr.
                     Rosewell thought it was a very poor way of managing such a rascal. But he was
                     willing to allow his wife to try the experiment.
                  Meanwhile the boy they were so troubled about was in a good deal of trouble
                     himself. He wasn't as much used to the woods as Tom was. The marked trees were
                     a very poor guide for him. He lost his way, and instead of going towards his
                     home he went right away from it.
                  Night comes on very early at this time of year, and in a few hours after he
                     parted with Tom he found the shade of night gathering around him, and he in the
                     midst of a dense forest, not knowing where to go. He thought he would try to
                     find some cabin, where he might possibly regain his way or find shelter. How
                     gladly would he have welcomed such a hovel as he had left in disgust that
                     morning! But no hovel could he see. "Well," he says to himself, "this is a bad
                     scrape; but I am in it, and I must make the best of it. There's no use
                     sniveling about it; that won't bring me out. It's no use trying to find my way
                     out till the stars are up. So I'll shoot something for my supper, and make a
                     fire and cook it." There was plenty of game there, and Frank was a good
                     marksman; so it was not long before he had some meat, if nothing else. The next
                     thing was to get a fire to cook it. He had no matches, but he had his gun and
                     knife; so he soon set some pitch-pine knots on fire. His meat was burned in
                     some places and raw in others, and there was no salt on it. At home he would
                     have thrown it to the dogs; but it makes a great difference where you are, with
                     the taste of your food. None of Aunt Polly's nicest nicknacks ever tasted
                     better to him than did his supper to-night.
                  His supper over, he began to think of getting home. It wasn't a very nice
                     position for a boy of his age to be alone in a great forest at that time, with
                     no knowledge of the way home. But as he had made up his mind to make the best
                     of it, he put on a cheerful face, and began talking to his horse. "Well,
                     Whiteface, I'm right sorry I've no oats to give you, and you can't eat this
                     stuff that I'm eating; but if you'll be a good horse, and take me safe home,
                     I'll give you a bellyful of oats." He patted the horse, as though he was a dear
                     friend. I don't suppose the horse understood exactly what Frank said; but he
                     knew it was something clever, and he whinnied, to show that he felt clever too;
                     just as that morning when Frank got angry and kicked him, he kicked back to
                     show he could get mad as well as Frank.
                  
                  Frank had read a great deal about the slaves following the north star, and he
                     had spent many evenings with his mother studying astronomy; and now he thought
                     the stars might help him out of the woods. So he thought he would wait till it
                     got quite dark, and see if he couldn't find his way out by the aid of the
                     stars. While he was waiting for it to get quite dark, he thought it might be
                     best to pray. Then something said to him that praying and whining might do very
                     well for a girl like Eva if she happened to get into trouble; but it was best,
                     for a brave boy like him, to depend on himself. Besides, he thought if he had
                     gone on a slave-hunt without asking God's help, it was pretty shabby to ask his
                     help to get him out of the scrape. But then there came before him the vision of
                     his mother, as he saw her at one time when he stole slyly into her room
                     thinking to scare her. She was pleading with God, earnestly, in behalf of her
                     boy. He thought little of it then, as he stole out of the room as quietly as he
                     entered. But now, like something long forgotten but suddenly brought to mind,
                     the memory of that prayer came to him; and there, in the midst of that
                     forest,—the light of the pine-knots flickering around him,—he offered up the
                     first genuine heartfelt prayer he had ever offered to his heavenly Father. He
                     had always before prayed because he had been taught to, and from force of
                     habit. But the events of the day had given a new meaning to his life. He saw
                     things as he had never seen them before: as when one looks at an object he had
                     found no interest in as he looked with his naked eye, but sees many things
                     curious and interesting as he looks at it through the microscope.
                  As he rose from his knees he saw the stars were shining brightly. He mounted
                     his horse, and turned it in the direction of the star he wanted to follow. Then
                     he gave the reins to his horse, and let him go as he pleased. During the
                     afternoon the horse had tried hard to go in another direction from the one
                     Frank had wanted him to go. But the boy was willful and cross, and he thought
                     he should make the horse go as he pleased; so, like Balaam, he kept thrashing
                     it to make it go the wrong way. And although there was no angel sent to show
                     him his folly, he saw it plain enough for himself after he got lost.
                  The horse left to himself soon got into the right road. The moon was up and
                     shining brilliantly, and Frank was delighted to see the marked trees that would
                     guide him home. Riding home in the beautiful moonlight, he was a wiser and
                     better boy than when he went over that same road in the morning.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  ASKING.
                  
                     
                        
                           "All things whatsoever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye
                              receive them, and ye shall have them."—
                        
                        JESUS.
                     
                  
                  A FEW days before the slave-hunt, in a slave cabin on old Jones's (as everybody
                     called him) plantation, might have been seen an aged colored man, who had been
                     all his life a slave. But a little while before he had been to a camp-meeting,
                     and there he had heard a minister from the North say "there was neither bond
                     nor free in Christ Jesus." This was to him a proclamation of freedom. He
                     clapped his hands and shouted out, "Tank God, I'm free man now! No niggahs, no
                     slaves, in Christ Jesus."
                  As soon as he got a chance to speak with the man from the North, he asked:
                  "Where you see dat ar you say to-day—no bond nor free,—all one in Christ
                     Jesus."
                  "I read it from the Bible," said the minister.
                  "De Bible! de Bible! Why dat de word ob God, so dat must be true. Glory
                     Hallu—ja—h! I'se free man, den. No more lickings! No more bound up at de toot
                     of de horn! Glory Hal——!"
                  "Stop, stop!" said the minister, trying to cool the happy darky off. "It don't
                     say exactly that. It don't say you sha'n't be a slave any longer. A great many
                        of the Christians to whom the
                     apostles wrote were slaves. But God loves you just as well as though you were a
                     free white man; and if you are good you will go to heaven, where there are no
                     slaves, but all are angels."
                  The countenance of the poor slave fell, and his joy was turned to sorrow, as
                     the visions of floggings and slavery that he just thought he was through with
                     again came up before him. But the minister talked so kindly to him, and told
                     him of the beautiful land where he'd be a free man, that he forgot the troubles
                     of earth in the prospect of heaven.
                  "Where you find all dese nice tings?" said the poor slave with streaming eyes,
                     as he listened to the old, old story that, heard as often as you may, is always
                     new.
                  "In this Bible," said the man of God.
                  "Oh, God, I wish I could read de Bible!" he exclaimed, wringing his hands with
                     a look of despair. "I allus hate de Bible, coz I neber hear anyting out of it
                     but 'servants obey yer master.' I tink de Bible made just for de masters to
                     keep deir slaves under. Oh, God, forgib me! I'se awful wicked to hate de Bible
                     when it be your word. Oh, please forgib me, and I neber do so no more!" Then
                     falling down at the minister's feet, he clasped his legs as he exclaimed, with
                     all the passionate enthusiasm of the negro's nature,—
                  "Oh, tank you, tank you! for tellin' poor darky dat blessed story." And then he
                     continued with greater fervor, "Please, massa, be so kind and good as learn
                     poor niggah read de Bible! Please, massa, do, for Jesus' sake, amen!"
                  This was the way he always closed up any kind of a request, whether he was
                     praying or begging.
                  The slave's request threw the poor minister into the greatest perplexity. He
                     was one of those moderate abolitionists that thought it the duty of the church
                     to preach the gospel to both master and slave, as it had opportunity, without
                     meddling with the laws. But, oh, how often do inconvenient circumstances come
                     in to upset our finest spun theories! Here was a poor soul in darkness begging
                     so earnestly for light, and yet for him to give him the light would be to
                     disobey the laws,—a thing he had always thought it wrong to do. But the
                     instincts of humanity often direct us in the path of duty where reason fails,
                     and the minister's instinct taught him that it couldn't be wrong to teach a
                     fellow-creature to read the Bible.
                  So that night, when all the rest of the encampment was buried in sleep,—and the
                     woods that had all day echoed with the sound of prayer and praise were now
                     silent,—the minister stole softly out of his tent with his precious Bible in
                     his hand.
                  The first object he saw was Jones's slave; his face as black as the darkness,
                     and only distinguished from the rest of the blackness by the whites of his
                     great eyes and his white teeth. He had an armful of pine-knots ready for a
                     light.
                  He guided the minister to a solitary place, where he thought there was no
                     danger of their being discovered, and there struck up his light. The minister
                     spread the open Bible on his lap; the slave sat at his feet. It was a beautiful
                     sight. The holy man of God, his face beaming with sympathy, love, and pity for
                     his oppressed brother, his countenance lit up with the holy joy of feeding a
                     hungry soul with the bread of life; the eager black face at his feet, on whose
                     countenance was written darkness struggling for light, the new hope contending
                     with the old despair; the flickering light the pine-knots threw on the group;
                     the background of darkness, overhung with the silvery light of the stars:
                     surely it was a scene on which angels might look with pleasure, and strike
                     their harps anew and sing, "peace on earth and good will to men."
                  But the thing that makes good angels rejoice makes bad ones gnash their teeth
                     in anger and hatred. The same thing that causes good men to rejoice causes bad
                     men to lament. While these two were so happy,—the one in giving, the other in
                     taking the water of life,—there stood one looking upon the scene gnashing his
                     teeth in demoniac rage and fury. He felt that every letter learned took so much
                     off the value of the chattel by increasing the risk (which was already very
                     great since so many Germans and Freesoilers had come into the country) of
                     keeping him.
                  
                  Probably the reader has already guessed that the angry spectator was none other
                     than the owner of the slave. Mr. Jones had come to the camp-meeting, and one of
                     the songs he heard somehow stirred up the memories of youth and better days,
                     when he too had a heart to feel the beauty of goodness and the hope of heaven.
                     The song had touched a chord that can never be dead in the human soul, though
                     it may suffer a terrible paralysis. He had passed one of those days of uneasy
                     restlessness that sometimes come to the worst of men, when the conscience that
                     has long been seemingly dead suddenly shows signs of life, and begins to prick
                     and torment its unfortunate possessor.
                  He was so disturbed that he couldn't sleep, and so he left his tent and came to
                     the woods to walk off his restlessness, and he felt as though he could offer
                     the remnant of his miserable life to the long-suffering Father, whose laws he
                     had trampled under his feet. He walked along a piece and dropped on his knees
                     to pray, when, oh, horror of horrors! all the demons of the bottomless pit
                     seemed to come up before him, to grin at him and taunt him with his sins. He
                     tried to run away from the evil-imaginings, but to have done that he would have
                     to run away from himself.
                  He was attracted by the light to the spot where were his slave and his
                     companion. The man Jones had been killed and buried by the slave-holder, and
                     the sight of the slave learning the Bible transformed the penitent man into a
                     demon. Seizing the minister by the hair, he threw him on the ground, stamped on
                     him, hissing out like a serpent, in broken sentences,
                     "Thief!—scoundrel!—Northern sneak!—wolf in sheep's clothing!—pretending to
                     preach, and teaching my nigger to run away."
                  All this was plentifully interspersed with the most fearful oaths. The sight of
                     his helpless victim seemed to add intensity to his fury, as the taste of fresh
                     blood increases the ferocity of the lion. He wouldn't listen a word to the
                     minister's explanation; when he meant to speak, he struck his mouth with his
                     pistol. The slave, with the craven fear habitual to him, ran away at the first
                     sight of his master. When Jones was compelled from exhaustion to stop stamping
                     on and thrashing the helpless, unoffending man, he placed his hand on his
                     pistol and said: "One minute, old fellow, to say your prayers, and I'll send
                     you to hell or heaven, I don't care which. We've no room for abolitionists
                     here. "The man tried to beg for his life, but the slave-owner only replied,
                     with the mocking laugh of a demon clothed in flesh: "Ha! ha! better not waste
                     yer seconds talking to me, it's yer last chance of talking to your God, and
                     you'd better make the most of it."
                  The man of God raised his bruised hands and streaming eyes to heaven, and
                     exclaimed, "Oh, my God, my God! destroy this cursed system of slavery, for
                     Christ——" Click went the slave-owner's pistol, and the man dropped at his feet;
                     he supposed dead. He had aimed at his heart, but the ball hit the rib and
                     glanced downward, and cut one of the arteries near the heart.
                  After the deed was done, Mr. Jones coolly pocketed his pistol and walked back
                     to his tent, undressed himself, went to bed, and slept as soundly as though he
                     had exhausted himself by an innocent chase.
                  Wonderful, that a few hours before he couldn't sleep for thinking of his sins,
                     but now, when he had added the most damning of all to the black list, his
                     garments wet with the blood of an innocent man, he could sleep well enough! So
                     Jacob, fresh from the scene of his blackest crime and wicked falsehood, lies
                     down to the sweetest vision of angels,—connecting earth and heaven with a
                     ladder, and ascending and descending thereon. But twenty years after, when the
                     memory of years crowned with obedience, and the enjoyment of God's favor, would
                     have seemed to have blotted out the memory of early sins, we find him near the
                     same place, spending the night in an agony of prayer, on the account of that
                     sin against his injured brother. Though men may, for a long time, out-run the
                     angel of retribution, he is sure to overtake them at last.
                  After Mr. Jones had left the scene of his crime, the slave, who was called
                     Uncle Ned, crept softly up to the dying man, and finding that his heart still
                     beat, he took the man's hat, and running quickly to the spring that supplied
                     the encampment with water, he brought some and dashed it in the face of the wounded man. The
                     water revived the stagnant circulation, consciousness was restored; the man
                     opened his eyes to see the black face of his pupil lit up with joy and hope at
                     the signs of returning life.
                  "Oh, massa! oh, massa! massa! you ain't dead. Oh, don't die! If you do, what
                     will become of poor Ned? You'se the first man dat eber tell me 'bout Jesus.
                     Demar Southern massas only say, Servants obey your masters. Oh, don't die! but
                     learn poor Ned to read de Bible."
                  The poor slave clasped the dying man in his arms, as though his heart might be
                     kept beating with the blood of his own.
                  "Unbutton my vest," said the wounded man, "and let me see where I am hurt."
                     Uncle Ned did so, and his face lit up with joy as he saw that only a small
                     wound appeared, from which a small jet of blood was issuing.
                  "Dis little hole neber kill you," said Ned; "I'se seen twice as big holes, and
                     men git well. Folks as lives here's allus shootin'."
                  The wounded man looked down, and though the stream of blood spirting out was
                     very small, his practiced eye saw at once there was no hope. He saw by the
                     motion of the blood that one of the arteries near the heart was opened, and his
                     hours on earth were numbered. When the consciousness of certain death came to
                     the mind of the man of God, his first emotion was a thrill of joyful triumph;
                     like the poor storm-tossed, home-sick sailor to whom, after years of longing
                     and watching, hope struggling doubtfully with despair, at a moment when he
                     least expects, a sudden rift in the clouds shows that he is already near the
                     shore of his long-sought home. The joy and gratitude of the dying man was so
                     great that the happy soul seemed transported from the suffering body. The freed
                     spirit was already enjoying a foretaste of that blissful heaven for which the
                     wounded body was fast re-leasing it. He clasped his hands over his heart, from
                     which the life-blood was so swiftly flowing, and triumphantly exclaimed:
                  "Oh, blessed wound, that is opening this prison-house of clay, and letting my
                     freed spirit fly forth to my Beloved! He whom I have followed through evil and
                     good report for fifty years. Oh, blessed Saviour! Can it be possible that I am
                     coming to Thee now? Is that which I have often sung come true at last,—'Child,
                     your Father calls, come home'? Dear Lord, I come! I come!"
                  He stretched forth his hands so eagerly to throw himself into the arms of an
                     unseen Being, that he raised his wounded body from the ground. It seemed to him
                     that the Everlasting Arms were already underneath him, and he had only to fall
                     into them and live eternally.
                  But the poor, frightened slave caught hold of him, as if to stay his heavenward
                     flight, and exclaimed, with streaming eyes and childish earnestness:
                  "Oh, massa! massa! take poor nigger 'long too. Don't leab me here 'lone.
                     Please, massa, don't!"
                  The passionate entreaty of the poor bondman brought the enraptured man back to
                     himself. "How could I be so selfish," he said, with a feeling of
                     self-accusation that had become habitual with him, "as to think only of my own
                     happiness, and not of your misery? Father, forgive me for not striving to do my
                     duty by this poor child of thine, in this the last hour of my life. From the
                     agonies of the cross the dear Jesus reached forth his hand to pluck the
                     repentant thief from the jaws of hell; and on this easy couch of death I am
                     thinking only of myself. Get the Bible quick, Ned, and I'll spend the few
                     moments that are left to me of this unprofitable life (I have been an
                     unprofitable servant, I am saved only by grace) in teaching you to read the
                     blessed word."
                  Uncle Ned gladly obeyed, and soon knelt by his side with the precious book
                     clasped in his hands.
                  "Raise me up," said the dying man, "that I can find the place that will do you
                     the most good to learn." Ned dragged him to the nearest tree, and, braced up by
                     that, he began to turn over the leaves of the sacred book, to find the
                     fourteenth chapter of St. John. Oh, that precious fountain of life and hope!
                     How many weary pilgrims, soiled with the dust, and weary and heavy-laden with
                     the toils and conflicts of earth, have come to this fountain, refreshed their
                     weary, thirsty souls in its cooling, purifying waters, and returned to the conflict, made
                     strong to fight and suffer! But it was not for rest or consolation that the
                     dying man turned to this precious page. He felt that here was the charter of
                     liberty for the bondman, the precious revelation of a truth that made the poor,
                     outcast, wretched slave at his side the friend and companion of the Lord
                     Jesus.
                  But this was not the main purpose for which he sought for this chapter. It was
                     that he might teach the slave the precious promises of answer to prayer that
                     the Saviour so positively made just on the eve of his departure from this
                     world. The minister read to the seventh verse, and explained to him how the
                     soul drew its life and nutriment from Christ, as the branch grew and bore fruit
                     from the sap of the vine. "Now," he said, as he came to the seventh verse,
                     "this is what you must learn for yourself. This verse is the key that unlocks
                     the treasures of heaven, and you can take it and draw what you need."
                  Uncle Ned had already learned the alphabet by studying the letters on the
                     guide-boards, and the signs on the stores and corner whisky-shops, so common in
                     the South. So he began to spell out the letters, and the minister taught him
                     how to pronounce them. This was a slow process for one whose span of life was
                     already measured by moments and seconds. He had read along, "If ye abide in Me,
                     and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be——" when
                     the nerveless fingers, palsied by the chills of death, dropped from the sacred
                     page; the heart stopped its feeble beatings, and the soul of the man of God
                     spread its wings for its upward flight.
                  Think of the man that, after a life-long search, at last thinks he has found
                     the field that has in it the pearl of great price. He has sold all he had and
                     bought the field. He is digging anxiously for the prize; and just as he is
                     reaching out his hand to grasp it, an ill wind blows it from his grasp, and he
                     knows he shall see it no more forever. All the ardent longings for liberty, all
                     the secret aspirations after an unknown good, all the quenchless thirst after
                     an unknown purity, that had been born of the pollution and degradation of the
                     wretched slave's life, seemed about to be realized; a friendly hand was holding
                     out the key of another and a better life; he reached out his eager hand to
                     grasp it,—it dropped forever from his reach.
                  "Oh, God! oh, God! oh, Christ! oh, massa! massa! What shall be done wid it? Oh,
                     tell me! tell me! Don't die yit, massa, widout gibin' poor niggah dat key!"
                     cried the excited slave. "Jes' stop one minute, and tell me what'll be done wid
                     what me ask for?"
                  Science has shown us how the heart that has ceased to beat can again be set in
                     motion by electricity; and as the eager slave again pressed the dying man to
                     his bosom, and again the stilled heart caught its life-giving throb, the spirit
                     received the light of prophecy by its momentary contact with other spirits; the
                     veil of flesh was withdrawn, and he saw the rivers of blood that flowed from
                     the wounded North and the stricken South, in the war that has now become a part
                     of our history; and from that bloody baptism he saw the American republic arise
                     cleansed from the foul pollutions of slavery; he saw the black and the white
                     man standing side by side, as men and brethren. The inspiring vision lent
                     strength to his palsied hands, and, clasping them together, his lips joyfully
                     exclaimed:
                  "Glory to God! you shall be free. The mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. This
                     cursed system of slavery shall come to an end."
                  "But what shall be done for us when we ask for tings?" asked Uncle Ned, fearful
                     lest the flame of life should go out in darkness before he got the answer to
                     that important question. The dying man tried to answer, but his strength
                     failed. The power by which he had spoken was only the last flicker, often the
                     most brilliant of all, of a light that is just being extinguished forever.
                  He began to answer, "It shall be done——un—to——"and the heart that had never
                     beat with other emotions than love and good will to his fellows, through the
                     hate of one he had never known, ceased its throbbings forever.
                  The night was already far spent, and just as the freed spirit of the happy man
                     went forth to rejoice in the blissful light of the spirit-world, a ray of light
                     from the forthcoming sun started across the eastern sky, and Uncle Ned looked
                     up and began to tremble lest the slave-driver's horn should find him a long way from the
                     plantation. He cast a loving look upon the lifeless form of the only friend he
                     had ever found in this wide world, and he thought how could he leave it to be
                     plundered of men and torn of wild beasts. But fear was the strongest emotion in
                     the mind of the slave. He gave the lifeless cheek one long, passionate kiss, as
                     fond and loving as the last kiss of a mother before her darling child is laid
                     away in the ground; then hastily covering the body with leaves, he picked up
                     the precious book and started with the swiftness of a deer for the plantation
                     of his master. He heard the unwelcome sound of the horn a long way off; but,
                     despite all his fear of the overseer's lash, he stopped to hide his book where
                     he thought it would be safe, and he could come and get it when the day's work
                     was over.
                  The slaves had all gone to their work when Uncle Ned appeared trembling before
                     the slave-driver.
                  "Oh, you black cuss, you! Why wa'n't you here before?"
                  "Please, massa, I set a trap, and I went to see if dare anyting dare, and it
                     was de horn blowin' 'fore I knowed——"A cut across the mouth stopped the
                     sentence.
                  "There, take that!" said the furious driver, as he lashed him with his whip
                     till he was out of breath, "and see if you'll be in the woods the next time the
                     horn blows."
                  His flesh smarting with pain, hungry and weary from the night's fasting and
                     watching, the slave began his daily toil.
                  Could we look through the veil of flesh into that struggling soul, and be able
                     to record all the conflicting emotions we read there,—the new-born hopes
                     struggling with the old-time despair; the faint glimpse of a higher and better
                     life of friendship and freedom with Christ, contradicted and belied by the
                     galling bondage of his present lot; the prophecy of this dying friend rendered
                     hopeless by the powerful grip of the monster slavery; if we could describe all
                     this we should simply be giving an epitome of the strivings of the human soul
                     to reconcile the inward conviction and hopes with the terrible realities of its
                     outward lot, from the beginning till now. As there is not a particle of matter
                     in the human body but what has existed from the beginning, and passed through
                     every conceivable condition of existence, so there is not a joy or sorrow, or
                     hope or fear, that agitates or soothes the heart of the lowest of the children
                     of men, but what has existed in every conceivable modification of being from
                     the beginning till now. The modern belle, standing before the looking-glass,
                     arrayed in all the furbelows, finery, curls, and frizzles that are the
                     outgrowth of modern civilization, admiring her pretty self, and forming plans
                     for catching beaus, is only a modification of Mother Eve admiring herself as
                     reflected in the clear waters of Paradise, and forming plans for conquering
                     Adam's heart.
                  But the longest day must have an end for the bondman as well as the free. The
                     friendly sun at length hid his face behind the western mountains, and the weary
                     slaves sought rest on their cots of straw, to prepare for the coming day. Not
                     so Uncle Ned. When they left their work each had to wait his turn to grind his
                     allowance of corn for his supper. Many of them were ofttimes found asleep when
                     their turn came. Uncle Ned had gone to sleep while the others were grinding,
                     and in that short sleep an angel seemed to stand by him, saying, "Come with me,
                     and I will show you what that was you couldn't find out last night." He started
                     joyfully with his heavenly guide to the place in the woods where he had
                     concealed his treasure. He had got the precious volume opened before him. The
                     angel was pointing to the word he so much wanted to know, when he felt the
                     strong, rough hand of Aunt Chloe, his wife, punching his ribs, exclaiming in a
                     tone of angry remonstrance,—
                  "Oh, ye sleepy fool! what yer lay here for when yer turn come to grind? You
                     goin' to swaller yer corn hull?"
                  Uncle Ned rubbed his eyes, and looked around to see where he was, whether in
                     company with his angry wife or a smiling angel. The impression of his dream was
                     so strong that he couldn't make out where he was.
                  "Am I here, or in de woods? Is dis you, Chloe, or de angel?"
                  A heavy slap from the powerful fist of the angry woman soon convinced him it
                     was no angel near him.
                  "I'll let yer know what I be! Can an angel strike and kick like dat?" she said, striking her heavy
                     fist into his side. Poor Uncle Ned! Was this the end of his new-born hopes? Was
                     this the freedom the man of God had promised him? He buried his face in his
                     hands and groaned. It was the outpouring of a soul touched with the feeling of
                     hopeless despair. It startled as some-thing unearthly that company of hungry,
                     tired beings who were thinking only of their corn and their sleep; it awed and
                     softened even Aunt Chloe. Their feeling was the spontaneous tribute that the
                     world must needs pay to the mystery of soul-agony. Aunt Chloe was afraid to
                     trust herself to speak, lest she should "bust right out cryin'," but she took
                     the tin cup of corn he had in his hand and went and ground it herself, a thing
                     she had never done before. She got him into their cabin, and baked his
                     meal-cake in the ashes and tried to make him eat. But it only seemed to choke
                     him. She brought out all the dainties of fat bacon and chicken she had slipped
                     out of the kitchen of the big house, but all to no purpose. He threw himself on
                     his cot of straw, that she might go to sleep, and as soon as the heavy
                     breathing told him she was asleep he scrambled out of his cabin, and looking
                     cautiously around to be sure that nobody saw him, he started off for the
                     camp-ground, the scene of the murder the night before.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  WILL HE FIRE?
                  THE morning on which we have followed Uncle Ned on his weary journey homeward,
                     and there seen some of the common incidents of a slave's life, the worshipers
                     at the camp-meeting were awakened at an early hour, as usual, by the horn that
                     summoned them to the morning prayer-meeting. They were a people that dealt in
                     religion by the wholesale, and the camp-meeting was the place where they laid
                     in a year's supply, so they must needs be up and at it early in the morning.
                     Mr. Jones waked at the sound of the horn. He rubbed his forehead to try and
                     collect his senses, and see if he could make out whether the impressions of the
                     previous night were a dream or a reality. "Our lives are made of the same
                     things that dreams are," and it is often difficult to tell which is the dream
                     and which is what we call reality.
                  When the time came for morning preaching, there was no Bible to be found.
                     Inquiry was made, but no one had seen anything of it. Mr. Jones shrugged his
                     shoulders and winked very knowingly, as he said, "I reckon if you can find that
                     Northern sneak you had preaching here, you'd find yer Bible. These Yankee
                     cusses'd steal the cents off a dead man's eyes, and kick him coz they weren't
                     dimes."
                  This hint seemed to offer a plausible explanation of the Northern man's absence
                     and the loss of the Bible, and so it was reported on the ground that the
                     minister had run away, and stolen the Bible.
                  During the day a couple of roughs, such as delight to hang on the outskirts of
                     such meetings and make what disturbance they can, stumbled over the dead body
                     covered with leaves.
                  "Hallo, Frank! What's here? Some of the meetin' folks been tryin' their hand at
                     a duel, I reckon."
                  "All right," says his companion. "Let them do the fightin', and we'll have the
                     booty."
                  "But 'twas me that found him," said the first speaker, fearing his companion
                     would claim half.
                  "Yes," said the other, "but you've got to give me half, or I'll say you stole
                     the clothes, and his folks 'll pop you over when they see you wearin' 'em."
                  The finder thought it better to share the plunder than to run such a risk. So
                     they divided the clothes. The clothes hung like bags on the gaunt skeletons
                     that made up the poor white trash of the South. Many persons on the ground
                     recognized the clothes, and were convinced there had been foul play. But so
                     little was the taking of human life, and Northern life in particular, thought
                     of there, that nothing was said about it. The ministers were too busily engaged getting people
                     converted, and the people were too much interested in "getting religion" just
                     then, to bother their heads about such matters.
                  So, when Uncle Ned came to the body to bury it, he found it naked; even the
                     shirt had been torn off, but not by the human dogs, it was too bloody for their
                     purpose; but the other dogs, trained to hunt human beings, had had their turn
                     after the others got through. Uncle Ned dug a hole in the ground near by, and
                     reverently put all that was left of the mangled corpse into it. He covered it
                     over, and left it.
                  On his way back, he stopped and got the Bible, and took it home. He carried a
                     pine-knot and put on his cabin fire, opened his book at the place he had
                     studied the night before, and tried to read through the verse on which hung so
                     many hopes. But his dulled senses could get no farther than the "shall be
                     done." The other words, on which hung its meaning, were as a sealed book to
                     him, and he wept as he thought that the only hand that could break the seal was
                     now palsied in death.
                  Overcome with fatigue he again slept, and again the smiling angel bent over
                     him, to teach him the precious words of life. The angel pointed out the words,
                     and pronounced distinctly "unto him." The sleeping slave clapped his hands and
                     gave such a shout that the noise waked him, and Aunt Chloe too.
                  "What's all dat ar fuss 'bout dere?"
                  "De angel teach me to read de Bible. It says all tings ye want, ye pray, and ye
                     git what ye ask for," said the now joyous bondman.
                  Aunt Chloe jumped out of bed and ran towards the open book, as though she could
                     there find the unknown treasure that the human heart is always seeking for.
                  "Whar! whar yer find dat?" exclaimed the eager seeker after unknown good.
                  "Right dar," said her companion, as he pointed to the blood-stained page, and
                     the verse he had tried so hard to learn.
                  "Oh, yer big fool! Dat nothin' but de blood of some one," said the disappointed
                     woman, as she looked at the blotted page, of which she knew not a letter.
                  "It is de ting dat God spoke, and it's de truth," said Uncle Ned; "coz de angel
                     told me so, and learn me to read it myself." Uncle Ned was afraid to confide,
                     even to Aunt Chloe, the secret of his interview with the Northern minister. So
                     he thought the safest way was to attribute all of his newly-acquired knowledge
                     to angelic help and instruction. And then there is something in the human heart
                     that causes us to think so much more of what we call supernatural help than
                     what we call natural.
                  Things that would appear very small and insignificant, if done by mortals in
                     the flesh, become wonderful and glorious when performed by the spirits of dead
                     people or angels. The bare possibility of Uncle Ned being the object of
                     supernatural help cooled off Aunt Chloe's anger at being waked out of a good
                     sleep, and she got out of bed expecting to see some wonderful thing; and then
                     finding only a bloody book, she was very angry. But like all materialistic
                     natures, in whom the senses so predominate that it is very difficult for them
                     to apprehend the spiritual, Aunt Chloe wanted proof of angelic help, she wanted
                     some evidence of the fact that she could get what she prayed for. So to bring
                     out the proof she said,—
                  "If dat you say is ob de Lord, and de angel teach you, tell him to show hisself
                     to me, den I belieb in him."
                  Uncle Ned was puzzled. He knew nothing of the hidden secrets of spiritual life,
                     by which we find that the kingdom of God cometh not with observation; that it
                     can be seen only by those that have eyes to see; that it can be heard only by
                     those who have ears to hear. But somehow he felt that it wasn't exactly the
                     thing to demand of the Lord to send his angel in contact with Aunt Chloe. He
                     knew too well what it was to feel the force of that mighty arm and fist of
                     hers, to be willing to have the kind angel that had come to him in his
                     extremity run the risk of taking a thrashing from her if he should chance to
                     offend her. So he said:
                  "Oh, yer silly nigger, you's nothin' but a field-hand; what does yer know 'bout
                     de tings ob de Lord's kingdom?"
                  "It's de tings ob de debil's kingdom, I reckon," said Aunt Chloe; her anger at
                     her husband's assumed superiority
                     ority driving away all the awe she had felt of his new visions. "Call me a
                     silly nigger, will yer?"—she kept growing hotter,—"when I kin wallop fifty of
                     yer, and then hab right smart ob power left." By way of showing her superiority
                     she caught him in her arms, and tossing him on to the cot, she exclaimed: "Thar
                     now, if I hear any more ob yer stuff 'bout de Lord dat yer know nothin' 'bout,
                     I'll shet yer mouth for yer in right smart ob a hurry. Here yer's keepin'
                     'spectable folks as must go to de field when de horn blow, out ob der rest, wid
                     yer gab 'bout de Lord!"
                  Uncle Ned was as helpless in the arms of his wife as a Lilliputian in the hands
                     of a giant. So he had only to lie still, as he was told. But his soul was too
                     happy rejoicing in his new light for his tongue to be entirely quiet, so before
                     he thought of it he began to shout, "Glory to de Lord ob de heb——"A slap across
                     the mouth from his sleepy wife finished out the sentence, and the weary man,
                     compelled to be silent, soon fell into a profound slumber.
                  In justice to Aunt Chloe's vigilance and good common sense, it ought to be said
                     that it would have been well for many persons of excitable religious
                     temperament if at such critical times in their experience, when the overtaxed
                     nerves cried out against the tension of religious excitement, the most
                     exhausting of all, they also had had a friend like Aunt Chloe, wise enough and
                     strong enough to make them go to sleep; such a friend would have kept many a
                     person from the insane asylum, and spared much discredit that has been thrown
                     upon religion by extravagance born of undue excitement.
                  We have already seen that at first Uncle Ned successfully resisted the
                     temptation presented by Aunt Chloe to bring the promise he thought so much of
                     to a practical or physical test; but the suggestion kept rankling in his mind.
                     "What's de good ob dat promise if I git nothin' on it? What's de good if I
                     catch a coon, if I get no oil out ob him? Now de Bible say, if I 'bide in de
                     Lord and de Lord 'bide in me, I ask what I will and it shall be done to me. Now
                     I ask de Lord to help me run 'way and get free, and ob course He do it for me,
                     coz I 'bide in Him, else dat book can't be de word ob de Lord. But dat book is
                     de word ob de Lord, so Uncle Ned 'll be a free man." Uncle Ned had no
                     conception of a truth too subtle and spiritual to be caught and caged in human
                     logic. But was his mistake greater than others? Don't all the religious
                     controversies that have bewildered the humblest and baffled the mightiest
                     intellects of the human race owe their origin and continuance to the fact that
                     men fail to conceive of truths higher than logic, and too ethereal to be more
                     than symbolized by human language?
                  The Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. It was the Life and the Light of
                     men. But that Life and Light is so subtle and spiritual that once you undertake
                     to confine it in the narrow bounds of formulas and creeds, and lo! you have
                     only empty words and phrases. The spirit has flown as the sunlight disappears,
                     and is gone when you try to bottle it up. Wherefore, then, serve creeds and
                     confessions of faith? They are the husk that covers the growing kernel of
                     faith. They occupy an important place in religious economy, and become
                     dangerous and mischievous only when they are taken for the living reality.
                  Uncle Ned made rapid progress learning to read. A new life was infused into
                     him, and all the powers of his being were stimulated and quickened by it. And
                     he was not the only one that owes the improvement of the intellectual faculties
                     to the awakening of the moral being.
                  It wasn't long before he was surprised by two visitors. Coming by his cabin
                     when they thought the whole plantation asleep, they were surprised to see a
                     light there; they entered, and found him flat on the ground before the little
                     hole at one end that served the purpose of a fireplace, poring over the
                     Bible.
                  "Why, Uncle Ned! how came you to learn to read that book?" asked one of the
                     visitors. "Don't you know it's against the law for a slave to learn to
                     read?"
                  "Not if de angels teach dem," said the pious slave. "I try and try to read de
                     Bible, but de poor nigger can't see it; den de Lord send de angel to show me de
                     words, den I read."
                  "But where did you get this book with these bloody marks on it?"
                  
                  "De Lord send it from heben, wid de blood ob de eberlasting covenant on it, to
                     guide poor Ned in de way to heben."
                  It is plain from Uncle Ned's stories that he read his Bible more with reference
                     to expected help in running away than to learn how to tell the truth. But have
                     not men always found their pet theories and hopes reflected in the Bible?
                  Scientific men would say that Uncle Ned's finding out the conclusion of that
                     verse was the result of cerebral evolution, by which the mind works out results
                     independently of the senses: as, when we try to think of a name we can't
                     possibly recall, we withdraw attention from it, and the brain left to itself
                     works out the desired result, and all of a sudden the name comes to us. Truth
                     grows in the mind like seed in the ground. Ignorant, unbelieving people, like
                     Aunt Chloe, would say it was a dream; but who shall say that Uncle Ned, with
                     all his apparent untruthfulness, had not seized a truth that is truer than
                     science, higher than logic, truer than the deceptive formulas of language?
                  The visitors felt such an awe of the man who seemed to be such a favorite of
                     heaven that they carried no reports to his master, and every night it was the
                     privilege of the slave to spread himself out before the fire and pick out all
                     the passages that promised answers to prayer. He was overjoyed to find how full
                     and explicit were the promises to the prayer of faith.
                  But this happy state couldn't last long. The man couldn't read and study all
                     night, and work well the next day; so it came to pass that his overseer went to
                     his owner and told him that "that nigger of his was of no account, he'd better
                     sell him down South the first chance." Mr. Jones remembered the scene in the
                     woods, and feeling that revenge would be sweeter than his own interest, gave
                     direction that the slave should be flogged that night, and every nigger on the
                     plantation should help do it. His orders were obeyed, as they always were; and
                     after the day's work was over the slaves were called into the yard where the
                     whipping-post was. Uncle Ned's hands and feet were fastened firmly in the
                     stocks, and his clothes stripped from him. All the slaves, as their turn came,
                     had to take the whip and lash him with all their strength. If one was
                     tender-hearted and laid it on lightly, the overseer and owner standing by began
                     to lash them. After his flesh was thoroughly cut up and bleeding with the lash,
                     the owner ordered strong brine brought, and the raw flesh was drenched with it.
                     His piteous begging,—first calling upon his Father in heaven, then upon his
                     master, then upon the overseer, should seem to have awakened pity in the
                     hardest heart; but not in a man's heart hardened by slavery. The injustice and
                     tortures of that night matured the long thought-of purpose of putting the
                     new-found promises of the Bible to an actual test, and see if indeed he could
                     obtain what he asked for. With strong faith in God, he asked for freedom, and
                     prepared to run away at the first opportunity.
                  The result was the slave-hunt we have already described. And no wonder, when
                     one of the hunters passed over him and yet failed to catch him, the poor slave
                     accepted it as proof of the truth of the promises he had relied on. But, alas,
                     how soon does the fairest day turn to dismal night! In his joy and rejoicing at
                     the baffled search of the hunter, he neglected to cover himself as cautiously
                     as before; and as Tom Price and his nigger were riding carelessly along after
                     they had parted from Frank, Tom's horse stumbled over him and Tom saw that he
                     had caught the prize. "I reckon Frank 'll wish he'd stayed with me now," was
                     his first thought; then he called his nigger to come and tie him up. But Uncle
                     Ned saw at once that he could easily resist that force, so he seized a club and
                     leveled the one that tried to tie him up, to the earth.
                  "Ha, ha! you're goin' to show fight, are ye?" said Tom. "I reckon I'll show you
                     what it means to knock down my nigger."
                  He drew out his pistol and had it all cocked ready to fire, when a blow from
                     the club that knocked the other down knocked him off his horse and laid him
                     prostrate on the ground. Uncle Ned seized the pistol that had fallen from his
                     hand, and standing over his pursuers he thought that his hour was come. He knew
                     that he could shoot the boy and the slave, and, taking his horse, could fly
                        away from his pursuers and be free.
                     It was the supreme moment of his life as he thought, "Shall I
                        fire?" Upon the answer to this question depends much that we shall
                     write in the following pages.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  RETURNED HOME.
                  THE reader may have guessed that Mrs. Rosewell's counsel with regard to Frank's
                     treatment was followed by the whole household. As he came near his home in the
                     gray of the morning twilight, he began to shrink from the thought of meeting
                     the family; and at once he began to try to brace himself up to fight the
                     opposition he expected. He had his speech for Aunt Polly all ready. By some
                     means he had found out the secret of her life: that she had loved one who had
                     not returned her love, that after giving her reason to think he would make her
                     his wife he had fallen in love with some one else. Her heart was wounded too
                     deeply ever to heal, and Frank, by a series of experiments, had learned just
                     how to touch the sore spot and set the wounds bleeding afresh. "Gad! I'll shut
                     her up quick if she begins her gab to me," he muttered to himself, as he was
                     thinking what Aunt Polly would say to him. Then he thought how brave and
                     defiant he would be if his father undertook to punish him. "He'll find out I'm
                     enough for him. He may lick me till he's gray, if he wants to, but he'll never
                     get me to blubber about being sorry. It's a mean scrape anyhow, and I'll never
                     be catched in another one; but 'tain't for him to punish me for it. Gad! I
                     reckon I'm old enough to know what's right and wrong for myself." Then he
                     thought of his mother; how was he to meet her? He felt that his shield was
                     strong enough to defy Aunt Polly's anger and his father's punishment; but how
                     could he be sure but what it would melt like wax before the fire under the
                     loving, sorrowful looks of his mother?
                  He was at home now, and already the family were astir. The first thing he put
                     out his horse and fed him the best the barn afforded. He was too grateful to
                     his faithful animal for bringing him out of his trouble to think of himself
                     first. Then he went to the kitchen, where Aunt Polly had a good fire. His hands
                     were in his pockets, his nose in the air, with the I'm-enough-for-you
                     expression on his face. When he got in he found that he had no use for his
                     armor at all; Aunt Polly's conscience was off duty. It was like a watch-dog
                     that feels it a duty to bark at everything that comes near it; but now that
                     Mrs. Rosewell had taken the responsibility of Frank's case she felt that she
                     was free, and could indulge the native kindness of her heart without feeling
                     she was a traitor to duty.
                  She was so glad to see him; she was so afraid that he had got lost; she had
                     worried so much about him. She looked so pleased and happy that he had got
                     back, that she had not a word to say about his tracking her kitchen she had
                     just scrubbed so nicely. Frank rubbed his eyes in astonishment. Hungry and
                     tired as he was, he began to be ashamed that he had not stopped to clean his
                     feet. He looked at the tracks he had made, and felt worse about them than she
                     did. He went to the rug and wiped his feet; then, instead of throwing his cap
                     and overcoat down on the chair as he was wont to do, for which he always got a
                     good scolding, he hung them up carefully.
                  Meanwhile, Aunt Polly had left her scrubbing and was flying around like a kite
                     to get him his breakfast ready. She was one of those careful, methodical
                     housewives that always have a time for everything and everything must be done
                     in its time, a place for everything and everything must always be in its place.
                     Disappointed in her early love, and all her fair hopes of life blasted, the
                     energies of her active being had all been turned into the housekeeping channel.
                     Hence it was that every one of her household laws were sacred in her eyes. She
                     acted as though people were born and lived for the sake of the house, not that
                     the house was for the accommodation of its inmates. When she broke in upon the
                     regular order of the day, thus disarranging the whole programme, and, instead
                     of doing the thing next in order, went to work to get him something to eat, he was sure that some mighty
                     impulse must have moved her.
                  Ah, how little he knew or imagined what it was! How could a boy be expected to
                     take all the snarlings, and growlings, and scoldings of a broken-hearted woman
                     as proof of her love for him? Mrs. Rosewell, with all her penetration, never
                     dreamed at that time that the reason why she seemed to single out Frank as the
                     object of her severest discipline was that he held the warmest place in her
                     heart, chilled by early disappointment. How was it possible for her to think
                     that Aunt Polly's outbursts of anger at Frank were caused by the vibrating of
                     the tenderest chord in her heart? But the only trouble with Aunt Polly was, she
                     was an unskillful player, and when she wanted to make the most of Frank and
                     bring the sweetest music out of his being, she struck the chords with her anger
                     instead of her love, and so the delicate mechanism of the heart answered to the
                     touch and gave back hatred instead of love. But then is it not so with every
                     instrument of music? Aunt Polly deeply loved Frank, and wanted him to be a
                     great and good man. In voice and manner he was so like her early love that when
                     she looked upon his bright, youthful face, radiant with the internal fires of
                     fun and frolic, she almost forgot the years of pain and suffering that had so
                     widely separated the lonely spinster from the blooming maiden. Again she was a
                     girl; again was her heart throbbing with love and hope, and the future was
                     bright with expected joy. The trouble with her was, she thought it required a
                     hard knock to bring the sweetness out of the boy's disposition, when the truth
                     was a blow wouldn't bring it out at all, the honey of his nature was only drawn
                     out by the gentlest touch of love. Aunt Polly had never seen this so plainly
                     before; and when she saw Frank go and wipe his feet, and hang his coat and cap
                     up on just the right peg, she had to go into the buttery to wipe off the tears
                     that would force themselves out of her eyes.
                  Frank was too manly and truthful to try in the least to hide his fault. He felt
                     meaner than a sheep thief as he met his brother and sisters that morning, but
                     he wasn't going to let them know it. It wasn't any of their business ness, he
                     said to himself. And when his father asked him where he had been, he told the
                     whole truth plainly. He had gone slave-hunting with Tom Price, had quarreled
                     with him and left him, got lost in the woods and couldn't find his way out for
                     a long time. Mr. Rosewell felt the blood tingling to his fingers' ends, he did
                     so long to give the boy the thrashing he deserved; but a silent, pleading look
                     from his wife cooled his anger, and he thought he would let her try her
                     sugar-pill treatment on him. Frank had sometimes, though not often, felt the
                     weight of his father's rod, when he got into his boyish scrapes; and he fully
                     expected it now, and, to tell the truth, he rather wanted it. In such case his
                     suffering would have exalted him into something of a martyr; it would have
                     called attention from his crime to his suffering. Again, the punishment would
                     have acted as a counter-irritant to the pain he was suffering from his
                     conscience and wounded pride. It would have drawn the irritation to the
                     surface, just as the doctor puts on a blister over the lungs to draw the
                     inflammation on the outside.
                  But he missed all this when he missed his flogging. There was nothing to make a
                     martyr of him. There was nothing to withdraw his attention from his own
                     meanness, as he called it. That was what Mr. Rosewell called sugar-pill
                     treatment; but though it might be mild enough to the outward sense, to Frank's
                     experience it was more powerful than the old-fashioned calomel and jalap. When
                     he left his family and sauntered into the garden that morning, his nose was not
                     nearly so high in the air; he looked a great deal more humbled than when he
                     went in, expecting taunts and punishment, and met only kind words and generous
                     treatment. When Eva heard his story about his quarreling and parting with Tom
                     Price, her heart gave such a bound as made it seem to her it would jump out of
                     her mouth, if she did not hold it back. It is true that of all the girlish
                     hearts that have throbbed and bounded at the mention of the dear one's name,
                     none have done quite so bad as that: but then this was poor Eva's first
                     experience, and how could she be expected to know just how high her heart could
                     jump? so she thought it best to ask no question that would direct attention
                        to her, while she wasn't sure what
                     would happen. But just as soon as she saw Frank alone, she sought him; she was
                     much more eager and anxious than when she sought him in behalf of her verses, a
                     little while before. To a girl, what is anything that concerns the intellect
                     only, compared to that which has power to touch the heart!
                  "Did Tom get lost too?" she asked, blushing to the roots of her hair.
                  "If he didn't he ought to be, blast him!" gruffly replied her brother. Eva
                     turned and ran away to hide the tears that would come in spite of herself.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE TWO NAPOLEONS.
                  THE next evening Mrs. Rosewell resumed her story-telling.
                  "In Ajaccio, the principal town of the island of Corsica, we shall see a family
                     scene that at first sight looks something like this. A mother is surrounded by
                     her seven children, and they are listening eagerly to her stories of wars and
                     heroes. But instead of telling them of things she has just read about, she
                     tells them of the wars she has known also. Terrible wars they were, when the
                     people of their little island fought so bravely with the great armies of France
                     to retain their liberty.
                  "She is a very beautiful woman. And as she goes on with her stories of their
                     terrible struggles, her eyes flame and her cheeks are all aglow with
                     excitement, and she don't seem to the children like their mother at all; she
                     seems like the goddess of war, presiding over the armies of her country
                     fighting for liberty.
                  "She tells them of the time, a few years before (it was before Napoleon was
                     born), that they came in their great war ships and landed on their island. The
                     men all had to go and fight, their father among the rest. She was left alone
                     with her four little children, and in the night when they were all sleeping so
                     sweetly, they were awakened by a horseman galloping through the streets and
                     calling at the top of his voice, 'Fly! fly! the enemy is coming. Run for your
                     lives!' The beautiful Letitia (for that was her name) got up, put some clothes
                     on herself and children as quickly as possible, and prepared for her flight.
                     She had great presence of mind; she showed the same coolness and bravery in
                     danger that made her son so famous. She took the youngest in her arms, another
                     on her back, Joseph clung to one side, the other to the other side; and in this
                     way it was they started out into the darkness and midnight gloom. No time was
                     to be lost, for already in the distance she could hear the shouts of soldiers
                     and the shrieks of their victims. She ran as fast as she could, burdened with
                     so many children, and at last she came to a place of safety. She spread her
                     shawl on the ground, laid her children on it, and covered them up the best she
                     could. She looked back to her beautiful home, where she had spent so many happy
                     hours with her dear little children. The soldiers had plundered and then set
                     fire to it. She looked at the burning building, then at her homeless children
                     with no covering but the sky and no bed but the earth, and lifting her eyes to
                     heaven, she prayed to her God to avenge a mother's wrongs. With the intensity
                     of her emotions she became rigid and pale as a marble statue. While she stood
                     thus with uplifted eyes and clasped hands, a strange prophetic light lit up her
                     countenance. Her agonizing soul had overleaped the bounds of mortal vision, and
                     through the mists of time she saw her children, then homeless outcasts, raised
                     to the highest thrones of Europe, with kings and princes and beautiful women
                     bowing before them and doing them homage. So it has ever been, that human agony
                     rends the veil of flesh in twain, and the soul hears sounds and sees sights
                     invisible to the eye of sense.
                  "But what a sight did that fearful night of war and fire present! The moon
                     seemed turned to blood. The sky was lurid with the flames of burning buildings;
                     the air was thick with their smoke, and filled with the shouts of soldiers intent on carnage and plunder. Women
                     in night-clothes, their hair streaming over their shoulders, pale with fright
                     and fear, crying for mercy for themselves and protection for their helpless
                     children.
                  "But the beautiful Letitia saw none of these things. The present was to her as
                     the shadowy past to us. She was reveling in the glory and greatness of her
                     children.
                  "A few months after this, Napoleon was born, and a great many wise people think
                     that it was because of that war, that midnight flight, Letitia's panic and
                     emotion, that he was the greatest military genius the world has ever known.
                  "As Letitia told her children this story of her midnight flight and her
                     beautiful vision of the future, the eyes of the young Napoleon flamed and
                     glowed like burning coals; a strange light shone in them, such a light as
                     afterwards made men bow and turn pale before the Man of Destiny. As he listened
                     to his mother's story, what he had been so long dreaming about and thinking
                     about seemed right before him; he was just like the young eagle that first
                     wakes to life and feels as though he wants to fly. But when he tries he finds
                     there are the walls of a castle all around him. It is the shell of the egg he
                     was born in; and he must do a great deal of pecking with his bill before he can
                     get a chance to use his wings. So he begins to peck and peck away at the shell
                     till at last he gets a little hole large enough to see through. It looks so
                     nice out in the world, that he begins to peck away at his shell harder than
                     ever; at last he gets entirely clear of it, and coming out he sees the blue sky
                     all around. He thinks, now he can fly over the heads of all the men and women
                     of this world, and pick up their children and eat just when he is hungry, and
                     go just where he pleases; that is what he was dreaming of when he was pecking
                     away at the shell, though he didn't clearly understand it."
                  "He never would have found it out if he hadn't got out of the shell, would he?"
                     said Eva.
                  "No," said Mrs. Rosewell; "little birds, like other folks, have to take one
                     step at a time. They can't fly as soon as they want to. They must do a great
                     deal of pecking and get a great many hard knocks and falls before they learn
                     how to use their wings. But as the little Napoleon listened to his mother's
                     story, he thought, like the little eagle, he could now fly where he pleased. He
                     thought himself the biggest man in the world. The next day he went to school,
                     where the teacher had a rule that forbid the scholars cracking nuts in school.
                     But Napoleon thought now he could crack all the nuts he chose, as he was his
                     own master. So he began to crack and eat them, without trying to hide it at
                     all. Soon the master saw him, and told him to come out on the floor. He
                     straightened himself back proudly and defiantly, and said, 'I won't!'
                  "'Then I shall whip you,' said the master.
                  "'Touch me if you dare,' said the proud hero, his eyes flaming with pride and
                     anger.
                  "The master went towards him, when quick as thought he caught his knife and
                     tried to strike the master with it. So the master caught his hands, and, tying
                     them behind him, pulled him out on the floor, and got his whip ready to whip
                     him.
                  "When the boy saw that, instead of being a great king, he was only a little boy
                     that must take a whipping, he was so filled with rage and mortified pride that
                     he fell down on the floor and went into a fit.
                  "The scholars were all so scared, they thought he would die. It was a long time
                     before he came out of the fit, and when he did the master didn't try to whip
                     him any more, but told his brother Joseph to take him home. He looked so pale
                     when he got there, and felt so ashamed that any one should have tried to whip
                     him, that his mother began to tell him about the Spartan boys. She told him how
                     their mothers wanted to harden them so that they shouldn't mind pain, because
                     they all had to fight when they got old enough to defend their country. So
                     their mothers would take them to the public whipping-posts: there they would
                     stand and be whipped till the blood would trickle down their legs and arms and
                     bodies; but not a tear would trickle down their cheeks."
                  "But that wasn't true, was it, ma?" said little Chit, hoping for the sake of
                     the poor boys it was only a story Napoleon's mother was making up just to
                     please him.
                  
                  "Yes, my child, she was telling him the truth. And it is said that boys often
                     stood and were flogged till they died at the post, and not a tear nor a groan
                     escaped them, no more than as though their flesh was made of marble."
                  "Oh! what wicked, cruel mothers they must have been," said Chit, "to let men
                     whip their boys to death that way!"
                  "They didn't do it because they were cruel. They did it to make them brave and
                     not care for pain, because they must all be soldiers if they would retain their
                     freedom; and the noble Spartans loved liberty better than life."
                  "It was noble of them," said Frank; "and I wish I had been born in such times.
                     There is no chance to be brave now. We are a mean-spirited, cowardly people;
                     scared to death at the sight of a little blood."
                  He looked at his mother as though he thought her a very poor mother, because
                     she hadn't made him tough and brave, like the Spartan boys.
                  "A boy has no chance to be brave now, you think, do you?" said his mother. "How
                     was it with that little boy you were reading about the other day, in the New
                     York paper?"
                  "Oh, yes, I remember," said Eva, with great eagerness; "some bad boys wanted
                     him to go and steal pears. But he said he wouldn't. They told him if he didn't
                     they would drown him. He said 'he had rather die than do what was wrong. So
                     they pulled him to the water and put him in. Then they pulled him out, and
                     asked him if he would go with them then? He said 'No, he would die rather than
                     steal.' So they put him under again, and when they drew him out he was dead.
                     There," said Eva, "what Spartan boy was ever braver than that? They would die
                     sooner than act cowardly, but he died rather than do wrong. Now which is the
                        noblest and bravest, to die for the right or to
                     die to be brave?"
                  "If that boy had lived in other times," said Mrs. Rosewell, "he would have had
                     a monument built to his memory. Poets would have sung songs of his brave and
                     noble life. Every boy and girl that sung the song of the brave boy would have
                     felt inspired by it to 'dare to do right,' to hate cowardice and thieving. But
                     our country has only monuments for those that fight and talk politics."
                  "Why don't some one write a song of the brave boy?" said Chit. "They might do
                     that, if they didn't have any money to build him a monument."
                  Frank hung down his head and said nothing. In the company of such boys as his
                     mother and sister had called up before him, he somehow felt smaller than he
                     ever had before. He had always thought Frank Rosewell was about the bravest and
                     smartest boy in the whole world. He couldn't help but think what a fuss he
                     would make, and how cross and peevish he would be, if he only had the
                     toothache; but worst of all was the thought what a coward he had
                     often been in being afraid to do right, for fear boys would laugh at him. But
                     he didn't like to have his sister know how he felt. He wanted her to think he
                     was a great deal braver than she was, so he said nothing. Mrs. Rosewell watched
                     him; she had a way of reading children's thoughts and feelings in their faces,
                     as we read a writer's thoughts in his books.
                  After awhile she said: "Both kinds of bravery Eva spoke of are noble. Without
                     great physical bravery and endurance the Spartans couldn't have saved their
                     country at all. It took only three hundred men that had been trained that way
                     when boys, to beat back and conquer several hundred thousands of the enemy at
                     the famous pass of Thermopylæ. The Chicago hero lived in a better day, when it
                     is soul-bravery that is mostly needed. But many a boy shows as great courage in
                     doing right when other boys are making fun of him, as the boy that was drowned
                     did.
                  "While we have been talking so long of this, the little Napoleon has forgotten
                     all about how near he came to being whipped, and he is lost in wonder and
                     admiration of the Spartan boys.
                  "That evening the mother told them of Alexander the Great, how he went with his
                     great armies and conquered every people that opposed him, and made even the
                     Jews, that said they were God's peculiar people, pay taxes to him. Napoleon
                     went to bed and dreamed of the great Alexander, and he got his ideas so mixed
                     in dreamland that instead of Alexander
                     it was himself that was riding in the fiery chariot of war, conquering all
                     before him. The next day he went to school prouder and haughtier than ever. He
                     said to himself that he should crack all the nuts he wanted to; and if the
                     master wanted to whip him he might, and he would be whipped like a brave boy
                     that was getting hardened to be a soldier that didn't care for hurts or
                     pain.
                  "So when he got ready he began to crack his nuts in plain sight of the master;
                     so the master called him up to whip him again. But, instead of falling down in
                     a fit as he did the day before, he stood as straight as a bean-pole. His eyes
                     flashed defiance at the master, as much as to say, here is a brave boy that is
                     ready to take as hard blows as you can strike. The master had a large whip, and
                     he put on the blows with all his strength; but it was just like putting blows
                     on to the mailed warriors of old, he never flinched nor moved a muscle."
                  "I should think," said Chit, "that the little watchmen that waked John Wesley
                     up would have made a great fuss."
                  "They did make a great fuss, but Napoleon was far away; he didn't notice
                     them."
                  "Why, ma, how can that be?" said Chit, in astonishment. "You just said he was
                     there being whipped, and now you say he was far away. He couldn't be in two
                     places at the same time, could he?"
                  "You know," said Mrs. Rosewell, "there were two Napoleons. One was a body with
                     flesh and bones and nerves, and the other was the master or ruler of these, and
                     they had to do as he said. So when the king Napoleon said to his servant the
                     body, 'You shall stand there and be whipped so that I can be a brave soldier
                     like the Spartan boys, and I sha'n't pay any attention to the fuss you make,'
                     why it had to do it. And all the while the little king was riding in his fiery
                     chariot of war, like the great Alexander, over all the world."
                  "I don't see how that can be," said Chit.
                  "I wish I could run away from a licking like that," said Frank.
                  "A great many men have been so wounded in battle that they have died of the
                     wounds, and yet they were so engaged with their fighting that they knew nothing
                     about it till they were carried off the field. Mr. Gough, the great temperance
                     lecturer, says that one time he was lecturing on intemperance, when he struck
                     his fist so hard on the marble desk that it fractured a bone; but so absorbed
                     was he in his subject, and so anxious was he to save young men from the perils
                     of intoxicating drinks, that he never knew anything about his hurt until he got
                     through, when he found he was suffering the most excruciating pain; his hand
                     was swollen, and so bad that he couldn't use it for six months."
                  "How curious!" said Eva; "it is really wonderful."
                  "You can see something like it right here in your own little self," said her
                     mother. "While one Eva has been off to the island of Corsica, visiting the
                     Bonaparte family, the other has been here; and the one that has been to Corsica
                     has no idea what Eddie has been doing to the one here."
                  Eva turned round to find that Eddie had been braiding her hair in all sorts of
                     ways.
                  Now he began to shout with great glee, and he cried out, "Me dot pid tail! me
                     dot pid tail! See! see!" shouted the little mischief.
                  Eva looked so curious, that Frank and Chit began to laugh and poke fun at her.
                     She felt quite like getting angry, and she almost wanted to give Eddie a slap
                     for making such a fright of her. But he looked so cunning, with the deep
                     dimples in his cheeks and the merry twinkle in his eye, that instead of
                     slapping she had to kiss him.
                  "Eddie is a good boy [kisses], if he did snarl [kiss] sister's hair [more
                     kisses]."
                  Now that Eddie had had his fun out of it, he wanted to repair the mischief, so
                     he said, "Me tate it out 'din, me will. Me tiss sissy."
                  Eddie thought one of his "tisses" was enough to pay for any amount of mischief,
                     and the rest of the family seemed to think so too. One time he got to the
                     molasses jug, and played that he was a ginger-cake that his ma was pouring
                     molasses into. Bridget found him in a pool of molasses, daubed with flour. But
                     when he stuck up his sticky hands and
                     said "Me tiss oo," laughter chased away all anger, and she caught him up in her
                     arms, dirt and all, and took the offered "tiss." "Faith!" she said, "and it is
                     not meself that is the hard-hearted creature that could punish the likes of
                     yees."
                  
                     EMBRYO PHILOSOPHERS BURSTING THE SHELL.
                     The Rosewell children were little philosophers now. The story of little
                        Napoleon's whipping set them thinking what a curious thing to have two boys
                        in one. Even Chit's little brain was as busy as ever was Plato's. Eva kept
                        pinching herself first in one place, then another; she was trying to find
                        some trace of the other Eva. When school-time came round she said to her
                        mother: "I wish you would make one of the other Evas go to school and get
                        the lessons to-day; I want to go to the woods."
                     "The Eva that goes to the woods will take the punishment," said Mrs.
                        Rosewell.
                     All day Frank was in a fever of impatience to hear his mother explain the
                        mystery of the two Napoleons. "I should like to have you tell me," he said,
                        "how it is possible for two things to be one, and the one two, at the same
                        time."
                     "It is more correct to say one person is three, and the three is one," said
                        Mrs. Rosewell.
                     "I don't see how it was possible for Napoleon to be a little boy taking a
                        licking, and at the same time a great king," said Frank.
                     "I can't see into the mystery of mind and matter they talk so much about,"
                        said Eva. "Do, ma, tell us the mystery of the two Napoleons."
                     "Well; the first Napoleon was a little animal made up of earth, air, and
                        water."
                     "Didn't God have to take water to wet up the dust He made Adam of?" asked
                        Chit.
                     "Certainly He did. A large part of the body is composed of water. All
                        animals have some degree of a mind. The difference between theirs and the
                        human mind is this: God doesn't breathe upon theirs the breath of spiritual
                        life, so they never become living spirits. Their minds are like the
                        fragrance and beauty of a rose, that no one ever sees; nothing comes of it.
                        But if its beauty and sweetness is carried to you, it creates a beautiful
                        image, which we will name Pleasure. This image or child of joy can go where
                        the rose can't; it goes wherever you go. It lives when the rose fades, and
                        turns back to dust. It has entered into your being, so it will live as long
                        as you live. You breathed the breath of life into the beauty of the rose,
                        and it became immortal. You see you can't separate the sweetness from the
                        rose; but the child or image that is born of that sweetness is entirely
                        separate. So it is you can't separate the mind from the animal; it is the
                        result of its organization. It dies with the animal as the beauty dies with
                        the rose; but the being that was born of that mind lives on, because God
                        breathed upon it the breath of life and it became a living soul. It entered
                        into the being of God as the rose's sweetness entered into your being. Now
                        you can see how the animal Napoleon could be in one place and the spirit in
                        another. They are one, so they are two. What if you should tell a man about
                        the beautiful child, Pleasure, that was born of a rose, and he should take
                        the flower and pick it to pieces, then get his chemicals and dissolve it,
                        and keep looking to see if he could find the beautiful child, Pleasure, you
                        said was there; and then, because he could find nothing but oxygen,
                        hydrogen, etc., should tell you that you were deceived, there was no such
                        thing as you described in the rose, what would you think of him?"
                     "Think of him?" said Frank, "I should know he was a fool, to study a
                        senseless rose for what he could only find in himself."
                     "Why, ma, I'd tell him he didn't look in the right place," said Chit. "He
                        must look to me if he wanted to find the pleasure I got from the rose."
                     "Well," said Mrs. Rosewell, "there are plenty of just such fools that try to
                        study such beings as Napoleon. They cut them to pieces with their dissecting
                        knives; they dissolve them in acids. They give names to the organs, muscles,
                        bones, and nerves, and failing to find any such thing as a spirit, they say,
                        'We are deceived! it ain't there.'"
                     
                     "They don't look in the right place, either," said Chit; "they
                        ought to look to God to find the spirit."
                     "How can you prove that there is such a thing as spirit?" said Frank. "It
                        ain't best to assert things you can't prove," said the young
                        philosopher.
                     "I will answer your question by another," said Mrs. Rosewell. "How can you
                        prove the beauty of the rose?"
                     "It don't require proof," said Frank; "its beauty is self-evident." Frank
                        strutted up, put his hands in his pockets, and strode across the floor as
                        much as to say, "Here is another Thomas Jefferson for you." No country but
                        the American republic could produce such a type of boyhood as Frank
                        Rosewell. He felt that the heir of no European throne had any such
                        possibilities before him as he had. He was a possible President,
                        millionaire, railroad king, philosopher, hod-carrier, farmer, mechanic, all
                        in one. Fourth of July orators and eloquent speakers at public schools, in
                        their addresses to scholars, had made him think he had only to choose which
                        of these he would be. He was a boy looking at the world through grandpa's
                        spectacles.
                     His answer to his mother's question was a challenge for a "big argument," as
                        he called it, but she wasn't disposed to take it up. Chit was nodding, and
                        opening and shutting her eyes like a doll with a wire winking-apparatus
                        inside its head. Eddie had forgotten all about his "pid tail," and other
                        mischief, and was sleeping as quietly as a sober judge. Eva's brain was as
                        full of fancies as it could hold, chasing each out and in, in and out, as
                        children playing at hide-and-go-seek.
                     Mrs. Rosewell put her hand under Chit's chin, and held the sleepy face up to
                        the light, saying "To bed! to bed! you sleepyhead."
                     "Oh, ma," said Chit, "tell one little story first."
                     Mrs. Rosewell began: "One beautiful morning in June a large mother-rose had
                        opened all its leaves to the sun. The sun, like a dear, good fairy, came in,
                        touched every leaf, and crammed the rose with beauty and glory. A smaller
                        rose that stood close by couldn't help but exclaim, 'Oh, how beautiful!' The
                        pinks and the lilies woke up, and sang at the top of their voices, 'Oh, how
                        beautiful!' The noise awoke a sturdy little dandelion, that stood near by,
                        and he opened his eyes and looked around to see what was the matter. The
                        flowers pointed to the rose, and sang out again, 'Oh, how beautiful!' Now,
                        Mr. Dandelion was quite a philosopher; and he had made up his mind not to
                        believe anything that couldn't be proved. So he said to the pinks and
                        lilies, 'What proof can you give of what you say? I am open to conviction,
                        and if you can prove that rose to be beautiful, I will praise it too; but I
                        can't worship anything that I ain't certain has an existence. I demand
                        proof.' The poor little Miss Pink and Miss Lily didn't know what to say to
                        wise Mr. Dandelion. They knew nothing about logic; all they cared to know
                        was how to look pretty themselves, and to admire beauty in others; so all
                        they could do was to keep pointing to the rose and crying out, 'Oh, how
                        beautiful!' 'Oh, foolish creatures!' exclaimed Mr. Dandelion, 'you are no
                        better than parrots, repeating what your grandfathers have told you. Don't
                        you know enough to study for yourselves? I'll teach you how to tell whether
                        that rose is beautiful or not. Just dissect, analyze, and resolve it to its
                        original elements, and if you can find beauty among them, then you may say
                        the rose is beautiful; otherwise you must admit you have been the victims of
                        superstition.' So Mr. Dandelion plucked the rose, tore it to pieces, then
                        threw it into a dish of acids he had ready, and that dissolved it like sugar
                        in water. Then he examined the acid and told them there was oxygen and
                        hydrogen and other things, but no such thing as beauty. Then he made a grand
                        speech, and told them what fools they were to believe in what did not exist,
                        because they had been taught so. 'Let me give you a motto,' said the wise
                        Dandelion, 'that will keep you out of such trouble in future: Never take
                        anything on trust. Never believe anything that can't be proved.'
                     "Poor little Miss Lily and Miss Pink dropped their heads and looked very
                        much ashamed. Lily cried, and shook the dew off herself like tear-drops, and
                        said, 'Oh, dear! if there is no such thing as beauty in the world, I am sure
                        I am good for nothing, and I wish I was dead.' 'And I too,' said Pink; 'I
                        wish I had never been born. Oh,
                        dear! it is dreadful to have to be born, and then be nothing but a little
                        mess of oxygen, hydrogen, and such stuff!' She trembled so with her sad
                        feelings that the dew-drops on her face trembled too, and the rays of the
                        sun shining through them displayed all the colors of the rainbow. Mr.
                        Dandelion saw it, and for a moment felt as delighted as Chit did when she
                        saw the rainbow the other day. But in a moment he thought of what he had
                        just proved, and he said to himself, 'What a fool I am to be pleased with
                        what I know can't exist.' But just then, some children that had come out to
                        look at the flowers caught sight of the beautiful pink, with the dew-drops
                        sparkling like diamonds, and they clapped their hands with great glee, and
                        shouted, 'Oh, look! look! What beautiful flowers!' Mr. Dandelion waved his
                        head and tried to tell the children there was no such thing as beauty there;
                        but they couldn't understand a word he said. 'Now,' said the children, 'we
                        must have a bouquet.' 'Yes,' said Hattie, 'and to-night is Nellie's
                        birthday-party, and we must make a crown for her.' So they all began to pick
                        the prettiest flowers they could find for the crown, but none of them
                        touched the yellow dandelion. Till, finally, a little boy came along, and
                        seeing the wise Mr. Dandelion, plucked off his head and threw it into the
                        basket of flowers. Then he felt very nice when he saw what company he had
                        got into. It was so delightful there, everything was so fresh and sweet and
                        pretty around him. 'Now,' he thought to himself, 'what a nice time I'll have
                        this evening at that young lady's party;' but when Hattie came to make the
                        crown, she picked up the yellow flower and tossed it away, saying, 'Oh, the
                        homely thing! What business has that among these beautiful flowers? It ain't
                        good for anything but greens.' A boy came along and stepped on it, and
                        ground it into the dirt. Poor Mr. Dandelion opened his eyes, looked for the
                        last time on the earth, and said, 'Oh, dear me! No such thing as beauty; and
                        I am crushed to death because I havn't got it. This is a curious world!' and
                        closed his eyes and died."
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE SLAVE-CATCHERS.
                  THE story of the little Napoleon had a great effect on Frank's mind. His
                     adventures at the slave-hunt had broken up the hard crust of indifference that
                     had caused his mother's stories to have so little effect upon him. His higher
                     nature had always lain dormant before. It was asleep, and it took a pretty hard
                     knock to awaken it; but it was now thoroughly awake, and susceptible to
                     impressions. His ever-watchful mother was fully aware of this, and she
                     determined to make the most of the golden moments.
                  What a moment is that when the soul first wakes to its higher life! What a
                     thrill when one feels the first throb of the Infinite!—when the dull
                     consciousness first reveals the secret of immortality and shows the earth-born
                     being its title to an heavenly inheritance! Truly this is the golden moment of
                     existence. And the wise parent will carefully watch the indications of its
                     dawn, and be prepared to make the most of its possibilities for good.
                  Mrs. Rosewell had selected her stories with special reference to this crisis in
                     Frank's experience. After he went to bed that night, he could not sleep. The
                     animal Frank had always had his say before, and just as quick as his head
                     touched the pillow the boy went to sleep; but as the other Frank was aroused
                     now, he must have a chance to have a little of his say, and he said, "Lie
                     awake, and think awhile." And the animal had to obey and keep his eyes open,
                     and the brain kept whirling with new and strange thoughts. All that
                     philosophers have reasoned about from the time of the Athenian sages till now,
                     all that poets have sung about the mysteries of being, was in its little
                     measure running through the boy's mind that night, as he lay tossing on his
                     restless pillow. There is no such difference as we think between the boy philosopher and poet and the man.
                     The ideas are in the mind of the boy as in the mind of the man, but the trouble
                     with the boy is, he does not know how to bring them out. They exist in the
                     mind, as steam was in the world long before men knew anything of its powers and
                     possibilities. Frank began to feel the steam, as many a boy has felt before and
                     since, without knowing what use to put it to. It was his good fortune to have a
                     mother that had sense enough to know what he needed, and force of character
                     enough to apply it. And what was stranger than all, she seemed to think that
                     her work on the minds and characters of her children was the greatest and
                     grandest that could occupy the time and attention of a human being. Very
                     singular notions had Mrs. Rosewell. Oh, how she laughed, when Aunt Polly, fresh
                     from the agitation of the woman question at the East, said to her one day,
                     shortly after her return, "La me, Mary, it does seem to me you are just wasting
                     your time and throwing away your talent harping with these young uns so much.
                     Why, bless my soul! if you'd let these young uns go, you might write something
                     for the paper!"
                  While things were passing on pleasantly with this family, very different was it
                     with poor Uncle Ned. His weak, untaught soul was struggling with all the
                     horrors of fear and doubt and misplaced confidence. When we saw him last, his
                     hand was uplifted, as if to take the blood of another to buy his own freedom.
                     But in that fearful struggle between conscience and a desire for freedom,
                     conscience triumphed, and the weapon of death fell harmless at his feet. Just
                     at that moment he felt the sharp teeth of the slave-hunter's dog, and the
                     shouts and yells of the maddened hunters showed him that he was in the clutches
                     of his pursuers. The pain caused by the grip of the dog's teeth, as well as the
                     instinct of self-defense that man has in common with the animals, triumphed
                     over his new-born nature, and, like a lion at bay, he turned upon his pursuers,
                     determined to sell his life as dearly as possible.
                  The human soul may be compared to a battle-ground whereon the angel of love and
                     peace is continually brought into conflict with the demon of selfishness and
                     hate; and as the angel had triumphed a moment before, so the demon triumphed
                     now. He seized the dog, whose teeth were firmly set in the calf of his leg,
                     gave him such a jerk that he drew the teeth through the flesh and left his leg
                     a bloody mass of shreds and tangled nerves and bare bones. The dog, whose
                     ferocious nature had been fully aroused by the taste of blood, gave a fearful
                     yell, and with one bound freed himself from the grip of the slave, and with
                     another buried his teeth in his neck. He could not pull the dog's teeth out as
                     before, but he seized his neck with both hands and choked him till he was
                     obliged to let go. Uncle Ned had always been a strong, powerful man, but
                     desperation seemed to give him the strength of Samson, and he wrung the dog's
                     neck as though it had been a chicken's. There is something in such an
                     exhibition of manly strength and courage that cannot but excite our admiration
                     and call out the enthusiasm of our nature. The thousands of Romans and Greeks
                     that were wont to assemble in the ancient amphitheatres to enjoy the fights
                     between the Christians and the wild beasts, were not drawn thither by any
                     feeling of pleasure at the sight of physical suffering. They were pleased and
                     made happy because the courage, strength, and endurance of the Christians
                     appealed to the higher principles of their nature, and excited their enthusiasm
                     for what was noble and brave. It is in the exercise of these higher faculties
                     that we find our highest enjoyment.
                  So is was that the strength and courage that Uncle Ned displayed in fighting
                     the dogs, as one after another sprang on him, called out the better feelings of
                     those barbarous slave-hunters. Unmindful of their expected reward, they were
                     actually cheering the brave slave as he disabled one after another of the
                     bloodthirsty animals that pitched upon him.
                  It was thus they were enjoying the sport, when the furious old Jones rode in
                     among them. His horse was foaming and panting from hard running; he pale with
                     rage and frenzied with excitement. Truly he would have made a good subject for
                     a picture of the Old Nick on horseback. He fairly hissed like a serpent as he
                     tried to scream out, "Ha, rascals! A purty set you are to stand here laughing while them ar dogs's tare'n to
                     pieces my nigger, as I was just offered two thousand dollars fur and wouldn't
                     take it; and me been keepin' ye on whisky this long time,—and you'll hold a
                     barrel apiece, every one on ye." These remarks were well stuffed out with the
                     foulest oaths, after the manner of such people.
                  The wretched hunters were terribly frightened. They feared their supply of
                     whisky would be at once cut off, and they were already thirsting for more. They
                     knew it was like taking the old man's heart's blood, to squeeze the money out
                     of him for their drinks; so they concluded they must call off the dogs and
                     catch his slave themselves to save him from further injury. But he looked so
                     fierce and powerful as he stood covered with blood, his dark eyes flashing
                     angry defiance at the whole pack, that they really felt as though they should
                     prefer to attack a fierce lion. They took out their dirk-knives, with which
                     Southern people were at that day always supplied even if they had nothing else.
                     Whereat old Jones flew into a deeper rage than ever, and swore he would shoot
                     the whole pack if they did not at once put their knives up and catch that
                     nigger with their "nasty, worthless hands." The pistol was behind them, the
                     lion before them, and they must choose upon which they would fall. Tom drew
                     himself off to a safe distance, and watched the crowd. These decided to attack
                     the slave, and altogether they made a rush at him. But the thin, shadowy white
                     men were no match for the vigorous, muscular black man, and he soon sent them
                     reeling after the dogs; and it was not until the animal was thoroughly aroused
                     in them by the pain of their bruises that they showed themselves any match for
                     him. At last, weakened by loss of blood, and overcome by such great odds, the
                     poor slave had to give up, when he was bound hand and foot and thrown across
                     the horse, back of old Jones's saddle. There were no roads in that country for
                     wagons.
                  On the same evening that we followed Frank Rosewell on his lonely journey
                     homeward, the whole party of hunters, minus old Jones and Tom Price and his
                     nigger, might have been seen entering the nearest cross-road grocery, which was
                     also a whisky-shop, dry-goods store, and everything else in general. Such
                     places were established on every corner where the roads or foot-paths crossed
                     each other, and the proprietors lived on what they could make by selling whisky
                     to the masters, and getting for half-price what the slaves could steal. Except
                     on some rare occasion, like the present, there was no money to be got out of
                     the white trash. They were simply ballast that kept the ship of state balanced;
                     they were a necessary weight that had to be carried on the slaveholders' side,
                     to keep the mass of blacks on the other side from sinking the ship.
                  Those that were here assembled had had sense enough not to leave old Jones
                     until they had got a part of the promised reward. This did not come in hard
                     cash, but in the form of a paper order that one of the party, more fortunate
                     than the rest, had been able to write. Old Jones was by no means equal to the
                     task of signing his name to it. All the book-learning he had ever been able to
                     acquire was what little he had picked up in a Sabbath-school in Old Virginia,
                     before his folks had piled their children in the "white-topped wagon," and set
                     off for the new States of the Southwest. But the man that was able to write
                     signed his name, and he made his mark, which answered just as well. The said
                     order directed the man of the grocery to give each of the party a certain
                     amount and charge it to Mr. Jones.
                  They felt as rich as though the whole world had been theirs as they gathered
                     together to enjoy a night's debauch. But before beginning their spree they were
                     wise enough to look out a little for their families. Each one of them first
                     bought a piece of bacon, some cornmeal and coffee, while some even went so far
                     as to buy some little articles of clothing for the children. Any person that
                     didn't know anything about Southern bacon would have thought, by the look of
                     the pieces brought out to be put in the bags, there was enough of live-stock on
                     it to devour it before the poor, hungry children could get a chance at it. But
                     that idea would only show their ignorance of bacon. It is said that when a wild
                     hog wants to attack a rattlesnake he sticks up his snout and lets the snake
                     bite that. The snout being a non-conductor of poison, the bite can do no harm, and, after the
                     foolish snake has thrown away all his poison in two or three useless bites,
                     piggy makes a good dinner upon him. It sometimes happens that a very lean hog
                     attacks a snake, and the poison works through the thin layers of fat and gets
                     into the circulation, and the poor animal satisfies his stomach at the expense
                     of his life. He is not the only animal that does that, either.
                  So it sometimes happens in the Southern bacon. It is too lean to be a perfect
                     non-conductor, and the life with which it is covered makes its way inside and
                     all through it; and the unfortunate buyer finds his bacon very much like a
                     honeycomb with the honey out.
                  Thus it was with one of the pieces that the storekeeper was trying to slip into
                     one of the bags. The owner was anxiously watching him, and when he saw which
                     bag the live bacon was going into, he quietly asked, "I say, Carnel, has that
                     ar butcher been 'round lately?"
                  "I reckon he has," drawled out the unsuspecting Carnel. "He's been here a heap
                     tu much for his own good or mine either. Have yer got any work for him?"
                  "Well, I reckon I have," said the first speaker; "I've got right smart o' a
                     butcher's job on hand."
                  The party all looked up at him with as much wonder and astonishment as their
                     blank, expressionless faces could exhibit. They knew him to be the poorest
                     scallawag in the crowd; whose only live-stock consisted of mosquitoes, gnats,
                     children, fleas, dogs, and such unbutcherable property. It was probably this
                     very fact of his extreme poverty that caused the storekeeper to put the poorest
                     bacon in his bag. So true it is, that "whosoever hath, to him shall be given;
                     and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to
                     have."
                  He took no notice of their staring at him, but walked up to his bag, took out
                     the obnoxious bacon, and laid it on the counter. Then taking a step backward,
                     he pointed to it and said, with expressive emphasis, "I reckon I'd better git
                     that ar bacon butchered over agin; there's a heap too much crawlin' there, and
                     I'm awfully skeered to start with it; coz, in place of me packin'
                        it off, it might pack me off."
                  The laugh that followed this remark showed the storekeeper that he was sold;
                     and he knew that the only way to regain his standing was to treat the crowd. So
                     pretending to join in the laugh, he walked behind the bar, saying to them,
                     "Well, I reckon if this 'ere crowd is weak enough to be skeered at bein'
                     carried off by what the flies makes, ye's had better take suthin' tu strengthen
                     up on."
                  They all thought so too, and were very glad to get it at his expense. He was
                     one of those mean, stingy-souled Yankees that are the exceptional outgrowth of
                     New England, where the sterile soil obliges the exercise of the faculty of
                     gaining and saving, in a large part of the population. The mean, stingy
                     selfishness of this man was the dark shadow of New England economy, thrift, and
                     enterprise. So true it is that in this world the most beautiful things make the
                     most hideous shadows.
                  "They think they've come a suck game on me. Guess they'll find out 'fore
                     mornin' who 's the cutest. Guess they'll have to git up a little earlier in the
                     mornin' to git 'round this Yankee."
                  Such were the thoughts running through his mind as he dealt out and kept an
                     exact account of the number of glasses of whisky he gave them. The reader will
                     see that, although he talked the peculiar dialect of the South, "I reckon," a
                     "heap," etc., he did his thinking in the language of his boyhood.
                  Well, the event proved that he was right in his estimate of his own cuteness
                     and their dullness: for before morning he had contrived to water their whisky
                     to the exact quantity of what he had used in treating them. The crawling bacon
                     was quietly slipped back into the man's bag. "Such trash is jest fit to feed on
                     maggots," was the excuse he offered to the slight protest of conscience that
                     his better nature was still able to make. And surely to look at that disgusting
                     crowd about midnight, when in the full enjoyment of their revelry bought by the
                     price of a brother's blood, it would be hard to disprove such a statement. But
                     as the character and condition of these miserable people was the peculiar
                     outgrowth of American slavery, a system that has been washed out by the best
                     blood of the country, we may cover the unhappy creatures with the mantle of oblivion and commend them to
                     the pity and detestation of the civilized world. Their faults of character were
                     largely the result of outward conditions for which they were no more
                     responsible than for the peculiarities of their climate; while their
                     virtues—and they had many—were the reflection of the Divine image that can
                     never be wholly effaced from the soul of humanity.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE NIGHT OF SORROW.
                  THE jolting consequent upon horseback-riding kept Uncle Ned's wounds constantly
                     bleeding, and their road was literally stained with blood behind them; and with
                     the life-blood flowed away those fearful animal passions that had controlled
                     him since the first attack of the dog. His physical system was in that state of
                     dreamy, half-paralyzed sensibility so like the condition produced by ether in
                     many people. The animal being thus subdued, the spiritual was in the ascendant,
                     and, the latest impressions being the strongest ever made upon them, new ideas
                     took full possession of him; so when he got back to his old cabin and the
                     slaves took him, bound hand and foot, and threw him on the ground, preparatory
                     to the expected flogging, his face shone as though it were lit up with a ray of
                     celestial glory. He raised his dark, almost sightless eyes to heaven, and so
                     did its light shine upon them that they reflected the heavenly beauty; even as
                     the clear water reflects all the glories of moon, stars, and clouds. The
                     superstitious slaves were awe-struck, and inwardly trembled with an undefined
                     fear. They thought "dat de Lord was really in de black body of Uncle Ned."
                     Their equally superstitious master was panic-stricken. He really thought by
                     what he had seen in the woods, and to-day at the hunt, that the devil (or the
                     Lord, he couldn't tell which) had got into his slave. His knees smote together,
                     and he turned pale with fright, like a child that has seen a ghost.
                  "It's coz I hain't had nothin' to drink or eat in so long a time," he muttered
                     to himself to excuse his own cowardice. "I'll git somethin' to drink and then
                     I'll be myself agin. Purty sight if a man like me's goin' to be seen tremblin'
                     before his own nigger." All this time he was hurrying towards his bottle,
                     thinking he had better not have him flogged any more. "Coz he was purty well
                     cut up already, and if he should have him flogged and washed in brine, as he
                     had calculated on, it might make him sick, so he couldn't sell him." When he
                     had fully satisfied himself that it was because he wanted to save money on
                     him—not because he was at all afraid of him—that he didn't want him whipped any
                     more, he gave orders to have him thrown into his own cabin and something given
                     him to eat.
                  Aunt Chloe brought her choicest tit-bits, of which she always had a good
                     supply, that none knew better than she how to slip away from the big house
                     where she was cook. But nothing would tempt him to eat. The day's excitement
                     and fatigue, added to the powerful influence his new experience had wrought
                     upon him, produced the same effect that the fumes of opium do on the devout
                     Brahman. The soul was partially forced from the suffering body, and its hunger
                     and pain were unfelt, because of the more powerful impressions of the mind. But
                     this state was not always to last. His body had been like a king that had been
                     driven off his rightful domains, and now came back with full force to take
                     possession again.
                  The human body is a strange sovereign: it is the most cruel, exacting, and
                     tyrannical of all Neros towards those that disobey its laws; but to those that
                     obey them, it is one of the most obedient and useful of servants. And now, when
                     Aunt Chloe put the tempting cup of wine to his parched lips, by no act of will,
                     but in simple obedience to the laws ordained for the preservation of life, he
                     seized it and drank to the last drop.
                  Oh, the fatal wine-cup! Much of sorrow and misery it has brought to thousands
                     of our fellow-men. But to none of them has it brought deeper sorrow than to the
                     poor, wounded, suffering slave that it brought from the blissful regions of
                     unconsciousness to feel the pain and hopelessness of his present lot.
                  
                  As the wine began to awaken his benumbed sensibilities, he tried to realize
                     where he was. He rubbed his forehead to help his memory, and tried to move his
                     feet. He felt a dull, heavy pain from his wounds and bruises, but memory was as
                     yet too weak to give more than a vague, indistinct idea of what had happened.
                     At last his eye rested on the corner where his Bible lay concealed; and the
                     first words he spoke were to tell Aunt Chloe to bring it to him. She was afraid
                     to refuse, though she hated it as the cause of all their trouble.
                  "It's a heap better off we was 'fore dat bloody ting got inter yer hands," said
                     she, as she laid it on his lap. It opened of its own accord to the place where
                     it had been so often studied. The sight of the well-worn blotted page, added to
                     Aunt Chloe's sharp voice, fully restored his blurred memory, and in a moment
                     his mind took in the whole truth. He remembered the day's fighting. He was
                     again in old Jones's hands, and from experience, as well as by what he had seen
                     others suffer who had run away, he knew that no mercy was to be expected. God
                     had not answered his prayer, as Christ had promised he would. He was not a free
                     man, as he had trusted in God to make him. But he was a poor, miserable,
                     bruised, and bleeding slave, with a certainty of still suffering all the
                     torture that human malignity could invent; and right before him, as it were, in
                     the most cruel mockery of his distress and blasted hopes, lay the promise that
                     had lured him on to ruin. Uncle Ned had in his veins the hot, fiery blood of
                     the Caucasian, as well as the sluggish blood of the African. The silent mockery
                     of the promise that had so deceived him was more than he could bear; and,
                     throwing the book on the floor with passionate frenzy, he tried to stamp upon
                     it with his feet, whose fetters showed how little it could be trusted. He
                     cursed the memory of his dead friend, and felt a malicious joy in thinking that
                     his life had paid the forfeit of teaching him such lies, and leaving him such a
                     legacy of woe.
                  "De Lord's a heap worse dan de debil; and I hate him! I hate him! I wouldn't go
                     to de heben dey tells on if I could. I want nothin' to do wid de Lord no more;
                     he deceibed me, and I'll allus hate him; and I'll git all de folks to go to de
                     debil I can; and, tank God, dere ain't much on dis here plantation but what ar
                     goin' dar." Poor Uncle Ned! It had become so natural to him to "tank God," that
                     he was compelled by force of habit to do it, even in the moments of bitterest
                     revenge.
                  Aunt Chloe was, as she afterwards declared, "half skeered out on herself" to
                     see her dear old man, so habitually calm and pious, fly into such a rage, and
                     want everybody to "go to de wicked place." The sight of that book convinced her
                     of what she already half believed, "dat dat book was de bery old serpent, de
                     debil hisself, dat made de Mudder Eve eat de apple dat made all de black folks
                     slaves." She was not at all afraid of the common snakes of the South; she often
                     had a good hearty laugh when she saw the Northern folks so scared at the snakes
                     crawling around on their beds and in their rooms. At such times she would take
                     them up in her lap and let them crawl over her, to show how foolish they were
                     to be "skeered" at such harmless things. But, fearless as she was of such
                     snakes, she was not willing to take the great serpent that lay coiled in "dat
                     awful book" in her hands, so she took the tongs to pick it up with, intending
                     to throw it into the fire. Uncle Ned stopped her at once. In moments of anger a
                     mother often wishes her child dead, and may declare she will take its head off;
                     but let any one else undertake to save her the trouble, and try to take her
                     child's head off for her, and see how quick she will fly at theirs. Spite of
                     all his anger and disappointment, Uncle Ned was drawn to that book by a secret
                     love he could not explain. It was true that it had only brought him deeper
                     sorrow and shame than he had ever known before. He was measurably content with
                     his lot before its teachings had awakened such an undying thirst for freedom.
                     Truly Christ's coming to him had not been to bring him "peace," but the
                     "sword." But so much truer are the instincts of faith than the testimony of
                     sense or the teachings of experience, that he clung to the book that had caused
                     him so much misery, as though it were his only hope, his best and truest
                     friend. If Aunt Chloe had thrown that book into the fire, she would have had to
                     throw him in too.
                  
                  Uncle Ned's anger soon spent itself, and gave way to calmer feelings of anguish
                     and deeper sorrow. He no longer thought of the terrible penalties of running
                     away, nor of his present physical suffering. Nor did he feel as he had the
                     degradation of slavery. The simple childlike longing of his heart for something
                     to love and trust was now a much stronger feeling than any physical impression
                     could produce. The African blood was in the ascendant now, and with all the
                     force of a strong nature his soul cried out after God. The poor, helpless
                     child, blindly groping after the unknown Parent! And the bitterness of his
                     sorrow was the thought that there was no God that he could trust in again. God
                     was such an one as his master: he owned the black folks as well as the white,
                     but it was only the white ones that he loved.
                  A human soul that has nothing to love or trust in! Can there be anything in all
                     the world more pitiable? A tender infant vainly trying to draw the nourishment
                     its nature demands from the breast of its dead mother, is certainly a pitiable
                     sight; the shipwrecked mariner trying to quench his burning thirst with that
                     briny water that only moistens the parched mouth to leave it ten times dryer
                     than before, is certainly an object of pity. But what shall we say of the human
                     soul, with all its infinite capacities for love and suffering; with all its
                     infinite possibilities of joy in loving, and misery without it,—what shall we
                     say of such an one, in that terrible hour when every object of love and trust
                     is swept away, and the helpless child is vainly trying to draw sustenance from
                     the cold corpse of a former hope—from the image of its dead parent? What shall
                     we say of the poor soul in its agonizing thirst for the water of life, that is
                     vainly trying to quench it with that which is like it, and yet so unlike it
                     that it only leaves the soul worse off than before?
                  Disappointed, baffled, hopeless love! It is this that has filled to overflowing
                     the cup of the world's deepest sorrow. Poets, novelists, and historians have
                     drawn from this one overflowing fountain that which has given the deepest
                     interest and highest charm to their works, and yet they have hitherto done
                     little more than give to the world the wealth of a single vein of that mine
                     whose treasures are infinite and inexhaustible. It was not physical suffering,
                     nor yet the weight of a world's sin, that extorted that bitter cry on the
                     cross. It was the bitter, despairing cry of hopeless, "forsaken" love.
                  It was this feeling that sharpened the sword that was piercing through the soul
                     of poor, blind, ignorant Uncle Ned. Clasping the once precious treasure to his
                     heart, where in that other moment of sorrow he had pressed the form of his
                     dying friend, who now seemed to be with him, his body swayed to and fro with
                     the violence of his emotions, and he mournfully exclaimed,—
                  "De dear Lord hab mercy on poor black Ned! He deceib his chile! Oh, dear! he
                     deceib his chile! De dear Lord know I'd gib my blood for him; and he promise if
                     I 'bide in him, he'd gib me what I ask for. I did 'bide in him, and he didn't
                     gib me dat I ask for. He let de dogs tear me, and de massa catch me; but dat
                     wasn't half so bad as his deceibin' me. Anyting but dat. Dat is too bad! too
                     bad! Oh, dear! oh, oh! oh, dear, what shall I do? What hab I got, now dat de
                     Lord is gone?"
                  Uncle Ned was already conscious that his master had entered the cabin, but he
                     paid no more attention to him than to Aunt Chloe. At any other time he would
                     have fallen on his knees before him with fear and trembling; but the tide of
                     this great agony and fear had swept away every lesser fear, and now that he
                     felt himself betrayed and forsaken by the God in whom he had trusted and had so
                     ardently loved, it mattered nothing to him what his master could do to him.
                  Mr. Jones had sought the wounded slave under the influence of the best motives
                     that he was capable of. It is the great curse of such a life as his, that it
                     makes the possession of a pure, unselfish motive impossible. But, mixed with
                     his fears of losing money on his nigger, and his anger with him for running
                     away, was a real, genuine feeling of human sympathy and brotherly pity. And let
                     us not pass lightly over this manifestation of human goodness. We can well
                     afford to leave the pure-minded, devout, unselfish Uncle Ned, to study and
                     ponder well a single kind, unselfish feeling in such a character as Old Jones. Who minds a single flower in
                     the tropics, where flowers are spontaneously produced in the greatest
                     profusion? But with what interest does the naturalist regard the single blossom
                     of the poles, that has struggled into bloom midst perpetual ice and snow! So it
                     is the student of human nature turns from the rich profusion of good works and
                     kind feelings that blossom so profusely in the rich tropical climate of exalted
                     character, to analyze and enjoy the single emotion of love and good will that
                     is found in the hardest, coldest nature like this. It is this feeling, found in
                     such a place, that gives the brightest prophecy of the future of the human
                     race.
                  And truly here was a sight to have melted a heart of stone. On one side of the
                     rude fireplace sat Aunt Chloe; her face, which in general wore only a look of
                     perfect animal content, was now the very picture of slavish fear and terror.
                     She "was so skeered to see the massa come in and find dat book in Uncle Ned's
                     hands, dat to save her old black soul she declared she couldn't git out a noise
                     as big as a muskeeter." And then her fears were so divided between the seen and
                     the unseen, the supernatural and the "massa." She had always "beliebed in de
                     Lord," in a certain degree; but like many white people, her faith was not
                     strong enough to have much effect upon her life. But now indeed the Lord had
                     become a terrible reality to her.
                  Aunt Chloe sat utterly unable to move her fat, good-natured body; the whites of
                     her eyes almost twice as large as usual. As she rolled her eyes from Uncle Ned,
                     who personated the unseen powers of the supernatural, to her "massa," whom she
                     had always feared, her dumb, black face seemed to be the battle-ground on which
                     the truer fears were contending. Her owner was in no wise an adept at reading
                     the human face, and he read hers entirely wrong. He took her silence for sullen
                     defiance. He felt that he must conquer these niggers or they'd conquer him; so
                     it was that he spoke less kindly to Uncle Ned than his feelings had otherwise
                     prompted him to. Still, he was so very sorry for the distressed slave, and his
                     superstitious fears had become so excited, and his miserly feeling had been so
                     distressed by what he had had to pay out, and the hope that he might be able to
                     cure him up and sell him for a good price was so strong within him, that
                     altogether they conquered the feelings of the master, and he spoke kindly to
                     his slave.
                  Verily, of what a strange compound or mixture of motives is human conduct the
                     result! The mixed cauldron from which Macbeth's witches obtained the fumes for
                     their incantations is nothing compared to it. And yet, strange to say, men have
                     looked upon such conduct as a warp, woven from threads, the colors of which
                     were all white or otherwise all black. The black and white sheep have had the
                     world all to themselves long enough. It is time that our philosophy should
                     embrace the terribly mixed sheep, that after all are the central fact of human
                     life.
                  One class of humanitarians, looking into Mr. Jones's heart, would say his kind
                     words were the result of his brotherly feelings of love for a suffering
                     creature; another class would say they were the result of pure selfishness,
                     dictated by a hope of making money out of him. But the intelligent student of
                     human nature will never fail to take into account every motive that affects the
                     conduct. As carefully as does the chemist analyze and weigh every ingredient
                     that he puts into his compound, so does he weigh and analyze every motive.
                  Uncle Ned was too much absorbed by his feelings of despair to allow the words
                     of his master to produce any effect. His was a childlike soul; and, like the
                     child, he was entirely swayed by the one feeling that chanced to be uppermost
                     in his mind. He took no notice of what his master was saying; but hugging his
                     Bible more closely to his heart, his body convulsed like a reed shaken with the
                     wind, he kept up his piteous moaning:
                  "De dear Lord deceib his chile! he did deceib his poor chile! Yes he did! he
                     did!"
                  Mr. Jones was not the man to curb his passions long, even at the command of
                     self-interest. The hot, fiery blood of the Southerner was now up, and woe to
                     him who should come in his way! He had the overseer's whip in his hand, and he
                     gave the slave such blows on his head and around his neck that the wound made
                     there by the dog's teeth began to
                     bleed afresh, and, trickling down on to the sacred page, there mingled with
                     that of the white man in an eternal cry to heaven for vengeance against the
                     vile thing—slavery.
                  Uncle Ned welcomed the sting of the lash with the same feeling of relief that
                     causes the patient writhing with the pains of inflammation of the lungs to
                     welcome the sting of the blister that draws the inflammation outward. Moreover,
                     his spiritual faculties were in such a state of exaltation that he was only
                     conscious of the one power in the world, and that the power of "de Lord." Like
                     Job, he took no account of the surrounding causes of his trouble, but referred
                     it all to the great First Cause. In the mimic light of the consciousness of the
                     unseen, the man that held the whip was as simply the instrument of his
                     suffering as the whip he held. It was "de Lord," not the whip, nor the hand
                     that held it, that was beating him. And inasmuch as the beating felt good, and
                     he was thankful for it, he gave vent to his feelings, after the manner of his
                     race, in passionate praises. "Bless de Lord for dat!" he exclaimed, as the lash
                     was cutting into his flesh. "Gib me more of de same ting, Lord! It helps dis
                     heart on the inside, Lord! Gib me more! more! It's better dan water for de
                     thirsty niggah!"
                  Mr. Jones was now in a transport of rage. That a nigger should dare to thank
                     the Lord for the whipping a white man is giving him seems too much for human
                     nature to bear. It was a great deal more than Mr. Jones would bear, and he went
                     at him with all the fury of a wild beast.
                  "You black cuss!" he exclaimed, "how dare you talk that way before me, as can
                     kill you in a minute in!" With all the added strength of passion, he lashed him
                     till the slave's body was literally a mass of bruised and bloated flesh.
                  We have said that the bitterness of Uncle Ned's sorrow arose from the fact that
                     he felt that God had deceived him, and he could no longer love him and trust in
                     him. But this statement, though strictly true as far as it goes, expresses but
                     a small part of the complex fact we are considering. The bitter cup is made up
                     of many and various ingredients. These may be as opposite and contradictory in
                     their nature as alkali and acid, nevertheless they make sorrow what it is, and
                     we must take note of them.
                  The feeling that was uppermost in Uncle Ned's mind, and thus gave color to his
                     thoughts, was the conviction that God had deceived him; but back of this
                     feeling, and causing a deeper pang than aught else, was the horror of feeling
                     so. To think that he was accusing the dear Lord of deceiving him! To think that
                     he should even feel so was the most acute pain such a soul as his could feel.
                     He loved Christ, or "de Lord," with all the passionate ardor and devotion of
                     his nature. And the Christ he loved was the creation of his own loving heart:
                     it is so, more or less, with all of us. The Christ we love and believe in is
                     simply the highest expression of our best feelings and ideas. And the more
                     enlarged the mind, and the more enlightened the understanding, the more capable
                     it becomes of seeing the higher truth that embraces and holds in solution the
                     seeming contradiction that our ideas of his love involves us in. In the absence
                     of this enlarged vision, that is only born of mature experience, is the simple
                     faith of the child which the African nature generally retains to old age. But
                     in Uncle Ned's soul was united the devout love of the African with the
                     questioning spirit of the Anglo-Saxon; and yet he was without the clearer light
                     of the latter to guide him. So it came to pass that he questioned the dealings
                     of God with all the manly independence and self-conscious dignity of the Great
                     Patriarch, as he demanded, "Shall not the judge of all the earth do right?"
                     while, at the same time, he reasoned upon his dealings with his children from
                     the stand-point of his own childish love and the narrow vision of the African.
                     Thus it was he reasoned: "De Lord is mighty and big. He can do all tings. He's
                     a heap more dan massa. He made de world and all tings in it; and he can do wid
                     it as he pleases."
                  In his youth, Uncle Ned had a mistress that told him a great many Bible
                     stories. She was not allowed to teach her slaves to read; but she made up for
                     it by giving them as much of the Bible as their memories could retain. Any
                     person that should think that because he hadn't known how to read the Bible he was therefore
                     unlearned in it, would make as great a mistake as the one who should suppose
                     that because the Greek youth of Homer's time couldn't read they were therefore
                     unlearned. The stories of Daniel among the lions, the Hebrew children in the
                     fire, etc., had left a much more vivid impression on his mind than they would
                     have left if his attention had been diverted from them by other reading.
                  And it was because he knew so well how God had delivered his people from
                     Egyptian bondage that he thought he could and would deliver him from his
                     bondage, when he expected to become a second Moses, to lead his people towards
                     the North Star. He had always believed the Lord could do any thing he pleased;
                     but he doubted whether he would do what he wanted him to or not. His learning
                     to read that promise wherein Christ pledges whatever is asked for, supplied the
                     missing link in his faith; and we have seen with what confidence he launched
                     out to trust himself entirely in the hands of the Lord.
                  And now that all was lost, he felt how cruel God had been to him. "He sent his
                     angel to stop de mouth ob de lion, but he let de dogs tare me all dey please.
                     He sent his angel to de fiery furnace to keep de children from de fire, but he
                     do notin' for me; and I'd do ebryting for him! Oh, God! how many lickins I'se
                     took for preachin' to de niggahs to please you! I'se gib all I'se got for you,
                     but you care notin' for poor black Ned; sabes all yer lub for de white
                     folks."
                  And all the while he was thus accusing God, his heart clung to him with the
                     most tender, affectionate devotion. And he was a great deal more angry with
                     himself for accusing God of cruelty, deception, and indifference to him, than
                     with God for deserting him in his hour of trial. Although he was hardly
                     conscious of the change in his feelings, and he still kept up the same piteous
                     murmuring against God before his master had come to him, his anger against him
                     had spent itself, and he was only angry with himself for feeling so towards "de
                     dear Lord."
                  This was one of the reasons why the pain of the lash felt so good to him. He
                     felt as though the poor miserable nigger that had dared to lift up his hand
                     against God ought to suffer for it. And then his sufferings were voluntary,
                     inasmuch as his master had offered to take care of him, and not whip him any
                     more, if he would only give up the Bible and behave himself. So he took all the
                     pleasure in his suffering that the devotee does in his self-inflicted torture.
                     And mingled with this feeling was a certain pride in himself, and a feeling of
                     joy that he was showing the Lord how much he was willing to suffer for him. His
                     willingness to bear and suffer everything for "de dear Lord's sake," in
                     contrast with God's indifference to him, was some atonement for his guilt.
                  So it came to pass that, to his own mind, Uncle Ned's sufferings partook of the
                     nature of martyrdom. And the same exaltation of feeling that caused the martyrs
                     to praise the louder as the violence of the flames increased, caused his
                     spirits to rise as the violence of the blows increased. It was impossible for
                     him to have any high feelings without giving vent to them in passionate praises
                     to "de Lord." Thus it came to pass that the harder Jones whipped him the more
                     completely he forgot to moan and the louder he praised. Till at last even Aunt
                     Chloe was so affected by the exhibition of a power so much superior to "massa,"
                     that her fear of him was overcome, and she began to clap her hands and jump up
                     and down as though she were in a prayer-meeting, shouting at the top of her
                     voice.
                  It was at this point that Mr. Jones became convinced how futile it was to fight
                     such unknown powers with such a thing as the lash, and taking out his pistol,
                     he loaded it as though he would try something more powerful. But just as he got
                     it all ready, and was holding it up to fire, his arm was seized by one hand,
                     his pistol by another, and looking up in the woman's face, pale with fear, but
                     rigid and firm with unyielding purpose, he recognized Mrs. Rosewell.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  THE FIRST KISS.
                  THREE days after the slave-hunt, Tom Price was feeling such a desire to be with
                     Eva, that, despite all the resentment his pride kept up against Frank, he made
                     up his mind to ride over to Mrs. Rosewell's and see what was going on. Ever
                     since that eventful day, his mind and feelings had been in a very mixed,
                     half-comfortable, half-comfortable condition. He had received a great deal of
                     praise for the courage and success with which he had captured Uncle Ned. And
                     like all noble natures, praise was just the food that tasted the sweetest to
                     him. It is only the low, ignoble nature that cares nothing for praise. The
                     higher the soul gets in the scale of being, the more it appreciates and enjoys
                     the praise that is the just due of brave and meritorious conduct. That he had
                     been brave he was certain of, and he felt proud and happy on that score. But
                     where was the merit in restoring such a brave, noble slave as Uncle Ned to such
                     a mean, niggardly creature as old Jones?
                  Tom had learned to hate Mr. Jones for the mean cruel things he had always heard
                     about him. His neighbors all despised him. And this was true especially of the
                     planters, who felt that his conduct was the worst of a reproach on their
                     system. It was allowed to planters to sell their own children born in slavery,
                     when the pressure of debts and other misfortunes required it; but it was told
                     for truth, and generally believed, that Mr. Jones, always looking out for the
                     main chance, bred this sort of chattel especially for the market, because of
                     their bringing a higher price than where both parents were black. The planters
                     had still another reason for hating him: for while they were profuse and
                     careless of their money, and were always in need, he always had any amount of
                     ready cash, which the needy neighbors could only get on the hardest terms. And
                     many were the planters that had to mortgage their slaves and other property to
                     Jones, to get the money they must have. To this class belonged Tom's father,
                     the noble, generous, chivalrous Colonel Price. It is doubtful if any of his own
                     slaves felt the chains that bound them to their master half as galling, nor
                     half so keenly felt the degradation of their position, as did the handsome,
                     spirited, universally beloved colonel feel the weight of his slavery to Mr.
                     Jones.
                  And of all the misfortunes that had brought Mrs. Price from her luxurious home
                     in Kentucky to this frontier life, none was so galling to this high-born
                     Southern woman as the subjection of her family to this miserable man.
                  On the morning of the "hunt," when Mr. Jones had stopped at her house, and,
                     with a view of giving an air of respectability to his "hunt," desired to have
                     the colonel join it, Mrs. Price was very glad to say her husband was not at
                     home. "She might then accommodate him by sending her boy; he might be of some
                     use," he said. Tom was Mrs. Price's first-born and only son. The others were
                     all laid beneath the flowers of a Southern sun; and in him was centred all a
                     mother's dearest love and tenderest hopes. And the haughty woman was proud of
                     her brave boy; therefore this proposition to send him hunting niggers so deeply
                     affected the mother's heart, that the fiery woman could not refrain from giving
                     vent to her indignation in a proud and bitter retort. Whereat old Jones gave
                     one of his malicious sneers, and said,—
                  "I didn't reckon to mock ye, ma'am. I reckon in most ways ye're a heap higher
                     nor me; but money's money, all the same, whether folks's big or little. And I
                     reckon as 'twouldn't hurt yer boy to turn an honest dime for his self. Maybe
                     'taint quite so 'spectable to hunt niggers as gambling, but maybe it pays just
                     as well." This last retort cut the heart of the wife to the very quick. She
                     gave one groan, so full of mortified pride, so full of wifely anxiety and
                     womanly love, that the one tender chord in Jone's heart was touched by it, and
                     he felt satisfied to leave her without further torture. Trying to speak kindly,
                     he said, "Well, as ye don't want yer boy to go, I'll be goin'. Good-mornin',
                     ma'am."
                  
                  Mrs. Price had nothing to dread more than this man's anger, and yet to save her
                     she couldn't say a word to him now. She covered her face with her jeweled
                     hands, and sinking down on the soft cushions of her sofa, felt herself the most
                     miserable of women. It was thus that Tom found her. She had for a long time
                     been accustomed to trust her manly, independent son with her bitterest
                     troubles, and now she felt it a great relief to tell him all. She was so afraid
                     that Jones was angry, and would turn them out of house and home, as she knew he
                     had the power to do. Tom's kindly heart sympathized with his mother's grief,
                     and he began to think how he could avert the quarrel she so much dreaded
                     between Jones and his father. At last his face brightened and his eyes fairly
                     danced with delight, as he said, "I've thought of it, mother; I'll go and help
                     hunt, then Jones won't be mad."
                  What could the unhappy woman say? Nothing. She only pressed her faded, careworn
                     cheek to his bright, rosy, joyous one, and gave him a kiss that told such a
                     story of wounded pride, of blighted love, of ruined hope, and joy in him, that
                     he hurried away as quickly as possible. His heart was too young and hopeful to
                     bear the weight of such a sorrow as hers. How little would any one that saw
                     that brave, beautiful boy, as he rode up so gayly to Mr. Rosewell's that
                     morning, have thought of the humiliation and sorrow he left behind him. For
                     indeed he had left it behind him. His heart was too buoyant and elastic to be
                     borne down by a pressure of grief. Once out in the air, and mounted on his
                     spirited horse, he forgot all about his mother and Mr. Jones, and thought only
                     of seeing Eva, and the fun of the chase. It was because his better nature had
                     been so awakened by sympathy for his mother, and a manly purpose to take care
                     of her, that his heart was that morning so susceptible to Eva's charms. He had
                     felt a particular liking for Frank's pretty sister, but he had never seen her a
                     great deal, his people felt so much above hers; but he had never thought of
                     taking care of her, and shooting every one that offended her, till he met her
                     that morning. And now that he had made up his mind to take care of her, he
                     thought it proper to go and see her. So on this fourth morning after falling in
                     love, he bounded gayly into the room where his mother was sitting listlessly,
                     hopelessly, thinking of her troubles, and said,—
                  "Mother, I'm going over to Rosewell's this morning, and you needn't look for me
                     till I come back." He went up to her and held up his handsome face for the kiss
                     she always gave him when he left her.
                  But what was his surprise when she pushed him away with, if possible, a deeper
                     blush of shame then when Mr. Jones proposed he should go slave-hunting. Was it,
                     then, true that the proud woman felt more disgraced by her son's going into the
                     company of Yankees than such company as he was in the other day? It certainly
                     was.
                  And when Tom, obeying no master but his own will, rode off to see Eva, his
                     mother, watching him from her balcony, felt herself the most miserable and
                     degraded of women. She had borne every kind of humiliation and sorrow, but she
                     had always been partially upheld by a feeling of pride and hope in her brave
                     boy. And now that he had disgusted and disappointed her by falling in love with
                     a Yankee girl, she felt that her cup of shame was filled to overflowing, and
                     she gave herself up to passionate grief.
                  Very different did her son feel as he rode off, followed by his ever-present
                     nigger. Now that he had so boldly avowed his love, and so conquered his mother,
                     he felt more of a man than ever. Nothing—not even the first touch of the razor
                     on his chin—so quickly transforms the boy into the man as the first thrill of
                     love he feels for woman. But he never feels the full force of his new manhood
                     until he has boldly avowed that love. So it was that Tom had never felt so much
                     the man before.
                  The night before, Eva had listened to the pitiful story of Uncle Ned's
                     sufferings from her mother's lips, and her deepest sympathy had been excited
                     for the poor slave, who was ready to suffer any kind of torture, and even
                     death, rather than give up his Bible and throw away his religion. She was just
                     that age when such things make the deepest impression on the young heart; and
                     just in proportion as she admired and loved Uncle Ned for his brave endurance
                     of wrong, and his firm sticking to the right, she thought she hated the cause of his suffering,—the
                     boy that had found him.
                  But in this she found herself greatly mistaken. That morning she had told her
                     mother she had the headache, which was true, and asked if she might go and take
                     a walk in the open air. Her mother seeing how much disturbed she was, and
                     entirely ignorant of the cause, supposing it to be sympathy for Uncle Ned,
                     allowed her to go. She happened to choose the same road on which Tom was
                     coming. The morning air was clear and exhilarating, and her young blood felt
                     the influence of the unspeakable joyousness of the morning. All nature was
                     pregnant with joy; and although in such people as Mrs. Price and old Jones and
                     Uncle Ned it could not come to its birth, in such a heart as Eva's all her
                     troubles could not restrain that joy that is born of youth, health, innocence,
                     and love. For, in spite of Eva's anger at Tom for catching poor Uncle Ned, and
                     in spite of the pain she felt at his defects of character, her heart thrilled
                     with delight at the thought of him. And now as she is walking on this bright
                     morning, shall we open the door of that busy little brain and see what a
                     strange mixture of conflicting thoughts and contradictory feelings we shall
                     find jumbled together there?
                  Can it be that a girl of twelve years old can offer a problem that the wisest
                     of the world's great philosophers would try in vain to solve? It is even so. It
                     took a Newton to discover the laws of the planetary system; it will take a
                     greater than Newton to define the laws that govern a girl's emotions and
                     feelings, and account for all the mysterious phenomena of her conduct. The
                     first and uppermost thought in her mind was, that she must see
                     Tom,—she couldn't live without seeing him. The next thought was, that he was a
                     wicked, cruel boy, and she mustn't see him; or if she did, it must
                     only be to tell him what a bad boy he was, and how angry she was with him for
                     his bad conduct.
                  This last thought commended itself to her conscience as the only right thing to
                     be done under the circumstances, and she fully resolved to do it. To be angry
                     seemed to be the promptings of duty, while her heart prompted to love and
                     forgiveness. But she had been trained to think of duty first; and so she
                     determined to do it, cost what it would.
                  To fortify herself, she kept saying passionately to herself, "I won't speak to
                     him; so there, I won't! He's a mean boy to talk about shooting Frank. And he
                     was so awful wicked to catch that poor slave; I won't speak to him, so there!"
                     Just at this point she looked up, at the sound of a horse coming up the road,
                     and in a minute more Tom rode gayly up to her side, and throwing the reins to
                     his slave, bounded off his horse, and walking up to Eva as boldly as though he
                     had a perfect right to, he pulled off his hat and kissed her.
                  Poor child! how little prepared she was for this! She had laid all her plans on
                     the supposition that when she met him again her mother and Frank would be by,
                     and he would speak to her, and she wouldn't answer, and then he would see how
                     angry she was, and would never try to get her to speak to him again. So very
                     simple did the matter seem when thinking about it; but, oh, so different when
                     it came to be acted out! Everything was so different from what she had expected
                     and prepared for, that all her defensive bulwarks melted away like a tallowed
                     rag before the fire.
                  True, she hadn't spoken; but here was Tom bending over her and kissing her, and
                     her treacherous little heart was throbbing and thrilling under that kiss as
                     only the first warm kiss of love can ever make the heart feel. Could any one
                     expect that in a girl of her age the will could prove stronger than the heart?
                     She could no more close her heart against the sunshine of his love than the
                     rosebud can lock itself up and refuse to open to the sunshine.
                  He was a boy of a fiery, passionate nature, precociously developed by early
                     training and tropical sunshine, and his capacities for deep passion can in
                     nowise be measured by that of boys of his age in colder climates, whose parents
                     have always governed them. As he looked into the sweet face of the blushing,
                     trembling girl he held in his arms, the whole fire of his nature was
                     concentrated on the altar of love. A boy of fourteen, he loved a girl of twelve
                     with all the passionate ardor of youthful manhood.
                  
                  As Eva looked into his handsome face, her own ardent, loving soul awakened and
                     thrilling under the influence of his master-passion, his arms around her waist,
                     his warm breath on her cheek, surely she would have been something more or less
                     than human to have retained her anger, and done what she had thought was her
                     duty under such circumstances. And our little Eva was an exceedingly human
                     girl.
                  Besides, our little friend was quite a poet, and it is the characteristic of
                     such a temperament that feeling is stronger than reason. So I hope none of my
                     well-balanced, nice young lady readers, whose feelings could no more betray
                     them into an indiscreet kiss than an iceberg could be suddenly turned into
                     steam, will be too harsh and severe in their judgment of the little girl if I
                     tell them that she actually kissed Tom right there in the road. I know she
                     ought not to have done it, after having made up her mind that he was a bad boy
                     and that she must have nothing more to do with him. When he looked so lovingly
                     into her eyes, his whole countenance aglow with the beauty and sweetness of
                     youthful love, and said to her, "Dear Eva, won't you give me a kiss, too? You
                     look so sweet and good, I want a kiss," she ought to have pulled herself away
                     from him, and, from a safe distance, preached him a nice little sermon. But
                     before we are too severe on her, because instead of doing this she put up her
                     rosy lips and gave him such a sweet kiss that his whole being thrilled with the
                     touch of her lips and he thought he had never known what sweetness was before,
                     let us patiently wait the development of his character, and see if it may not
                     sometimes be true that the instincts of love are wiser than the dictates of
                     conscience. Certain I am that no sermon could have produced anything like the
                     impression on him, or so affected his whole nature, as that brief moment of
                     mutual love.
                  And now they are supremely happy; just as happy as they are capable of being.
                     Their cup of joy is filled to overflowing. Eva has not the most distant thought
                     that the hand that so tenderly and lovingly presses her own is the one that
                     caught Uncle Ned; that had been lifted to shoot her brother. She has not even a
                     thought of it being wrong to love and kiss the dear boy at her side. And though
                     in a way all his own, he, too, is happy. He thinks nothing of how bad his
                     mother is feeling, or of what his father would say to him. He feels that he has
                     got the dearest, sweetest girl in all the world in his arms. He knows that he
                     loves her and she loves him, and he is going to take care of her always.
                  Dear reader, you and I know how foolish they are. We know they are nothing but
                     children, that know little more of life than the birds cooing and mating
                     together over their heads. We know that if Tom had his dear Eva all to himself,
                     it wouldn't be long before, if she were clinging on to him this way when he
                     wanted to go out hunting, instead of looking so happy, and kissing her so
                     sweetly, with such a temper as he has, and such a bringing up, he would be a
                     great deal more likely to shake her off with a snarl, and tell her if she
                     didn't keep away from him he'd shoot her. And we have seen enough of little Eva
                     to know that she is quite a little fire-fly, that wouldn't take insults and
                     neglect very coolly.
                  But never mind about the future. Why should we be always reaching ahead to
                     grasp its bitterness to mix up with the sweet cup of the present? When fortune
                     presses the sweet cup to our lips, why shall we not drink and be merry, and not
                     drink of the bitter cup till we are obliged to?
                  For my part, I love to look at these children, and see how their faces shine
                     and their bright eyes sparkle with the intoxication of the new wine of love. I
                     know that all too soon the sweet wine will be turned to vinegar and myrrh; but
                     while it is sweet, I am going to enjoy it.
                  These two are a great deal more interesting to me than Adam and Eve the first
                     time they were locked in each other's embrace and felt the first thrill of
                     mutual love.
                  "Practice makes perfect," says the old proverb; and it is as true with Nature
                     as with the rest of us. She would indeed be a dull, stupefied mother if she
                     couldn't improve her children after six thousand years of practice. I think she
                     has greatly improved them. I don't believe that Adam was half as handsome as
                     Tom. He was no such manly, noble,
                     chivalrous fellow, as I shall be able to prove by-and-by. And as for Eve, I
                     doubt very much if she had any such bright, sweet, intelligent face as Eva's. I
                     doubt if she could make as pretty verses about herself as those that Eva made
                     about her and Adam and their first baby; those verses, you remember, to which
                     Frank was too much interested in his angle-worms to listen.
                  Now, if it were not beneath the genius of a Milton to conceive and paint the
                     joy and felicity of their first, dewy love, why should we think it beneath us
                     to put ourselves in sympathy with these children? Let us, for a brief moment,
                     be as ignorant of all the painful lessons of experience as they were. And in
                     this blissful unconsciousness of coming evil, let us lay our hearts so close to
                     theirs that we shall feel the same thrill of love, hope, and joy that they
                     feel.
                  Is this anything like heaven?
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  PARTIAL DISCOVERY.
                  A FEW moments after Eva had started for her walk, Chit came bounding into the
                     room, clapping her hands in the greatest glee, saying, "Oh, mother! mother! you
                     can't guess what good news I've got. Now try with all your might, and if you
                     get it right I'll tell you."
                  "I should be very foolish to try, when you have so positively declared I can't
                     guess it," said Mrs. Rosewell.
                  "Well, maybe you might. It wouldn't do any hurt to try," said Chit. But here
                     her eagerness overcame her, and she exclaimed, in a fresh burst of enthusiasm,
                     "Oh, dear! I must tell it. Pa is going to the city, and he says we may all go
                     with him, and he'll take me to the telegraph-office, and I'll find out all
                     about it how the little watchman waked up John Wesley, and I'll find out all
                     about——" There is no telling how long Chit's tongue would have run if her
                     mother hadn't stopped it.
                  "Well, if you are going to the city you must be getting ready," said Mrs.
                     Rosewell. "Tell Frank to come here at once; I wish to send him after Eva."
                  It wasn't long before Chit came in with Frank, looking very much pleased with
                     the prospect of his journey.
                  "Frank, I want you to go and bring in your sister as quickly as possible. She
                     took the road across the creek. Now, Frank," said the thoughtful mother, "I
                     hope you wont go to teasing your sister, but try for once to please your
                     mother, and not plague her, as you always do. How do you think Eva can love
                     you, if you are always trying to hurt her feelings? Do you love those people
                     that are always trying to hurt and annoy you?"
                  Frank did not feel like answering these questions. He knew he should have to
                     condemn himself, and he was too proud for that. But he felt the truth of his
                     mother's precepts, and fully resolved to be a good brother to Eva in the
                     future. And, all too quick for her happiness, he set off with a bound to bring
                     her home.
                  Meantime Chit was flying through the house like a little spirit; hunting first
                     for her shoes, then for her stockings; first for one garter, then another;
                     till, finally, Eddie caught the contagion, and began to tumble things around
                     with all his little might and main. This was too much for Aunt Polly's
                     patience, and she began to "storm the castle" after her own particular
                     fashion.
                  "I never did see such young uns in all my born days. I don't know what the
                     world is coming to, when such little brats as these can do just as they please.
                     If they was my young uns they'd catch it."
                  Aunt Polly always consoled herself for the bad doings of Mrs. Rosewell's
                     children by thinking what she would do if they were only hers. But if they had
                     been hers, who knows how differently she would have felt about it? Just as she
                     was having such a time with the children, Mr. Rosewell had in dressing broken
                     off one of his shirt buttons, and he came to ask his wife to sew it on. But it
                     chanced that just then the fat baby claimed her attention, and so he asked Aunt
                     Polly to sew it for him.
                  
                  What was there about this man that caused his presence to have such an effect
                     on Aunt Polly? She, who at other times was so talkative and full of scold,
                     would be very quiet in his presence. She generally seemed to be so much engaged
                     with herself in mastering some feeling she felt that she must keep down, that
                     she hardly dare venture to speak. She acted as though there were some enemy in
                     her heart that at such times took all her power of will to keep in subjection.
                     Mrs. Rosewell thought she acted as though she hated him, and it gave her a
                     great deal of pain and uneasiness to see what an effort it was for her to act
                     decently towards him. She was unwilling to sew on the button, and offered to
                     take the baby and let his wife do it. But master baby was taking his dinner,
                     and he objected to leaving it; so she had to do it herself. It was the first
                     time in many, many years that she had allowed herself to come so near him; and
                     she thought it would be safe enough now. But what makes her so cold? and what
                     makes her tremble so? She generally does things so quick, but now she can't get
                     the needle through one of the holes of the button; she can't find the hole at
                     all. The needle seems to run all around it, but never gets into the right
                     place. Surprised, Mr. Rosewell looks into her face, to see what is the matter.
                     In this unguarded moment, she allows herself the luxury she has not taken since
                     he was a married man, of looking into his eyes.
                  They were changed. But, oh, heavens! there was the same look that first called
                     her being into a new life. There was the same look that first sent the heart's
                     blood tingling through her veins; and the years had robbed it of none of its
                     strange power, while, instead of increasing, they had seemed to lessen her
                     power of self-control. All the flood-gates and barriers that her will had been
                     building for all these years seemed to be swept away by the current of such
                     powerful emotions as no force of her strong will could control. Involuntarily
                     she raised her arms, as though she would grasp some object. In another instant,
                     her mind's eye saw the whole of the impassable gulf that lay between them. The
                     needle dropped out of her hand; her hands fell powerless at her side; she
                     uttered a low moan, that seemed to carry in itself the weight of years of
                     agony, and dropped senseless at his feet.
                  Mrs. Rosewell bent a quick, inquiring glance upon her husband's face, as much
                     as to say, "What does all this mean?"
                  And to tell the truth, he was as much puzzled as she. With his narrower range,
                     and limited capacity for deep, ardent, passionate love, he could not sound the
                     depths of her nature. So he told the truth when he said he thought she must
                     have an apoplectic fit, such as her family was subject to.
                  It was a long time before consciousness could be restored. They laid her on her
                     back, threw cold water in her face, bathed her head in camphor, but seemingly
                     to no purpose. The shock was too great, and the reaction was a long time
                     coming. Finding that nothing they tried restored her, Mrs. Rosewell went in
                     search of some other remedy.
                  Meantime, Mr. Rosewell, who had in that single glance read a faint intimation
                     of her secret, bent over her, and kissed the wasted, furrowed cheek of her he
                     had once loved. There seemed life and resurrection in that kiss; for at once
                     the heart began its old-time beating. She opened her eyes, and seeing Mr.
                     Rosewell bending over her as in the sweet time of old, she felt the same
                     delicious intoxication of love and joy she had then felt. For the moment,
                     memory was kind enough to blot out all the horrible past that lay between the
                     then and now, and again the dew and freshness of youth was on her heart. She
                     loved, she was loved, and she was happy. She spoke not a word, but in her
                     transfigured face Mr. Rosewell read enough of her secret to fill his soul with
                     the keenest anguish; not, however, unmixed with a throb of pride and joy. There
                     is many a man that will feel the keenest regret and sorrow at the hopeless love
                     of a woman for him; but it is rare to find one to whom it brings no thrill of
                     joy to find himself an object of devout, unchangeable love. It is so natural
                     both for man and woman to want to be loved, to hunger and thirst for it, that
                     it is difficult to be so entirely unselfish as not to be somewhat gratified when the want is supplied, even
                     though it should be at the expense of another's happiness. Mr. Rosewell was
                     surely not one of those rare men, and I fear if his feelings could have been
                     nicely balanced in that moment of partial discovery, it would be seen that he
                     was more happy than miserable. Mrs. Rosewell coming in just then, was startled
                     to see the changed expression on the poor woman's face; it was so different
                     from anything she had ever seen there before, that for an instant she stopped
                     still to look at her. She had always believed in the better nature of the
                     lonely woman, and now that her face was transfigured by the omnipotent power of
                     love, she saw in it such depths and capacity for love and tenderness as she had
                     had but a faint conception of. Filled with joy at seeing her better, and
                     rejoicing above measure that she had found her highest hopes of her more than
                     fulfilled, she felt her heart drawn to the unhappy old maid as it never had
                     been before; and going up to her, she took her withered hand between hers,
                     pressed it to her lips and kissed it.
                  It was the worst thing she could have done. That kiss touched a very different
                     chord from the other one. If the first one had brought out the angel in her,
                     the last had evoked that which was devilish. If the first kiss restored all the
                     sweet memories of other days, the last brought back all their untold
                     bitterness. Mrs. Rosewell was now as ever the dark shadow that was always
                     coming between her and the loved one. She snatched her hand away as though it
                     had been stung by a viper. She gave her such a look of venomous hate that Mrs.
                     Rosewell, knowing nothing but love and good will for all, shrank back as though
                     she would hide herself from the fire of such a passion. This look aroused the
                     husband in Mr. Rosewell, and almost involuntarily he drew her into his arms, as
                     though he would protect her. That woman in that man's arms! Oh, horrors! How
                     the sight restored Aunt Polly to her old self! She bounded up like a stricken
                     deer, flew to her chamber, locked herself in, and in the bitterness of her soul
                     blamed God for her existence.
                  She had been brought up under the influence of high Calvinism, and the
                     conviction that God might have made her differently added to the bitterness of
                     her distress. For a great many years her will had held her passions in the most
                     complete subjection. By no word or sign had she given the least evidence of the
                     volcano burning within. To all who knew her she was simply a cross,
                     disagreeable, unloved, and unloving old maid. But now passion held the will
                     dormant, and in this fearful hour it was fully avenged for its long
                     subjection.
                  "Oh, why should God be so cruel as to give life to such a creature as me? If he
                     delights in torture, why couldn't he have had enough of it in hell and on
                     earth, without inventing such a heart as mine? I don't believe the devil
                     himself could invent such a thing of torture as this cursed heart. Of course he
                     couldn't. It took a God that knows what love is to make such a heart as this."
                     She pressed her hands on her heart as though she would still its throbbings,
                     which in the long years had only brought her the most exquisite torture. If she
                     had been a French girl, she would doubtless have thought of many ways by which
                     its beating could have been stopped and her soul set at liberty to love
                     according to its nature. But she was a Yankee, with the strictest ideas of the
                     sanctity of human life, and she never thought of relieving her heartache by
                     emptying it of its life-blood. And although her opinions had led her to accuse
                     God as the author of her misery, her heart revolted at the thought of charging
                     him with such cruelty. So, very much after the manner of theologians, she
                     settled down with the conviction that God had made her to be happy in love, but
                     the devil had thwarted his purposes by sending that wretched object between her
                     and the loved one. And, oh, what a look of inexpressible hate came over her
                     countenance as she thought of that dark object! She ground her teeth together,
                     and clinched her fingers into the palms of her hands till the blood followed
                     them. In her frenzied excitement she longed to have the woman under her feet
                     whom she had served so faithfully for years.
                  "How I would stamp on her! How I would tear out her
                     heart and crush it, as she has mine! How I would cut and blister
                     the pretty face that stole his love from me! His love! Oh, God, that I should
                     ever have had it and lost it! My
                     God! it is too cruel! Why couldn't I have died before I had ever
                     seen him? Or, better still, why couldn't I have died on the first kiss? How
                     easy then to have let this life slip away, full as it was of love and joy! But
                     no, I must live on and on,—I couldn't die. This wretched heart
                        will keep up its beating. I can't stop it; and who knows when
                     it will stop? Other people can die, but I can't. Oh, my God! my God! it is more
                     than I can bear!"
                  Mechanically she went towards the glass, and looked in to see if there was any
                     prospect of her strong frame ever wearing out. Before she looked in the glass
                     she thought to herself, "I am like the burning bush that Moses saw,—ever
                     burning and yet never consumed."
                  But now her heart gave a little bound of joy as she saw the change. The last
                     hour of passion had done more for her than the cholera could have done in the
                     same length of time. Years of ordinary life could not have plowed such deep
                     furrows in her face, nor cut such sharp lines in her features. There is no
                     plowshare like passion,—none that leaves such deep furrows behind it in the
                     human soul. Of course there will be plenty to deny this, but it is simply
                     because they know nothing about it,—no more than ground that has only been
                     plowed six inches deep knows about an earthquake.
                  Aunt Polly was no philosopher, but she knew a great deal of the force of the
                     love-passion, because she had felt it. And now she began to feel the exhaustion
                     that comes to one "turn" of such passions.
                  The strongest wind cannot always keep up the hurricane. So the strongest
                     passion spends its force after a time. The sight of her own wasted face touched
                     a chord of pity in the woman's heart, and she sank back into her chair, covered
                     her face with her hands, and burst into a passionate flood of tears. It was
                     well she could cry. It brought the same relief that rain brings to the
                     overcharged clouds.
                  But now a new cause of anxiety and sorrow was hers. She was conscious that at
                     least Mr. Rosewell had discovered her secret, and she felt that now she could
                     no longer stay in his house. "It was such a comfort to be near him, even if I
                     couldn't look at him," she moaned out.
                  "Such a privilege to work for him, to wash his clothes, and cook his meals.
                        That thing's cooking could never suit him: she's nothing but a
                     plaything. It would have been a hard lot he'd 'a had if it hadn't been for me."
                     Aunt Polly looked so pleased at the thought of the good she had done him, that
                     it would seem it almost compensated her for the suffering he had caused her.
                     She continued: "And then I could take care of his children; I
                     could kiss them when they were too small to know it, and nobody see me.
                        His children! So much like him! A part of him! A part of
                        her too!" Oh, how the venom came into her eye at that
                     thought!
                  "Her children! What of that? Oh, may God forgive me for hating her
                     so! Who could blame her for marrying him? She, poor thing! loved
                     him too; and she's always been kind to him. I'd 'a killed her before this time
                     if she hadn't 'a made him a good wife." The woman was startled that such a word
                     as kill could escape her lips in such connection. In a moment she was sorry,
                     and, with a fresh burst of tears, exclaimed, "Oh, Mary! Mary! you are avenged
                     now, for I must leave him! You can have him all to yourself now! The only thing
                     I had left to care for in life is now gone! I can't take care of him nor his
                     children any more! I must go back to the cold world alone! Oh, it is so dark!
                     so dark!" Aunt Polly shuddered at the blackness of the night she was entering
                     upon.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  A BOY FIGHT.
                  DELIGHTED at the prospect of going to the city, Frank hurried on to the find
                     Eva. He hadn't gone far when he met Sambo leading along Tom Price's horse.
                     Sambo grinned and showed the whole of his white teeth as he called out to
                     Frank, "Massa Tom's comin' to yer house, but he stopped up dare to go wid
                     Missus Eva. Reckon dis yer niggah's
                     able to see to all de hosses massa's got; and he's got as much as anybody in
                     old Kentuck."
                  Sambo frolicked over the horses very much like a monkey, and, indeed, one
                     looking at him would have had little trouble in believing that if the monkey
                     was not his ancestor he was, at least, first cousin to him. But Frank had
                     something to think of besides Sambo's pedigree. The fact that Tom Price was
                     with his sister was enough to set his blood boiling at a fearful rate. He never
                     stopped to make the least reply to Sambo, but rushed on to find Eva. It was
                     that supreme moment that never comes but once in a lifetime, when the dew of
                     the first love-kiss is fresh on the cheek, when each is unconscious of anything
                     but the existence of the other, and all lesser feelings and passions are
                     absorbed in the one feeling of mutual love, when Tom was looking into Eva's
                     face, upturned to his radiant with happiness and bright with untold joy,—he
                     thought, as many a man has thought before him, that there never was in all the
                     world anything so sweet and pretty as that face,—that the angry voice of Frank
                     startled him and his fair companion.
                  "You rascal! what are you doing with my sister there? If you don't take your
                     nasty hands off from her, I'll give you a worse clubbing than I did t'other
                     day," cried the excited boy, "or my name ain't Frank Rosewell."
                  The angry voice of her brother brought Eva back from the cloud-land of love to
                     this disagreeable world of passion and hate. For an instant she hated Frank as
                     much as she loved Tom. It was his voice that was always recalling her from her
                     pleasantest visions and sweetest dreams to the dull, prosaic earth.
                  "Oh, you hateful creature, you! I wish you'd mind your own business, and let me
                     alone. I can take care of myself without any of your help," said the spiteful
                     little girl, coloring highly.
                  "You take care of yourself!" said Frank, pointing the finger of
                     shame at her. "I think you looked like it just now, with that fellow hugging
                     and kissing you. I guess you'll see what mother 'll say to you. And I'll tell
                     her all I saw."
                  Eva felt that she had the worst of it, as she always did in her quarrels with
                     Frank, and she was thrown back on her last refuge, which was always tears. And
                     so she began to cry. The sight of her tears, when a moment before she had
                     looked so happy, roused Tom (he had been partially stunned when Frank first
                     discovered him in such a delicate situation), and, putting his arm around Eva,
                     he said, very tenderly,—
                  "Never mind what he tells your ma, I'm going to take care of you; and if he
                     don't stop teasing you, if you'll let me, I'll shoot him, just as I told you I
                     would the other day."
                  For the moment, Frank thought by this that Tom and Eva had talked it up
                     together about shooting him, and he became so angry that he didn't know or care
                     what he did to them. For the first time since their baby-days he lifted his
                     hand to strike his sister. With the manly instinct of protecting the weak, Tom
                     thrust Eva to one side, and himself took the blow intended for her. Frank was a
                     strong, muscular boy, whose muscles had been developed by work, not by any
                     artificial training, and he could give a good blow when he tried; and he did
                     try his best now. In physical strength he was much superior to Tom, but Tom had
                     all the advantage of skillful training. His father was an adept in all manly
                     sports, and it had been his delight to train his handsome boy to all the
                     physical sports of Southern gentlemen, and foremost among these were boxing and
                     fencing. This skill served a double purpose,—that of recreation and defense;
                     for so impotent were the civil laws that a man's safety depended largely upon
                     his ability to protect himself and defend what was called his honor. Tom's
                     father had kept him from his babyhood practicing with the most active and
                     sprightly of the boy slaves, till it had come to pass that in all the country
                     there was no boy that was thought a match for him. So when Frank found himself
                     fighting with him, he very soon learned that it was no small job he had
                     undertaken.
                  Because of Tom's trying to save Eva, Frank got a chance to hit him the first
                     blow. The sharp pain of this blow roused the animal in Tom, and, for the time,
                     he forgot all about his Eva and his new happiness, and thought only of revenge. It was the second time that
                     Frank had hurt him, and he was determined it should be the last. He let go of
                     Eva, and with one hand caught Frank's hair and with the other gave him such a
                     blow under the ribs that he staggered back and fell to the ground. Quick as
                     lightning Tom jumped upon him with both feet and struck him a blow in the face
                     that set his nose to bleeding. This was a lucky hit for Frank, for the blood
                     thus set to running restored the circulation to its normal condition, and his
                     heart at once recovered from the stunning effects of the first blow. To see her
                     brother in the dust, trampled on, and the blood running from his head, was
                     enough to frighten poor Eva, who had never seen a fight before, except little
                     spats between Eddie and Chit. She thought her brother was going to be killed
                     for sure, and all the sister's deep love was awakened and came to the rescue.
                     She caught hold of Tom and with all the strength of fear pulled him off. But
                     Tom was not at all himself; he was simply a little tiger, and he knocked her
                     off as readily as he would anything else that came between him and his prey.
                     Meanwhile Frank got on his feet again, and no sooner had Tom knocked Eva off
                     than he pitched into him again. Tom very skillfully parried his blows, and
                     often got a chance to hit Frank; but though his blows hurt badly they did not
                     overcome him, and he only waited patiently for the chance to give Tom a blow
                     that would tell. He soon got the chance, and he gave him a blow that knocked
                     him down; then he gave him a blow in the face that set
                        his nose to bleeding. Eva had been partially stunned by the
                     blow with which Tom knocked her off, and while they had been simply parrying
                     each other's blows and not hurting each other much, there had been nothing to
                     rouse her. But she was a brave little girl, and the sight of another's danger
                     made her forget herself, and again she rushed in between the angry boys and
                     tried to stop their fighting. But she might as well have entreated the angry
                     flames to stop their fiery course. As soon as she got Frank off from Tom he
                     jumped up and renewed the fight by giving Frank a blow in his right eye.
                     Maddened with pain, Frank thought that Eva was only holding his hands to let
                     Tom strike him, so he raised his right hand and struck her a blow on the side
                     of her head. She reeled backward, and in falling hit the back of her head on a
                     stone. One sharp cry of pain, and the little heart, that a few moments before
                     had been throbbing so mildly and sweetly under the stimulus of its new-born
                     love, was hushed and still as in death. The sight of her pale face, bespattered
                     with their blood, so quiet and motionless, had the effect that all her
                     entreaties had failed to produce. In the presence of the great fear that took
                     possession of both their minds, as she lay on the cold ground so still and
                     lifeless, all angry passions were hushed.
                  "There, you've killed her! you've killed her!" cried Tom. "You are worse than
                     Cain; you've killed your sister!"
                  Meanwhile Chit, impatient of the delay and anxious to be off, had started in
                     pursuit of Frank and Eva. She came bounding towards them full of glee, only to
                     find both the boys bending over Eva, trying in vain to make her open her eyes
                     and speak to them.
                  "Chit, run quick and tell ma to come here and bring her camphor," said Frank.
                     "Eva's fell down and got awfully hurt; but I guess she'll come to. Run
                     quick!"
                  Chit did not wait to be told again, but set off at full speed to bring her
                     mother. Tom had always been inured to danger from his infancy, and he had
                     learned to have a great deal of what we call presence of mind at such times.
                     Not so with Frank. He had never seen any one faint before. He was dreadfully
                     frightened, and, boy fashion, he knew no better than to raise her head up to
                     bring her to.
                  "Don't raise her head up that way," said Tom. "Just lay her flat on her back,
                     and I'll go and fetch some water to put in her face. Let me have your cap for a
                     bucket; it's bigger than mine."
                  He was soon back from the spring, which was fortunately near by, and throwing a
                     whole capful of cold water in the fainting girl's face, the heart began to
                     beat. She opened her eyes, and seeing both the boys bending over her looking so
                     anxiously at her, she asked,—
                  "What is the matter? Where have I been?"
                  
                  "Nowhere," said Tom. "You just fell down and got hurt. But you are better now,
                     aren't you, dear Eva?"
                  "I think I am," she said, pressing her hands on her head as though she would
                     make it clear up the misty past.
                  Frank was so overjoyed at seeing his sister alive that he pressed his cheek to
                     hers, as in the days of old he had laid his rosy cheek beside hers in their
                     little crib, and kissed her.
                  It was the first time in many years he had done such a thing. Mrs. Rosewell
                     taught her children to be very affectionate and loving to each other in their
                     younger days; but as they grew older she never tried to force any such
                     expressions of love upon them. She wished their conduct to be the spontaneous
                     expression of their feelings, and to force expressions of love that were not
                     felt she believed would have the effect of making them hypocritical. She
                     mourned over the estrangement of Frank and Eva, but she was too wise to attempt
                     to cure it by any forced arbitrary means. She knew that while there was much in
                     their characters to make them mutually repellent of each other, there was still
                     more to attract and develop mutual love. It is somewhat singular that those
                     children nearest of an age in a family are the ones that quarrel the most.
                     Frank and Eva never quarreled but with each other, and their mother's belief in
                     their better natures was often tested to the utmost as she saw how the presence
                     of each seemed to call out and develop all that was most disagreeable and mean
                     in the other. Still, she trusted to time and the influence of brotherly and
                     sisterly love to overcome these childish faults. And if she could have seen
                     them now as their dormant love had been called out by mutual danger, the
                     pleasure it would have given her would have partially made up for the pain of
                     seeing her boy fight so.
                  Frank's tenderness seemed to take Eva back to the happier days of her childhood
                     when he was always good to her, and the sweet memories of the happy past, in
                     contrast with the mixed-up present, made her cry again. She was in that state
                     of excitement when the nervous system, strung up to the highest tension, finds
                     its readiest relief in tears. The best thing that can be done under such
                     circumstances is to let the girls cry till the nervous force generated by such
                     unusual excitement and overcharged feelings spends itself, and they come back
                     to their natural state. The lachrymal, or tear gland, is Nature's safety-valve.
                     By means of this valve she regulates the system and keeps the heart from
                     bursting under the pressure of high feeling. And to attempt to stop the tears
                     is as unwise as for the engineer to attempt to close his safety-valve before
                     the dangerous steam is exhausted. But how could it to be expected that these
                     boys could understand all the mysteries of the feminine nature?
                  Frank was disgusted at the "great booby." He was too tender-hearted to scold
                     while she lay there looking so pale from the effect of his cruel blows; he was
                     afraid he would say what he ought not if he stayed by her. So he stuck his
                     hands into his pockets, his nose in the air, and started off whistling, as he
                     always did when he wanted to rid himself of any disagreeable feelings.
                     Whistling seemed to bring to him the same relief that tears did to Eva.
                  "Well, what silly things girls are!" he said, hoping to justify himself by
                     throwing the blame on her; "they're always sticking themselves in a feller's
                     way, and then if they get hurt they're always a-bawling. They can't stand
                     nothin' like boys. There's Chit, I like to play with her, she ain't always
                     gettin' hurt."
                  Frank would like to have persuaded himself that he was only playing with Eva
                     when she got hurt, but it was pretty hard work. One of the hardest tasks a
                     truthful nature ever has to perform is to deceive itself. After that, it is
                     comparatively easy to deceive others.
                  If Tom had been Eva's brother instead of her sweetheart, it is not likely he
                     would have had any more patience with her tears than Frank. Tears are very
                     beautiful and interesting to a lover. They call out his finest sympathies and
                     give exercise to his sweetest, tenderest feelings. But they are a very
                     different thing to the husband or brother. To them they are a very disagreeable
                     weapon, by which they are continually brought into subjection to the weaker
                     vessel. Let us not, then, think it anything strange if, while Frank was angry
                     and disgusted at Eva's tears, Tom
                     was more sympathetic, kind, and loving than ever. He raised her bruised head
                     tenderly in his arms. He took his own sweet-scented handkerchief and wiped and
                     kissed away her tears, all the while calling her the sweetest, dearest names he
                     could think of. And no boy of his age had a greater stock of endearing words
                     than he. He had always been the fondled pet of an affectionate mother. "My own,
                     dear, sweet little Eva! It breaks my heart to see you cry so," he murmured, in
                     such sweet, musical tones that it only made her cry the harder. "Let your Tommy
                     cry for you! My own little sweet angel! You dear little love, you! I can do
                     anything for you!"
                  Tom had always despised crying boys as much as Frank did crying girls, but in
                     this moment of exquisite tenderness he felt that he could cry or do anything
                     else to save Eva the trouble. And indeed I hardly think it was any trouble or
                     very much pain for the girl to cry under such interesting circumstances.
                     Without the rain we never could have the rainbow, and without tears we should
                     miss some of the sweetest experiences of life. And as I see Tom and Eva now,
                     her head resting in his arms, his tender, manly sympathy and chivalrous care,
                     overflowing in choice words, his sweet kisses made doubly dear by sympathetic
                     pity, his handsome face lit up and beautified by the highest emotions that
                     ennoble the human soul, I think she is far happier now than she was when
                     Frank's harsh, angry voice a little while before had awakened her from her
                     first love-reverie. I said that they were then as happy as they were capable of
                     being. And so they were. But some moments there be in this eventful life of
                     ours that come to us so freighted with life, so pregnant with its deeper
                     meaning, that in them we learn more of life's deep mysteries, we feel more of
                     its unknown power, than years of common humdrum existence could teach or show
                     us. The mental exaltation that gives this added strength of vision, that brings
                     this enlarged being and fuller life, is only born of deep feeling. And so when
                     I say that these two beings were happier than they were a little while before,
                     when I said they were as happy as they could be, I mean to assert that to their
                     other capacities of enjoyment ment they had added the divine power of
                     sympathetic, pitying love. It may be true that the "sorrow" of which such love
                     is born is "sweeter far than the supremest ecstasy of joy."
                  I must confess to feeling a good deal hurt when I saw Frank's clouded, angry
                     face, and heard his sharp, bitter words, when he first found his sister. His
                     angry presence seemed to bring such painful discord into such charming
                     music,—the thrilling melody of youthful love. The morning was so bright and
                     pleasant, the children were so interesting and comfortable, there seemed no
                     place in such a scene for the dark colors with which Frank daubed it. But as I
                     look at them now, I am not sure that I have any occasion to feel very badly
                     over the momentary pangs that have given birth to the higher feelings and
                     emotions of their natures.
                  A clearer insight into the mystery of being, a wiser and juster appreciation of
                     the beneficent ministry of sin and sorrow, would doubtless make us less
                     sensitive to many of the unavoidable evils of our lot, and even as kind friends
                     rejoice in the birth-throes that are only the beginning of a new life, changing
                     the sorrowful woman into a happy mother, so should we be often found rejoicing
                     over those painful trials that are but the birth-throes of the higher, diviner
                     life of the soul.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  A REVIEW OF THE PAST.
                  AUNT POLLY was too deeply absorbed in her own painful thoughts to know anything
                     of the trouble down-stairs. She had come to one of those stopping-places in the
                     journey of life where the road seems suddenly to come to an end. The traveler
                     can no longer pursue his journey in thst direction. He might prefer to do so,
                     even though his journey had been
                     toilsome, his path thickly strewn with thorns, and he hedged in with
                     difficulties and dangers. Still, he feels it better to endure the ills he is
                     accustomed to, than fly to those he knows not of. But now he must stop; the
                     road he has been traveling suddenly ends in a frightful precipice, beneath
                     which all is darkness and danger.
                  Thus it was with Aunt Polly. Her life-journey had been toilsome, filled with
                     pain and care. There was only one being in all the earth she could love with
                     all the intense, passionate ardor and strength of her soul. That man she had
                     seen drawn from her side by the charms of another. She had drained to its very
                     dregs the bitter cup of unrequited love. She had seen this man stand at the
                     altar and make such vows to another as placed an impassable gulf between him
                     and her forever. People said she was perfectly calm at the wedding. They said
                     the gossips must be mistaken. Of course she never cared for Mr. Rosewell. She
                     must have given him the mitten. If not, with all her property, he surely would
                     have married her, instead of that penniless Mary Graves, who had only her
                     pretty face and a little faculty for writing compositions and verses to
                     recommend her. A man must be a fool, people said, to leave such a girl as Miss
                     Polly (she was not Aunt Polly then, but the flattered, petted heiress), a girl
                     that could do anything she had a mind to turn her hand to, a capital
                     housekeeper, an undisputed authority on all church and social questions that
                     are regulated by women, for a woman apparently so much her inferior. It
                        must be, they said, that Miss Polly had given him the mitten,
                     and he was obliged to leave her. And in this the people guessed rightly; she
                     did give him the mitten, as they called it. He had promised to marry her, and
                     she absolutely refused to marry him; though why she refused him is one of those
                     mysteries that only the coming of the angel of death will solve. And so they
                     said truly when they said she was calm at his wedding. She was calm, but it was
                     the calmness of an anguish so keen that it holds the being spell-bound by its
                     paralyzing power. There be shocks to the nervous system that are too severe to
                     be felt. Instead of giving pain, they so deaden the nerves of sensation that no
                     pain is felt. She was calm because she felt too deeply to be otherwise. Her
                     blood was cold, her flesh like stone. Months after, when she had partially
                     recovered this blow and came partly back to herself, she thought her heart was
                     dead within her. She certainly was an altered woman. She had laid her woman's
                     heart a living sacrifice on the altar of love. And the fires that had consumed
                     the sacrifice had burned away all the sweeter, gentler, charming graces of
                     womanhood and left her withered, sapless, and repulsive. She had conquered her
                     mother's nature; she was like her father now. She was deceived in herself, and
                     believed that this paralysis of her heart was death. So she thought it safe to
                     take the one last privilege that life offered, of watching over and working for
                     the once loved one. So it came to pass that a few months after Mr.
                     Rosewell's marriage she rented her farm, disposed of her personal property, and
                     followed him to the Southwest. Her coming was very fortunate for the afflicted
                     family. Mrs. Rosewell was sick in bed with the ague; Mr. Rosewell would neither
                     buy nor hire a slave, and the work that was done he had to do himself.
                     Everything was in a state of inextricable confusion. Miss Polly, who was a
                     model of neatness and order, thought she "had never seen such a looking place
                     in all her born days." She declared she "couldn't tell which way the boards in
                     the kitchen floor ran for the dirt on them." She said "there wasn't a clean
                     thing she could take hold of in all the house." She said she "should starve
                     before she could eat anything there was in that house." Mr. Rosewell was
                     mortified above measure.
                  And shall I say that in that trying moment, as he contrasted the feeble,
                     inefficient, helpless woman on the bed with the strong, energetic,
                     self-sufficient woman who had come to his help, that he cursed the folly that
                     first caused his heart to wander from her? I should only be telling the truth,
                     which I feel bound to do as perfectly as I am capable of telling it, if I
                     should say that. And so, also, truth compels me to confess that Miss Polly felt
                     a secret exultation over the misfortunes from which she had come to save them.
                     It is one of the hidden mysteries of
                     love and friendship that we feel a secret joy at the misfortunes of our nearest
                     friends, especially when we have predicted their coming, that we never feel
                     over the misfortunes of others. If you don't believe this, dear reader, just
                     look closely into your own heart, and watch its varying feelings and
                     conflicting emotions the next time that you hear some little, slanderous story
                     about that dear friend and neighbor of yours. Of course you are sorry. At once
                     you repel the foul story. You declare there ain't a word of truth in it,—I mean
                     you do this if you are not too bashful to speak it right out. But, at any rate,
                     you think it. But much as you think it, it wouldn't be at all strange if the
                     first, and the second, and the third time you told the story you forgot to add
                     that you didn't believe a word of it. I think if you attempt to tack on to the
                     tail end of a slanderous story a confession of belief in its falsity, you will
                     see the bright, animated countenance of your friend become clouded; I think you
                     will observe a sudden lack of interest in your story when you begin to show up
                     its improbabilities. I judge it will be so from long years of close
                     observation. My dear Mrs. Telltale, if you discredit my opinion, the next time
                     you retail a choice bit of unfriendly gossip to your sewing-society you just
                     watch their faces and see when they manifest the greatest interest—in the story
                     or its denial. I think we all come honestly enough by this disposition to take
                     an undue interest in evil; for I remember with how much interest our dear
                     Mother Eve listened to the serpent when he told her that the reason why the
                     Lord did not want her to eat the fruit of a certain tree was that if she did
                     she would know good and evil. She knew enough of good already, and the only
                     reason why she should run such a risk as she did in eating the forbidden fruit
                     was that she might know evil. And surely she got enough of it, and bequeathed
                     enough of it to her children. Therefore it is that I think that Mr. Rosewell's
                     irritation at his choice, under the influence of mortified pride and the
                     annoying inconveniences and discomfort of a sick wife, was quite natural. I am
                     not quite sure, my dear Mr. Brown, but what under the same circumstances you
                     would have felt very much as he did. Not but what you love your wife devotedly.
                     She is your darling angel, the delight of your eyes, the joy of your heart, and
                     you wouldn't lose her for all the world. But then men don't always feel the
                     same towards their sweet, angel-wives; and it is no use to pretend they do.
                  And really, I do not think that Miss Polly's joy at finding them in such a
                     distressing condition was an unmixed evil. She was a person in whom conscience
                     was the sovereign ruling power. Even her deep element, love, was subject to
                     this. This characteristic of her religious feelings was an outgrowth of New
                     England Puritanism, that made duty and conscience the predominate powers of
                     being. So it was that when Miss Polly found herself regarding Mrs. Rosewell's
                     yellow face and dull, lustreless eyes with eager delight; when she found
                     herself rejoicing over the ravages that disease had made in that once beautiful
                     face, when she knew she ought to feel sorry and mourn over it, her conscience,
                     like an ever-faithful watch-dog, took the alarm and began to bark at and bite
                     her in a fearful manner. "For shame," it cried, "on such a miserable woman as
                     you are! Tickled to see other people suffer. It is nothing but your mean,
                     contemptible jealousy that makes you feel so towards that woman. You hate her
                     just because God made her so pretty and agreeable that Mr. Rosewell could love
                     her, instead of your homely, disagreeable self. You are worse than the dog in
                     the manger; you wouldn't marry him yourself, and now you are mad because she
                     has got him." Miss Polly knew that this was a pretty strong way of stating the
                     case. She knew that the last accusation did not do justice to her reasons for
                     refusing to marry Mr. Rosewell. But then she felt too deeply humbled, she too
                     thoroughly despised herself, because of the presence of such base, malignant
                     feelings in her heart, to take much note of the injustice done her. Besides,
                     who expects his conscience to do him justice? Its work is like that of the
                     State's prosecuting attorney. It is a part of its duty to pry into your secret
                     motives, to sound the innermost recesses of your being, and from its lowest
                     depths to bring up all that is foul, loathsome, and disagreeable, and expose it
                     in the blazing light of your own consciousness. But you must hold your judgment
                     in suspended decision till you hear
                     what the other side has to say, else you will be like the negro that said of
                     his own trial: "When I hear dat fust feller talk, I tinks I's de wust feller in
                     de wide world, dat ought to be strung up by de neck till I's ded, ded! But when
                     I hears t'oder feller talk, I tinks I'se de best niggah in de world."
                  Miss Polly listened only to what her accusing angel had to say, and she thought
                     she must be the worst person in the world. And this is the way she decided to
                     have her revenge. She would stay right there and take the best of care of Mrs.
                     Rosewell. She would clean up the house, and put everything in the most perfect
                     order, and never leave them till they were well and comfortable again. It was
                     not an easy task she had set for herself. But when she decided to do a thing
                     she done it.
                  And, oh, what a transformation the magic of her busy fingers wrought in that
                     house! In a little time everything was as neat and tidy in that Southern home
                     as in a New England kitchen. Dirty cloths were exchanged for clean ones, dirty
                     dishes for bright, clean ones; nice, fresh milk-emptins bread took the place of
                     the sour, burnt, doughy stuff that had been on the table. In a neat, tidy
                     wrapper, from fresh, clean pillows, and snowy bedclothes, Mrs. Rosewell's sweet
                     face looked up with grateful love to the kind woman who had brought order out
                     of confusion, cleanliness out of filth, comfort out of misery.
                  But in spite of all her care and watchfulness, Mrs. Rosewell grew rapidly
                     worse. The poisonous malaria that filled the air so affected her slender
                     constitution that the chills grew more and more severe and continuous, while
                     the reaction grew feebler and feebler, till there was the real congestive
                     chill, so much dreaded by Southern invalids. The doctor came, felt her pulse,
                     shook his head, and said "he could do no more for her. The only thing that
                     could save her was an immediate removal from that place, and in her weak state,
                     every symptom aggravated by her peculiar situation, she would be very apt to
                     die at once. She was liable to have another congestive chill at any moment,
                     from which there was no hope of any reaction; and if they had anything they
                     wished to say to her, they had better say it at once, as it was probable that
                     with the beginning of another chill she would lose all consciousness." This was
                     said to Miss Polly and Mr. Rosewell, on the door-step, just as he was leaving.
                     The word "death" is at all times startling when spoken in connection with the
                     names of those near us, even if they be not our friends. But what was it that
                     made that word so startling to that woman now? It was as though that sound was
                     the trumpet of the resurrection angel that, speaking to her dead heart, bade it
                     leave the tomb where it had laid buried since the fatal night of Mr. Rosewell's
                     marriage, and come forth to a new and joyous life of happiness and love. The
                     weeping friends that saw the dead Lazarus come back to life were no more
                     surprised than this woman to feel her pulses resume their old-time beating.
                     Much of hate she had felt for Mrs. Rosewell; much of cold unfeeling interest in
                     him. But she had honestly believed that her love was dead, and could never
                     revive. What were her first emotions when she discovered her mistake? Did she
                     welcome back the old life that had only been a source of torture and misery?
                     She did. Her first emotions were those of devout joy. There is something so
                     terrible in the thought of a heart dead to love, with all the joy and life it
                     brings, that one who has felt the chilling embrace of this freezing thought is
                     ready to welcome anything, any kind of torture, in its stead. The thoughts of
                     his ever loving her, of her ever marrying him, in case of his wife's death, had
                     not now entered her mind, at least they had as yet made no distinct impression
                     on it. Her joy was the simple natural joy of returning life. No matter what
                     suffering is before him, the first emotion of one rescued from the jaws of
                     death is that of joy at his deliverance. A low, plaintive cry brought both to
                     the bedside of the sick woman.
                  "I know the doctor thinks I'll not live. But don't feel bad, dearest. Heaven
                     has for me more attractions than earth. I wouldn't turn my hand over to live or
                     die. I only want to have the Lord's will done. He wills all things right. But
                     it grieves me to think of leaving you, my dear husband, and this dear girl."
                     She took the girl's hand and pressed it tenderly to her lips. "You have always
                     been so kind to me. You have done what no one else could or would do for me. And somehow I have always been afraid
                     I had wronged you. I heard that he loved you before I came. I
                     can't die in peace unless you forgive me."
                  In the presence of the death-angel people are truthful, if at no other time.
                     The girl was too truthful to deny her love. But she spoke truly when she said,
                     "I've nothing to forgive. You have done me no wrong; it was no fault of yours
                     that things came as they did."
                  Mrs. Rosewell thought of the dreaded chill that might come at any moment, and,
                     thinking first of all of the happiness of others, she put the girl's hand into
                     her husband's. Her lips moved, but she said nothing. But, oh, the touch of that
                     hand! How it thrilled through the girl's whole being! Oh, no! her heart wasn't
                     dead. It was a thousand times more alive than it had ever been before. What a
                     change! What joy in place of the old misery! Because she had thought it right
                     to do so, she had dashed the cup of love from her lips, lest drinking it should
                     give pain to another. And now that same hand pressed the sweet wine of life
                     again to her thirsty lips. And shall she not drink it? She is drinking of the
                     proffered cup, and her face is radiant with joy.
                  But what is it that chokes back the words Mrs. Rosewell had intended to utter?
                     She had seen the expression of these two faces, and by reason of a sudden
                     revulsion of feeling the words she was to speak die on her lips and she is
                     silent. But from this moment there is a change in her physical condition. The
                     life currents course through her veins with increased power. To account for the
                     change is beyond the province of the student of physical science.
                  Is it true, then, that in the moment of entire self-renunciation, when she
                     really desired, or at least thought she desired, her husband to bury his love
                     for her in the love of another, that a pang of jealous rage seized upon her as
                     she saw how easy it was for him to do it? I leave this question with those
                     deeply versed in the mysteries of the feminine nature. To me her ways are past
                     finding out. But if it be true that Mrs. Rosewell was jealous, the favorable
                     change in her condition is easily accounted for. What she needed was something
                     to stimulate the sluggish life-forces and arouse them to combat the disease.
                     These life-forces were not exhausted, they were simply dormant. Quinine and
                     wine had failed to arouse them. She needed the stimulus of some strong feeling
                     to arouse her. Somehow she got this feeling when she saw the effect her death
                     was going to have upon her husband and his old sweetheart, and she made up her
                     mind not to die just then.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  A REVIEW OF THE PAST, CONTINUED.
                  WE are often startled at the sudden manifestations of depravity we see in the
                     world around us. But it is doubtful if we are ever so surprised and startled by
                     what we see in others as by that which we find out in ourselves. What we had
                     thought to be only a harmless mountain turns out to be a fearful volcano; and
                     in some moment of sudden temptation it emits such torrents of the burning lava
                     of passionate desire that for a time all moral purposes and will-power lie
                     smoking in the ruins, like the buried cities of Italy under the eruptions of
                     its many volcanoes.
                  Could any prophetic seer have shown to that conscientious girl a picture of one
                     standing by the bedside of a dying woman, her heart thrilling with rapture that
                     her hated rival was seized by the King of Terrors and would soon be out of her
                     way, that she might have her husband all to herself, none would have turned
                     from the vile wretch with more passionate loathing than she; none but could
                     have been more easily persuaded that there was a possibility of her ever
                     feeling so than herself. But one of the advantages that results from a
                     deliberate choice of the right is, that a soul that by this choice has linked
                     itself to the eternal right has by this means become possessed sessed of the one indestructible principle of
                     life. A soul thus vitalized by this divine principle may be thrown into the
                     furnace of passion heated seven times hotter by the internal fires of its own
                     being, but it can never be wholly destroyed.
                  Overcome as she was by the terrible passions that had seized upon her, Miss
                     Polly had sense enough to be conscious of the fatal fascination that was
                     enthralling her, and she knew that her only safety was in flight. Back of the
                     house was a strip of woods and in them was a tree, to which in moments of
                     loneliness she often resorted to gain strength by leaning upon the Infinite
                     arm, to bear the burden of her hopeless lot. Hither she comes now. But she has
                     no strength or power for further struggle. Her soul has drunk of the
                     intoxicating cup of the wine of love, and the only thing she can do is to keep
                     herself still and wait the reaction of conscience and the moral forces.
                  And surely she has to wait none too long. Let not the strictest moralist
                     begrudge her this one golden moment of existence. She will have to pay dearly
                     enough for it. But in full view of the price she has to pay, with perfect
                     knowledge of the horrors that wait upon her morning awakening, in full view of
                     the long, tedious years I have seen her pass since, vainly trying by the most
                     persistent self-sacrifice to make amends for to-night's faults, and quench the
                     flames thus kindled afresh in her heart, I declare that this night's experience
                     is worth all, yea, more than all, she has to pay for it. "Better to have loved
                     and lost," the poet sings, "than never to have loved at all." Better to
                     condense the elixir of life into one draught, that drinking of it we may get a
                     conception of the power of love, may get an insight into its nature, may feel
                     its transforming, vivifying, thrilling power, and ever after be hungry and
                     thirsty, doomed to see the angel with the flaming sword guarding the entrance
                     to our once happy Eden, lest we should again enter and, tasting its fruits, be
                     satisfied, then never to know the meaning of life at all. Welcome Eden, then,
                     with all its short-lived joys, its dangerous temptations, its torturing
                     awakenings, its cruel reverses and sudden changes. Better all this than never
                     to taste its joys at all.
                  A more cruel fate than waited upon Mother Eve (she had Adam to help her bear
                     her burdens) waits upon this girl when she awakes out of this delicious dream;
                     for dream it is, though her eyes are wide open. But what of that? While it
                     lasts is there anything in all life's experience to be compared to it?
                  Talk of the exhilaration of the intoxicating wine! Tell us, you who can, of the
                     joys of the Brahman heaven to which the fumes of opium waft his happy spirit.
                     But what are any and all of these artificial stimulants but clumsy contrivances
                     by which men seek to simulate the intoxicating delights of love?
                  Here is a girl orphaned from infancy, who in calmer moments feels that all
                     objects in life are gone, that nothing remains to her but a weary struggle with
                     a hopeless lot; the chilling dews of night are settling upon her, she is almost
                     alone in a strange land, she is alone with the inhabitants of the woods, who
                     can in no wise sympathize with her joys or share her sorrows; but this does not
                     disturb her happiness. Oh, so happy!
                  What is the secret of this joy so deep as to absorb and possess her whole
                     being, of this rapture so thrilling that naught else can be felt or realized?
                     Why, nothing but the gentle pressure of Mr. Rosewell's hand as he held hers in
                     his, the soft, gentle, loving look in his eye as he looked into hers when his
                     wife was entreating him to love her. Surely it would seem that if happiness is
                     so easily gotten as that, we ought always to be happy. But simple as it seems,
                     there is a secret in her happiness which only those possessed of a like nature
                     can ever know. Doubtless the process by which almost worthless carbon is
                     transformed into the sparkling diamond is a very simple thing to know, if the
                     chemist could only get hold of it. But then he cannot; so what is the
                     difference? No more can shallow, unloving, sordid natures grasp the secret of
                     this woman's happiness. Nor does she know the secret herself; and that is one
                     reason why she will suffer so for it. For in the morning when her accuser tells
                     her that she rejoiced thus because she thought Mrs. Rosewell was dying and she
                     was going to get her husband, she will believe it, and her anguish will be as
                     keen as her joy is thrilling. But I,
                     who know her much better than she knows herself, know that this is
                     not so.
                  The deepest chords of our hearts can only be reached by the divine touch of
                     love. Therefore when the heart is filled with the sweetest melody, when the
                     whole soul is echoing and re-echoing the divine harmonies of nature, we may be
                     very sure that love, not hate, has touched the heart's keys. The prospect of
                     Mrs. Rosewell's death was only the means of revealing the secret that made this
                     girl so happy. She sees now that she was mistaken in her reasons for refusing
                     him, and anything is better for her than the supposed fact upon which that
                     refusal was based.
                  What miserable mornings wait upon the happiest of nights! While the senses are
                     locked in sleep the busy brain goes on working out its own problems, and, in
                     the clear light of the morning, we are often surprised to see in what different
                     shades of coloring the same thing is seen from what it was the night before. At
                     night we are happy; we have friends that love us and are dear to us; our lot is
                     tolerably comfortable. In the morning we are the most wretched of creatures.
                     Nobody cares for us, and we care for nobody. We might as well be dead as alive,
                     for all the comfort there is for us in life.
                  Miss Polly started back with horror from the picture of herself that she saw in
                     the morning light as she awoke from her happy dream. Then it was that the old
                     enemies that she had thought conquered and slain came back upon her with
                     seven-fold more power than before. She was like the one out of whom the unclean
                     spirit had gone for a time, but only to return with seven other spirits worse
                     than the first. And, oh, how much worse was her last estate than the first!
                     When she made her first great sacrifice, she was buoyed up by a youthful
                     enthusiasm that for a time made the yoke seem easy and the burden light. There
                     was something so stimulating and inspiring to a nature like hers in the thought
                     of sacrificing her own happiness for the happiness of the loved one, that the
                     duty seemed light, and even pleasant. But now the glamour was all worn off; the
                     brilliant glow had faded into the blackness of darkest night. The light that
                     the last few hours of revived hope had thrown over the dark, thorny way made it
                     seem even worse than when, with bruised and bleeding feet, she was walking in
                     it. She braced herself against the tree and clasped both hands around her
                     knees, while her whole frame trembled like a reed shaken by the wind.
                  To those whose interest can be excited by nothing less than the record of great
                     battles, that leave the ground drunk with the blood of brothers and the air
                     putrid with the stench of their decaying bodies, the sight of this young girl
                     struggling alone with her unseen foes, the account of her bloodless victory,
                     will seem very tame and insipid. So also it will seem to those whose feverish
                     imaginations can only be delighted with scenes of love, blood, and murder. But
                     to those who, by experience, know what it is to struggle with temptation; who
                     believe that the great battles of life are fought in the soul, not with the
                     hands; to those who would know what heroic spirits may dwell in the uncouth,
                     repulsive, withered, dried-up bodies of that unfortunate class of our
                     fellow-creatures called old maids, the sight of that heroic girl, alone
                     wrestling with the fearful problems of destiny, patiently striving to
                     straighten its snarled and tangled web, is fraught with more intense interest
                     than the pictures of a hundred battle-fields.
                  A more subtle temptation than she had before encountered now assailed her.
                     "Don't you owe your first duties to yourself?" was plausibly suggested. "Is it
                     right for you to give up what is so necessary to you for the sake of somebody
                     else? You can see now how liable people are to make mistakes, even when they
                     think they are doing right. You can see now how wrong it was for you to refuse
                     him in the first place; and are you going to keep up the wrong by trying to get
                     her well, so you can't get him at all? How much you would prefer rather to die
                     at once than live on in such a life of misery as you have lived! How you have
                     prayed for death! And the Lord has heard your prayer; but it is her instead of
                     you he wants to take. He loves you for the sacrifice you have been willing to
                     make for the right, and now he wants to reward you by giving you back the very
                     thing you had laid on the altar; and you think you ought to stand in the way of her death by using your own
                     money to send her off to get her well! Use the very money that God has given
                     you to take care of yourself with, to keep somebody alive who stands between
                     you and everything that you care for in life! Why not let her die? She is not
                     afraid to. She will go to heaven; and if she should live, you don't know but
                     what she might be a backslider, and finally be lost."
                  All that the girl had with which she could meet these insinuations was her own
                     instinct of right, which instinct is often our highest wisdom. She put her
                     fingers in her ears, and looked only to the bare, disgusting fact of a girl
                     standing by the bedside of a dying woman, rejoicing in the death-throes that
                     set her husband at liberty to marry her. She raised a piteous cry
                     to heaven for help. The struggle was sharp, but decisive. The enemies then
                     slain were buried so deep by her unfaltering purpose, and its speedy execution,
                     that they were heard from no more.
                  She hurried to the house, and told Mr. Rosewell that he must prepare to take
                     his wife North at once. To this he objected that he had no money. This fact
                     seemed to clear his conscience.
                  "Well, I have; and every cent of it shall be spent to save her life," said the
                     determined girl.
                  Mr. Rosewell gave her a puzzled, inquiring look, and thought, "Well, she is a
                     queer girl. I never could understand her;" and prepared himself to obey her
                     commands.
                  A few months after, when Mrs. Rosewell, restored to perfect health, and the
                     happy mother of a bouncing boy, returned to her old home, she found the little
                     log cabin replaced by a neat, commodious house, in a healthier location.
                     Prosperity and plenty took the place of the old want and destitution. Mrs.
                     Rosewell thought of her jealous pang as the freak of a brain crazed by disease.
                     She thankfully accepted the blessings of her lot, without the most distant idea
                     of the person to whom she owed them. At first Mr. Rosewell felt some delicacy
                     about using so much of Miss Polly's fortune, but that feeling gradually wore
                     off, and he was happier in plenty than he had been in want.
                  Miss Polly rejoiced in this opportunity of revenging herself for hating an
                     innocent woman so; and it was because of this peculiar way of taking her
                     revenge that the Rosewell family were so much better off than other new
                     settlers the first night we saw them seated so pleasantly by the fireside. Some
                     people like to speculate on what might have been. So, if it had not been for
                     this determination of Aunt Polly to have ample revenge on herself, instead of
                     Mrs. Rosewell having leisure to search through history, study science, and
                     investigate philosophies that she might possess herself of their treasures to
                     enrich her own mind and benefit her children, like other poor women she would
                     have been obliged to spend this time in washing their clothes and getting them
                     something to eat. In such case, it is not improbable that the first time we
                     visited the "Rosewell family," instead of finding such a bright, cheerful
                     circle, seated around a glowing fireplace, listening to such interesting
                     stories, we would have found Mrs. Rosewell faded, care-worn, and yellow, her
                     beauty like the withered rose-leaf, her youthful joys and hopes like a
                     long-forgotten dream. Instead of being so delighted with the chance of telling
                     stories to her children, and seeing their eyes sparkle and dance with delight
                     as new ideas entered their minds, we might have seen her peevish and fretful,
                     "wishing they'd get off to bed and give her a minute's piece of her life."
                  If, then, dear reader, you rejoice in the prosperity of this family, if you
                     delight in their happiness and joy to think what a good start in life these
                     children are taking, I pray you not to forget that lonely woman that sits
                     knitting in the corner. Her hopeless passion, and the manner in which she seeks
                     to punish her heart for clinging so fondly to another woman's husband, is the
                     soil out of which much of this happiness is growing.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  THE WISE MAMMY.
                  THE clock has struck seven, and again the Rosewell family are seated around the
                     great old-fashioned fireplace. It is just such a fireplace as the scarcity of
                     wood makes impossible to the older States of the East. But here in the
                     Southwest, where wood is so plenty, it is a cheap luxury. Some one has said
                     that a fireplace is a "means of grace" in a family. It is easy to believe that,
                     as we breathe the pure, untainted air of this room, and see the bright,
                     cheerful light it throws around this little group, seated as usual around Mrs.
                     Rosewell's chair. But there has been an addition to this family of late.
                     Instead of the five children, there are now six. Not that the fat baby's nose
                     has been knocked out of joint by a new-comer. He lies there in the cradle
                     gabbling to himself, sucking his thumbs and toes, his nose as straight and
                     firmly set as ever. The new-comer is a handsome, noble-looking youth of
                     fourteen, as fully developed, in all but physical size, as boys of eighteen and
                     twenty in colder climates. Nature seems to have a trick of bringing some
                     children to maturity much sooner than others, just to show what she can do.
                     This boy is just the age of Frank, and he has grown up under the same sun. But
                     through the veins of the one courses the hot, fiery blood of the South,
                     stimulating every organ and faculty to precocious growth; in the other flows
                     the cooler blood of the North. His growth is slower than the other, but when he
                     does come to maturity he will be, as they say, "there." The one is brilliant,
                     gay, and interesting; the other prosaic, solid, and valuable.
                  Eva has a disagreeable-looking patch on her head, but otherwise she looks very
                     pretty and interesting. There is an added charm and grace in her looks and
                     appearance of which we could only see the germ when she sat beside her brother,
                     listening to the story of the little Napoleon. It takes sunshine to develop the
                     hidden beauties of the rose, and nothing but the sunshine of loving
                     appreciation can call forth the hidden beauties of such a nature as Eva's.
                  It was just as natural for her to turn her face to the one that thus shone upon
                     her as for the sunflower to turn its face to the sun. Therefore it is perfectly
                     natural that in the arrangement of the chairs for the evening, hers should be
                     placed very near the handsome youth who looks so lovingly and smiles so sweetly
                     upon her. He likes to have her with him. He
                     appreciates her poetry. It is quite natural, then, that she should prefer his
                     company to that of her unpoetic brother. And, indeed, since that eventful
                     morning when she got her head hurt, she has had him nearly all the time.
                  Mrs. Price lies on her sofa, more hopeless and despondent than ever. She, the
                     once beautiful and accomplished belle of Louisville; she, to whom Henry Clay in
                     his brightest days had addressed his most courtly compliments, is now alone,
                     with no companions but the slaves. The contrast between the joyous past and the
                     wretched present is so great that at times a feeling of rebellious hate fills
                     her heart towards the man whose fondness for gambling has brought all this
                     misery upon her. But still, though she knows the door of luxury is still open
                     to her on condition that she will leave her husband, she steadily refuses to
                     enter it. To-night she feels that her heart is breaking under the added weight
                     of misery that her son's fondness for the Rosewell family has brought upon
                     her.
                  The fire in her fireplace burns as brightly as in Mrs. Rosewell's; but the
                     light shines upon no bright, happy faces. Mr. Price is absent as usual, and the
                     cheerful light falls only on the stolid, fat, expressionless face of the old
                     "mammy," and the pale, despairing face of the forsaken wife and lonely mother.
                     There are times when the burdens of life weigh so heavily upon us that, by an
                     instinct of nature, we seek to throw a part of the load on some one else,
                     otherwise we should be crushed beneath it. Tom had helped his mother to bear
                     the weary load heretofore; but, as the reader has doubtless guessed, he is now
                     listening to Mrs. Rosewell's stories, just like one of the family. So Mrs.
                     Price has none but the sympathetic ear of the old slave to listen to her troubles. The fat creature always goes to
                     sleep when she has not something else to do. Mrs. Price is too much absorbed in
                     her own troubles to keep her at work, so she is sleeping now, straight up in
                     her chair; and as the fitful light of the fire throws its glare on her black
                     face, it presents a charming picture of perfect animal content. The soul, with
                     all its infinite capacities for joy and suffering, seems so smothered in this
                     load of fat that the body has taken on, that when the brain is not under the
                     influence of wine we see little more signs of its existence than in the great,
                     fat, good-natured dog that is dozing in the other corner of the fireplace. The
                     wretched woman looked first at the slave, then at the dog, and felt her
                     passion-tossed soul going out in hungry longings for their passionless ease and
                     quiet rest.
                  "Oh, my God!" she exclaimed, in a sudden burst of uncontrollable grief, "why
                     couldn't I have been born a dog or a nigger? I reckon I've never known what it
                     is to rest and be easy in all my life," sighed the weary woman, who had never
                     done so much work as to dress herself, or comb her own hair, in all her life.
                     "Oh, if I could go to sleep and never wake up! But no, it can't be. God gives
                     sleep to dogs and niggers, but to me he gives only sleepless nights and
                     restless days. This last trouble is worse than all. Oh, I shall die now, I know
                     I shall!"
                  Mammy was so trained to start at the sound of her mistress's voice, that she
                     started, even though her senses were still locked in sleep, and brought her the
                     smelling-bottle. The dog started up, looked pityingly at his mistress, and came
                     up to the sofa wagging his tail, as much as to say, "I know you are in trouble,
                     and I wish I could help you."
                  The unhappy woman was so glad of the sympathy of even a dog that she burst into
                     a flood of tears. By this time mammy was awake, and, seeing her mistress in
                     such deep trouble, she took her right up in her arms, as she had done when she
                     was a baby, and began to rock and soothe her. This was the same bosom upon
                     which she had rested in infancy and childhood; she heard the same soothing,
                     quieting voice that had charmed away her childish troubles. And as she pressed
                     her pale cheek against the black cheek of her slave, she felt a sense of rest
                     and ease that can only come from human sympathy and helpfulness.
                  "My poor, dear lamb," said the soothing voice, "yer allus too tender to stan'
                     dese cold winds. 'Pears like ye'd perish in 'm jest like de lambs dat comed too
                     soon and died. Now, honey, yer mus' jes' shelter yerself under yer old mammy,
                     that's allus tuk care of you, and not worry any more over Massa Tom. 'Tain't
                     worth the trouble it takes to keep him from goin' arter the Yankees. Let him
                     go, honey, and if dey kills him he can't lib to break dis poor little heart
                     like his father has. Dare now, be quiet, honey," she added, as she saw the
                     hysterical sobs that followed her attempts at comfort, "yer gittin' crazy coz
                     ye hain't got no sleep."
                  But, like Job's comforters, the poor slave had missed the mark when she spoke
                     of the hated Yankees getting her boy. The spirited woman sobbed over it a few
                     moments, when her countenance changed, her face expressed a new resolution,
                     and, wiping away her tears, she jumped out of mammy's lap, and stamping her
                     foot, to show her defiance of the Yankees, exclaimed,—
                  "No; I reckon they won't get my boy! It's enough for them to steal our niggers,
                     without trying to steal our children too."
                  Mrs. Price had a very disagreeable opinion of the Yankees. She had proudly held
                     herself aloof from all of the free-state settlers in her neighborhood. The name
                     always called to her mind the thoughts of wooden nutmegs, cheating
                     clock-peddlers, and sneaking nigger-thieves. No marvel then that she felt thus
                     when her favorite boy had fallen into their hands; it was the same as falling
                     among thieves. She walked the floor a little while in a state of great
                     excitement, trying to decide on some plan to rescue her boy. At last she
                     exclaimed, with fierce energy,—
                  "He sha'n't stay there any longer! I'll go right after him this very
                     night!"
                  "Why, honey! what can yer be thinkin' on to start out sich a night as this? And yer been sick
                     almost to death. Ye'll kill yerself; then the Yankees 'll git yer boy
                     sure."
                  She took hold of the excited woman, as though she were her mistress instead of
                     her slave, and again taking her into her lap began to undress her to put her to
                     bed.
                  The frail woman was too weak to make any resistance. She yielded to the
                     superior strength of her slave, as we always have to yield to superior force.
                     When mammy had her undressed, she went to the cupboard, and taking out a bottle
                     that had some disagreeable-smelling stuff in it, she poured out a teaspoonful
                     of it, and taking it to her, said,—
                  "My poor little lamb must take dis yer petty. Den she mus' let her ole mammy
                     rock her 'sleep jes' as she did in ole Kentuck." The proud woman obeyed the
                     chattel as though she had been a helpless child.
                  When mammy carried the "petty" bottle back to the cupboard, she stopped long
                     enough to take a sip out of another bottle. "I needs suthin' to keep me 'wake
                     when I's got dat poor lamb to look arter," she said to herself, by way of
                     apology for taking her master's choicest brandy. "De old massa 'll be none de
                     wuss for havin' a drop less. It's a heap too much ob de stuff he gits
                     anyhow."
                  "What are you doing in that cupboard so long?" said Mrs. Price.
                  "Nothin', honey. I'se jes' put de petty back in de furder corner, so de
                     thievish niggahs can't git it. Dey ud steal de dimes off a ded man's eyes,
                     'cept you's allus watchin' um.'
                  Mrs. Price knew the chattel was lying; but what could she do? Nothing. She was
                     a great deal more dependent on the slave than the slave was on her. She kept up
                     a little show of authority by carrying the keys and pretending to be mistress;
                     but she well knew it was useless to oppose mammy in anything she wanted,
                     especially in the matter of wine and brandy, for which she had a special
                     fondness. She thought whisky was beneath the dignity of one who "had allus been
                     a slave in de first families of ole Kentuck." The brandy seemed to have the
                     effect of awakening her dormant philosophizing powers; for when she was again
                     seated in her great arm-chair, rocking Mrs. Price to sleep, she began to air
                     her opinions of the chief object of life, its duties and responsibilities,
                     after the manner of the Athenian sages. "What is it dat de likes o' us is born
                     inter dis yer world for? What's de objec'? Dere certain must be suthin', or
                     'pears like we ud never been whar we ar. De Almighty ud never be foolish 'nough
                     to spen' his time makin' on us 'cept he ud a had some objec' in it. Dat stan's
                     to reason. But what dat objec' is is suthin' dis yer niggah's never ben able to
                     fine out. 'Pears like de Almighty's set hisself to make up a riddle we can't
                     any on us guess. It's a heap more difficul' dan de riddle de 'postle Paul gib
                     to de Philistines 'cerning de honey dat was made out ob de rotten carcass ob de
                     ded lion." Mammy's knowledge of the Bible was very limited. It was confined to
                     such impressions as had been made on her memory in the better days of the
                     republic, when ministers were allowed to teach the slaves out of the Bible,
                     though they could not learn them to read. It is no wonder, then, that her
                     knowledge thus acquired should become very much mixed with error, and that she
                     should often be unable to distinguish between the heroes and patriarchs of the
                     Old Testament and the apostles and saints of the New. "But tank de good Lord,"
                     she continued, as though a pleasant thought had struck her, "wid de help of dat
                     ar heffer, dey did fine it out in time to save dere bacon; and 'pears like I'se
                     allus 'spectin' de dear Lord ud sen' a heffer or a bull, or suthin' nuther, to
                     help us in time to 'scape de city of 'struction 'fore it's ever-lastin' too
                     late. It's my 'termination, bredren, to press onard and upard till we clap glad
                     han's on the——"
                  In imitation of the expected hand-clapping, she brought her great hands
                     together with a crash that startled Mrs. Price out of the uneasy sleep into
                     which the "petty" had put her.
                  The confusion of tongues on the top of Babel's tower was nothing to the
                     confusion of ideas that the brandy had wrought in the usually stupid brain of
                     this chattel. One moment she was vainly wrestling with the unsolvable problems
                     of life and destiny; the next she
                     was in class-meeting relating her experience, to the great edification of her
                     brethren and sisters. But when Mrs. Price awoke with a start, it startled her
                     out of her reverie, and she saw that she had made a mistake. Laying her quietly
                     back on her broad bosom, she said, "Don't be skeered, honey, yer jes' a little
                     nervus. I's jes' trying to kill dat ar miskeeter dat was trying to bite
                     yer."
                  In her feverish dreams, Mrs. Price had been living over the triumphs of the
                     past. Again she was the courted, admired belle; the greatest man of the nation
                     was bowing before her. Brave young men were watching her looks and waiting upon
                     her smiles, as though she had been a goddess. Spacious halls resounded with
                     soulstirring music; the air was heavy with the perfume of costly flowers. Again
                     she was whirling in the giddy mazes of the dance, the gayest beauty of all that
                     brilliant throng. When she started out of her pleasant dream and stood face to
                     face with the stern realities of her lot, the thoughts of a little while before
                     came back to her mind, and again the question, "Oh, dear! why couldn't I have
                     been born a nigger?" She pressed her hands on her aching head, as though she
                     would force it to answer her bitter question and reveal to her the dark secret
                     of her being.
                  If the crowds of silly girls that in other days had had their hearts filled
                     with envy, as they saw the beautiful girl surrounded by crowds of admirers and
                     lovers, could have but taken a look into the future, and seen this lonely woman
                     forsaken of all her summer friends, with only the friendly breast of a black
                     woman to lean on, wishing herself a dog or a nigger, they would have less
                     passionately wished themselves in her place.
                  "Dat ar question ob yourn is a hard un to answer," said mammy, resuming the
                     thread of her philosophic discourse. "'Pears like we can't be 'sulted at all
                     'cernin' the 'portant question ob our bein' born. When de right misery comes on
                     to de mother, the chile has to come right 'long. It's de same ting weder de
                     chile is a puppy, a calf, or a baby; and it's de same ting weder de baby is
                     black or white. Arter dey's once fairly inter dis worl', it makes a heap ob
                     difference 'cernin' de color ob dere skin. But while dey's gittin' inter de
                     world, it 'pears like it's de same kine ob misery dat fetches 'em' long. And as
                     far as my observation 'xtends, it's 'bout de same ting wid 'cm gittin' out ob
                     de worl'. And 'pears like it might be dat 'twill be de same ting wid us arter
                     we's ober de swellin' Jordan. Till dat time come, when de angel, wid one foot
                     on de land and t'oder foot on de sea, blows his horn to summon de 'lect from de
                     four corners ob de globe, we mus' 'cept our bodies jes' as dey ar, and make de
                     best ob dem, widout tryin' to make dem ober into dogs or cats."
                  When mammy's tongue was set to running by brandy, it was like a water-wheel
                     that has a fountain back of it; so there is no telling how long it would have
                     run on this occasion had not Mrs. Price wearied of its running and told her to
                     stop.
                  "Oh, yer tired hearin' yer old mammy talk, is yer? Well, honey, den she'll sing
                     yer to sleep." She began: 
                        
                           "On Jordan's stormy banks I stan',
                           And cas' a wishfu' eye
                           To Canaan's fair and happy lan',
                           Whar my possessions lie,"
                        
                      This was followed by the inevitable glory Halleluiah chorus of all negro
                     psalmody. Mammy had a very sweet, musical voice, and the low, plaintive music,
                     in the stillness of their lonely solitude, soothed the irritated nerves of the
                     unhappy wife and mother, and she slept.
                  So, too, mammy slept. The appearance of intelligence and native mother-wit that
                     had so suddenly developed themselves under the stimulus of the brandy,
                     disappeared as its effects changed, and there is now no trace of the
                     philosopher in the big black face that is so heavily nodding over the tired,
                     sleeping form of the child-woman she holds in her arms.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  THE QUARREL.
                  "WHY, now, wasn't it curious that such good folks should have such funny noises
                     about their house? I don't see where they came from," said Chit.
                  "Maybe 'twas the angels knocking at the door and wanting to come in and visit
                     them," said Eva. "I often think that when I get to heaven, I should like to
                     come back visiting once in awhile. 'Twill be just as nice as for ma and pa to
                     go back East visiting."
                  A curious smile of incredulity and wonder was on Tom's face as he looked into
                     Eva's. There was a dreamy, far-off look in her eyes he had never noticed
                     before. He began to fear that Frank might be about half right when he said she
                     was "a silly little thing."
                  "Why, what put that curious notion into your head, Eva?" said Tom. "I reckon if
                     there is any such thing as angels, they'd better stay where they belong, not be
                     bothering round us. It is a heap better for them to mind their own business,
                     not be disturbing people when they are playing cards."
                  Mrs. Rosewell had been telling the story of the singular noises at the Epworth
                     rectory, while the children were at their evening games.
                  The thought that she had made herself ridiculous before Tom brought Eva out of
                     her poetic reverie. She blushed, and looked both pained and surprised to hear
                     Tom speak in such an irreverent way about her favorites, the angels.
                  "Why, Tom," she said, very honestly, "what if the angels are here now, and
                     hearing you talk so about them, what'll they think?" To Eva the presence of
                     angels, and the certainty of their knowing what was going on, was as much a
                     reality as the presence of any of the members of the family. Such belief seems
                     to be inherent in some constitutions. Such are discerning spirits, possessed of
                     internal eyes or a sixth sense, by which they see things invisible to others.
                     Neither Frank nor Tom had these internal eyes, and to hear Eva talk as though
                     she really thought such supernatural beings were present, made them laugh
                     outright. Frank, always delighted to get a chance to ridicule Eva, clapped his
                     hands, and cried out,—
                  "Golly! ain't that rich! Angels turned into eaves-droppers, listening and
                     peaking around to hear what folks think about them. That is fun; next we'll
                     know they'll turn gossipers, and be running and tattling from one to another
                     what's said, just like gals do."
                  If Tom hadn't been there, very likely Eva could have kept her face straight.
                     But to be made fun of right before him! Oh, dear, it was too bad! She bit her
                     lips, and tried hard to force the tears back, but they seemed determined to
                     come in spite of her. Tom felt annoyed. It was well enough to see her cry once,
                     but not so often.
                  He didn't say anything, but he looked so much ashamed of her that it was worse
                     than Frank's sneers. However, she wouldn't let them see her cry, so she jumped
                     up and ran away as quick as she could. Eddie had the whip in his hand that he
                     had been using on his lame pony, and very manly and cunning he looked as he
                     marched up to Frank and began to whip him with it.
                  "'Ou nauty, nauty boy, 'oo! mate Sissy try 'din! Me lits 'oo, so me will, 'ou
                     hurt Sissy 'din."
                  The laugh was turned on Frank now. He didn't like to be made fun of, but he
                     thought he wouldn't behave like a girl about it, so he laughed too, and began
                     to play with Eddie as though it were all fun. Mrs. Rosewell looked into his
                     face and said,—
                  "Frank, you may go to your room and stay alone the rest of the evening. And I
                     shall come in to have a talk with you at half after eight."
                  Frank felt the man rising in his throat and almost choking him. This man-spirit
                     said to him, "Are you a booby, to be ordered off to bed in this way,—right
                     before Tom? Why, he'll think you hain't got so much spirit as a nigger. It's
                     time you let her know that you've got over being a boy,—that you know enough to
                     go to bed when you get ready, without being sent off in this way."
                  
                  It was a critical moment,—the new spirit of independence struggling with the
                     old habit of obedience. His mother observed him keenly, but thought it best to
                     leave him to himself. She tried to govern her children by teaching them to
                     govern themselves. She feared now that she had too deeply wounded his pride by
                     sending him out of the room. She thought she should try to enlist his pride on
                     the side of obedience, not suffer it to become arrayed against her commands.
                     She thought she had made a mistake, and she was wise enough to try and correct
                     it at once.
                  If parents only knew how much they lose by trying to cover up their mistakes
                     before their children, instead of setting them an example of confessing and
                     correcting their faults! They greatly err who think that such an example will
                     degrade them in their children's estimation. They are quick enough to detect
                     faults in their parents; the parents' confessing them don't make them any
                     plainer. It only gives them the sympathy and confidence of their children, who
                     feel that they have a friend to help them. A single confession of fault has
                     often done more towards gaining a child's love than years of selfish isolation
                     could have done. "What, parents confessing to their children! What new heresy
                     is this?" exclaims the devout believer in Solomon's rod. Parents confessing to
                     their children! Pray, why not, if they have wronged their children?
                  Mrs. Rosewell thought she had wronged her boy by treating him so much like a
                     child that must be told what to do, instead of being asked to do what was
                     right. So she hastened to make amends by saying,—
                  "I beg pardon, my boy, for putting that request in the form of a command. I
                     simply wanted you to understand that if you have so little self-control as to
                     be continually giving way to your propensity for teasing your sister, and so
                     causing a disturbance when I am trying to please and instruct you, it is my
                     wish you should stay alone, and not break in upon the pleasure that belongs to
                     the other children. But if you think it is noble and manly for a brother to
                     wrong and make fun of his sister instead of trying to please and help her, you
                     can continue it till you shall become convinced of its wrong."
                  Oh, that magic word "pardon!" How quickly it caused that strong man-spirit that
                     had been fighting against the mother to change sides and come over to her! All
                     the boy's pride and independence was enlisted on the same side now.
                     Straightening himself in a very different way than his usual nose-in-the-air
                     attitude, he said, "I know it isn't right. But she makes such silly speeches, I
                     can't help it. I've tried to stop it a good many times, but it's out before I
                     know it."
                  Mrs. Rosewell well knew the power of judicious praise. She knew that one of the
                     strongest motives her children could have to lead them in the path of
                     right-doing was to know that she believed in them, and expected it of them. So
                     she replied,—
                  "I know my boy is too noble and brave to want to hurt the feelings of his
                     weaker sister; but you forget so often, and make us all so unhappy by your
                     thoughtlessness, that I think if you should go and tell her you are sorry, and
                     ask her pardon, it might help you to be more thoughtful in the future."
                  Confess! and ask forgiveness! How those words made the blood rush to his face
                     and his ears tingle with shame! The first thought was, "Catch Frank Rosewell
                     down on his knees to a girl, and you'll catch a weasel asleep." But the next
                     thought was better. He thought, "Any fool can stick to his blunders; but it
                     takes a wise man to confess and forsake them." His mother was watching him; he
                     knew she was expecting it of him. His pride and self-respect were enlisted on
                     his mother's side. But it was a hard struggle; it was the hardest thing in the
                     world for him to back down and acknowledge himself wrong. But at last he
                     decided to do it. So he went to Eva's room, and rapped at the door; when she
                     opened it, he said, very hurriedly, as though in haste to get through with a
                     disagreeable job,—
                  "Eva, I beg your pardon for hurting your feelings. It's no matter how silly you
                     talk, it's none of my business to make fun of you; and if you will forgive me
                     this time, I'll try not to disturb ma any more when she's telling us
                     stories."
                  Poor Eva! she stood perfectly stupefied, as though lost in wonder, and not knowing which way to turn or
                     what to do. Her kind little heart was instantly melted into love and
                     tenderness, and she wanted to throw her arms right around his neck and tell him
                     what a dear, good boy he was, and how sorry she was for being such a silly
                     little thing. But he looked so stiff and forbidding as he stood before her,
                     that she was afraid to go towards him lest he should be angry, and she was
                     afraid to speak lest she should say something to displease him. And she was so
                     proud and happy that her brother should confess to her, that she was afraid of
                     breaking the spell if she stirred or spoke; so she stood still and said
                     nothing. Perhaps this was better than anything else; for Frank was in no humor
                     for a "scene." He was terribly mortified, and felt angry with his sister for
                     getting him into such a scrape; and all he wanted was to get out of it as
                     quickly as possible.
                  "I don't want any blubberin' over it," he muttered to himself, as he marched
                     off to his own room.
                  When Eva was again alone, she began to feel very sorry and ashamed for the part
                     she had acted that evening. How much better to have taken Frank's and Tom's
                     laughing all in good part, and passed off what he said as a good joke, than to
                     make all that trouble and spoil the evening's fun!
                  "Oh, dear! I am a silly little thing, just as Frank says, and I don't see as I
                     shall ever get over it. I tried so hard to keep from crying to-night, but I
                     couldn't. If they only wouldn't notice me I could get along so much better. And
                     now, what'll Tom think of me. He'll think I'm a silly little thing too. Oh,
                     dear me! What shall I do? If I could only be brave like Tom! But then I
                     shouldn't like to talk about shooting folks as he does. Oh, dear! he is so
                     pretty! He's got such handsome eyes, and such pretty curls! Oh, dear! If I
                     could only kept him liking me! But he looked so cross at me, I shall never,
                     never, get over that look!"
                  The little girl felt as though that look would break her heart,
                     "sure." But the heart is the most elastic of all substances; it will bear a
                     wonderful pressure, especially in youth, and bound back as good as new.
                  Eva cried over that "look" for a little while. Then she got more ashamed of
                     herself than ever; she wouldn't be such a silly thing any more, "so there, I
                     won't!" she said to herself. "I'll be brave like Frank, and go down and tell
                     them I'm sorry for making them so much trouble, and ask their pardon."
                  Ah, happy mother! The seed you have sown this evening in the minds of your
                     children, by bravely confessing your own mistakes, is already springing up to
                     bear abundant fruit.
                  Eva washed her face, brushed up her hair, and smoothed out her collar, and
                     tried to look as pretty as she could. Not that she expected Tom to take any
                     notice of her, but then she had plagued her mother, and now she must try to
                     please her. She went first to Frank's room. She wanted to go right up to him,
                     put her arms around his neck, and tell him how sorry she was for making him so
                     much trouble. She was sure if he only knew how hard she tried to do right and
                     be brave, he would forgive her. But Frank looked as stiff and forbidding as
                     ever. She dare not look him in the face; but she had made up her mind to do her
                     duty, and she must do it. So she straightened herself up as stiff as he was,
                     and said,—
                  "Frank, I'm very sorry that I have spoiled your pleasure so this evening; and
                     if you will forgive me this time, I'll try not to do so any more."
                  "You've said so a good many times before, and that's all it amounts to. So
                     squizzle away if it does you any good, and see what you'll make by it," said
                     the harsh boy.
                  A low cry of pain was all the answer the child made to her brother's cruel
                     words. But she had to stop a little to force back the tears that
                        would come. No matter, she was going to be brave this time,
                        anyway. So she put on the straightest face she could command,
                     and went down to the cheerful sitting-room,—not half so cheerful though as it
                     had seemed in the first part of the evening.
                  Spite of all Mrs. Rosewell's efforts to interest them, Tom seemed absent-minded
                     and unhappy, Chit was oppressively silent, and Eddie was nodding his head as
                     though it was hard work to keep awake. The fat baby was the only one of the
                     family that seemed perfectly happy. To judge from his actions, you would think
                     the light as great a curiosity, his
                     thumbs and toes as sweet, as before Frank and his sister had their unfortunate
                     quarrel.
                  Eva went in and stood before her mother, to show her she had something she
                     wished to say. When Mrs. Rosewell had finished her sentence, she signed to her
                     to come forward. "Mamma, I have come to ask your pardon for giving you so much
                     trouble to-night. Will you forgive me?" she said.
                  "You were not so much at fault as your brother; still, it was very ill-natured
                     of you to leave the room in such a way. I shall expect my dear child to do
                     better than that in the future. But you owe it to our guest to apologize for
                     leaving him so abruptly."
                  Eva went and stood before Tom. She wanted to beg his pardon as she had Frank's;
                     but when she looked at the brave, handsome boy, and thought how she had lost
                     him forever, she dare not trust herself to open her lips, lest she should lose
                     control of herself and go to crying. So she stood like Esther before the king,
                     mutely begging for the pardon she dare not ask. But what a pretty figure she
                     made as she stood before him,—so gentle, so loving, and pretty! Her sadness
                     lent an additional charm to her looks and manner. It was the charm of the lily
                     modestly drooping its head and asking the privilege of looking pretty for your
                     sake. Tom thought he had never seen such a vision of grace and loveliness
                     before.
                  Strange that the same sight should impress him so differently from what it did
                     Frank. The same sight that made Frank so angry, for which he bade her "go
                     squizzle away," filled Tom with delight and wonder. Surely, there are plenty of
                     people that "having eyes see not, and having ears hear not" the beauties and
                     harmonies of life that are all around them. With the instinct of true manhood,
                     Tom arose, took Eva's hand, and with an air of genuine, profound reverence,
                     pressed it to his lips. It was the tribute that conscious manly strength is
                     wont to offer to womanly weakness and gentleness.
                  "Don't try to talk if it hurts you," he said, in his gentlest manner. Then
                     drawing her arm through his he took her before her mother, and said,—
                  "Dear Mrs. Rosewell, won't you let Eva come and live with me? I will be so good
                     to her; and I love her so much. I'll never act the way Frank does. I reckon
                     she'll be a heap better off than she is here, where Frank plagues her so much.
                     Oh, do let her come! My ma hain't got any girl, and she'll love her, I know she
                     will, and so will my pa." The beautiful face of the animated boy sparkled with
                     excitement and eager hope as he pleaded his cause so eloquently before Eva's
                     mother. Eva was a genuine child of nature, and she made no effort to conceal or
                     deny her feelings, or run away from the boy that loved her. She looked as proud
                     and happy as a little robin when the handsomest and sweetest-voiced of all the
                     gentlemen robins chooses her for his mate. The change from hopeless despair to
                     joyous confidence and trust was as sudden and brilliant as the sun's coming
                     from behind a dark cloud, to shine all the more brightly for its temporary
                     darkness.
                  Mrs. Rosewell looked from one to the other with wonder and astonishment. She
                     wanted to laugh; indeed, she had work at first to keep her face straight. But
                     the children were so in earnest, they showed so much genuine feeling, that she
                     began to think it a more serious matter.
                  "What does all this mean?" she said at last.
                  Tom was no such child-boy as Eva was child-girl, and he was man enough to know,
                     now that he saw how it sounded, that he had acted very childishly in asking
                     Mrs. Rosewell to let Eva go and live with him. But he made himself look as much
                     the man as he could, as he replied:
                  "It means that I love Eva a heap more than any other girl, and she's going to
                     be my wife; and I reckon 'twon't be safe for Frank or any other feller to tease
                     her then or make her cry."
                  Mrs. Rosewell was at a loss to know what to say or how to treat the matter.
                     Careless or thoughtless mothers would have laughed it off as a joke, passionate
                     ones would have been angry, and forbidden his coming to the house any more; but
                     Mrs. Rosewell, careful student of human nature, had read that in those
                     children's faces that showed her that this was a crisis in their life-history,
                     and she dare not so trifle with the sacred instincts of the human heart as to
                     treat the matter lightly. So she said, "This is certainly something I had not thought of. Perhaps I have
                     erred in thinking of you only as little children, and wanting to keep you so.
                     But I will think about it and see what is for the best. It is past our time for
                     retiring now, and you can each go to your room."
                  Eva, Chit, and Eddie all kissed their mother good-night and started at once for
                     their chambers; Tom only lingered. "Good-night," said Mrs. Rosewell, speaking
                     to him.
                  But the boy was not satisfied with that. Coming up to her, he said, "Ain't you
                     going to kiss me good-night as you do the rest of the children? Ain't I your
                     boy now?"
                  Mrs. Rosewell had as great a horror of Southern slave-holders and their
                     children as they had of the Yankees. Doubtless, if they had not so kept aloof
                     from each other, but allowed themselves to get better acquainted, they would
                     each have liked the other better. But as it was, the word slave-holder stood
                     for all that was base, oppressive, and vile in her estimation. The Rosewell
                     family had never allowed themselves the least intercourse with them. Much to
                     Mrs. Rosewell's regret as well as his own mother's, the brave Tom had broken
                     through this barrier, and from the time that he had seen Eva at the
                     camp-meeting he would come there. But when he had that evening spoken of loving
                     her child, it seemed to the fond mother as though she would like to drive him
                     out of her sight forever.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  THE VEXED QUESTION.
                  IT was a long night of anxiety and heartache to Mrs. Rosewell—such a night as
                     must at times come to those who recognize their children as immortal beings
                     possessed of infinite capacities for joy or suffering, and who feel that much
                     of their destiny for weal or woe is contingent upon the course pursued with
                     them in childhood. Mrs. Rosewell knew that the growth and development of
                     character was under the dominion of unchanging law, and she could in no wise
                     hope for symmetrical, well-developed, perfected men and women from the children
                     God had given her to train, unless she obeyed the laws of their nature.
                  "Have not I been too careful in guarding my children from all outside
                     influence? What if they need the influence of other dispositions and natures
                     like Tom's, to stimulate and develop their own? And my poor little Eva! If I
                     had let her play with other boys more, may-be she wouldn't have been so taken
                     in with that boy. And now her heart is so bound up in him that I don't know
                     what will become of her if I don't let him come here any more. And here ain't I
                     too selfish in thinking only of her and my own family? Ought I not to be more
                     interested in his welfare? He is as dear to his Father in heaven as my children
                     are. But I seem to be all the time thinking how sending him away is going to
                     affect the character and happiness of my children, not how it is going to
                     affect him. Oh, Father, forgive a mother's selfishness! Let me look upon all
                     children as thine, and love them a little, as thou dost."
                  It was in this hour of trial that Mrs. Rosewell was learning a new lesson of
                     the motherhood of women. Hitherto her sympathies and affections had twined
                     around her own little circle, and they had been all the world to her. To enrich
                     and beautify their lives she had studied science, read history, and studied
                     human nature, that she might guide them aright. So that her
                     children were well taught, well fed, well clothed, and happy, it mattered
                     little to her what happened to others. By the suffering Uncle Ned she had been
                     startled from her slumber of selfish ease, and began to realize something of
                     the world of sin and sorrow that surrounded her happy home. Now by Frank's
                     being led into the slave-hunt, and Eva's becoming so interested in Tom, she
                     began to see how the condition and character of other people's children must
                     affect her own. God has so twined and intertwined the destinies of the human
                     race, that they can in no wise be independent of each other; but it is only in
                     the furnace of affliction that we learn this great lesson.
                  
                  Mrs. Rosewell now began to feel as though the wellbeing of Tom must enter into
                     the problem, and affect the solution of the question of what was best to do
                     with Eva. Spite of all her repugnance to him, somehow her heart was drawn
                     towards him in a manner she could not explain. And when he had stood before
                     her, so brave and handsome, entreating for a good-night kiss, she had actually
                     given it just as she did to the other children. And in that moment she had
                     hardly been able to reproach Eva for the thrill of joy with which she received
                     his first kiss. Tom seemed to be one of those persons whom Nature has endowed
                     with the power of taking all hearts by storm. Nature teaches by example, and
                     when she wants to show the world the power of love, she endows some of her
                     children with such an irresistible power of drawing hearts to them that they
                     are loved in spite of all defects of character. Such was Aaron Burr, such was
                     Lord Byron. Such natures make the most dangerous conquests. Tom gave early
                     promise of possessing such a nature, and it was amusing to see how the hearts
                     of the stiff, cold, conceited Yankees would thaw and melt in the presence of
                     his glowing nature.
                  It was the influence of just such a character as his that Frank needed, to
                     modify his haughty self-conceit and overcome his boorish disrespect for girls.
                     Still, Mrs. Rosewell reproached herself very much for letting him come there as
                     she had. She had been to Eva's room, and the truthful girl had told her the
                     whole story of the fight, and the love scene, without trying to hide a single
                     thought or feeling. She had known nothing of it before, for when Frank met her
                     on her way to Eva and told her that Eva only fell down and hit her head on a
                     stone, and fainted from it, but it was all over now, she was so much worried
                     and perplexed over Aunt Polly's singular conduct that she bade him go and help
                     his sister in, and no further questions were asked about it. But now she began
                     to fear that what she had thought treating her children with confidence was a
                     criminal neglect of a mother's duty. "Why was I so foolish as not to inquire
                     into it? Why have I let that boy be around here so much? Is it best to send Eva
                     East, and try to make her forget him? Who would have thought of such a thing in
                     children so young? I expected of course she might fall in love with some one
                     when she got to be older, but I never dreamt of such a thing in a girl of her
                     age."
                  Mrs. Rosewell had failed to take into account the effect of a Southern climate
                     in developing passions and feelings; but no perplexed traveler on the highway
                     of life ever sought more earnestly to find the right path than did she this
                     weary night,—none ever more determined than she was to pursue it at whatever
                     cost of sacrifice. She brought all her hatred of slave-holders, all her
                     selfishness, all her preference of her own children over others, and, laying
                     them on the altar, asked God to show her what was right,—what was the highest
                     good for all. The morning sun found the weary, sleepless mother still at her
                     vigils; but the anguish of suspense and doubt was passed. Imploring the
                     guidance of the Holy Spirit, and taking counsel of her best judgment, she had
                     decided what to do. She would allow Tom to come and unite with their family,
                     and she would invoke the influence of their happy home to save him from the
                     evil influences of his own. She would try to supplement the deficiency of his
                     training by striving to teach and train him as she did her own children. She
                     would not oppose, nor allow any one to ridicule, the passion of him and Eva for
                     each other; she would treat it as a sacred instinct of nature, to be educated,
                     guided, and controlled, not abused and trampled on. That heroic woman,
                     struggling through that weary night in such anxious conflict between right and
                     wrong, between selfishness and a Christ-like consecration to others' good,
                     little knew how deeply the interest of her country and, through that, of the
                     race would be affected by her decision. After all, is it not in such bloodless
                     battle-fields as this that the fate of nations is decided? Which is the more
                     powerful, the one that molds the characters, the one whose decisions shape the
                     destinies, of those who wield the sword or use the ballot,—or those who do
                     these things?
                  The next morning Eva awoke bright and happy, so easy it is for youth to throw
                     off all disagreeable feelings; and
                     she was delighted to see with what a bright smile of welcome her mother greeted
                     Tom. Possibly by some subtle power that Nature has of communicating good news
                     to her children, Tom seemed to know the favorable change that had taken place
                     in the "tide of his affairs," and he was in his highest spirits and most joyous
                     mood. He must sit beside Eva at the table, lest some of those mischievous
                     spirits that so bothered the Wesley children should come around and scare her;
                     and he did not want her scared out of her wits that morning. He wanted her to
                     be bright and full of fun, so that she could make up some pretty verses for him
                     while Frank and he went out hunting. He did not want any verses about Adam and
                     Eve and their babies; Adam was no better than a Yankee sneak, wanting to lay
                     all the blame on his wife, when he was just as much to blame as she was.
                  The blood came to the children's faces at those words, "Yankee sneak," but they
                     were too well bred to interrupt him while he was talking, and while they waited
                     for him to get through they caught the contagion of his wondrous good humor,
                     and all joined heartily in the laugh at poor Adam's expense. Then he delighted
                     them all with a picture of what he thought a real hero. He was so animated and
                     enthusiastic while he was describing the bravery and prowess of his imaginary
                     hero, that Eddie clapped his hands and exclaimed, "Me lites dat feller, me
                     does! He dood man, he is! He shoot dat oder feller, he do! Me shoots too, when
                     me dits bid 'nough! Me 'unt be 'Ankee 'neak, me 'unt!"
                  It is needless to say that the ability and willingness to "shoot" on all proper
                     occasions when his "honor" was in question was a first-class accomplishment in
                     Tom's heroes. Mrs. Rosewell inwardly trembled as she saw with what a
                     fascinating charm his beauty and eloquence clothed the fighting qualities of
                     his hero. She was conscious that the moral heroes which she had been wont to
                     paint for her children, and whom she wanted them to admire and imitate, seemed
                     very tame and insipid beside his glowing pictures. And again the old problem,
                     "Am I doing right to admit such a dangerous power into my family?"
                  It is one of the peculiarities of moral problems that they never
                        will stay as you fix them. Once you have solved a problem in
                     mathematics, it remains solved: given the same conditions, you are always sure
                     of the same results. Not so with the problems of life. To-day you wade wearily
                     through a tangled mesh of facts and theories; you analyze, weigh, and balance
                     opposing views, and finally arrive at a certain conclusion, and decide on a
                     certain rule of conduct; and to-morrow some new phase of the subject presents
                     itself to you,—a new ingredient, that, altering the combination of causes,
                     entirely alters the result. Again you find yourself on the old ground: the
                     vexed problem of right and duty still waiting for solution.
                  Verily, Nature is a cunning riddle-maker, and she seems to take delight in
                     forcing her children to sharpen their wits on the most intricate and difficult
                     of problems. If any of her children go into the other world with faculties
                     untrained in the habits of thought, with minds incapable of close attention,
                     with dull perceptive powers, it certainly will not be because she has not given
                     them enough material for thought,—enough of puzzling problems to give
                     employment to their faculties. What if this be an improvement on the plan by
                     which heaven was heretofore peopled with beings that, becoming the dupes of
                     designing spirits, were led into rebellion, thus accomplishing their own ruin?
                     Can it be that those that have successfully solved life's problems here, and
                     come off conquerors, could ever in another state be led into such folly as
                     Satan and his followers were?
                  The night before, when Mrs. Rosewell was anxiously and painfully trying to
                     decide what was right to do by Tom, she did not know the dangerous fascination
                     with which he could clothe the habits and opinions of Southern gentlemen. It
                     was simply a question of how much care and labor it was going to take to make
                     him one of the family, and train him as she did her own children; but now the
                     question was whether she should be able to make a Yankee of him, or whether he
                     would be able to make Southerners of them.
                  Another weary, anxious day for her; but the brave, loving mother joyfully took up the heavy burden.
                     A day of healthy exercise, joyous sports, and exhilarating excitement for Frank
                     and Tom. Tom was a perfect "shot," a trained hunter, and the spoils were more
                     than Sambo could "pack" home. A glorious day of poetic inspiration for Eva. She
                     was so absorbed by the creatures of her imagination that she could not tell
                     whether she was in the body or out. Towards night, when the wild, ringing laugh
                     of the boys and the childish delight of Chit and Eddie that "de boys tome bact,
                     and dot drate bid lots of nice tings," brought her out of her reverie, she was
                     delighted and astonished to see what a quantity of verses she had produced. She
                     was sure Tom would be very proud and happy when he saw what she had done. She
                     gathered up the papers and flew down to meet the boys. Tom kissed her, and
                     declared she was a nice little girl to write so much to please
                     him. She was eager to read them at once; but Frank declared they were "half
                     starved," and they did not want to hear anything of her verses till after they
                     had had something to eat. So, like a nice little housekeeper, Eva flew around
                     to help her mother (alas, there was no Aunt Polly there now!) get the boys
                     their supper; but I am afraid if the hungry boys had been obliged to depend on
                     her for their supper, they would have been obliged to go to bed hungry. Poetry
                     is a poor companion for a housekeeper. However, they had a good supper; and how
                     those boys did eat! Eva said it was like filling up two hungry bears to fill
                     them up. She was in such a hurry to have them get through. But Mrs. Rosewell
                     declared they should eat all they wanted; and if Eva did not eat too she should
                     not read her verses at all that night. Then it leaked out that Eva had not
                     eaten any dinner at all that day. Chit could not find her when dinner was
                     ready, and she had forgotten all about it. Now that the verses had to be laid
                     aside, she really began to feel hungry. Mrs. Rosewell had cooked some of the
                     game the boys had killed that day, and it tasted so good to Eva that she
                     thought surely there never was any person that could find such nice things in
                     the woods as her own Tom. It really seemed to her that it must be a great
                     privilege for the squirrels and 'possums and chipmunks munks to be shot by such
                     a wonderful being as Tom. Whether it was by reason of her long fast, or because
                     of the exhaustion consequent upon long-continued poetic inspiration, or because
                     Tom was by her, spreading her biscuit, and helping her to the meat his bravery
                     had provided, or whether it was all these causes combined that made Eva's
                     supper taste so good, is not easy to tell. But long after Frank had got "filled
                     up" and left the table, long after Eddie had declared he had "dot 'nough
                     chicten" and given his bones to the dog, long after Tom had got through, and
                     was only making believe to eat to keep Eva company, she kept on eating, as
                     though it still tasted good.
                  What trifling things will sometimes help us out of great difficulties! When the
                     scales are just balanced it takes a slight weight to make them stay on one
                     side. To a casual observer there was nothing very interesting in the fact that
                     Eva was eating a good, hearty supper; but to Mrs. Rosewell's keen,
                     comprehensive knowledge of her character, it was a fact of the highest
                     significance. It was the final solution of the problem, "What shall I do with
                     Tom?" Tom was exactly what Eva needed. The force of his manly qualities, the
                     stimulus of his daring bravery, the stimulating effect of his just appreciation
                     of her talents, the vitalizing influence of his deep love, was just the force
                     that her intellectual and moral nature needed to stimulate its growth and give
                     to it a symmetrical and beauteous development. So also her deficient physical
                     organization and feeble vitality required the magnetic power of his superior
                     physical endowments. Tom was a splendid specimen of physical life and vitality.
                     How evenly and naturally did the rich, red blood circulate through his veins!
                     The ancient Greeks, with all their devotion to physical culture, had never been
                     able to invent so perfect a system for the growth and development of every
                     organ and muscle as the horseback riding, the hunting in the woods, the
                     wrestling with athletic negroes, that had been the outgrowth of his peculiar
                     condition and circumstances. How full he is of animal spirits and youthful
                     vitality! No wonder such wondrous vitality overflows into the pale, slender
                     child by his side, and awakens in her a new life and activity. Her whole physical system feels the
                     electric influence of his presence, and she can eat as she never could before.
                     Her ever-watchful mother sees this, and every additional biscuit and piece of
                     meat Tom helps her to only makes the correct solution of the problem the more
                     certain.
                  Frank stretched himself out on the lounge, and, like the well-fed animal that
                     he was, wanted to go to sleep. Eva had a very sweet, musical voice, and he
                     always liked to go to sleep on her reading, and he was ready to hear her verses
                     now, so he called out,—
                  "Tom, what in the name of common sense are you and Eva doing at that table so
                     long? I guess I'll have to get a side of bacon to fill you up on yet!"
                  Eva felt almost ashamed to think how much she had been eating. "Really, you've
                     been stuffing me like a stuffed goose," she said to Tom, as she jumped up from
                     the table and gathered up her neglected manuscript. She sat beside the
                     centre-table to read the precious verses. Of course Tom was by her side,
                     handing the leaves to her. She was anxious to have Frank hear them, so when she
                     was ready to begin she asked: "Frank, are you ready to hear me? I sha'n't like
                     it if you don't listen. I don't want you to go to sleep."
                  Frank fixed himself a little more comfortable, and grunted out, "All right,
                     sissy. So fire away, I'm hearing."
                  But he was not hearing a great while, for before Eva had got through the "third
                     stanza" they were startled by his snoring. This was too much for Tom to bear;
                     it implied too much disrespect for Eva's poetry. So he went up to him and gave
                     him such a rap as would have awakened the seven sleepers.
                  "Wake up, sleepy head! Don't you know better'n to go to sleep when folks 's
                     reading for you? You're worse than mammy."
                  "All right; fire away, sissy," said the sleepy boy. He was soon snoring again,
                     and Tom and Eva, absorbed in their verses, concluded to let him snore.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  SOMETHING NEW.
                  
                     
                        
                           "Feed my lambs."—
                        
                        JESUS.
                     
                  
                  "OH, ma! you can't guess what I heard to-day; it's something you'd never think
                     of. But it's real nice, and you'll say so too when you hear what it is."
                  So said Eva Rosewell just as she got home from a visit to a mining settlement a
                     few miles distant. Mr. Rosewell, Frank, Chit, Eva, and the now ever-present Tom
                     had been spending the day exploring the mines, looking at the iron-works, and
                     enjoying the mountain.
                  "I reckon you did better'n the rest of us did if you found anything nice in
                     that place; it's the greatest humbug I ever saw. You ought to heard them New
                     Orleans fellows swear when they got down from that mountain. Oh, wasn't they
                     mad to think how they'd been fooled into coming clear up there to see nothing
                     but a mass of sweating Yankees and Dutchmen to work over a fire, and a big heap
                     o' dirt outside!"
                  "Well, I'm sure I wouldn't listen to the vulgar creatures swearing," replied
                     the spirited girl; "and I think the sweating Dutchmen and Yankees are enough
                     better than they, if they do make fun of them. I guess if the poor negroes
                     didn't sweat for them they'd have to sweat a little for themselves, and maybe
                     'twould learn them how to behave themselves a little better, not be making fun
                     of folks that work for a living."
                  Tom looked with pleasure and delight at the brilliant, animated girl. Her eyes
                     flashing indignation, her cheeks flushed with excitement, she seemed so
                     original and interesting to him; she was such a pleasing contrast to the
                     milk-and-water, soft, insipid baby-girls of his mother's acquaintance. "She's
                     got vim and snap to her," he chuckled to himself, as he watched her glowing
                     face. And he well knew that if he wanted to bring out the "snap" he had only to say something disrespectful
                     of the Yankees. It was this variety of resources and diversity of talent in Eva
                     that pleased Tom more than anything else. Sometimes she was so sweet and
                     pleasant that a casual observer would think her all made up of honey and roses.
                     In such moods, Tom delighted to sit beside her and drink in the wondrous
                     sweetness, enjoy the rich fragrance, as the bee delights to sip the honey and
                     take in the rich fragrance of the flower. At other times he wanted some mental
                     stimulus. He felt dull to-night, and wanted something to stir his sluggish
                     brain and quicken his intellect. He knew that the Yankee question furnished an
                     unfailing supply of the ammunition that would start the fire of Eva's nature,
                     and that was the reason he begun about them tonight. At other times he wanted
                     his soul stirred; he wanted to feel the exquisite thrill of joy that is only
                     awakened by the echo of the music of another's love. At such times he loved to
                     sit beside her, and looking into the depth of her eyes, talk of love till her
                     soul, thrilling under its mysterious power, should touch his with the
                     inspiration of its own wondrous life.
                  Happy the soul that thus in early life meets with the necessary conditions of
                     its growth and development! Thrice happy they who, meeting thus with what
                     supplies the soul's greatest need, find the whole under the control of a wise,
                     loving hand, strong to control, all-powerful to direct in the paths that Nature
                     has marked out for her children! Such a power was Mrs. Rosewell. But she had no
                     notion of allowing Tom to make up the lack of excitement the dull day had left
                     him at Eva's expense. So she said, "Eva, don't you know that when a hunter
                     starts his dog on the trail of a particular animal he wants to catch, he
                     doesn't allow him to stop and bark at every squirrel or bird that chances to
                     come in his way? If he did he would surely never overtake the game he set out
                     for. Now, you must be as wise in commanding your attention as the hunter is in
                     directing his dog. When you direct it to any specific object you must not allow
                     it to be diverted by any side talk, even though it should be very interesting,
                     but keep right to the point you set out to reach."
                  Tom smiled and gave Mrs. Rosewell a roguish look of contented defeat as he saw
                     how she had outwitted him and cheated him out of his fun. But he very
                     good-naturedly took sides with his conqueror, and said:
                  "Oh, yes, Eva, hurry up and tell us all about your nice adventures. Frank and I
                     have got so terribly dull that we shall go to sleep right in our chairs if we
                     can't get something to stir us up."
                  "Well, ma," said Eva, "I believe you'll think its real nice, anyway. I felt so
                     tired when pa and the boys got ready to go up the mountain, I didn't want to
                     go. So I went and sat down in some bushes and thought I'd hear the birds sing,
                     and have a good time. But pretty soon I heard singing that didn't sound like
                     the birds, and I couldn't think what it was. But I kept listening, and the
                     music kept coming nearer, and then I saw that it was some children singing;
                     and, oh, it did sound so sweet that I ran right after them, and asked them to
                     let me hear them sing! They seemed kind of afraid at first, but when they saw
                     there was no big folks around, they sat down on the ground and sung to me. Oh,
                     dear, I wish you could have heard them! They sang: 
                        
                           'We'll stand the storm, it won't be long,
                           We'll anchor by-and-by,'—
                        
                      it is a long piece,—and 
                        'I have a Father in the promised land,'
                      and 
                        'The Sunday-school army,'
                      and, oh, lots of pretty pieces! I couldn't think where they learned them,
                     and so I asked them. One real pretty girl said they learned them in the
                     Sunday-school. I said,—'Why, I didn't know as they had a Sunday-school in such
                     a place as this. I never heard of any only in the city, except what ma has in
                     our house.'
                  "'And does your ma have a Sunday-school in your house? I should think they
                     couldn't all get into it. There's a heap more to our school nor could get into
                     any house. There's a heap o'children 'bout the peak. Who comes to your
                     school?'
                  "'Why, nobody,' I said, 'only Frank and Chit and Eddie and me,
                     and—and—sometimes Tom Price.'
                  
                  "'That's a mighty little heap,' the little girl said.
                  "'It's all there is of us,' I said.
                  "'And don't your ma want the other children to learn 'bout Jesus too?' she
                     asked.
                  "'I don't know,' I said; 'but I guess she doesn't know anything about them. I
                     am sure she'd want to tell them about the Saviour if she knew them; coz she
                     always likes to tell us about him.'
                  "'That's mighty curious,' she said; ''pears like she might fine 'm out if she
                     tried.'
                  "I wanted her to tell me more about the school, but she said she had to go pack
                     the calf in before the old cow came home, coz the calf would suck all the milk
                     if she didn't hurry, and they wouldn't have any for supper."
                  "And what did she do to the calf when she 'packed' it in?" said Chit. Chit
                     wasn't very well posted in Southern phrases, though she had lived there all her
                     life.
                  Tom laughed and replied: "Why, Chit, you can't be much of a Southerner if you
                     don't know what pack means. It means to carry, to take. The poor white trash
                     don't have any fences to make pastures for their cows, and so they have to let
                     them run at large. And the only way they can make their cows come home is to
                     keep the calf tied up. Then the old cow 'll come back to see it at night. I've
                     seen my pa and General Cuttle have so much fun when we've been riding by at
                     night to see the children holding on to the calf so it shouldn't get only one
                     back teat while the old woman milked the other three for the children. Pa said
                     he didn't know which was the most human, the old cow and calf, or the old woman
                     and her brats."
                  "Well, I think it's awful wicked, so there, I do," said Eva, "for folks to talk
                     that way! That woman's brats is just as good as his children."
                  "That's not saying a great deal, for the general didn't have any," said
                     Tom.
                  "The general! What kind of a general was he, I'd like to know?" said Eva.
                     "Every rascal you hear of down this way is either a general or a colonel or
                     captain of something of the kind. They are all big men for such little
                     ones."
                  "Well, I reckon it don't do any hurt to play at being big men," said Tom. "If
                     it makes a man feel better to be called by some high-sounding title, it's a
                     heap better to do it than not to. But nobody shall ever call me general unless
                     I'm a real general. And that's what I'm going to be too. So, Eva, you'll have
                     to pucker up your lips to say 'General Price' when you speak to me."
                  "That I never will," said Eva. "I hate real generals more than I do these sham
                     ones. And I'll never speak to you at all if you can't do something better than
                     to kill folks for a living."
                  "For a living! For a living!" said Tom, contemptuously. "Hear that Yankee talk
                     about a living, as though that was all we have to think of,—to get something to
                     eat. I'm going to be a general to get glory, and have men have to obey me, and
                     have all the ladies after me,—wanting to go with me. I shall have to go with
                     them some then, Eva. I can't go with you all the time, as I do now." Tom
                     strutted up as though he felt the shadow of his coming greatness was already
                     making him larger and more of an object of admiration to Eva.
                  "Didn't I tell you I wouldn't speak to you at all then? Nor I wouldn't go with
                     you, either. So you needn't never ask me."
                  Her face flushed with anger, with which love for and admiration of Tom, who
                     looked more like a hero than ever, were violently contending; she looked the
                     personification of beautified, glorified wrath. We never can know how beautiful
                     and interesting anger can be until we see it in the face of loving woman. Here
                     is manifest what we may call the divinity of anger. The anger of a loving woman
                     towards that which is wrong is more like the "wrath of God" than anything we
                     can conceive of. This feeling it was that lit up Eva's face with a new,
                     strange, and divine beauty.
                  Of course Tom didn't fully understand this. He didn't know what it was that
                     lent such strong brilliancy to her countenance. He looked at her with gratified
                     pride and eager delight.
                  "Why, Eva," he said, "I never knew you were so handsome before! I reckon
                     'twould be worth while to keep you mad all the time, it becomes you so
                     well."
                  
                  "'Twouldn't be a very hard job to do that," said Frank. "She's just like a
                     match, ready to take fire at the least touch."
                  A flash of indignant scorn at Frank made her look more piquant and interesting
                     than ever to Tom. So he took her and drew her up to the light, just as though
                     he had a right to, and put his hand under her chin, and prepared himself to
                     study her face at his leisure,—as though she were some rare and interesting
                     picture.
                  "Now, Eva," he said, "I want you to look just as you did when I told you I was
                     going to be a general."
                  Was ever a poor little girl in such distressing situation as this? A brave,
                     handsome, loving boy standing over her, studying her face, his hand under her
                     chin, her whole being thrilling under the influence of his presence, and she
                     expected to show anger and hate towards the dear creature bending over her!
                     Verily, Tom was expecting too much of poor human nature. But then he was only a
                     boy, though a very precocious one, and it could hardly be expected of him to
                     understand the mysteries of love. And who of us do understand them? We know
                     just so much of love as our souls have grown to take in of it. No more. And in
                     this soul-growth Eva was immeasurably ahead of Tom.
                  Eva was so amused at the ridiculous thought of Tom's expecting her to be angry
                     in such a situation that she burst out laughing. Whereat Tom was really angry.
                     His was the nature of the true artist. And when he had seen that look on her
                     face, he had felt the blood stirring within him, as was the blood of the eagle
                     in the barnyard stirred by the sight of the eagle in the sky. It was a partial
                     realization of the faint conception his soul had had of the beautiful and
                     sublime. He felt a stirring of the soul's wings and a new impulse to make this
                     his own, just as the eagle felt his wings stirring and a strange impulse to
                     make the skies his home. And when the change in Eva's feelings broke the spell,
                     and her laughter brought him back to earth, and the sublime had eluded his
                     grasp just as he was to make it his own, he blamed her entirely for his
                     vexatious disappointment.
                  "There, now! I say you are a real mean girl,—to laugh in that way, and spoil my
                     picture. If you'd 'a behaved yourself and kept still, I'd 'a painted you a real
                     nice picture of yourself. But I reckon you'll know it now, when I ask you to
                     keep still again."
                  Was ever a girl more unfortunate than our little Eva? Certainly she thought
                     not, as she ran up to her chamber to cry over Tom's and Frank's harsh, cruel
                     words.
                  "Oh, dear! it's no use for me to try to be good when there's boys around. I
                     feel so good when ma talks to me, and I think I'll surely be good and not get
                     mad and cry any more. I think I can be so good that they'll all love me. But
                     when them boys act so I can't help it; so there, I can't! Oh, dear! what shall
                     I do? I don't see what God made boys for. I never can tell what's going to
                     please 'm; I try so hard, and they will get mad in spite of me. How did I know
                     anything about his picture? I'd be tickled enough to have him paint it. And I'd
                     keep just as still as I could. But to not tell me, and then get mad because I
                     didn't know it, is too bad! But there's one thing: I know he'll feel awful bad
                     when he finds out how I've cried about it."
                  Was it a secret hope that she should meet him and let him see how bad she felt,
                     and have him pity her, and that she should have a chance to comfort him and not
                     let him feel too bad about her sufferings, that caused her to leave her chamber
                     and go out into the yard?
                  Tom felt very disagreeable after Eva left the room. There was nothing that gave
                     him so much pain as to have Eva feel bad. The sense of justice was very strong
                     in his nature. There was nothing he liked better than "fair play," as he called
                     it, and he keenly felt the injustice he had done her in pretending to think she
                     had meant to spoil his picture.
                  Love was teaching the proud, haughty, egotistic boy that which nothing else
                     could teach him, that he had faults, that he wasn't the perfect creature that
                     his mother's fondness, his father's idolatry, and the cringing worship of the
                     slaves had led him to think he was. As he strolled out he thought: "Well, if I
                     ain't getting to be meaner than a Yankee. I used to think I'd shoot Frank for
                     making her cry; and now I reckon I'd better shoot myself. But she did look so pretty! It seemed to be just the
                     thing I'd always been looking to find, and then to lose it just as I thought I
                     could take it right in my hand. 'Twas awful hard, but 'twasn't her fault. I
                     reckon I'd better tell her I'm sorry, and—and—ask her forgiveness."
                  Oh, how these last words choked the proud boy! How that fiery spirit, that had
                     never known the least restraint nor the least submission, rose up in all the
                     majesty of its fury to cast out the mean, cringing spirit of slavish
                     submission!
                  "Am I a nigger, to get on to my knees and beg not to have a licking? Tom Price
                     asking forgiveness—forgiveness! No, no, Eva! I love you, and I'd
                     fight for you, and I'd be glad to kill anybody 't would make you cry; but I
                     won't do that."
                  The slave-holder's spirit had full possession now; but on that storm-tossed,
                     raging soul there came a noiseless, quieting influence, like the "Peace, be
                     still!" of the God of storms to the raging, angry waves of Galilee. And what
                     was that force potent enough to curb this fiery spirit, that was strong enough
                     to control these fearful passions? It was the silent influence of Mrs.
                     Rosewell's example, asking pardon of her boy, whose rights she had infringed.
                     The memory of that loving, noble woman begging pardon of the boy she had a
                     right to command,—of the sweet, lovely child, begging his pardon, was a force
                     stronger than all his haughty pride. He had no idea of the power that conquered
                     him. He hadn't the least idea of the effect that evening's scenes had produced
                     in his moral nature. It is one of the good effects of exposing the soul to the
                     influence of good examples and right-doing, that such examples are like good
                     seed sown in the ground. We go our way, forgetting all about the seed; but
                     while we sleep and work, thinking of other things, the seed is springing up,
                     and in the hour of the soul's need the fruit is ready for it.
                  And what is true of good examples is just as true of bad ones. There is many a
                     poor soul that for a long time keeps up a brave battle with temptation, but is
                     finally overcome, and he cannot account for it himself. He thinks the free
                     agency of man a humbug. Ah, no! he owes his ruin to the silent influence of
                     those evil examples that he had long ago forgotten.
                  It was this influence of Mrs. Rosewell's example that suggested the inquiry to
                     Tom's mind, "Which is the most brave and manly, to do a mean thing and then
                     stick to it and pretend you are right, or, if you have done what ain't right,
                     to own up and do the best you can to make it right? Which is the lowest, to do
                     wrong, or confess that you've done wrong?"
                  The contrast between Mrs. Rosewell's noble confession and his mother's willful
                     sticking to what was wrong, if she had happened to do it, helped him to answer
                     the question satisfactorily. And what helped him more than all was Eva's coming
                     along just then, her eyes red with weeping. She looked into his face with such
                     a sweet, sad expression, just like the crushed, broken flower giving its
                     sweetest perfume to the hand that is crushing it, that for the first time in
                     his life the boy's heart was melted. He had often felt very sorry for his
                     mother when he had seen her in tears, but his sorrow was that of an angry
                     defiance, an ardent desire to revenge her wrongs. But now it was that his heart
                     felt the first throb of genuine repentance it had ever known.
                  He reached out his hand. She took it with the same sweet, crushed look. She had
                     no injuries to revenge,—she had only grief to sorrow over. Seen in the light of
                     that sorrowing countenance, how hateful his rash, passionate temper looked to
                     him! He had always been proud of it before.
                  "Eva," he said, at last, "I didn't mean to make you feel bad" (now for those
                     choking words); "will you for—gi—gi——" At this point he seemed entirely choked;
                     he had to stop. There was required some force stronger than his own will, or
                     rather a power to reinforce his will, to overcome all the habits of his early
                     life and the fierce pride of his nature. The wisest philosopher would doubtless
                     have failed had he undertaken to prescribe for a case like this. But the
                     child-girl at his side, obeying the simple instincts of nature, knew just what
                     to do for him. She put up her sweet lips for him to kiss. He bent down and
                     kissed them. He was strong enough for his self-imposed task now. That awful word forgive
                     did not choke him any more, but the formula was slightly altered. With a
                     radiant smile he exclaimed, "You do forgive me!"
                  Tom's sins caused Eva suffering. Her suffering made his sins hateful to him.
                     Her forgiving love, outrunning his repentance, overtook and completed what was
                     lacking in it. Love finished the work repentance had begun, and the seeds of a
                     new and higher life were planted in his soul. And thus these simple facts,
                     common to our every-day experience, may solve the vexed question of sacrificial
                     offerings and vicarious atonement.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  THE NEW SUNDAY-SCHOOL.
                  THE prattle of the children about the Sunday-school they had heard of at the
                     iron-works had an effect they never dreamed of on their mother's mind. Oh, what
                     a sting those artless, childish words, "That's a mighty little heap," and the
                     answer, "It's all there is of us," gave to that mother's heart!
                  "All there is of us!" Those five words were a mirror in which Mrs. Rosewell saw
                     with all the vividness of life-like reality the repulsive picture of a fond
                     mother's selfishness. What a contrast that narrow heart, with room enough for
                     only four children who made the "all of us," to the heart of the great Father
                     with room for all! The thought of her selfishness was like a sword piercing her
                     soul. How stifling and oppressive the mother's duties were that evening! And
                     with what a heavy heart she sat down to her evening stories! She was fairly
                     startled at the ringing sound of those words, "It's all there is of us," as she
                     looked into the bright, happy faces before her. How pleased she had always been
                     before when they all gathered around the fire as they were now! Now each face,
                     except Tom's, seemed to be a new mirror to reflect the more distinctly her
                     selfishness. She was a quick, acute observer of every change in her children's
                     looks or expressions; and at any other time she would have been delighted to
                     have watched the expressions on Tom's and Eva's faces.
                  I do not dare to assert it, but it may be true that the willing sacrifice of
                     herself for the one she loves is the perfection of womanhood: not womanhood as
                     it will be in the future, but that of this mortal life. The grace and charm of
                     this peculiar development of character increases as the heart takes in new
                     objects of love. Certainly, it were difficult to conceive anything more
                     charming and lovely than the sweet, childish, womanly grace that made the
                     beauty of Eva's looks and manner to-night. Her nature had never been poisoned
                     by any of those deceptive tricks of looks and words by which girls are so early
                     taught to conceal their feelings and pretend to be what they are not. And she
                     felt no more sense of shame because of her love for Tom, no more desire to
                     conceal it, than she did her love for the fat baby in the cradle. How fearfully
                     our civilization, with its tight corsets, tight shoes, and tight swaddling
                     clothes, distorts and deforms the physical forms of our girls! But how much
                     more fearfully our strained, artificial, social life deforms and distorts their
                     souls!
                  I love to look at Eva to-night. Here I can admire and study the handiwork of
                     nature in its simplest form. She is just as natural as the untrained child of
                     the forest. And it is her rare good fortune to have added to this the advantage
                     of the best culture and the highest refinement. I love to look at her when she
                     is indignant at the boys for delighting in war and military glory; I like to
                     look at her and study that brilliant sparkle in her eye as the mind takes in
                     some new idea which her mother may, perhaps, be playfully presenting in her
                     stories. So, too, it is delightful to see her light, airy form bounding through
                     the house, full of life and animal spirits, like a fresh breeze stirring up
                     life and activity wherever it reaches. But the charm of a love that has
                     conquered another's sins gives a sweeter, diviner flavor to her character than
                     any of these.
                  I am very sorry that her mother is so absorbed in her own painful thoughts that she cannot observe and
                     study her as she ought to be studied at this time. For this is one of those
                     moments that come to the soul only once. I don't say but that others just as
                     good come, or perhaps much better; but the soul can only have its
                        first taste of the elixir of life. As a study in the science of
                     theology, she was better than any sermon or lecture just now.
                  I am sorry to see that her father is one of those that having "eyes to see sees
                     not, and having ears to hear hears not" the things that would minister to his
                     highest pleasure and profit; and while the currents of life have thrown in his
                     way such rare opportunities to study it in its most beautiful and lovely
                     manifestations, he turns from it to study some musty work on divine sovereignty
                     and free will. But I rejoice to see how Tom is enjoying her. If her looks of a
                     little while ago more fully satisfied his artistic sense of the sublime and
                     glorious, her looks now are more beauteous and soul-satisfying. I am glad to
                     see how little attention he is paying to what Mrs. Rosewell is saying. The
                     night's story is a continuation of the life of John Wesley. But not all her
                     rare powers of so describing noble, generous, holy lives as to make them
                     beautiful and attractive, will be so powerful in influencing his choice of the
                     right, and stimulating his love for the true, the beautiful, and the good, as
                     the loving example of the sweet girl before him.
                  Mrs. Rosewell was glad enough when eight o'clock came, and she could dismiss
                     her children and be alone. And now that she had got alone she found how much
                     she had gained by doing her duty. When the time for her to begin her story had
                     come she was in her room alone, and when Chit and Eddie came to call her she
                     thought she couldn't command her voice enough to talk; and not till Eddie
                     puckered up his face to cry, and said so pitifully, "'Ou mate 'ou boy try;
                     dat's what 'ou will. Me likes 'ou no more now. Den 'ou mate me try," did she
                     feel as though she could go. It was well she did, for the story of the
                     self-sacrificing life of that great and good man was just what she needed at
                     this time. She was thoroughly conversant with his life before, but it came to
                     her now with the force of a new revelation; and before the morning's ing's sun
                     had lighted up the eastern sky she had decided on her future course. It should
                     no longer be true that the four scholars should be "all there is of us." As she
                     had a little while before opened her heart to take in Tom, she would now open
                     the door a little wider and take in all the children in the neighborhood,—that
                     is, so far as she had an opportunity for instructing and helping them to become
                     wise and good.
                  The next morning she called the children together and told them of all she had
                     been thinking. She was going to start a Sunday-school as quick as she could, in
                     the little old school-house a little way off. Tom and Eva entered into her
                     plans with the greatest enthusiasm. Eva's eyes fairly danced with delight as
                     her mind took in the though of a room full of children singing, as the little
                     girl did, 
                        
                           "We'll stand the storm, it won't be long,
                           We'll anchor by-and-by."
                        
                      Chit clapped her hands and danced about the room, her light, graceful, and
                     airy form seeming to float in the air like thistle-down.
                  Eddie stood straddling the broomstick, looking intently at his mother while she
                     was talking about the proposed school. His little mind was almost too narrow to
                     take in all the possibilities of the case; but when Chit began to clap her
                     hands and sing out, "I'm going to Sunday-school! Ma's going to keep a
                     Sunday-school for all the children just like she does for us!" he began to
                     understand it a little better. The broom began to move around the room very
                     fast; his horse had to "git up, dare!" "Me doin' wide Tunny-tool, me will; 'ou
                     do Tunny-tool too, 'ou will; 'ou be dood baby, not try mate a bid noise, me
                     tate 'ou on my hossy, me will."
                  They had all left the room now, and somehow the mischievous creature conceived
                     the idea that it would be a good idea to practice on it then; so he
                     straightened the fat baby out as straight as he could, pulled him out of the
                     cradle, and tried to get him astride of the broomstick. It was no easy task,
                     for when he got one leg over the other would come too. At first the baby was
                     delighted with the performance. It crowed and goaed as though going to Sunday-school was delightful. At last
                     Eddie laid the broom on the floor, and got one leg one side and the other the
                     other side, the body across it; but as soon as he went to raise it up to get
                     the horse in a shape for running, over the bundle of fat went with a loud
                     scream. Eddie was in dismay at the frightful spectacle before him,—legs and
                     arms all wrong,—the poor child sprawling around like a mud-turtle turned on its
                     back. He did his best to get the ruined thing in shape again, but the more he
                     tried the worse he made it. When he went to pull the dress down into shape, the
                     baby kicked and screamed as though he was being forced on the horse again.
                     "Don't try so, itty baby. 'Ou be dood baby, den me dits 'ou tandy, so me will."
                     But the poor baby was in no humor for candy then. He wanted to be got out of
                     that, so he kept on till his screams brought his mother. Eddie knew it was no
                     use to try to make any defense; he had been told often enough never to pull the
                     baby out of the cradle; so he gathered himself up, prepared for the worst,
                     stood back a little, and surveying the ruins before him with the air of a
                     resigned Christian philosopher, he began to sing, in his comical, childish way, 
                        "We'll 'tan' 'e 'torm, it won't be lon'."
                      Mrs. Rosewell saw at a glance that the fat thing wasn't hopelessly ruined,
                     and she was so overcome at the sight of Eddie that she had to go out of the
                     room to laugh over it. She wouldn't let him see her laugh, but he had seen that
                     in her face that drove away all his fears.
                  But, however it was with the rest, there was one of the family that wasn't
                     carried away with excitement about the Sunday-school. After Mrs. Rosewell had
                     told them her plans, and dismissed them, there was one that walked out, his
                     nose a little higher in the air than common, his hands in his pockets,
                     muttering, "A little young-un performance! What does it amount to? It may be
                     well enough for gals, to keep 'em out o' mischief, but I guess it's small
                     potaters for me. Tom may go if he wants to; he's nothing but a gal-boy, anyway.
                     Catch me tied to a gal's apronstrings as he is, and you'll catch a
                     weasel asleep. Golly! I wish I could shoot like him, though. Oh, he is a
                        capital shot! But I'll beat him yet,—see if I don't."
                  Life had a new interest to Mrs. Rosewell now. It was her delight to get the
                     pinched, poverty-stricken, childish faces, upon which were written the cares of
                     men and women, before her, and see those dark, swarthy faces brighten up and
                     shine under the light of truth. It warmed and cheered her own heart to see how
                     theirs warmed and became young and childlike under the influence of this
                     new-found love. What a privilege it seemed to her now to take these rough,
                     untaught children by the hand and tell them the wonderful story of a Saviour's
                     love! How glad she was to go to those little ones, who had known so little of a
                     mother's love or a father's care, and tell them how the great Father
                        loved them! How pleased she was to pour all her wealth of
                     learning—her wide culture and varied talents—into their pinched and undeveloped
                     natures! How pleasant to watch the growth and progress of the tiny spear as it
                     changes into the closed bud, the opening flower! But how does this compare with
                     the joy of watching the opening faculties, the mind and soul growing into the
                     likeness of its heavenly parent?
                  With a new and diviner joy Mrs. Rosewell pressed her own children to heart
                     after she had opened the doors wide enough to take in all of
                        his children; and it did her so much good to see how the
                     children enjoyed their part of the work; even Frank began to relish the "small
                     potatoes" after he had eaten a few of them. Mr. Rosewell, like many another
                     man, was glad enough to have his family in the work, but he felt as though he
                     hadn't time to attend to it himself. At last Tom got his mother interested, and
                     it was a beautiful sight to see the haughty, fiery, dependent belle of the
                     South joining hands with the wise, strong, self-sustained, vigorous daughter of
                     the North to elevate and save those unfortunate ones. It was well for them they
                     had to work together thus, for by this means they learned to cherish a genuine
                     respect and love for each other. Mrs. Price often looked at Mrs. Rosewell with
                     surprise and admiration bordering on idolatry. She felt as though she could
                     almost eat wooden nutmegs, buy
                     wooden clocks, and bear with Yankee peddlers for her sake. She had no
                     objections to Tom's going there now. She liked to go with him, and he liked to
                     have her; but sometimes he couldn't but feel pained as he noticed the contrast
                     between her and Mrs. Rosewell. He had always been so proud of his mother's
                     beauty and gracefulness before. One evening he was particularly mortified at
                     the supper-table, when, in her ignorant, childish way, she remarked of the
                     biscuits: "I reckon you Yankees don't make your biscuits like my mammy does.
                     She don't put any physic into hers at all; but it takes her so
                     long, and you make yours so quick. Mr. Price says he don't believe a Southerner
                     ever got a soon supper in their lives." A soon supper
                     is one got in less than three hours.
                  Aunt Polly had no sympathy with the compromising spirit that let these
                     slave-holders in the family. "Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of
                     darkness, but rather reprove them," was her motto. In the most emphatic way she
                     would declare to Mrs. Rosewell: "There's sartin to be no good come from this.
                     We mustn't be partakers of other men's sins; and when you let that 'ar' woman
                     and boy inter your house, you become jist as guilty as they are. The blood of
                     all their niggers 'll be on your head, and you'll have to answer for it. Now
                     mark my words, Mary Rosewell, your takin' that boy into your family 'll be just
                     like the man takin' the frozen snake to his hearth, and when he got warmed up
                     and thawed out he bit his children and killed 'em. A snake's a snake to the
                     last wriggle of his tail, and so's a slave-holder the same thing forever. Be
                     warned in time."
                  What was it that made these words have such a thrilling, startling effect on
                     Mrs. Rosewell? Do coming events so cast their shadows before them that, seeing
                     the dark shadow, Aunt Polly's frightful words came with all the force of
                     inspired prophecy? Whatever the cause, Mrs. Rosewell felt such a heavy,
                     oppressive pain tugging at her heart-strings as at times almost stifled her. Do
                     what she would, before that bright, beautiful face arose the image of the
                     slayer of her children. She tried to shake off these fancies, but they
                        would come.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  PARTING VIEW.
                  THESE are awful times! times pregnant with the fate of nations. The little
                     cloud no bigger than a man's hand, that showed itself at the time of the
                     formation of the Federal Constitution, has been increasing in size and
                     gathering in blackness, till it has come to look fearfully dangerous. A few
                     years hence, and the scene of this little story, now seemingly so quiet and
                     peaceful, will become the theatre of one of the most frightful wars of modern
                     times. Waiting for that time to come, we will take our leave of this
                     family.
                  Mrs. Rosewell has finished the lives of the two most prominent men of the last
                     century. She has carried out Chit's design of giving sweet and sour together;
                     she has kept these two great men, Napoleon and Wesley, side by side as she
                     painted their lives. In vivid contrast she shows the brilliant success, the
                     slavish homage, the abject, fawning courtesies, the idolatrous praise that made
                     the glory of the one, with the reverential awe, the humble, devout love, that
                     waited upon the other. She showed them dethroned kings and despoiled princes on
                     their knees before the one; she showed them rough, untaught miners, with clean
                     furrows washed out on their sooty faces by the tears of penitence the words of
                     the other inspired, she told them how hope and love sprung up in the hearts of
                     outcast women and wretched men at the sound of his name. She contrasted their
                     deaths: the one surrounded and guarded by the enemy's bayonets, his last
                     thoughts and words centred in the work of killing men; the other surrounded by
                     loving friends, his calm, peaceful soul rejoicing in the God that he was now
                     going to live with forever. Then she contrasted the results of their lives, and
                     showed the ripened fruit of the selfishness of the one, and the fruit of the
                     other's self-sacrifice and devotion to others' good; how each reaped exactly as
                     he had sowed in youth.
                  
                  In the light of this contrast the halo of glory that had circled around the
                     brows of military heroes began to fade and grow dim. Not that Tom had at all
                     given up the notion of being a great general, or that Frank had fallen in love
                     with moral heroes and into disgust with military ones. Nor had Eddie got out of
                     the notion that it was brave and manly to shoot, and that he was going to be a
                     soldier when he "dot be bid man."
                  Mrs. Rosewell never sought for any such violent change as the sudden uprooting
                     of all their convictions, and the substitution of opposite ones in their place.
                     She was pleased with their ambitious thirst for glory and renown. She knew that
                     this feeling lay at the foundation of all brave and noble deeds. And so it
                     does: ambition is nature's signet of nobility. Had Jesus Christ been an
                     unambitious young man, Satan could never have tempted him to become his
                     worshiper by offering him the kingdoms of this world.
                  It is in the means by which men seek to become great and glorious that they
                     become guilty and selfish. Mrs. Rosewell sought by every legitimate means to
                     feed the flame of her children's desires for greatness. But she tried to so
                     impress upon their growing minds the conviction that real greatness exists only
                     in character, in such manner that it should become a part of their natures, and
                     grow with their growth and increase with their strength. She encouraged Eva to
                     try to make herself the most perfect poet her nature was capable of. She was
                     well satisfied when she noticed the gradual change that was taking place in the
                     views and conduct of the boys. So we can take leave of her for eight years.
                  With different feelings we take our leave of Aunt Polly. No one that has eyes
                     to see and can read the language of the soul can look into the depths of those
                     hungry, longing eyes without feelings of the deepest sympathy and pity. What a
                     fearful thing is soul-hunger! It is an awful thing to go into the streets of a
                     famine-stricken city and look into the pinched, starving faces of its people;
                     but how much firmer the grip, how much keener the anguish, of soul-hunger!
                  It was the custom of the ancients to torture their prisoners ers before letting
                     them die. And the most exquisite torture they could inflict upon them was to
                     give them neither food nor drink, or gradually to reduce them to starvation,
                     while right before their eyes and under their nostrils they would put the most
                     tempting and savory food and the cooling water. Very like to the bodily torture
                     these poor wretches endured was the torture that became the daily lot of Aunt
                     Polly. Her whole being convulsed with the torturing pangs of heart-hunger, she
                     saw that which would satisfy the cravings of her nature, she saw that which
                     would ease the gnawing pain that was constantly tugging at her
                     heart-strings—right before her at all times. Mr. Rosewell made no secret of his
                     feelings for her; he freely offered her the love she had once rejected. Not
                     that he would do the least injustice to his wife. "All that Mary was or had she
                     owed to Aunt Polly," he told her.
                  "I can love you both," he said, as he pressed her unresisting hand to his
                     lips.
                  "Oh, God! that I ever should have lived to see such a moment as this!" was the
                     passionate cry wrung from her tortured soul. But hers was an anguish too deep
                     for outward sign. If she could have cried or raved or tore her hair, or given
                     any outward sign of her feelings, it would have been a great relief. But the
                     only thing Mr. Rosewell could see, as he looked at her downcast eyes, was a
                     tremulous quivering of her face and slight shudders running through her whole
                     frame. Compared to his agitated, passionate appearance, she seemed cold and
                     impassive. What a riddle she was to him!
                  "Cold and passionless as a stone! I might as well undertake to rouse feeling in
                     a dead woman as you. What a darned fool I've always been to think you've loved
                     me! I'd defy the angel Gabriel to find you out," said the puzzled man. No sound
                     escaped the lips of the suffering woman. A slight heaving of the chest from
                     suppressed breathing, the quivering tremulousness of every nerve, were the only
                     signs of life.
                  Again the strong man's heart was touched with pity. Again he took her hand
                     between his: it was cold as a stone. His voice changed to tender pleading:
                  
                  "What is the use of your making such a martyr of yourself? Don't you owe
                     something to yourself as well as to Mary? You have sacrificed all your life to
                     her. Now, what harm can it do her or any one else for us to love each
                     other?"
                  And now, in this hour of supreme temptation,—the cold sweat standing all over
                     her face, every nerve quivering with pain, the long-imprisoned, famished heart
                     struggling with all the energy of despair to free itself from the iron grip of
                     the strong will,—can we trust the promise of him who has said, "I will not
                     suffer you to be tempted above what you are able to bear, but with every
                     temptation will provide a way of escape"?
                  There is a limit to all human endurance,—a point beyond which the strongest
                     will cannot force us. Aunt Polly had reached that point now. It was useless to
                     try and contend longer. With a low, despairing cry, "Lord, save, or I perish!"
                     she sank into the outstretched arms of the man she loved. What a moment was
                     that to Mr. Rosewell! Since that moment at the bedside of his sick wife, when
                     she had joined their hands together and asked them to love each other, it had
                     been the chief desire of his heart to press her to it and claim her for his
                     own. That he feared she was indifferent to him,—that she never would look into
                     his eye,—that she always avoided him, only made him more anxious. That he had
                     waited so many long years to press her to his heart only made this moment of
                     triumph more glorious. She was his now! She made no resistance as he pressed
                     her to his heart with all the passionate fondness of a young lover. But, alas
                     for his short-lived triumph! Truly he might as well have pressed a dead woman
                     to his heart. How he cursed his folly and stupidity as he found his triumph had
                     been the power of holding a fainting woman in his arms! Was that
                     the result he had hoped for? Was that what he had been striving for all these
                     years? Oh, what a moment was that when the self-seeking, weak, vacillating
                     husband saw himself as he really was! But he lacked the courage to face his
                     wrongs, and by acknowledging them seek to overcome them. He wanted to get out
                     of sight and hearing of everybody, and alone hate himself as much as he
                     deserved. He couldn't endure the sight of his victim. The weight of the woman
                     he had just taken to his arms with such rapturous joy now became a loathsome
                     burden to him. He was sure she would come to if he laid her on her back. So he
                     stretched her on the floor as though she had fallen down fainting, and got out
                     of her sight as quickly as possible. How the faces of the two women he had so
                     deeply wronged confronted him in his hour of repentance, humiliation, and
                     defeat! But he was not the man to suffer any accusation against himself for any
                     length of time.
                  "Darned if I'm to blame! If women are such fools as to be falling in love with
                     me, I don't see how I'm to blame for it. I never asked her for a cent of her
                     money; she forced it upon me, pretending it was on Mary's account! Plaguy
                     little Mary 'd 'a got if she hadn't got me, I'm thinking."
                  There was just enough of justice in this self-defense to make Mr. Rosewell feel
                     better satisfied with himself. He surely never had asked Aunt Polly for any of
                     her fortune. He strongly protested against taking the money she first offered
                     him to take his wife away with. And surely no one could blame him
                     because they had been such "fools" as to fall in love with him! He certainly
                     hadn't fallen in love with them; but he had been a good husband and loving
                     father. Wasn't that enough?
                  With these comforting reflections, he saddled his horse and prepared for a
                     ride. He told Frank to tell his mother that she needn't look for him till he
                     came, and rode off in tolerably good spirits to look at some blooded animals he
                     thought of buying. He was going into the stock business.
                  "Be darned if I don't do something! I've been fooling after women long enough,"
                     he said.
                  The old, hungry longing is still in Aunt Polly's heart. But a new light is in
                     her eye, a new-found joy is written on her withered face. She has conquered her
                     internal enemies. In the dark hour of temptation and trial her will triumphed,
                     and divine love and peace filled her soul. This love did not supply and fill
                     the aching void of unsatisfied love. There is a place in the soul of every man
                     and woman sacred to the love of the opposite sex. This is the holy ground of the soul, and on it no
                     feet but those that nature has prepared may presume to walk. God himself never
                     enters the sacred inclosure he has consecrated to human passion.
                  
                  This part of the heart is like the sealed book of the Revelation. And none but
                     a human hand can loosen the seals thereof and show what is written therein. How
                     often like John we are called to weep because none are found that can unlock
                     the heart's treasures and let the hungry soul eat and be satisfied! And how
                     often we have to weep that when the right one is found the flaming sword of law
                     stands between the longing soul and its coveted paradise, and the unfortunate
                     one wanders through its weary pilgrimage alone!
                  
                  Thus we sorrow for Aunt Polly. Shall we sorrow as those that have no hope? or
                     shall we trust that the years of eternity shall be long enough to unravel the
                     tangled web of this life and show us its hidden beauties? It is hard to believe
                     that the threescore-and-ten years of life here is long enough to so tangle our
                     life-web that eternity may not unravel it.
                  But, although there is still this aching void in Aunt Polly's heart, she is
                     happy. Her agonized longings after love and sympathy have proved the
                     birth-throes of a higher, sweeter, purer love than she had ever conceived of.
                     Hers is the joy of a soul filled with God's love. Then she is on much better
                     terms with the children than she was before she left them, and they have
                     learned to appreciate her. Frank has found that his mother can't make doughnuts
                     as Aunt Polly can.
                  So when Aunt Polly had found out that it was not possible for her to live away
                     from Mr. Rosewell, and had come back, as she said, to die there, none welcomed
                     her back with more pleasure than Frank. It is true that when she went to kiss
                     him, as she did the rest, he pushed her off.
                  "Out of that! I don't want to be slobbered over as though I was a gal," he
                     said.
                  But still he was pleased, and out of sight he chuckled, "We'll have something a
                     fellow can eat now."
                  So good-by, Aunt Polly! Though we pity you for that sore, aching spot in your
                     heart, we rejoice that you have found the secret of peace, and with such a
                     family we know you cannot be unhappy.
                  Mr. Rosewell is now absorbed in the stock business, and we hope he will find it
                     more profitable than the other.
                  Old Jones is still grinding money out of the bones, muscles, and nerves of his
                     niggers, and the necessities of his neighbors, as fast as ever,—a little
                     faster.
                  The grocery man has on hand a good stock of whisky, and maggoty bacon, and
                     corn-meal, and coffee, which he contrives to make a good profit on. He despises
                     himself for his low, cunning meanness, and everybody else despises him too.
                  Colonel Price, the haughty gentleman whose notice or smile once had power to
                     set the hearts of the proud beauties of the South a-throbbing with joy, has
                     sunk so low as to flatter, and place himself on a level with, this lowborn
                     Yankee, that he may get him to trust him for something to quench the burning
                     thirst that all the waters of the Mississippi cannot quench. His wife is less
                     miserable than she was; her acquaintance with the Rosewell family has done her
                     good. Her people are wealthy, and they will not let her suffer for anything she
                     needs for her comfort; but they will not give her husband any more money to
                     gamble away. In the spring they are going to send Tom to the North to college;
                     Frank is going with him.
                  Aunt Chloe is as fat and comfortable as ever, but still there is a different
                     look in her face from the one we noticed when we first saw her. It has lost
                     something of that Newfoundland-dog expression it wore then. Sorrow has done its
                     work even on her placid soul, although it had to penetrate an immense amount of
                     fat to get at the soul.
                  Uncle Ned's is one of the most pitiful, saddest faces I ever looked at. His is
                     the simple, untaught soul of the child struggling with the mysteries of God's
                     providence. Since that night when Mrs. Rosewell stayed the murderous hand
                     uplifted to take his life, and tried to soothe his wounded soul with the oil
                     and wine of the gospel, as she bathed his wounded, feverish body with the
                     cooling water, he has walked the earth and gone to his daily toil a crushed, broken-hearted man-child,
                     wearily clinging to one faint hope as his only refuge. He feels like one who
                     has trusted his all on another's promise, and in the hour of darkness that
                     promise proved a rope of sand. But a secret tie he cannot understand, much less
                     explain, still binds him to the one whose promise has failed him.
                  "'Tain't no difference what he does to dis poor nigger, I'se allus
                        lub him, and try to please him. Ob course, I know he may deceib
                     me 'bout heaven. 'Long as I know he deceib his chile here, he 's mighty apt to
                     do de same ting dare. But 'pears like I shall allus lub him jes' the same."
                  Ah, happy man! How little you realize it now, but your childish soul has, in
                     that fiery furnace, found the great secret of immortal life and joy—a secret
                     that the mass of mankind has never been able to discover! It is the "white
                     stone that no man knoweth save he that receiveth it."
                  True, you may be trampled upon, your rights taken away, you may be beaten and
                     bruised and torn of dogs, as the Christians were of wild beasts, you may be
                     sold like a chattel, and men may call you a brute. It matters little. With a
                     faith in your Father, stronger than the testimony of the senses, wider than the
                     lessons of experience, powerful enough to dissolve and hold everything else in
                     solution, you are safe for time and eternity. Go on with your preaching, even
                     though your heart aches and feels so heavy that, at times, it seems the burden
                     is heavier than you can bear. It will make the burden lighter to help lift the
                     weight from off some other shoulder. It will ease your heartache to help
                     others. Good-by, then. When we meet again you will look happier than you do
                     now.
                  Mrs. Price's mammy is just as fond of the brandy-bottle, gets just as wise
                     under its influence, goes to sleep just as easily, tells her abominable lies
                     just as glibly as ever. She will only stop lying when she leaves her "bref
                     behind her." Good-by, all.
               
               END OF PART I.
            
            
               PART II.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  WAR CLOUDS.
                  WHAT an eventful period was the winter following the election of Abraham
                     Lincoln to the presidency of the United States! For years a few radicals had,
                     like Noah, been sounding the trumpet of alarm, and calling upon the people to
                     repent of their national sins, and open their prison doors, and let the
                     oppressed go free, before God should visit them in wrath and make inquisition
                     for the blood of his people.
                  But as it was in the days of Noah, that men were "eating and drinking, marrying
                     and giving in marriage," until the day that he entered the ark, and the floods
                     came and destroyed them, even so it was now; people refused to believe even in
                     the possibility of war. And all through that eventful time, as the telegraph
                     wires flashed the news of State after State following the lead of South
                     Carolina, and passing ordinances of secession, they only laughed, and said:
                     "The people of a poor-house might as well undertake to secede from the State
                     that supports them, as the South, poor in everything but cotton and molasses,
                     to secede from the rich North that feeds and clothes it. They are trying to
                     scare us. They think they have only to crack the whip over our heads, as they
                     do over the heads of their niggers, to scare us into submission; but that sort
                     of thing is played out. We have been ruled by a little knot of slave-holders
                     about as long as we shall be, and when they find we are not to be bullied or
                     bribed they will settle back into
                     their places in the Union, and learn to behave themselves."
                  The South, drunk with the wine of prosperity and power, as little understood
                     the temper of the North. They had dreamed of a Southern republic blazing with
                     glory, whose corner-stone should be negro slavery, until they had come to look
                     upon their dreams as an accomplished fact. Cotton was king, and through cotton
                     they were to rule the world.
                  A few, who understood better the temper of both parties, tried to bring about a
                     reconciliation; and so a "compromise convention" met on the fourth of February,
                     and tried to adopt resolutions that should please both parties, and so stay the
                     torrent of war that was threatening to overwhelm the land. They might as well
                     have entreated the roaring waters of Niagara to be quiet and peaceful, and stop
                     their headlong rush down the Falls.
                  Such was the temper and condition of both parties in that memorable contest,
                     when a company of students were collected together in the telegraph-office of
                     the beautiful college town of Ann Arbor, in the State of Michigan. Like most
                     persons of the day, their absorbing topic was the political situation. They
                     were students of the college there, part of them from the South and part from
                     the North and West. The discussions were very earnest, and party spirit ran
                     high; but there was a subdued, modified feeling manifest in both parties, which
                     offered quite a contrast to the fiery, ignorant party spirit that characterized
                     the discussions of that period. In that place were collected students from all
                     parts of the country, and they had learned to understand each party better than
                     the masses, who had no such opportunity of studying the character of the two
                     sections; moreover, by being acquainted they had learned to love each other,
                     and the bare possibility of a war, in which they should be compelled to take
                     opposite sides and fight against each other, was horrible to think of.
                  There is one of their number—a young man from the South—who seems to be a
                     general favorite, and indeed none can help loving him, for Tom Price has more
                     than fulfilled the promise of his boyhood, and he attracts all hearts and
                     charms them to himself as the magnet attracts the iron. Now we see the noble,
                     manly, generous qualities that made Eva Rosewell love him in spite of herself,
                     and caused Mrs. Rosewell, notwithstanding her Yankee principles, to take the
                     son of a slave-holder to her heart and home,—that caused the stiff, stern Aunt
                     Polly to grow lax and limber in his genial, sunshiny presence,—overcoming the
                     fiery, partisan spirit of the times, and in his presence men speak much more
                     considerately and tenderly of the South than they otherwise would. They are
                     talking now of the position of General Lee, and canvassing the probabilities of
                     his going with his State.
                  The young man, Frank Rosewell, is very like the boy we used to know eight years
                     ago, and in the same blunt, characteristic way he used to talk to Eva he
                     says:
                  "If that man turns his back upon his country, and uses his sword to destroy the
                     government that educated him to defend it, he'll deserve to be kicked by
                     cripples,—he'll be worse than the traitor Arnold; but I won't believe so mean a
                     thing of him till I am obliged to, anyway; he's too noble a fellow to be a
                     traitor."
                  Tom sat with folded hands and abstracted air, seeming to be engaged in deep
                     thought. Deep thought and perplexing problems had now taken the place of the
                     good-natured, joyous gayety that used to become him so well. His former
                     light-hearted joyousness has left its impress on his features, but it is
                     something like the impress of the trees and vegetation of other days left in
                     the coal-mines. His whole appearance is sober enough now. What the others are
                     talking of, as a matter of public interest, seems a matter of life and death to
                     him. That word "traitor" roused him from his reverie, and, turning to Frank, he
                     fiercely demanded:
                  "How dare you call a man a traitor because he draws his sword in defense of his
                     own State,—because he tries to protect his own fireside? If the United States
                     government makes war on the State of Virginia, her children, if they are men,
                     not bread-and-butter cowards, will draw their swords in her defense!"
                  The conversation was here interrupted by the announcement, just received, that
                     General Lee had resigned his
                     commission in the United States army and given in his allegiance to the State
                     of Virginia. The news was received with mingled hisses and applause, according
                     to the sympathies and feelings of the listeners; but there was one who seemed
                     to listen to it as though it were the death-knell of all his hopes. While
                     General Lee stood hesitating as to which was the path of honor and duty, there
                     seemed to be a possibility of some way by which a man of honor, born and bred
                     in the South, might yet avoid the necessity of plunging into the maelstrom of
                     secession. To Tom Price the decision of General Lee seemed the precursor of his
                     own doom.
                  Seeing how pale he looked, and how deeply he seemed to be affected, Frank took
                     the hand of the playmate of his boyhood, drew his arm through his, and said:
                     "Come, Tom, let's go and take a walk, you need the fresh air; a fellow mustn't
                     be shut up all the time. I declare you are getting mopy enough for Aunt
                     Polly."
                  Something in the young man's looks checked Frank's playfulness, and the two
                     walked on in silence; it seemed now to make little difference to Tom whether he
                     sat or walked, or thought or studied, a dull, oppressive melancholy weighed
                     upon him continually. But there are many people who are dull and melancholy
                     during the suspense of fear and hope, who become bright, active, and even
                     cheerful, when the worst that they dreamed has become a reality. Thus it was
                     with David; while there was the least hope of his darling child's life he was
                     weeping and fasting; but when it was certain that the child was dead he became
                     cheerful, and ate and drank as usual. So it was with Tom; when the thing he so
                     dreaded had become a reality, and he knew of a certainty that he must go with
                     his State and take rank among the enemies of his country, he became cheerful,
                     and acted more like his old light-hearted self again. He waited not for the
                     command that should summon him to the defense of his country, but prepared at
                     once to leave college, and offer his services to his State. He seemed buoyant
                     and full of hope; it appeared as though the natural elasticity of his spirits
                     had thrown off the oppressive weight of fear that had so overcome him of late;
                     so much so, that at times Frank was really angry with him, and he declared that
                     "he believed Tom was a rebel at heart and glad of the prospect of war." But
                     when the time for parting came, and he took his companions by the hand to say
                     the last good-by, and knew that a number of them were going to offer their
                     services to their country in the event of war, and the thought crossed his mind
                     that possibly he might be called to fight against these dear friends, he
                     utterly broke down; he became a baby, as he said to himself; he sank into a
                     chair, covered his face with his hands, and wept bitter tears of sorrow and
                     dread. There is something so terrible in the tears of strong, vigorous,
                     youthful manhood, that the young companions of the sorrow-stricken youth felt
                     awed by the scene, and in that moment they began to realize something of the
                     bitterness of the cup of woe that the country was so soon to drink. Could it be
                     possible that such friends as they—they who loved each other, and had received
                     so much of pleasure from each other's society—should ever be called upon to
                     plunge the bayonet into each other's breasts?
                  "Well, Tom," said one of the number,—and he tried to speak lightly, though he
                     succeeded but poorly,—"if you ever get into the rebel army and I in the other,
                     you must be careful not to shoot me. I don't mind being shot if it is
                     necessary, but I don't want to be shot by you."
                  How the word rebel grated on Tom's ear! At any other time he would
                     have poured out a torrent of wrath and invective upon one who should presume to
                     call him a rebel, but he had not sufficient command over himself now to trust
                     himself to speak; however, the rousing of his anger so stimulated him that he
                     could get away now; so with a hurried "good-by, boys!" he started for the train
                     that was to bear him onward to meet his doom.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER II.
                  ANOTHER LOVER.
                  IN the healthful, beautiful New England town of Mount Holyoke Eva Rosewell is
                     attending a ladies' seminary. She has her diploma and is ready to start for
                     home on the morning train. A young gentleman friend of hers has come to make a
                     parting visit, and say "good-by." He thinks he has so strengthened himself by
                     his good resolutions that he can meet and part with the girl he so loves
                     without betraying his feelings, or giving her any chance to discover his
                     secret. He feels perfectly confident that she don't love him,—at least, nothing
                     like the way he loves her,—and he is determined never to be such a great
                     pumpkin-headed fellow as to let any girl think she can make him unhappy; and,
                     indeed, she should not make him miserable for any length of time; he was a
                     little weak then, but he would soon overcome it and be the brave, strong man he
                     used to be before love had robbed him of his manhood and made him so weak-kneed
                     and trembling-like. He called pride to his aid, and thus fortified he felt
                     himself equal to the occasion, and so he started off in tolerably good
                     spirits.
                  But, alas for the boasted strength of manhood! What is it but perfect weakness
                     when the glance of a woman's eye can set his heart to throbbing, his body to
                     trembling, and his knees to knocking together as though they were out of joint?
                     No sooner had the eyes of the strong, proud young man met the soft, gentle,
                     tender look of Eva Rosewell than all his good resolutions were blown away like
                     chaff before the strong wind, and the proud man knelt as humble and weak as a
                     child at her feet. He took her hand and kissed it wildly and passionately. As
                     soon as he could command his voice, he said:
                  "You dear, dear girl, you! you surely can't drive me away from you? If you knew
                     how long I've waited and longed for this,—to get a chance to kiss your
                     hand,—you wouldn't try to pull it away so. I've tried so hard to get near you,
                     but somehow you've always held me back. I thought you didn't love me, and I
                     tried not to love you, but I can't help it no more than I can stop breathing;
                     not a bit more. And if you will only say that you love me, I'll be the happiest
                     man in all the world; but, if you don't love me, I don't care how soon I die,
                     the sooner the better."
                  Eva made no attempt to check this torrent of wild, passionate words; she knew
                     that it was best for his passionate feelings to find expression, and when they
                     had spent their force he would be the better prepared to listen to what she
                     must tell him.
                  She stroked his hair tenderly, saying, "My poor, dear friend, I know how to
                     pity you, I know how your heart aches!" Then, for the moment losing her calm
                     self-control, she passionately exclaimed, "Oh, merciful Father! why have you
                     made love to be such a torture? why should it be such misery to love? Oh, what
                     a curse love is! Why should it be so? I can't see into it."
                  How much this soul-cry of Eva Rosewell sounds like the cries that escaped Aunt
                     Polly's lips on an occasion of like torture! Ah, yes, how like the cry of pain
                     the world over! Take the lowest and highest of the human family, what have they
                     in common? Nothing, it would seem. But reduce each to the verge of starvation,
                     how exactly alike the gnawing of their hunger! how soon does their hunger
                     reduce them to the same level! how soon would one who understood nothing of the
                     language of either find out that each was suffering the same way and each
                     wanted the same thing! Ah, yes! and how do our soul-wants reduce us to a common
                     level, and through the thin, transparent crust of education, refinement, and
                     civilization reveal our common parentage! The soul's need for love is the one
                     great leveler of the human race.
                  Had the young man been more discerning he would have seen that she was talking
                     and thinking more of her own misery than his; but he was so self-absorbed that
                     he thought only of his own anguish and torture, never dreaming how her heart
                     was bleeding while she was trying to console him.
                  
                  "God never meant this love for a torture. He gave it to us to make us both
                     happy, and if you will only love me as I do you it will make us happy. To be by
                     you this little time is worth all, and more than all, I have suffered on your
                     account."
                  Eva was deeply moved. She pitied the young man because of his love, which she
                     could in no wise return; she pitied herself because of her love for Tom, which
                     he could not return. No wonder that from her stand-point love seemed a curse
                     rather than a good. She went to the window and looked out into the darkness;
                     she wished it would always be dark; she wondered why the sun should ever shine
                     while there was so much misery in the world; she thought it strange that birds
                     could sing, that kittens could play, that children could play and be happy,
                     while such sorrow awaited them. She thought of her own happy, joyous childhood;
                     how free she was from care or pain before she had known Tom. What a pleasant
                     winter that was when Tom used to sit by her side and listen to her mother's
                     stories. How she felt when he bade her "good-by," and started for the East with
                     Frank. She thought sure her heart would break; but how much more she had borne
                     since, and still it was beating! still she was living on, though all her
                     girlish hopes had been buried in the grave of cruel disappointment! And now she
                     must go back to the old scenes, she must live in the same place where she had
                     been so happy with him, alone, without him. No wonder if, at such a time as
                     this, life looked dull and dreary even to the cheerful, contented, happy little
                     poet. But she knew this feeling was not to last; she would sing off her
                     vexation, and to-morrow she would be herself again.
                  She looked up to find her would-be lover by her side, watching her with all the
                     eagerness of hope mingled with the fearfulness of disappointment and despair.
                     His looks reproached her. She thought, "How selfish in me to be thinking only
                     of my own trouble while he is suffering so!" She took his proffered hand, led
                     him to the sofa, and seating herself beside him, looked calmly in his face and
                     asked,—
                  "Have you courage to hear the whole truth?"
                  "Not if it is true that you don't love me; I ain't strong enough to bear that,
                     and never want to be. I had rather be dead than live without your love."
                  Eva drew a deep sigh and looked upon him with tender, pitying sympathy. But,
                     oh, how that look chilled him! At another time, or under different
                     circumstances, it would have delighted him to see the interest she felt in him.
                     It would have gratified his pride to see the genuine respect she showed for
                     him. But now his whole being was hungering and thirsting for her love. He
                     craved it as a starving man craves food; and to offer him respect, or
                     friendship, or anything of the kind, in its stead, was like offering pictures,
                     gold, or chaff to a starving man. Eva understood his look, and, with a low,
                     moaning cry of pain, she exclaimed:
                  "And must I open the grave, where my secret has been buried all these years,
                     before you can know that my heart is not mine to give? Must I tell you that
                     I've no heart to give to anybody?"
                  "I never thought of such a thing as that. I never dreamed of your having a
                     lover," replied her companion.
                  "Nor have I any lover. Does not your own experience teach you that one can love
                     and not be loved?" said Eva.
                  "Oh, God! the worst is true then!" the young man fairly groaned out. "You don't
                     love me; it is somebody else you have given your heart to. I wish I had died
                     before I had lived to hear that!"
                  "You talk about my giving my heart away as though it were at my option to give
                     or withhold it as I choose. But I should suppose your own consciousness ought
                     to teach you better than that," said Eva. "Tell me, truly, if your love had
                     been under your own control, would you have given it to me, when you had not
                     the least reason to think it would ever be returned?"
                  "That I never should," said the young man, with deep earnestness. "I tried hard
                     enough to keep from loving you, but I couldn't help it. And there is another
                     girl that I tried just as hard to love, but I couldn't do it. And she, poor
                     thing! would give her soul for me. But I can't endure her. It
                     makes me mad when I hear ministers
                     isters stand in the pulpit and blow about our freedom, how free we are, when we
                     haven't even the power to choose whom we shall love. I am the veriest slave in
                     the world. There is not in all the South a nigger so dependent on his master as
                     I on you. I watch for your smiles and good-will more like a dog licking the
                     feet of his master, and I hate myself for it; but I can't help it."
                  "It is a great mystery—a great mystery," said Eva, rising and going towards the
                     window, and again looking out into the darkness. "Life is a great riddle to me;
                     I shall never be able to solve it."
                  "Well, you are in the same boat as the rest of us, and we might as well paddle
                     along together as try to go alone," replied her companion. And again he went to
                     her, again took her hand in his, again looked into her face, while a ray of
                     hope lit up his own sorrowful one. "If both of us are suffering the same way,
                     why shouldn't we help each other to bear it? We can do better together than
                     alone."
                  "And must I tell you my life-history?" said Eva, with another deep-drawn sigh.
                     "Will nothing less than that satisfy you, and convince you how useless it is to
                     think of such a thing?"
                  
                     EVA'S STORY AS TOLD BY HERSELF.
                     "When I was a little girl, twelve years old, I went to a camp-meeting a few
                        miles from where we lived. I had never been away from home, and everything
                        seemed so strange. Such curious people! so many negroes and their masters!
                        Ma had never let me go among them before, and I wanted to find out all I
                        could from them.
                     "One day as I was walking in the woods I stumbled over a large, fat, black
                        woman, who was fast asleep. I jumped so it woke her up, and she opened her
                        eyes and said: 'Oh, don't be skeered, honey, I'se jes' takin' a bit of a
                        nap; but I'd a heap ruther talk to yer. De Yanks are such cur'us people, I
                        likes to visit wid 'm."
                     "Then she told me all about her master and mistress,—what grand folks they
                        used to be in Ole Kentuck, and how Henry Clay, the fellow as was run, like a
                        coon up a tree, for President, used to love her missus. Then she began about
                        her young massa Tom, 'the cunningest critter of his age in all Kentuck, or
                        the hull South.'
                     "While she was talking Tom came to find her; and I thought sure he was the
                        handsomest boy I had ever seen, he was such a little gentleman, so
                        different, I thought, from Frank. I thought he was the nicest boy in all the
                        world. I used to imagine he was my husband, and I would get off alone and
                        call myself Mrs. Price, just to see how it would sound. A little while after
                        he came one morning to have Frank go hunting with him. He got off his horse
                        and came and talked to me, said he was going to take care of me and not let
                        Frank tease me any more. I thought my heart would jump out of my mouth, it
                        seemed as though I was so light I could fly away like a bird; and then he
                        scared me so, telling me he would shoot Frank if he didn't stop plaguing me.
                        I used to love him so much, and be so afraid of him, that I couldn't tell
                        whether I liked best to have him with me or away from me. Finally ma got to
                        liking him, and he used to come to our house as though he was our boy. And
                        then I was so happy; it was the best part of my life, that winter,—he got to
                        be so much better that I wasn't afraid of him any more, and he always said I
                        was to be his wife when he was old enough. And I thought sure I never would
                        be anybody else's wife; and I never shall."
                     "Oh, don't say that!" interposed her companion. "What if the time should
                        come that he didn't want you? Surely, you would not want to bind him to a
                        promise made when he was a boy?"
                     "No! I would scorn the thought of binding him to his promise," said Eva, her
                        eyes flashing with pride and resolution. "I trust I shall never sink so low
                        as that; it is humiliating enough to me to know that I love with my whole
                        heart a man who cares nothing for me. But if I can't control my heart I can
                        my actions; no living being—not even my mother—has the least idea of what I
                        feel and suffer. Nothing but the anguish of the same pain inflicted upon you
                        that I suffer myself could have had power to wring this terrible secret from
                        my heart; and I hope I can now bury it forever."
                     
                     "Oh, you are so good and noble!—and I am so selfish to increase your
                        suffering by making you tell such a sad story," said the young man, looking
                        at her with reverential awe. "It was cruel of me. But tell me, how did you
                        come to find out he didn't love you? It seems to me you must be mistaken; no
                        human being who knew you could help loving you; I know they couldn't."
                     A ray of light darted through the heart of the young girl, where all had
                        hitherto been darkness, and such thoughts as these ran rapidly through her
                        mind:
                     "What if, after all, I am mistaken? What if it be, after all, my jealousy,
                        as Frank said at first? What if there be a possibility that he still loves
                        me? Oh, heavens! is it possible?" Eva jumped up and ran to the window to
                        hide the look of joy and hope that she knew must be lighting up her
                        face.
                     What strange things are our own sensations! Just now that young man,
                        sorrowing deeply on account of Eva's trouble, suggested the possibility of
                        Tom's still loving her, on purpose to comfort her bruised and aching heart;
                        and when he sees the joy it gives her, when he sees how happy the bare
                        possibility of Tom's love makes her, he is filled with jealous rage, and he
                        wishes "Tom Price was in Ballyhack," or some other place, where he never
                        could get out again.
                     "What a silly thing I am, to be indulging in such fancies!" said Eva to
                        herself. "Didn't he tell me himself how he loved Emily? Wasn't he always
                        telling how pretty she was? How can I be so foolish as to be trying not to
                        believe my own eyes and ears? I've given him up long ago, and here I am
                        trying to hope to get him back again. But this trial has made me weak
                        to-night,—to-morrow I shall be myself again."
                     She went back to the sofa, and again seated herself beside her companion,
                        intending to resume her story. But in spite of all her efforts to look and
                        feel as miserable as ever, a ray of hope and expectation had entered her
                        heart, and the joy of that hope was dancing in her eye, and lighting up her
                        countenance with some of its old-time brilliancy. Those words, "What if you
                        are mistaken?" kept ringing through her heart. It was surely too much to
                        believe. But then what if it should be true? Her face transparent as truth
                        itself, her companion could in no wise help seeing the change; and though he
                        himself was the cause of it it made him none the less angry, and he vented
                        forth his spite in the bitterest taunts and most biting sarcasm.
                     "How much a young lady must respect herself to throw herself into a young
                        man's arms, and when he spurns and rejects her, keep clinging to him like a
                        dog whining around the master who kicks him! On the strength of a boy's
                        talk, you fastened yourself on to that fellow; and now, though he has thrown
                        you off for years, and you know he don't care anything for you, you are as
                        tickled as a school-girl with her first lover because I said that. I can
                        assure you of one thing, Miss Rosewell, if you have any hopes of getting Mr.
                        Price to marry you, that is not the way to catch him. A young man don't care
                        to have a girl throw herself into his arms, saying, 'Here I am; take me just
                        as I am.' We want the pleasure of actually soliciting a lady's heart and
                        hand."
                     If there was one point upon which Eva Rosewell was more sensitive than any
                        other, it was that of being a man's too easy conquest. If there was one
                        thing her womanly soul revolted at more than any other, it was the thought
                        of binding Tom to her, and giving him occasion to think that because of the
                        love of their childhood he was still under obligation to love her. It was
                        her extreme sensitiveness on this point that caused all the misunderstanding
                        between the two lovers.
                     His fiery pride revolted at her idea that he could possibly feel himself
                        under obligation to love any human being. He wanted her to feel that the
                        love of one who was so sought after and admired by all womankind was the
                        highest honor, inasmuch as it was the gift of a sovereign will, that gave
                        his love to whom he pleased. The love he gave her was the love of one who
                        felt and acknowledged no obligation outside of his own good pleasure, and
                        when she had acted as though she feared it was otherwise, and was fearful
                        lest he should feel as though he was bound by honor to her, he had been very
                        angry.
                     "Am I a nigger, that I am bound to anybody?" he passionately exclaimed, when she had tried to
                        assure him of his perfect freedom. Thus had begun their long estrangement.
                        So it was, that in taunting her thus the young man touched the sorest, most
                        sensitive chord in her nature. At any other time this blow would have roused
                        her anger and resentment; but now it was like the shock we don't feel at
                        all, simply because the mind is so pre-occupied that it is altogether
                        unconscious.
                     She made no attempt at reply, but arose to leave the room. He tried to call
                        after her, to beg her to stop and forgive him; but his tongue was torpid
                        with anger, jealousy, and love, and he couldn't even return her
                        "Goodnight."
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  THE OLD LOVER.
                  THE night following the interview recorded in the last chapter was a sleepless
                     one to Eva Rosewell; she had many causes of wakefulness. She was now to leave
                     the school where she had learned, suffered, and enjoyed so much, and go back to
                     her old life, or rather begin a new one.
                  Dark and threatening clouds were hovering over her beloved country—clouds
                     portentous of civil war, dismemberment, and ruin.
                  She loved and gloried in her country, "the land of the free and the home of the
                     brave," with all the enthusiastic ardor and devotion of the patriot. Its
                     glories were her crown, its triumphs were her pride and joy, its dangers were
                     the possibilities of the overthrow and ruin of all that was precious or
                     desirable. Its ruin would be the death-knell of freedom.
                  And in the midst of all these anxieties, and hopes, and fears for her beloved
                     country, was there room for all her personal griefs and heart anguish? There
                     was.
                  Deny it who will, the love of man is the strongest element in woman's nature.
                     And no sorrow, be it ever so keen, has power for any length of time to render
                     the soul insensible to its heart-hunger.
                  Some startling news, some overwhelming anguish, may for a while make the
                     famished body insensible to the gnawing pain of hunger and thirst. But this
                     cannot last long. The body's cry for food and drink is nature's life-preserver;
                     it is the one essential condition of the life of the race. Men can live without
                     houses or clothes, art or literature; but without food and drink life soon
                     becomes extinct. So nature, not to be thwarted in her efforts to preserve life,
                     has placed it out of man's power to starve by act of will.
                  It is exactly so with love; it is the one essential condition of the soul's
                     existence. Without it, it withers and dies; and so the Great Author of our
                     being, not to be thwarted in his purposes of perpetuating soul-life, has made
                     love, as nature has made hunger, independent of the will.
                  Love is the soul's vital breath, and though we can control many of the
                     conditions of breathing no man has ever been able to stop breathing of his own
                     accord. Let him undertake it, and he will find the little muscles of the
                     respiratory organs more powerful than all his strength of manhood.
                  So Eva Rosewell found those little heart-strings, throbbing for Tom, more
                     powerful than all her strength of purpose, her processes of argument, or her
                     pride of maidenly reserve.
                  How she did long for him! How her heart jumped at the thought of being clasped
                     in his strong, manly arms! The first time he had come so near her she thought
                     her heart would jump out to meet him; she was sure it would now. She must fly
                     to him. She was so weary with her years of trouble in trying to forget him, or
                     feel only as a friend towards him, that she must go to his arms,—the only place
                     in all the world where she could get rest. Once again she would feel his warm
                     breath on her cheek, she would taste the sweetness of his lips once more—and
                     then she could live or die contented. But the one sight of him, the one touch of his hand, the one kiss,
                     she must have or die. After that, she thought, he might marry whom he
                     pleased.
                  We little know the strength of her character, the depth of her pride, if we can
                     for a moment think that this eager, longing soul-cry, coming in contact, as it
                     did, with all her cherished purposes and plans of life, her native delicacy and
                     maidenly reserve, produced no conflict. But for years she had been able to
                     stifle this soul-cry, and as the tender mother sometimes smothers her darling
                     child by the weight of clothing her love and tenderness places on its head, so
                     had Eva partially smothered her heart under the pressure that love and
                     tenderness for Tom had heaped upon it.
                  She must spare him the pain that a knowledge of her suffering would cause him.
                     His love for Emily must in no wise be clouded by any longing regrets for her;
                     his happiness with her must be secured at all hazards.
                  Misguided, mistaken Eva! She was trying to do that which thousands have tried
                     to do, and either failed or ruined themselves in the attempt, like the strong
                     Samson burying themselves in the ruins of the fair temple they have themselves
                     destroyed. She had been trying to offer love on the altar of sacrifice. And
                     know ye, all men, that no altar of sacrifice ever was, or ever can be, high
                     enough, broad enough, or deep enough to inclose and contain the one absolute,
                     omnipotent, eternal principle—"love." Millions of misguided people, like Aunt
                     Polly, Eva Rosewell, and Tom, have tried to lay their love on the altar of
                     pride, patriotism, duty, temper, delicate reserve; and they have succeeded in
                     sacrificing themselves, their love never.
                  Love is the one inextinguishable fire that, smothered in one part of the soul,
                     is sure to break out in another, or consume it. It is the fire from heaven that
                     all the waters of the earth cannot quench, all the dust of the earth cannot
                     smother.
                  And why should not this be so? Was not duty, pride, and passion, as well as
                     every other gift and grace of our being, ordained to minister to and serve
                     love? And shall the servant presume to bind the master to his own service?
                     Shall sovereign love become the slave or victim of man's prejudice or passion?
                     No; never! Sooner will the power of gravitation, that binds all matter to a
                     common centre, and holds all worlds in their orbits, let go its hold and yield
                     to the smallest atom it controls in space, than love yield to any lesser
                     power.
                  Behold the mystery of our being, "Love!" the one absolute, omniscient power
                     that dissolves and holds in solution every other power and principle. Reaching
                     so low as to embrace the infant,—aye, even the birds of the air and the beasts
                     of the field,—and reaching so high and extending so far as to embrace and
                     enfold God himself, until it is written, "God is love!"
                  If, therefore, Eva failed in her efforts to bind and control this omnipotent
                     power; if the eager soul-cry, repressed and stifled for so many years, refused
                     to render obedience longer to her strong will; if the hungry, passionate soul
                     cried out for Tom with all the strength of unsatisfied longing, till she had to
                     succumb to its cry, let us not wonder at it. Such a result is in exact
                     accordance with the laws of our being. The thirsty traveler on the great desert
                     may, for a long time, clutch his treasure and refuse to part with it at the
                     bidding of thirst; but as the demands of nature wax louder and louder, the
                     body's demand for water is loud and strong enough to drown every voice, until
                     at last every other feeling and desire is absorbed in the one burning desire
                     for drink! drink! and the poor miser must drink or die; and how
                     readily—yea, how eagerly—he parts with his last dollar for water!
                  So it was with Eva; and even while the bitter taunts of her companion were
                     ringing in her ears, and her sensitive soul shrank from such an unmaidenly act,
                     she was ready to throw herself into his arms and confess her love; and if the
                     fates had so decreed that Tom had come there just then, the proud, sensitive,
                     delicate, reserved maiden, so carefully trained by one of the wisest, most
                     judicious of mothers,—she for whose education and moral culture no money or
                     pains had been spared,—would have thrown herself into the arms of a
                     slave-holder's son,—a rebel, who would soon dye her country's soil with the
                     blood of its best sons, who would soon lay waste its fairest fields and people them with widows and orphans.
                     I say she would have fallen into his arms and begged for a kiss, as the
                     greatest boon that life could offer.
                  "Oh that I had the wings of a dove, how soon would I fly away and find him!"
                     was her passionate ejaculation as she looked out of the window into the night,
                     and thought of the distance between them. Her own voice and language startled
                     her. What did it mean? She was surely losing her senses and going crazy! She
                     was losing all command over herself, and drifting, she knew not whither. She
                     had heard from Frank of Tom's purpose of entering the rebel army, and he had
                     given the facts from his own stand-point. While Tom had looked at his duty and
                     obligation from the south side of Mason and Dixon's line, Frank's observations
                     were all from the other side. Had she sank so low that she was ready to kiss
                     the hand of a rebel, uplifted against her country's life, whose actions—if
                     successful—would give the death-stroke to freedom? If she was ready to forgive
                     all his offenses against her,—and her heart told her she was,—was she ready to
                     give herself to a rebel? No, never! She must seek for outside help to conquer
                     this longing. It should not betray her into taking sides with her country's
                     enemies.
                  Strange how the soul, anticipating coming events, flies ahead of time, and
                     endures all the pangs of the coming conflict long before the slow march of
                     cause and effect has made the battle a tangible reality. It is said the
                     pleasures of anticipated joy are greater than the reality; and so the horror of
                     coming suffering is more terrible than the reality; and these things are so
                     because the anticipated joy or sorrow is purely a soul sensation, while the
                     tangible experience is shared by the physical system.
                  Without being able to explain or fully understand it, in this dark, lonely
                     night, alone in her chamber, the soul of Eva Rosewell flew ahead of coming
                     events, and anticipated all the tortures of the on-coming conflict. What she
                     was alternately called to endure and suffer was only a reproduction,—an
                     elaboration,—a sort of physical rendering of to-night's experience.
                  No wonder that in this hour of torture her soul cried out for the unseen help,
                     the infinite pity. It is the pang of hunger that causes the first outreaching
                     of the infant for its mother's breast, and so it is this soul-hunger, created
                     by the demands and necessities of our nature for love, that causes the first
                     outreaching of the soul after the infinite Parent.
                  Happy it was for Eva that in the lesser disappointments and trials of
                     unsatisfied affection and unsupplied wants she had learned the way to her
                     Father's bosom, and learned to rest there; and to him she looked now, and her
                     faith told her her Father was behind the clouds, though human weakness cried
                     out, "My God! My God! why hast thou forsaken me?" Oh, how she longed for her
                     mother! How she would sympathize with her, and help her bear this heavy burden
                     of love! For even as it is true that love is the lightest of all burdens, its
                     yoke the easiest of all yokes, so is it also true that its burdens are the
                     heaviest of all burdens, its yoke the most galling of all yokes. Her mother's
                     sympathy and helpfulness would be a visible pledge and sign of the invisible
                     helpfulness and sympathy; and in this hour of weakness, when human needs were
                     so clamorous as to drown the voice of the soul's purposes, how much she needed
                     something tangible to lean on for support.
                  She would go to her mother and tell her all. What a long night it was! Would
                     the morning never come? How mistaken they who think that time is measured by
                     the revolutions of the earth, as indicated by the clock's ticking. Our joys and
                     sorrows are the only true clocks; these the only correct measures of time. But
                     the longest night must end at last; and when the looked-for morning came she
                     wished that it were night again, that she might hide her feelings under cover
                     of the darkness, for she felt as though everybody must see how much she wanted
                     Tom. She was ashamed to have them know the secret thrills that ever and anon
                     ran through her soul as the thought, "You must be mistaken, he can't help but
                     love you," touched the long-sleeping chords of hope and trust.
                  A little before the time for the departure of the morning train that was to
                     bear her to her Western home, her companion of the night before sought an
                     interview. He was touched with her look of humiliation and sorrow, and thought it was because of his cruel
                     taunts the evening before. He hastened to make apologies.
                  "I hope you will both forgive and forget those thoughtless words I used last
                     night. I can assure you, Miss Rosewell, I meant no insult," said the young
                     man.
                  "I can very easily do that," said Eva, "for I am not at all aware that you said
                     anything wrong."
                  Oh, horrors! Was not this the "unkindest cut" of all? Did she so utterly ignore
                     him? Was she so thoroughly absorbed that his sharpest arrows left no impression
                     on her mind? There was no occasion to waste words in talk. With a hurried
                     "Good-by," he left her presence, another miserable victim of the mighty
                     conqueror, Love. He went away, resolved never to see her again; he had found
                     out enough now to snap forever the chains that had bound him to her side. He
                     was so thankful that she was going away, so she would be out of his sight
                     hereafter. But this resolute young man had not gone a half-mile from the door,
                     when he wheeled his horse around, drove back, and in the most piteous manner
                     begged her to ride to the depot with him. But poor Eva was in no condition to
                     triumph over him. As he said, they were both in the same boat together.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE MEETING.
                  IN the gray of the morning twilight, Tom Price walked listlessly through one of
                     the depots of Indianapolis to reach the car that was going farther South. There
                     was no occasion for haste, the train would stop for the passengers to
                     breakfast, but he might as well go in and take his seat; he didn't want any
                     breakfast that morning. There was no especial reason why he should go in so
                     soon; but he had no object in staying out, so he went in.
                  Eva Rosewell had passed a restless night of fitful, uneasy catch-naps on the
                     cars, and when the conductor called out, "Indianapolis! train stops half an
                     hour for breakfast!" she saw the passengers bound to their feet, and rush out
                     as though the car was on fire. But she was in just that mood when she wanted
                     most of all to be alone. Nothing she dreaded so much as to be noticed and
                     observed, so she waited until all were gone out, when she could go out alone.
                     As she was going down the aisle, she noticed the figure of a man passing the
                     window. The door opened, their eyes met, a cry of joyous recognition escaped
                     the lips of both. Eva Rosewell was clasped in the strong, manly arms of the
                     lover of her girlhood.
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  THE INDESCRIBABLE.
                  THERE are some objects, emotions, and sentiments that are so high, so exalted,
                     so ethereal, that they transcend our ability to describe or paint them, and
                     they must be left to the divine faculty of imagination.
                  Woe be to the luckless poet, painter, or novelist who shall attempt to describe
                     that which is indescribable, who shall attempt to express in form, or with
                     colors, that which is so godlike that it is without form, which is so spiritual
                     that the finest colors appear only as unsightly blotches.
                  Who has not felt pained and humiliated when reading the language that Milton
                     puts into the mouth of the Almighty, as he contrasted it with the burning,
                     glowing, effective eloquence of Satan, in his addresses to his fellow rebels in
                     hell?
                  So great is the contrast, so much superior is Satan,—with his unconquerable
                     will that no defeat or misfortune can in the least turn from its purposes with
                     his dauntless courage that dares defy all the hosts of heaven, with that faith
                     in himself that raises him out of the liquid fires of hell, and makes himself
                     greater than all physical torture
                     ture,—to any other character conceived by the poet, that critics have supposed
                     that Milton intended to make Satan the hero of his poem.
                  But it is not the fault of the poet, that his other characters appear tame and
                     commonplace beside the sublimely grand and wondrous character of Satan. The
                     fault of the poet was that he attempted to describe and put language into the
                     mouth of the Almighty.
                  He should, like Moses, have conducted his readers to the burning mountain, and
                     let them listen to its thunders, and witness its play of lightning and wondrous
                     phenomena; but should have made no attempt to analyze the sound and tell them
                     what caused it. He should have led his readers to the glittering throne and
                     given them a glimpse of its dazzling glory; but he should have drawn a veil
                     over the face of the Mysterious Power that sits thereon, and, awe-stricken, let
                     them stand in the presence of that Being mightier than Satan, a "will" mighty
                     enough to conquer his, a "love" strong enough to overcome all his ambitious
                     thirst for power, his defiant pride, his malicious hate.
                  As it is represented in the poem, the final triumph of God over Satan is not
                     the triumph of love over hate, it is not the triumph of the superior soul
                     bringing the lesser into captivity to its own all-conquering goodness; it is
                     the mere triumph of numbers and superior brute force.
                  This failure of the great poet to describe the Almighty was not because of the
                     limitations of his genius, no genius of the world's history was so well adapted
                     to such a work as Milton's. But such description does not come within the
                     province of language at all. Our highest conceptions of God and the highest
                     emotions of the soul belong wholly to the realm of affection and
                     imagination.
                  If God has given it to us to enter into the holy of holies of the human soul,
                     through the door of sympathy and likeness of character, and our souls have
                     drunk in the higher harmonies of soul-life, we may not presume to push open the
                     door, that the unsanctified eyes of the curious gazer may look in and be
                     amused. Nor should we make any attempt to make any report of what we have seen
                     and heard; these be the words that "it is not lawful for man to utter."
                  Therefore, I shall make no attempt to describe or portray the emotions or
                     feelings that thrilled the soul of Eva Rosewell as, after years of separation
                     and alienation, she was again resting on the bosom of the man she loved. In the
                     presence of such thrilling joy, such divine rapture, such wondrous love, I bow
                     my head with reverential awe, feeling, from the testimony of my own
                     consciousness, "Surely this is none other than the gate of heaven." All ye who
                     have loved and suffered, who have known what it is to wait and listen for the
                     step that never comes, or comes only to give you greater pain and heavier
                     burdens; all ye whose hearts are famishing and dying of love-hunger; ye whose
                     fate it has been to know love only by its pangs of sorrow, and who have never
                     tasted the sweetness of its divine joy, come hither: it is your privilege to
                     enter through sympathy into these happy hearts, and taste with them the full
                     fruition of satisfied love. And you can take just as much of this wine of
                     existence as your own experience and soul-growth has prepared you for—no
                     more.
                  To the thoughtless, heartless, selfish readers, who peruse books only to be
                     amused and to have their sluggish sensibilities excited and roused to a little
                     semblance of life, who think their own gratification and pleasure the "chief
                     end of man," I would say, you had better follow the crowd to the dining-hall,
                     and get your breakfast. There you may find something to please and gratify you,
                     but not here.
                  It is only those who have the right kind of eyes to see, who can
                     see the divine halo of glory that encircles the brows of this young man and his
                     fair companion, only those who have ears attuned to the heavenly minstrelsy of
                     love, who can appreciate the harmonies of this soul-melody.
                  All that you will be able to see in this car will be pools of tobacco-juice,
                     dirty windows, and dusty seats, with a dusty woman and a handsome
                     gentlemanly-looking man acting very silly over each other. So hurry out and get
                     something to eat, and let those who would study and strive to understand love, in its varied and
                     manifold phenomena, put themselves in the place of these two young people, and
                     try to think how they should feel under the same circumstances.
                  Eva is young, ambitious, and high-spirited, conscious of possessing rare powers
                     of mind, which have been highly cultivated. She wants to use these gifts that
                     they may bring her the love and admiration of others. She has set her mark
                     high, and is resolved to reach it. But what is it that makes her feel now as
                     though her highest object is gained; that she is fully satisfied, aye,
                     perfectly happy? Is it true that love is the perfection of woman's being? that
                     without it her heart is always empty and unsatisfied, no matter what other
                     gifts and graces she may possess; that having this she may exclaim, though ever
                     so poor in all else beside, "Having nothing, and yet possessing all
                     things"?
                  How was it with Tom? Had his chance meeting with Eva stayed the fearful
                     torrents of war that were thundering and roaring in the distance, threatening
                     to engulf and overthrow the whole country?
                  Nay, verily, for outside men were as anxious and fearful as ever. On that
                     morning, through every city in the land, crowds of people were collected in all
                     the public places, straining their eyes to read the news, listening nervously
                     to the click of the operators' wires at the telegraph offices. Men held their
                     breath in agonized suspense, listening for the first sound of the
                     war-trumpet.
                  Anderson's movement had brought on the crisis, and the country stood
                     breathless, waiting to see if the rebels dare lift their hands to tear down the
                     flag of our Union. The country was seemingly very quiet; but it was the quiet
                     that precedes the bursting of the tornado.
                  This agonized suspense and fearful looking-for of war created an atmosphere
                     peculiarly its own. People who did not understand what was going on were
                     affected by it. But I doubt if Tom and Eva were at all affected by this
                     all-pervading influence. They were in that state of soul-exaltation which
                     carries the being into a higher realm of existence,—a region far above the
                     atmosphere of common life. They were, if you please, in the seventh heaven, and
                     in that state the soul becomes positive enough to create an atmosphere of its
                     own, an atmosphere of such density that nothing can penetrate it.
                  How the day passed, or how they got to St. Louis, they never knew. They did not
                     talk much; they asked no questions, nor thought of explanations to account for
                     their long separation.
                  About four o'clock in the afternoon Tom asked Eva if she had been to breakfast;
                     she replied "that she didn't know; she thought she must have eaten something,
                     for she wasn't hungry."
                  She told the truth; she didn't know. All that she was distinctly conscious of
                     was the presence of Tom. All other knowledge, sensations, and feelings were
                     vague, shadowy, and uncertain. All other ideas and emotions were held in
                     abeyance by the over-mastering, all-absorbing effect of that presence. I said
                     they did not talk; the reason why they were so silent and apparently stupid was
                     because their souls were so active.
                  I believe this silent inactivity of the outward being was the result of the
                     same law of nature by which, when any part of the body is fractured or has
                     sustained a loss, all her efforts are directed to supply the deficiency and
                     restore the injured part to its normal condition. Hence the inactivity of other
                     parts of the system.
                  I think that all the life-force of these two persons was, to-day, directed to
                     repairing the lesion their misunderstanding had caused, and in uniting and
                     cementing their souls into a perfect oneness. They had grown up apart, the two
                     factors of the one unit: the two halves of the one whole: the two heads, the
                     two hearts, yea, the two bodies of the one soul. Now they are one being; and no
                     person pointing to the separate factors of this being can say, "This is Eva
                     Rosewell," and "That is Tom Price," no more than two persons putting water into
                     the same vessel can separate the fluid, and, each taking out the exact measure
                     each put in, say to the other, "These are the drops that I put in, and those
                     are the ones that you put in."
                  In one sense it is still true that this young girl is Eva Rosewell, and that
                     young man is Tom Price; but it is not the absolute truth. The absolute truth takes no account of the separate
                     factors of this complex being; but from the stand-point of infinite knowledge,
                     declares, in the language of inspiration, "They are one," and what God has
                     joined together, no man—aye, not even themselves—will have power to put
                     asunder.
                  "What! has there been a wedding on the cars? Are Tom and Eva married?"
                  Oh, no! but would to God it might have been so! If the sanction of human laws
                     had been put in harmony with the higher law of their being, and they could have
                     gone forth to face the dangers of their perilous voyage on the bloody ocean of
                     secession and war together, how different had been their life-history, how much
                     easier the task of the pen that tells their sad story.
                  They go out of this car, where they have known so much of joy and realized so
                     much of heaven together. Arrived in the city, they separate. They go forth
                     alone, and alone they must tread the winepress of the nation's bloody wrath and
                     the Almighty's fiercest fury.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  WAR BEGUN.
                  WHAT a wonderful power the human family possess of persuading themselves that
                     disagreeable things are not going to happen. All through the eventful winter of
                     1860-61 how easily we persuaded ourselves that the South didn't mean war. We
                     laughed at their ordinances of secession, and ridiculed their Montgomery
                     government. It was like children playing store, and pretending to do business
                     like old folks. All that was needed was a display of a little of the spirit of
                     "Old Hickory." A few guns sent to South Carolina, and the ragamuffin band,
                     playing at being soldiers, would disperse like a crowd of boys with the police
                     after them.
                  The South, stung to madness by these taunts of cowardice, and drunk with pride
                     and self-conceit, resolved to show the world that she could and would fight.
                     She wanted war, and was determined to have war. Those fire-eaters told the
                     truth when they said, "If the North would give them a piece of clean paper and
                     let them write out their own conditions, they would not remain in the Union."
                     It was as though the Almighty Father, after years of long-suffering forbearance
                     with them, as they coined money and grew rich out of the blood of his children,
                     had given them over to the "hardness of heart" and "blindness of mind" that is
                     always attendant upon a course of oppression; and, like madmen, they rushed on
                     to work their own overthrow. They had become so blood-thirsty in sucking the
                     blood of the slave, that they must needs devour each other.
                  Such were the superficial views of the causes which brought on the great
                     conflict.
                  Some men thought, if Jackson had only been alive to disperse the first crowd
                     that collected to talk disunion in South Carolina, there would have been no
                     war, the fire thus summarily smothered would never dare break out again. Others
                     thought if Garrison had only been hung in the outset, all had been well.
                  Ah, ye short-sighted mortals! Know ye all men, from the universal teachings of
                     law and the demonstrations of all human experience, that the seeds of decay and
                     death are planted in the very vitals of wrong. These death-seeds grow with its
                     growth and strengthen with its strength. So it comes to pass that the stronger
                     a great wrong is, the stronger are the destructive forces that are working its
                     overthrow. When wrong is strongest, then it is weakest, and in greatest
                     danger.
                  Slavery was never so strong as on that eventful morning, on the twelfth of
                     April, 1861, at four o'clock A.M., when the rebel guns, firing on Fort Sumter,
                     sounded its death-knell and tolled its funeral dirge.
                  A few years before, at the formation of the Federal Constitution, it was
                     endured as a great evil,—a great burden of poverty and crime, to be got rid of
                     as soon as practicable. And now a great government, embracing an extensive territory that would be the pride and
                     glory of the Old World, is built upon this system as its corner-stone, and
                     leading statesmen declare, amid thunders of applause, that the subordination to
                     the superior race is the natural and normal condition of the negro. They
                     boastfully proclaimed that this new government was the first in the history of
                     the world based upon this great physical, philosophical, and moral truth. To
                     maintain and defend this government, there was created an army of as brave,
                     enduring, courageous, skilful soldiers as ever entered the field of conflict.
                     All the treasures of a great and wealthy people were freely poured into its
                     storehouses, and beautiful ladies gladly parted with their most costly jewels
                     and precious ornaments to replenish its coffers. They even offered to part with
                     their hair—the glory and pride of womanhood—to insure the triumph of their
                     cause.
                  Strange as it may seem to the superficial observer, who has no deep insight
                     into moral causes, these very elements of strength and continued existence were
                     the fruitful cause of its death and overthrow. When slavery was weak then it
                     was strong, and nothing could overthrow it. When it became strong then it was
                     weak,—it was overthrown and died of its own weakness. In this law, which makes
                     the strength of sin and wrong its own inherent weakness, behold the overthrow
                     of all evil. It is not always seen by the naked eye so plainly as in this case,
                     how the strength of a wrong becomes the power of its own destruction; but the
                     law is universal, and cannot be evaded.
                  Cheer up then, oh, ye despondent lovers of men, whose cheeks are pale with long
                     watching for the coming dawn that shall usher in the day of universal love and
                     good-will, whose hearts fail you with fear as, waiting for this glorious light,
                     you see the darkness of corruption and witness the growth of gigantic systems
                     of wrong, oppression, and violence; for know ye that in the very vitals of that
                     wrong and sucking its heart's blood is developing and maturing the very power
                     that shall work its overthrow and drive it from the face of the earth.
                  The only way that evil ever has endured, or ever can, is by so linking itself
                     with right that it partakes of some of its vitality, and in nothing does the
                     arch enemy of mankind kind show greater skill or more subtle cunning than in
                     the way in which he contrives to engraft the slips of evil on to the tree of
                     life.
                  There were plenty of men in the South at this time who instinctively realized
                     this fact. They knew the only hope of slavery was to remain in the Union,
                     where, sucking the vitality of freedom from the federal government, it might
                     still live. But with the fire-eaters no class were so unpopular as these. They
                     preferred a regular "abolitionist" to a "submissionist," as they contemptuously
                     termed those who would avoid war.
                  To this class (compromise) belonged Tom Price. His fiery Southern spirit had
                     been so cooled and tamed by his acquaintance with the Rosewell family and his
                     deep love for Eva, and he had gained so much knowledge of the questions at
                     issue by his college residence in the North, that he was able to look calmly on
                     both sides of the question. "It is the curse of my life that I can see both
                     sides of this question," exclaimed one of this class during these perilous
                     times.
                  And truly that broad, comprehensive view that, entering into sympathy with both
                     parties, was enabled to look at the subject from the stand-point of each of the
                     antagonists, did seem a curse rather than a good. No marvel that distracted,
                     divided hearts were ready to cry, "Blessed be ignorance and narrowness!" Happy
                     it seemed for those ignorant but patriotic creatures who so willingly laid
                     their time, their property, their lives, their all, upon the altar of their
                     country's service because they believed she was to be robbed of her rights,
                     shorn of her strength, and bound a helpless victim to the all-conquering car of
                     the North. They had no divided interest, no mixed-up feelings; it was simply a
                     question of submission and vassalage to the victorious North, or of
                     independence, power, glory, and freedom.
                  Thrice happy were those so-called fanatical, one-idea abolitionists, who,
                     despite all the positive declarations of the government to the contrary,
                     believed that this war was for the extirpation of slavery; that it meant
                     freedom for the slave, manhood for the chattel, and salvation for the lost.
                     They too had no divided interests, no mixed-up up outbreak. The triumph of their cause was the
                     triumph of freedom, the universal brotherhood of man. Its over-throw would be
                     the loss of the brightest hope of the race, the ruin of all that made life
                     desirable.
                  Here let me pause to offer a single tribute to the sacred, unerring
                     truthfulness of the instincts of the human soul—truer than the demonstration of
                     our most acute logic, wiser and more far-seeing than the results of our highest
                     reason and knowledge.
                  How easy it was for the wisdom of the North to show the people of the South
                     what ignorant fools they were to suppose they were fighting for their own and
                     their children's freedom! How unanswerable the demonstration that secession was
                     begun and consummated wholly in the interest of slavery,—a system that enriched
                     and elevated the few at the expense of the rest! How perfectly idle and
                     ridiculous for them to pray Almighty God for the success of their cause, when
                     its success would be their own destruction! Yet the devout soul continued to
                     look to the Father for the strength it needed to continue in the conflict, and
                     the freedom-loving, patriotic soul was still ready and willing to lay its all
                     on the altar of its country.
                  In the light of our present experience, how easy for us to see they were right!
                     Who dare deny that the shots fired at the Stars and Stripes from rebel guns as
                     effectively subserved the cause of freedom as those that were fired to maintain
                     the flag. Nay, more; was not the courage, faith, and endurance of the Southern
                     people the primary and efficient cause of the final triumph of freedom over
                     slavery? How would it have been had they had less faith in their cause, and
                     yielded to the invitation of the famous proclamation of 1862, and laid down
                     their arms before the first of the following year?
                  It is no use to say that no credit is due to them for the glorious results that
                     followed the war; that they fought only in the interests of oppression, and for
                     it deserve the execration of mankind; that the Almighty overruled their wicked
                     designs, and caused their wrath to praise him, by using their blood to purge
                     the country of its vile curse. We would not in these pages attempt to deny that
                     there are elements of truth in this view, but, being but a part of the truth,
                     it becomes the most pernicious and deceiving of all lies.
                  The absolute truth is, that though the South by reason of her long oppression
                     was enveloped in much of mental and moral darkness, though she was greatly
                     corrupted and contaminated by years of contact with oppression and violence,
                     still the great heart of the South beat true to the instincts of liberty, the
                     principles for which our Revolutionary fathers fought and died. They loved
                     freedom as devoutly, and for it cherished as ardent a faith, and for it were as
                     ready to sacrifice themselves, as any people that history had at that time
                     known.
                  And God has justified their faith and answered their prayers in a broader,
                     deeper, more glorious sense than they ever conceived of, and that which they
                     "ignorantly" sought after is more fully revealed unto them.
                  Woe be to that man who can think for a moment that such courage, bravery,
                     self-sacrifice and patient endurance as was displayed in the South was evoked
                     at the bidding of oppression. His knowledge of his fellow-men must be very
                     limited indeed. A people must first be led to think and believe themselves
                     right before they become capable of such heroic self-sacrifice. We may pity
                     their ignorance and marvel at their blindness, but we must acknowledge that
                     their faith was more than justified by the result.
                  It is an instructive exercise for those who marvel at the blindness of the
                     South at this time, to search the pages of the foreign journals of this period
                     and see how those wise people across the waters wondered at their
                     ignorance and blindness. How could they be such fools as to think that in
                     fighting for the Union they were fighting to overthrow slavery,
                     and for freedom.
                  There, in the plainest black and white, were the most express declarations of
                     the government, that the war had nothing to do with slavery. It was waged
                     solely and entirely for the interests of the Union. There were the indisputable
                     facts of the government using its power to keep the slaves quiet, and return to
                     their masters such as sought its protection. But in spite of these visible,
                     tangible facts, informed by the higher instincts of the soul, people believed
                     that the triumph of the government was the triumph of freedom, the overthrow of oppression; and for this cause they
                     were ready and willing to lay their all, aye, even themselves, on its
                     altar.
                  Which were the wisest, the wisdom of the times and the demonstration of some
                     European writers, or the instinctive faith of the American people? How little
                     people realized anything of all this on that eventful night when Tom and Eva
                     arrived at St. Louis! The city was all ablaze with excitement. It presented a
                     marked contrast to Charleston, celebrating the same event. For here was a mixed
                     population, some having their sympathies enlisted on the one side and some on
                     the other.
                  "Sumter is fired on! The war is actually begun!" Tom and Eva listened to the
                     cries, noticed the excitement, saw some of the houses illuminated, without
                     being distinctly conscious of what was going on. They were like people who,
                     journeying in a far country, are but partially conscious of what is transpiring
                     in their own. Was this war, that they were making such an ado about, the one of
                     which he had thought so much? Was it what he had so longed for, and yet so
                     dreaded? It surely couldn't have anything to do with him and Eva, and that was
                     all he cared for just now. He would take her to a hotel, then he would send for
                     a minister and she should be his forever.
                  He took her into the ladies' parlor, went down-stairs, registered his name,
                     "Tom Price and wife," and taking the key to her room went up to conduct her
                     thither. He had scarcely left the room when an anxious traveler entered, went
                     straight to the book, to the freshly-made entry. He saw that the ink was still
                     wet, and without stopping to make any inquiries hurried up to the ladies'
                     parlor, believing they had not had time to get away. He was right, for just as
                     he entered the door he stood face to face with Tom, and Eva leaning on his arm.
                     "Oh, pa; how glad I am to see you!" was her joyful exclamation, as she let go
                     of Tom and flew to his arms. Cool and calm, from the strength of determined
                     purpose, Mr. Rosewell hurried his daughter down-stairs, put her into a hack,
                     and gave hurried directions to the driver to drive them to the depot of the ——
                     Railway, before she had time to think what she was doing.
                  Supposing that Mr. Rosewell wanted to greet his daughter alone after their long
                     separation, and thinking they were just outside the door in the hall, Tom
                     waited patiently awhile for their return. But when the dear face that had made
                     the last few hours of his life so happy failed to appear, he opened the door
                     and looked into the hall. She was not there. He rushed down-stairs, to hear
                     what the reader already knows. A strange wildness succeeded his recent stupor.
                     He yelled at the first driver he chanced to see, and told him to drive him as
                     quick as lightning to the depot of ——. The driver thought he was crazy, and
                     wouldn't go till he was paid.
                  "Your fare first, if you please, sir," was the reply.
                  "Oh, you d—d slave you! It's the money you are after, is it?" said Tom, with
                     much of the old-time fiery impetuosity.
                  How easily the words of our youth, though long unused, fly to our lips in times
                     of deep excitement. Tom thrust his hand into his vest pocket, and taking out
                     the first piece of money he touched, tossed it to the driver, exclaiming,—
                  "Drive me to the depot of the —— Railroad without any more delay, or I'll shoot
                     you as quick as I would a nigger."
                  The driver was not long in getting him to the depot, and himself out of sight.
                     Arrived there he found the train gone, and no other going until morning. There
                     was no engine that could be chartered to follow after the train that had borne
                     away his darling. There was nothing his impatient spirit could do but go back
                     to the hotel and wait, wait and suffer.
                  Thousands of our fellow-beings have waited and suffered thus in all ages, but
                     to that miserable young man the cup was just as bitter as it was to the first
                     baffled lover that tasted it. Alone in his room, with the carpet-bag of Eva
                     Rosewell pressed close to his passion-tossed, aching heart, Tom Price
                     experienced, for the first time, the heart-rending torture of a severed,
                     disunited being.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE LULL BEFORE THE STORM.
                  THE exhaustion consequent upon the intense excitement of the past few days
                     created such a demand for sleep and rest in the system of Eva Rosewell, that
                     the first thing upon getting into the car, after a few hurried inquiries about
                     the family, was to lean her head on her father's shoulder and go to sleep. Oh,
                     what a sleep was hers! her position was very uncomfortable, cramped up as she
                     was in such a place. The car was filthy with tobacco-juice and every variety of
                     dirt the South possesses. The air, robbed of its oxygen to feed the lungs of
                     the passengers, was rank with the odor of tobacco, whisky, cabbage, onions, and
                     other vegetables, their fragrance modified by its passage through the bodies of
                     the breathers.
                  The air was resonant with the sound of angry, excited voices, some exulting
                     over, and some cursing, the attack on Sumpter. But in the midst of all these
                     surroundings Eva slept as sweetly as the infant on its mother's breast.
                  The faith of the devout loving mother originated the tradition that "the smiles
                     of the sleeping child are caused by the whisperings of the unseen angels
                     guarding its lowly pillow." Cold, unfeeling, scientific knowledge says "the
                     contortions of the child's mouth are caused by the wind on its stomach." Each
                     person is privileged to take for himself the view that is most harmonious with
                     his own mental and spiritual condition. But as we watch that fair, sweet face,
                     and see the impress that the soul (now held in abeyance by sleep, like a king
                     temporarily absent from his palace) has left on her countenance, we can easily
                     believe that the angels of love and peace are whispering their sweet stories to
                     her.
                  It is astonishing what a power there is in sleep, as in death, to bring back
                     the looks of youth. The man we gaze upon may be debauched by crime and passion,
                     his countenance disfigured and made disgusting by long contact with vice; but
                     after death these stains of corruption begin gradually to fade away and
                     disappear, and in a few hours the fond mother begins to trace the features and
                     mark the image of the darling boy who once said his evening prayer beside her
                     knee.
                  So in this fair sleeper we can see how the marks of pride, sorrow, and blasted
                     hope have faded away and disappeared in sleep,—the twin brother of death; and
                     with joyous delight we recognize the Eva Rosewell of other and happier days. We
                     see the little girl who has left the family circle where love reigns supreme,
                     with the dew of her boyish lover's kiss fresh upon her lips, enjoying the deep,
                     restful, growing sleep of childhood.
                  Sleep on, dear Eva, and take your rest. Many and many a long weary hour shall
                     pass before your tender, loving heart shall know another such.
                  My human eyes fill and overflow with tears; my human hands are groping in the
                     darkness, that is born of the blindness of the flesh, to find you, and I would
                     fain snatch you, like "a brand from the burning,"—from the fiery furnace which
                     I see you are entering. With my tear-filled eyes I cannot see the dross, that,
                     tarnishing your pure unsullied spirit, demands such a fiery trial to burn it
                     away. And my human sympathies cry out, Oh that you might die! Oh that the
                     oncoming morn, which is to usher in such a day of anguish, might first bear
                     your tender soul to its Father's bosom!
                  With my judgement clouded, my insight into the future limited by sympathy, I
                     impatiently cry out, Oh, why couldn't it have happened differently? Why
                     couldn't there have been some accident to delay your father a few moments
                     later, until you and Tom were married? Railroad accidents do so force
                     themselves upon us when we don't want them. How fearfully punctual all the
                     trains were on this occasion!
                  I almost feel like reproaching you for the thoughtless absorption, that looked
                     so beautiful and interesting to me,
                     when you were on the cars with Tom. Women are said to have such quick
                     perceptions. I wonder you did not see something of that which was coming, and,
                     outwitting the evil genius of your fortune, take advantage of the easy marriage
                     laws of Indiana and marry Tom before you enter Missouri.
                  But how idle such speculations! how misapplied my short-sighted sympathies! It
                     is true I can't help but cry as I contrast your frail, delicate, sensitive
                     figure and person with the strong, determined, stern, overbearing will of the
                     father on whom you are leaning. I tremble when I contemplate the keen anguish
                     your sensitive, pure, maidenly soul must feel on the morrow when you read the
                     paper he has in his pocket—when its two misunderstood words will burn into your
                     soul like vials of lunarcaustic burning into the tissues of the living
                     heart.
                  Yet I know that when my tears have become so divinely transparent that they no
                     longer throw a misty veil over the objects I see through them, when the eye no
                     more inverts the objects it looks upon, but reveals the correct form and
                     likeness of each, I know I shall have abundant cause for rejoicing that things
                     came to pass as they did. I know I shall see the angel of Love and Hope walking
                     close beside you in the furnace, now heated seven times hotter to receive
                     you.
                  My faith teaches me all this,—but faith is not feeling. This faith exists now
                     in the soul, as does the unborn child in its mother's womb. She feels the
                     effect of its presence there. Her soul thrills with joy as she feels the faint
                     heart-throbbings beating responsive to her own. But not until the hours of
                     anguish and travail are passed does she feel the joyous exultation, the supreme
                     thankfulness, that comes only when a child is born into the world. So it is
                     with that divine peace and joy which is the offspring of our supremest faith.
                     It has an embryonic existence in the soul; we feel the effect of its presence
                     there; we are thrilled with the quickening of its pulse throbbing responsive to
                     our hopes and desires; but it is only born of that soul-travail and anguish
                     which arises from the peculiar conditions of our lot, the limitation of our
                     vision, the weakness of the flesh.
                  And so, though my faith claims for Eva Rosewell a higher, diviner joy than had
                     been her portion had things happened to please me, yet my heart shrinks from
                     the oncoming trial; and, despite the glorious future I believe awaits her, I
                     frankly confess, if I had the power, I would rescue that tender, loving soul
                     from the clutches of the roaring lion. I would snatch her away from her father
                     and take her back to Tom, where she rightfully belongs.
                  Such is human weakness.
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE IRON GRIP.
                  THERE be depths that we think shallow, simply because we have never sounded
                     them, and have no idea how long a line they will take. To most persons the
                     brilliant, gay, fascinating, universally admired Tom Price had the appearance
                     of being shallow-hearted. He was a great favorite with the ladies, and he loved
                     them all. It is true he had never met one whose presence thrilled him, who
                     seemed to exercise such a mysterious power over him, as did Eva Rosewell. But
                     the idea of his breaking his heart over any one girl, he to whom the proudest
                     beauties of the South gave their blandest smiles, and under the irresistible
                     fascinations of whose wondrous presence the cold damsels of the North thawed
                     out and grew warm! What! he mourning for any one in particular! Why, such an
                     idea was simply ridiculous. It takes a wonderfully strong, tough heart to
                     sustain enough outside pressure to break it. Most hearts are made up of such
                     soft material that one might as well try to break a feather bed as to break
                     them. Bring a pressure to bear upon the middle, and the feathers nicely adjust
                     themselves into the corners; press upon the corners, and with all their natural
                     elasticity they fly back to the middle.
                  There was Frank Rosewell; if ever he loved a girl, it would amount to
                     something; his heart was made of different ent material from Tom Price's. No one believed
                     in the essential shallowness of his heart more perfectly than did Tom himself.
                     If all his college-mates, all the girls with whom he had ever flirted, had seen
                     him for the last fortyeight hours, if they could see him now as he passionately
                     presses that faded, dusty carpet-bag to his heart, now moaning over it as
                     though it were his lost darling, now kissing it and caressing it as though it
                     were her real self instead of a simple relic of her, his delicate sense of
                     honor forbidding him to open it (for in her absorption she had forgotten to
                     take out the key),—if they could have seen him, like a helpless child, reaching
                     out his arm into the empty space of his room to try to grasp her, calling
                     piteously upon her to come back to him again, and not leave him alone in the
                     blackness of despair,—I say, could they have seen him thus, the surprise of one
                     and all put together had been nothing compared to his own. All other men, and
                     women too, could have been made to believe in the possibility of his acting
                     thus, sooner than himself.
                  Had not he tried it? Had not he been for years without her? And what did he
                     care about it? Was not he just as well off without her as with her? Tom Price
                     making a fool of himself, and acting like a booby over a girl! Why, the idea of
                     such a thing was too ridiculously absurd to even think of!
                  But here he was. Something had gotten hold of him that could neither be
                     laughed, reasoned, nor frightened away; for sometimes his mood changed, and he
                     would rave and curse and tear about the room like a frenzied giant; and if love
                     were only susceptible to fright, and could be scared out of its iron grip upon
                     the heart, the gentle, soft-winged angel would have flown from his presence
                     forever, and Tom Price had been what he had always thought himself,—a free man
                     again.
                  How strange that that power, moving so silently, so softly, so sweetly upon us,
                     diffusing through the whole being the light and grace of its own divine beauty,
                     harmonizing every discordant element and thrilling the soul with heaven's
                     sweetest melody, should at length fasten upon the soul a grip as inexorable and
                     immovable as death itself!
                  Ah, Tom, you may as well keep quiet and save your strength for endurance. The
                     time is coming when you will need it all; so do not waste it in idle ravings
                     and useless kicks against the iron-mailed sides of your conqueror. Love takes
                     no more account of the flounderings and flouncings of its helpless victims than
                     does the experienced housewife of the hoppings and boundings of the chicken
                     whose head she has just cut off. A novice might be deceived by its displays of
                     power, and fear it would get away; but she knows that, jump as high as it may,
                     it is sure to come down again; and, hold out as long as it may, her pot-pie is
                     just as certain.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE BIT AND BRIDLE.
                  SCARCELY had the morning dawn ended the most miserable night of Tom Price's
                     hitherto happy life, when a negro, in whose monkeyish face we recognise the
                     Sambo of other days, rode up to the door of the hotel, and, with the same
                     grimaces with which we have become familiar, called out:
                  "Heah, sah! I say, is Massa Tom in this 'ere place? De ole missus is a dyin',
                     and can't git through wid de job 'till she sees that 'ere boy. This 'ere hoss
                     is to pack him home on."
                  "Faith, an' ye'es may let the old hag die, and pace to her ashes," was the
                     somewhat ungracious reply of the Irish hostler he accosted. "It's afther me
                     breakfast I'll be traveling after him, hoppin' about all night for them 'sesh
                     devils. I wish them and their niggers was afther bein' drowned in the bottom of
                     the sea."
                  Pat had not a hard heart, but he was hungry and sleepy; and many a greater and
                     wiser man than he has allowed his good nature to succumb to such adverse
                     influences.
                  Not so with the sleek-looking, shiny-faced darkey who now made his appearance. His face was the
                     perfection of good-humor.
                  "I say, sah, is Massa Tom here in this 'ere hotel? De ole missus got into a
                     scrape dyin', and can't git out ob it widout Tom," said the now irritated
                     Sambo, determined to show his brother darkey the importance of finding Tom. But
                     the darkey paid no attention to the claims of the poor woman, baffled in her
                     efforts to die without Tom. He was thoroughly examining the splendid animal
                     that Sambo had brought for his young master to ride home on.
                  "Dat ar' hoss is a gemm'n!—fust family!—ole Virginny!—pure blood!" were the
                     delighted exclamations of the hostler as he surveyed the noble animal.
                  It might be a puzzle to the unsophisticated, to find out how a horse could be a
                     gentleman of the first families of Virginia, pure blood, etc. But be it known
                     that, to the reverential imagination of the negro, there went out from the
                     "first families" a certain power that had enough of virtue in it to glorify,
                     magnify, and exalt even its animal possessions. This wondrous emanation from
                     the glory and greatness of the "first families" was far-reaching enough to
                     enfold and envelop all, from the lowest cur to the highest negro. No prince of
                     the purest blood of English or French monarchy was ever prouder of his blood
                     than the negro of being a slave of the "first families." And in a place that
                     had become so mixed, through the ingress of foreign element, and the presence
                     of men from the free States, as St. Louis, the gift of deep insight that
                     enabled one to detect the presence of pure blood in men, horses, and negroes
                     was thought to be of the highest value.
                  It was this gift that kept this shining darkey so sleek and full-fed—nominally
                     a servant, but really a gentleman of leisure, who had nothing to do but examine
                     new-comers, and indicate to the clerk, by nods and gestures, the position they
                     occupied in the world,—this position being graduated solely and entirely by
                     their connection with the first families of the South.
                  First families of Virginia, abbreviated to F.F.V., was the central point from
                     which the longitude of position and importance was determined. There seemed to
                     be a tacit agreement amongst all parties to this point of reckoning, just as
                     geographers have agreed to take Greenwich as the point from which longitude is
                     determined. There was a small circle of South Carolinians who had always
                     proudly rebelled against this overshadowing greatness of Virginia; and lately,
                     since the splendid genius of Henry Clay had thrown such a halo of glory over
                     the name of Kentucky, there were some who thought "Kentucky aristocracy" had a
                     few claims to be regarded as the focus of greatness. This was especially true
                     of such families as the Prices, who had been honored by that gentleman's
                     acquaintance.
                  Therefore, when the darkey intimated that the splendor of that horse was an
                     emanation of Virginia blood, Sambo regarded it as a direct insult to Kentucky
                     aristocracy, and through them to his young master. On this subject, Sambo was
                     like a gun always cocked and primed, ready to go off, and he accepted the fight
                     as eagerly as the Southern gentleman the challenge to the duel. And forthwith
                     the negroes launched into an animated discussion of the relative greatness,
                     merits, and demerits of the two wings of Southern aristocracy.
                  Meanwhile Tom, anxious to take the first train, had come down early. He had
                     also another purpose in view. There was something that supplemented the
                     register of his name, that he wanted very much to blot out. Ah, what a
                     sickening feeling came over him as he walked up to that desk and took the pen
                     with which last evening he had so proudly and confidently written that word
                     which stands for home, happiness, and heaven—wife. And now he must blot it out,
                     put out his own sun, and go into the darkness alone.
                  What was his surprise to find the word gone! then he noticed his own name
                     wasn't there. A closer examination showed that the whole leaf was gone. Tom was
                     of too noble a nature for mean tricks, and he never suspected them in others.
                     He thought the absent page the result of some effort on the part of the
                     secessionists to conceal the presence of their friends. So the subject passed
                     from his thoughts.
                  
                  "The ox knoweth his owner," so does the horse know his master. And when Tom,
                     strolling on the veranda, looked for the 'bus that was to carry him to the
                     depot, although his watch told him it was not near time for it, the instinct of
                     the horse, wiser than the knowledge of the disputing darkey, at once detected
                     the presence of his master, and began to neigh and paw the ground to the great
                     peril of the sidewalk.
                  In St. Louis, where the streets are narrow and contracted, a small crowd soon
                     chokes them up. These darkeys, wrangling over the claims of their respective
                     clients, soon collected a crowd even at that early hour, through which the
                     horse, freed from Sambo, soon made an opening, and rushed through it to meet
                     his master.
                  What a beautiful thing is the unselfish fondness of animal love! How pure,
                     unmixed, and free from those offensive displays of pride, envy, and jealousy
                     that characterize the loves of the superior race! It may be that Sambo loved
                     his master more than this noble horse did, but the way in which he showed it
                     was by a silly display of the pride of greatness.
                  What was Tom's surprise and joy to see his horse coming so unexpectedly towards
                     him! It was like meeting an old friend in a dark place when we very much need
                     his help and sympathy.
                  Tom's first thought was, as he looked upon the powerful beast, whose legs could
                     bear him onward with the fleetness of the deer, "You'll take me to her, won't
                     you? You remember the dear, sweet girl whom you used to take me to see so
                     often. I was a boy then, and you were nothing but a colt. We are old now, but
                     we love Eva just as much as ever, don't we, horsey? Her father has got her away
                     from me, but you'll take me where I'll find her, then she may ride you home.
                     You never would let a woman ride you, but I know you won't throw her; she ain't
                     like any other woman. She's an angel,—a dear, good angel!"
                  I know this is silly talk; only think, such stuff to a horse! and Tom Price is
                     the last one in the world I should ever suspect of being guilty of such folly;
                     and if this story should ever fall into the hands of any of his old college
                     companions, or of any of the men who followed him in the army, I know they
                     won't believe a word of it. But it is my business to tell the whole truth just
                     as I see it, disbelieve it who will.
                  But, after all, is it so very unreasonable or unnatural that he should feel
                     thus? With all his gayety, his rich vitality, his splendid accomplishments, his
                     heart, dear reader, was made of the same material that yours and mine are. How
                     was it with us when we were in love?
                  After this, whenever I see men and women proud and defiant, turning the cold
                     shoulder to love and all the tender feelings of the heart, proclaiming
                     themselves able to live without it, I shall always be thinking, before
                     accepting your own estimate of your powers, I should like to have a talk with
                     your horses, dogs, cats, birds, or any other living thing, whose warm presence
                     has the power to take the least of that icy chilliness out of your freezing
                     heart. I should like to hear their testimony before deciding. I know that in
                     the presence of your fellow-men you can hide your heart beneath an icy covering
                     of conventional politeness, or boorish indifference, even as the living spring
                     can be hidden under its mantle of ice; but these pets of yours see you when you
                     have the mask off. To them you have shown your humbler, truer self. So, before
                     you make up your mind that Tom was a silly goose, and you are not one bit like
                     him, don't fail to consult your animal friends.
                  Hunting for the horse, Sambo soon found his master, and from him Tom learned
                     that his mother lay at the point of death, and he was to go to her at once. Tom
                     loved his mother, and the knowledge of her danger revived all his boyish
                     fondness, his gentle, tender feelings towards her. Let him be as proud and
                     overbearing towards others as he would, he was always respectful and tender
                     towards his beautiful mother.
                  But what a time it was for her to send for him, just as he was to start for
                     Eva! He had an instinctive feeling that something dreadful was happening to
                     her, and he must go and rescue her. An undefined fear haunted and oppressed
                     him; he felt as though he must rush after her and save her. But here was his
                     mother in a dying state, a note from
                     the physician telling him to make haste and come to her side if ever he would
                     see her again. There was important business, too, connected with the estate and
                     her father's will, that required his presence.
                  "Who cares for the will? let it go to thunder!" was his impatient ejaculation,
                     as he read the business part of the note. But his mother, reaching out her
                     dying hands, beseeching him to come to her, was another thing. What should he
                     do?
                  While painfully pondering this question, an old friend of other days, just
                     arrived on one of the early trains, caught sight of him. Reaching out his hand,
                     he called, in the old familiar tones:
                  "How are you, Tom? I never thought of meeting you here. What makes you look so
                     confounded blue this morning? This little Sumter fizzle hasn't scared you, I
                     know." A closer look at Tom's face checked his lightness, and before Tom could
                     get out the fact that his mother was dying he hastened to say, "Forgive me, old
                     boy; I am always hurting people's feelings through my carelessness."
                  Tom tried to tell him "that he felt no worse for what he had said; he was very
                     glad to see him." It is surprising how the chance meeting of an old friend at
                     such a time becomes a sort of cable that unites us to the past, and through
                     this cable is transmitted a sort of electric influence that partly brings back
                     our old selves to us again. With the coming of this friend came back the Tom
                     Price of other days, and the difference between the then and now made him
                     realize how he was acting. He certainly had no reason to suppose anything would
                     happen to Eva; she had gone with her father, and the most to be suspected was
                     that he didn't want her to marry Tom, but that was nothing. Eva loved him, and
                     he loved her; "What could the old man's opposition amount to?" But his mother
                     was dying, and he must go to her. It wouldn't take him long to get back though,
                     and then! and then! Oh, it was too sweet to think of!
                  His friend persuaded him to eat a little breakfast before his long ride, and,
                     lighter-hearted than he had felt since Eva left him, he sat down to the table.
                     But the coffee choked him, and everything else choked him. He began to think of
                     the dear girl who he had fondly imagined would sit beside him this morning, and
                     the more he thought of her the more his victuals choked him, and Tom Price
                     actually felt the tears coming into his eyes; whereat he jumped up and hurried
                     out of sight as quickly as possible.
                  "Poor fellow! he ain't a bit like himself; he takes his mother's death deuced
                     hard," was the thought of his friend.
                  Shortly after Tom first left home for college life, his mother's father died
                     and left her a plantation with plenty of slaves to work it, in the State of
                     Mississippi. It was so fixed that Colonel Price could not get hold of it, and
                     at her death it was to go to Tom. So it was that his course this morning lay in
                     a different direction from the one Eva had taken the night before.
                  Tom's spirit was like the wild steeds of the American desert. How noble and
                     graceful the carriage of the Arabian horse, in all the plenitude of its power
                     and natural gifts! What wondrous displays of swiftness, agility and
                     all-conquering strength, as in its untamed freedom it roams its native wilds!
                     And you are forced to ask, for what purpose was this being of superior strength
                     and fleetness made? Is it for no higher purpose than to display the genius,
                     power and taste of its Maker? Behold the Arab astride his back flying as upon
                     the wings of the wind. Go to the race-course of England, witness the fleetness
                     of the tamed Arabian horse, and you see the explanation of its being. What a
                     history! from the wild horse of the desert, unbridled, untamed, obeying no one,
                     recognizing no authority but his own impulses, to the docile, obedient animal
                     of the race-course. How that noble animal did rebel against the halter the
                     first, second and third time it touched his neck! How he foamed, fretted,
                     stamped and floundered, pawed the ground to pieces, and tore around as though
                     he would destroy himself, when he first felt the galling chains of subjection!
                     It is a dangerous task the trainer of that beast has undertaken. He may kill
                     the horse, or the horse may kill him. But the noble beast is worth the
                     effort.
                  So have we watched Tom as, in the wild exuberant joy of his untamed, unbridled spirits, he has gayly
                     sailed on the ocean of life, the "monarch of all he surveyed," the proud
                     conqueror of women's hearts, who so rejoiced in their conqueror that they had
                     no wish to be free; the wonder, delight and admiration of men.
                  As I have watched him I have been led to ask, Is this all? Is this the
                     explanation of Tom Price's existence? In the chain of circumstances tightening
                     around him, I begin to read the answer, It is not. The Great Author of his
                     being never bestowed such wondrous gifts upon this young man that he might
                     simply enjoy their exercise, please and amuse women, gratify and astonish men
                     by the display of masculine strength and greatness. True, the work of curbing
                     and training that fiery spirit is a dangerous one. The man may so rebel against
                     and defy the power that is to become his trainer that he may be ruined by the
                     very means used to train and develop his noblest faculties. Ah! yes, the man
                     may be ruined, for to all his gifts and graces was added the fearful power of
                     self-destruction.
                  The wisdom, skill, and power of man have devised means by which the wildest,
                     strongest horse of the desert can be restrained and kept from killing himself,
                     through the dangerous process of training. But is there any force in the
                     universe of sufficient potency to prevent man from destroying himself? Is there
                     any power in heaven or on earth, that, forestalling the evil influences
                     attendant upon a state of probation, growth, and training, can prevent the
                     development of such dwarfed, snarled, twisted, deformed, corrupt souls, as
                     experience and history reveal to us?
                  Standing on the confines of time, looking back to the beginning, and surveying
                     the millions of human beings who have lived and died from then until now, how
                     fearfully awful looks this ghastly procession in its terrible deformity of
                     character, its corrupt perversion of God-like powers! What arithmetic can
                     compute the number of soul-suicides?
                  Oh, heavens! Is there any power above or beneath that can arrest this
                     hellward-moving throng, and turn their faces in the direction of honor, purity,
                     holiness, and heaven?
                  But the heavens are like brass; they are deaf to all such questionings; they
                     are dumb to all such answers. The answer can only be found in the phenomena of
                     soul-life, under our own observation.
                  And what is this but the application of the so-called "Baconian philosophy"—a
                     system that has annihilated space and revealed the hidden mysteries, great and
                     small, of the material universe—to the higher realm of the spiritual universe?
                     What is it, but substituting the certainty of known facts for the misty
                     uncertainty of cloud-wrapt theories?
                  Therefore it is that we shall watch the development of Tom Price's character
                     with the deepest interest,—an interest more intense than that with which Newton
                     watched the falling apple. What a trifle that was! Ah, yes; but that trifle was
                     the key that unlocked the mysteries of the unknown. Tom is only a trifle in the
                     aggregate race, but who knows what we can learn from him? The bridle of
                     circumstances is on his neck, the process of training has fairly begun. Oh, how
                     his fiery spirit rebels against it! How he chafes and frets and tries to snap
                     the thing that is keeping him from Eva, that is turning him in a direction
                     contrary to the one his will dictated! The bit is so much more galling because
                     he can't bite it with his strong teeth. Even if he broke his teeth on it, how
                     much better than the impalpable thing so ethereal that his teeth can't even
                     snap at it, and yet of sufficient power to hold him in subjection to another
                     will.
                  If it were Mr. Rosewell's opposition, he could have fought it. Skill, courage
                     and bravery counted for something there. But with what weapons could he fight
                     against his mother's death, or more properly her dying wish to see him? His
                     dear, beautiful mother, whom he loved so much! At any other time he would have
                     felt as though he must fly to her side. He was not the man to be troubled much
                     by self-reproaches; it takes a mind cast in a different mold from his for that
                     exercise. Some minds are made after the pattern of those animals that feed upon
                     their own excretions,—they get a living from their own filth; so there be souls
                     that feed on their own sins; these extract sustenance from the husks of their
                     own corruption. But Tom Price was
                     none of these self-eating animals. In all that long day on the boat,—and oh,
                     how long it was!—he never once thought of accusing himself of base ingratitude
                     and filial disobedience to his mother. He felt a great deal more like being
                     angry with her because she would not die without him and let him go after
                     Eva.
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  SOUL POISON.
                  WHAT a picture is that which Shakspeare gives us of Hamlet's father, resting
                     his crown-weary head on the quieting lap of mother earth! For awhile he has
                     laid aside the pomp and glitter and cares of royalty, and has come to partake
                     of those sweet joys, and enjoy that refreshing sleep, that king and peasant can
                     alike enjoy in their own gardens. It is not the King of Denmark who lies there
                     sleeping so quietly, it is the fondly-loved husband, the doting father of the
                     noble youth Hamlet. But, though he has here in his own garden found a retreat
                     from the cares and glitter of royalty, he has not got away from his brother's
                     envy.
                  Is there a retreat so quiet, a distance so great, a character so pure and
                     humble in all this universe, that it affords any protection to greatness,
                     against the malicious envy of littleness?
                  That brother stealthily approaches the sleeping man. In his hand he carries a
                     vial containing the "juice of cursed hebenon," a thing which holds such an
                     antagonism to the human body that it transforms the healthful, vital,
                     life-giving fluid that courses through the veins and arteries of the body,
                     carrying life and nutrition into each, into streams of liquid poison, coursing
                     quickly through the veins on its mission of death. Softly and carefully he
                     pours this liquid into the ear of the doomed man; and in a short time the head,
                     that has thrown such a halo of glory on the already illustrious crown of
                     Denmark, is a mass of corruption, the prey of devouring worms.
                  Look on that picture, then on this. Behold the guileless, trustful, natural
                     simplicity written on the fair, open countenance of that sleeping girl. The
                     demon of suspicion has never been able to inject his soul-destroying poison
                     into the soul of that innocent maiden. His Satanic majesty has been prowling
                     around this beautiful Eden, where, amid the shady bowers, sparkling waters, and
                     blooming flowers, the soul of Eva Rosewell has reveled in all the delights of
                     nature's trustfulness.
                  The wise, judicious course of Mrs. Rosewell, in following the simple dictates
                     of nature in the training of her daughter, has never left an opening large
                     enough for the subtle serpent to wriggle his slimy carcass in; not even has he
                     ever had the chance to whisper such stuff in her ear as Milton represents the
                     serpent as breathing into the ear of the sleeping Eve. Ah no, there is not even
                     the trail of that foul serpent, suspicion, on that sweet face.
                  Of course Eva Rosewell knows that there are bad men in the world, but such
                     knowledge has about as much effect on her feelings as our knowledge of the fact
                     that there is in the Old World such a city as Constantinople has on our
                     feelings. What concern is it of ours? In studying geography we had to learn the
                     fact, but what of it? So, in her reading, Eva Rosewell had been obliged to
                     learn the fact of the existence of bad men in the world. But what was that to
                     her? A real heart-felt doubt of man's chastity, honor, or purity had never
                     found a lodgment in her soul.
                  A great many mothers suppose it to be their duty to post their daughters on the
                     character of men. They regard suspicion and fear as a kind of safety-armor, by
                     which they are to become proof against the "wiles and cunning craftiness of
                     men," "whereby they lie in wait to deceive" them and rob them of their virtue.
                     Informed by a deeper insight into the laws of our being, Mrs. Rosewell believed
                     that the unsuspicious purity of her daughter's heart was the best armor she
                     could be clothed in. She had learned this secret by keeping her ear so close to
                     the teachings of nature. Hence it was that she had so zealously guarded the avenues to Eva's
                     trusting confidence in man. But what vigilance could avail against the Satanic
                     machinations of her own father?
                  The night he found Eva he had learned by a chance word that she and Tom were
                     not actually married. He expressed no surprise, he was too cunning for that;
                     but a close observer might have seen a curious twinkle in his eye that had in
                     it a world of meaning. All the traditional shrewdness of the Yankee was his in
                     an eminent degree. He did not march up and make a bold attack as some would
                     have done; he crept cautiously over the whole ground, to make sure of his
                     success, before he ventured on the attack. So he gently offered her his
                     shoulder to rest on, and softly lulled her to sleep, while he looked over the
                     ground. He went over the points in the case like an astute lawyer.
                  Not married: in his own handwriting, "Tom Price and wife," on the records of
                     the hotel: she hold of his arm, he carrying her satchel, which is always the
                     work of the servant (strong point that), leading her to her room, the keys in
                     his hand instead of hers. Verily, a lesser genius than Mr. Rosewell could have
                     made quite a story out of such circumstances as these.
                  Mr. Rosewell gloated over them, read and re-read the paper in his pocket with
                     all the delight of a disinherited heir reading the strongest proof of his
                     father's insanity. There it was in black and white. Before Eva awoke from her
                     last long sleep of childish, trusting, maidenly innocence, he had everything
                     arranged, and waited with all the self-complacency of one sure of his
                     point.
                  "It is morning, Eva. Hasn't my dear child slept long enough to be able to give
                     her papa a little talk now? I have been hearing this coarse, harsh war talk all
                     night, and now I want to hear the sweet voice of the little child who used to
                     prattle to her father," said Mr. Rosewell.
                  "Indeed, pa, you must forgive me for leaving you alone" (she had been in
                     dreamland with Tom), "but I was so tired; I hadn't slept a wink since the night
                     before I started," said Eva.
                  "Not sleep a wink all that time! Why, what could have kept my daughter awake so
                     long?"
                  "I do not like to tell, pa. I felt so sorry for that young man who wanted me to
                     love him instead of Tom; and you know, pa, I never could love anybody but him,"
                     said the truthful girl.
                  "I know you and Tom used to be playmates in childhood," said Mr. Rosewell, a
                     shade of disappointment passing over his sinister face; "but I supposed, now
                     you are older, you had put away such childish things. Things have altered since
                     then: there is a frightful war upon us, begun by the slave-holders; they will
                     be on one side, we on the other. You know Tom's grandfather has left him a
                     great many slaves."
                  "Oh, pa! he ain't any the worse for that; he can't be blamed for what his
                     grandfather gave him, and I am sure he'll never be a rebel," said the patriotic
                     girl.
                  "What makes you think so?" said Mr. Rosewell, the least bit of hopeful
                     expectancy lighting up his face. Was there the least chance of his getting out
                     of his self-imposed task?
                  "Oh, because he is so noble and good; he couldn't be a rebel," said Eva,
                     "and—and—" she faltered and blushed. Oh, dear, that precious heart-secret was
                     too choice to tell even her father. It seems as natural for a maiden to hide
                     such a secret in the untrodden corners of her heart as for the bird to hide her
                     nest of darlings in the unlocked at branches of the tree. But her father's look
                     demanded the proof. "Because—because—he loves me so much!" she got out at
                     last.
                  Mr. Rosewell was both glad and sorry that that was all the proof she had to
                     offer, but his feelings were a little more on the glad side. But he concealed
                     both sets of emotions from his child; indeed, he had no need to be very
                     skillful, for Eva was too much absorbed in another to notice her father very
                     closely. Mr. Rosewell saw he wasn't going to make anything out of Tom's
                     Southern principles. No use to waste time on that ground; he must change the
                     point of attack; jealousy might be a good point, it generally was.
                  "And so you think Tom loves you very much, do you? Well, I guess my little
                     daughter is not the only one who thinks so. Frank says 'he is a great ladies'
                     man;' all of the girls are breaking
                     their hearts for love of the amorous Southerner."
                  That word "amorous" that Mr. Rosewell had inserted so cautiously, and into
                     which he had thrown so much meaning, made no more impression on her thought
                     than does the running water on the duck's back. But the thought that other
                     girls loved her Tom. Oh, how delightful! It was almost, if not quite, as good
                     to have other girls love him as to love him herself.
                  I do not say but that in time, under the pressure of temptation, other
                     feelings, out of which envy and jealousy are born, might have been awakened and
                     found a lodgment in her heart. I think I have already seen something of this
                     possibility in the feelings with which she regarded sweet Emily Goshen. She
                     thought she ought to be just as much delighted to have Tom love her dear friend
                     Emily as to have him love her; but she knew she wasn't. At that time her love
                     was deficient; it lacked that wholeness and completeness that is only born of
                     realized experience and perfect confidence. A doubt of Tom's purity and honor
                     had never entered her mind; a fear and uncertainty concerning his perfect and
                     entire love for her often had. Out of the secret depths of this fear arose all
                     those uncomfortable feelings that made her secretly unhappy when Tom was in the
                     company of other girls. It was this that kept her from rejoicing when other
                     girls admired and loved him. She despised everything that looked like envy or
                     jealousy, and she tried with all her strength to overcome these feelings. When
                     she found that she could not, that in spite of all her prayers and efforts she
                     didn't feel good to have Tom love Emily (and she, a friendless orphan, with no
                     one else to love her), she resolved to keep out of his sight. Hence their long
                     separation.
                  Ah, she has discovered the secret of unselfishness at last! By the deep joy
                     that thrills her soul and sets her pulse bounding with delight at the thought
                     of all the other girls loving Tom, she knows she has gotten the victory at
                     last, and I know she has too. After the most careful scrutiny into the hidden
                     recesses of her heart, I declare, as though I were testifying upon oath, there
                     is not the least shade of envy, jealousy, or ill feeling of any kind because of
                     Tom's love for other girls, or because of their love for him.
                  I do not know but that, at this point, I ought to faint away, as that poor
                     astronomer did when, after waiting thirty long years for the coming of a star
                     to confirm his theories of the planets, he actually saw it. The coming of that
                     star at that particular time meant very little to others; to him it meant law,
                     certain and unchangeable.
                  From what I know of the nature of love, I had calculated on just such a result;
                     namely, that being the all-absorbing passion, it should dissolve and hold in
                     solution all lesser passions, emotions, and feelings. I thought, inasmuch as
                     "God is love," the passion of love must make us godlike: pure, unselfish,
                     rejoicing in others as in ourselves. I thought that, in a soul filled with God
                     or love, there was no room for these lesser passions to exist. These belong to
                     the realm of darkness, and must needs leave the soul when love takes full
                     possession, even as the thick darkness leaves the room when the sun enters
                     it.
                  It is one thing to think about a thing, quite another to know it. The cynic
                     philosopher of Greece thought there might be such a thing as an "honest man" in
                     Athens. But he lit his candle and searched through many a weary night without
                     finding him. Thus, with the lighted candle of truth, have I been searching for
                     many a long year for a woman's soul so filled with love and trust that there
                     was not the least bit of a vacant place for jealousy to crawl in; or, to use
                     the words of the renowned Greek, "an honest woman," one who could afford to be
                     perfectly honest with herself, not having the least thought or feeling she
                     would wish to hide from the closest scrutiny of her own self. At last, thank
                     God! I have found her, and I wish I could open the door of Eva Rosewell's
                     heart, and let all the world see what love can do for a woman. But not thus—by
                     looking into the hearts of others—is the mystery of love solved. This is the
                     "white stone that no man knoweth save he that receiveth it."
                  Eva did not at once answer her father. Her heart was so full of joy and love
                     that the tongue was unusually slow of speech; but on her face shone such a
                     radiant light of angelic beauty,
                     that Mr. Rosewell, who had become familiar with all that is most charming and
                     lovely in woman's face, looked at her in wonder and astonishment. And well he
                     might, for encircling her fair brow was a dazzling crown of glory, beside which
                     the brightest crowns of kings and emperors grow dim and fade into lustreless
                     nothingness. Earth knows no object of such divine and wondrous beauty as is
                     revealed in the face and illumines the eyes of a woman whose soul is satisfied
                     and filled with love.
                  Eva was the first to break the silence. "I know the girls all love Tom, and
                     indeed, pa, you couldn't blame them if you should see him. They can't help it,
                     pa; indeed they can't!" Eve spoke as confidently as though she was speaking her
                     own experience. Mr. Rosewell knew that she was, and this it was braced up his
                     flagging resolution for his cruel, fatal work.
                  For the last few moments a terrible struggle had been going on in Mr.
                     Rosewell's mind. The father's heart shrank from the work the devil had set him
                     to do, but those last, honest words of his daughter decided the question. "And
                     can't they help his robbing them of their virtue, ruining them, and leaving
                     them miserable outcasts in the world?" said Mr. Rosewell, with a look at his
                     daughter intending to pierce her through and through.
                  Was there ever such an armor as innocence? Clad in this armor, all the shafts
                     of that wily man fell at her feet as harmless as so many dove's feathers.
                  "I don't suppose any of them ever thought of such a thing," said the
                     unsuspecting child.
                  "And does my daughter know how near her thoughtless imprudence came to bringing
                     shame and sorrow to herself, and everlasting disgrace to her family, by
                     trusting herself in that man's hands?"
                  Eva was now really frightened by her father's looks and actions, no less than
                     by his words. She trembled violently, feeling afraid that something dreadful
                     had happened, although she had no idea what it was.
                  "Pray explain yourself, pa. I am sure I can't for the life of me tell what you
                     mean."
                  "And so you force me to speak the words I never dreamed of having to speak to a
                     daughter of mine. Let me whisper, for very shame; I cannot speak it loud."
                  He bent down his head, put his mouth close to her ear, and whispered something
                     that hushed into stillness the beating of her heart and turned the warm
                     currents of her blood into frozen streams of death. She made no reply, her lips
                     never quivered, she sat perfectly still; but there was a stony look in face and
                     eye that told of the living girl turned to cold marble.
                  It was Mr. Rosewell's turn to be frightened now. He had not intended to kill
                     his beautiful daughter; he only wanted to set her against Tom. He rubbed her
                     cold hands, chafed her cold forehead, put his hand on her heart. He found no
                     comfort there; the stillness of death seemed there. He had given a deadlier
                     stab than he had intended.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  TOM AT HOME.
                  THE rebellion of Tom's fiery spirit against the network of circumstances that
                     was taking him away from Eva in no wise altered his fate nor brought him nearer
                     to her. Just as the sun was shedding his last rays of light on the earth, thus
                     ending the two awful days that had come freighted with so much evil and misery
                     to Eva, his old home arose in sight. What a joyous sight is the old home to the
                     homesick college boy, whose eyes can now feast and feast on the old familiar
                     sights! For the moment he is the same boy he was long ago. But Tom did not want
                     to be the same boy. All he wanted was Eva; and the sight of the old home, so
                     delightful to him at any other time, was hateful to him now.
                  Tom was a great favorite with all the negroes on the plantation. His coming was
                     like the coming of Christmas,—the signal for a general holiday. To all the
                        lesser negroes the sound "Massa
                     Tom" was equal to the sound of the white children's Santa Claus. With them, as
                     with the older ones, it meant just the thing they wanted. Massa Tom was "good
                     brandy" and a "warm fire to sleep by," for mammy; it was "de readin' ob de
                     Bible" to her pious husband. And since Tom had sat beside Eva, in that little
                     Sunday-school in the old log school-house, and listened to Mrs. Rosewell's
                     teaching, no man could read the Bible better than he.
                  "It sort o' touches de holler spot in dis yer ole heart when dat ar boy reads
                     de Book to me. De readin' ob de pulpit may be jes' de ting for de white folks,
                     but it sort o' don't reach fur 'nuff down to tech de poor nigger," was what
                     mammy's "ole man" had said to her one day, as he limped away on his crutches,
                     feeling as full and satisfied as though he had had a good feast out of the
                     Bible from Tom's reading. Mammy had had her feast too, but, as the reader may
                     have guessed, hers was "a bit ob de ole critter" that always turned her stupid
                     brain into a philosopher. In such cases she was always ready for a wise talk.
                     Her tongue went to running now, "De reason ob dat is most obviously 'pearant;
                     it be de same identical ting, dat hobservation." This flow of big words was
                     most too much for the "ole man;" he got out of hearing before that awful long
                     word, "hobservation," was fairly out, and it was well for him that he did. His
                     spouse was quite observing, under the influence of her favorite beverage, and
                     she had a good memory. So it was she had picked up all the big words the white
                     folks had used before her in conversation, and she would bring them all in on
                     every occasion. It was no use to sit and wait hoping for the end; the only safe
                     way was to run at the first discharge. Tom would sometimes set her going as an
                     experiment to see how long her tongue was: suffice it to say, he never found
                     the other end.
                  The same intuitive knowledge of their wants that made it possible for Tom to
                     make this old couple so happy,—the one with his Bible, the other with her
                     philosophy,—taught him exactly how to make all the rest happy. He had that deep
                     sympathy with human nature that made him love it in its lowest as well as its
                     highest form. He loved to make the beautiful, accomplished, and well-dressed
                     young ladies who were his companions happy with his attentions and courteous
                     flatteries. He delighted to see how their eyes would sparkle with joy at his
                     coming. But it pleased him none the less to set the great goggling eyes of the
                     sixteen-year-old Chloe to rolling and dancing with the eager joy of youth at
                     the sight of the black boy who had won her heart. What if he did look like an
                     ape or a monkey? What if she did look like a great greasy animal made to pick
                     cotton? Were their joys any less real on that account? Was it not just as hard
                     for that apish-looking fellow to be kept away from his greasy sweetheart, as
                     for him to be kept away from Eva? Are not human feelings more than skin-deep?
                     He thought they were, and when he was home during vacation it was his delight
                     to go over the plantation and, by watching the roll of their eyes, to see which
                     way they turned oftenest, find out which couple wanted to be together. No
                     matter how much it "upsot" the surly overseer's plans, the lovers were always
                     put side by side. Then Tom would watch them with the keenest interest; he said
                     that was nature making love,—not art, money, houses, or titles. And he really
                     enjoyed it a great deal more than his own courtships. The reader must bear in
                     mind this was when he did not see Eva; after that ride on the cars to St. Louis
                     he told a very different story.
                  The negroes who had so long waited and watched for the coming of Massa Tom, as
                     the devout believer looks for the millennium, were doomed to a cruel
                     disappointment. There was too much darkness and sorrow in his own heart for him
                     to bring sunshine and gladness to others; of course they all attributed this to
                     his mother's dying condition, and many were the wishes felt, if not expressed,
                     "dat de ole missus wouldn't keep folks waitin' so long."
                  Thus it was that mammy reasoned: "Long as she's got to die, 'taint no use
                     puttin' on't off. 'Twon't com'd any easyer fur waitin'. De pig 'll squeal jes'
                     as loud if you don't stick him till to-morrow as if you stick him to-day. I
                     reckon de proverb ob de wise Sol'mon, 'Neber put off till to-morrow what ort to
                     be did to-day,' would be de bes'
                     adwice fur de ole missus. 'Pears like as folks nebber do gain notin' by goin'
                     agin de Bible; dat ar is my 'sperence."
                  Meanwhile the miserable woman, whose death was so longed for as the beginning
                     of a long holiday, when Massa Tom should become their sole owner, lay tossing
                     on her couch of pain, as anxious to die as her slaves were to have her, that
                     she might be out of her misery, yet fearing and dreading to take the fatal leap
                     into the regions of the dark, unknown future. Ah, yes; to that proud devotee of
                     fashion and wealth death was truly a "leap in the dark. "Her pride humbled, her
                     love wounded, by the sensuality of her husband, she had often wished for death,
                     as we have sometimes heard her; but now that it is so awfully near, now that
                     her feet have touched its chilling waters, she shrinks from its icy embrace,
                     and, like a child frightened at the darkness of its chamber begging its mother
                     to take it back to the light, she begs of Tom to let her live, as though it was
                     in his power to save her.
                  In her wild delirium of fear she fastens her cold hands within his, her face
                     pale with fright, and moist with the dews of death, in the hoarse, suppressed
                     piteous tones of helplessness, and cries out, "Oh, my boy! my boy! Won't you
                     save your mother? Don't you see the monster coming? See! he's got hold of me!
                     Oh, how cold he makes me! I wish I could get warm once more. Tom! Tom! you must
                     save me! Tom ain't a coward, he ain't afraid, he'll fight death away. I can't
                     die! I can't!"
                  It is an awful thing to stand by the bedside of a dying friend, to witness the
                     pleading looks, and hear the distressed cries for help, as such lie in the
                     writhings and agonies of dissolution, while we know that we cannot lift a
                     finger to help them. Not one drop of oil can we put into the lamp of life,
                     although we see how fast it is going out in eternal darkness. Ah! it is in such
                     times as these that we realize what human weakness means. Of what avail is all
                     our boasted strength now? What avails all our swiftness or courage? Hours
                     lengthened into days and nights, days and nights into a whole week,—who but
                     those who have suffered can tell what a whole week is? Still, Tom was bound by
                     an invisible chain to his mother's bedside.
                  It is astonishing with what persistency and determination our most secret
                     little faults, unnoticed at the time, perhaps long forgotten, return to us just
                     in time to give us the most torture that can be gotten out of them. That
                     little, thoughtless, impatient wish of Tom's (that his mother would let him
                     alone, and die without him,—so he could go after Eva) was hardly to be
                     prevented under the circumstances. How almost innocent it was! he went straight
                     to her, although his doing so was like tearing his heart in twain.
                  But now, as he held her wasted form in his strong arms, and heard her piteous
                     entreaties for him to save her, he was her own brave, darling boy again, who
                     would never let any one hurt his mother; he the only one who loved her now. How
                     dreadful seemed that wish of his! How her piteous cries and childish
                     helplessness tortured him when he thought how angry he had been with her for
                     wanting him!
                  This was the first time in all his life that Tom had felt the real sting of
                     sin; to be sure, he had been stung by it, and he felt the smart, just as most
                     of us have felt the smart of a honey-bee sting. But how much has that taught us
                     of the sting of the scorpion?
                  Tom was like a sailor starting on his ocean-life with a perfectly built craft
                     of the best material; he sails along a great many years with no storms save
                     such as are easily weathered, giving a pleasant excitement and zest to his
                     sailor-life. He thinks he knows all about the ocean,—hasn't he crossed and
                     re-crossed it a great many times? What more is there to learn? The most
                     important thing of all, how to live through a storm.
                  As we already know, Tom started in life with a splendid physical craft of the
                     best material. From his own family connections he derived all the advantages
                     that wealth and social position can give, while his virtual adoption into the
                     Rosewell family saved him from most of the evils attendant upon wealth and
                     leisure.
                  When the Great Eastern was being built, its owners lavishing the wealth of
                     England upon it that they might show the world just what a ship ought to be,
                     expecting therewith to monopolize the commerce and travel of the seas, making all lesser crafts dip their flags
                     to her, practical men, who begun their career on a little flat-boat, shook
                     their heads, and said, "Too much money has sunk many a ship." A ship is to
                     carry men and things across the ocean; it ain't a city (it was calculated the
                     Great Eastern would carry ten thousand people) for people to live and dance in.
                     The testing time came, and the "great ship" proved a failure, and the little
                     ships still sail the ocean.
                  I have often thought of the Great Eastern when I have been looking at Tom, and
                     wondered if he did not carry too much sail, if there was not too much of him;
                     is it going to "pay" to put so much into one man? Cannot a man be sunk by the
                     weight of the treasures he carries as well as a ship? Well, the ocean is dark
                     and stormy enough now; if Tom Price can stand the test of this storm we shall
                     say, build big men, ever so big, hereafter.
                  This trial, coming as it did upon Tom at the very time when all his faculties
                     were in the highest state of activity, keenly sensitive to every impression,
                     touched the deeper springs of his moral nature. The great problems of right and
                     wrong, duty and patriotism, liberty and oppression, came to him now clothed in
                     such different forms, freighted with such awful meaning, that he thought he had
                     never seen them before at all. He never had. I know that in college he used to
                     draw down his face, and he thought he looked and felt very solemn as he read of
                     the headlong leap the country was taking into civil war. And when he read the
                     decision of General Lee he thought he had sounded the lowest depth of the
                     problem of duty, and the question was settled. So does the little girl, lisping
                     her mother's nursery hymns over the cradle of her doll, think she
                     is a mother.
                  But Tom is perplexed and anxious enough now, for the guns of Sumter had made a
                     noise loud enough to awaken the sleeping nation, from north to south, from east
                     to west. Ay, even this chamber of death heard the startling sound, and amid the
                     throes of angonized fear that rent the soul of Mrs. Price were mingled other
                     fears for her beloved country. A child of the South, the offspring of tropical
                     wealth and beauty, she loved the land of her birth with a passionate devotion
                     that is born only under the heat of a southern sun. In imagination she saw the
                     white bear of the frozen North looking with envy and malicious hunger upon the
                     happy sheep-fold, with skipping lambs and happy shepherds, living in the green
                     pastures, sitting beside the still waters of the South. He wants some excuse
                     for eating them up and taking possession of their rich pastures. There happen
                     to be a few black sheep in the flock, he makes their discontent an excuse for
                     devouring all the rest,—the black ones to share the same fate.
                  Mrs. Price was not a selfish woman. True, her extreme pain made her now think a
                     great deal more about herself than usual; still, she had plenty of time to
                     think about her husband and her country. Tom could take care of himself, that
                     was a blessing. She loves her slaves with all the protecting love of a mistress
                     who feels as though they were given her to take care of, and she has no fear
                     but that Tom will take good care of them. But there is her unfortunate, beastly
                     husband: what will become of him when she is gone? The first thing after Tom
                     came to her bedside, she began to plead with him in behalf of his father. It
                     would hurt his feelings to have to go to his son for money; and she wanted Tom
                     to deed him a plantation, whichever one he chose to have for his own. Her
                     father's will restrained her from doing it. Tom could do as he liked.
                  Tom knew very well that giving anything to his father was simply giving it to
                     the first gambler who got hold of him. And he tried to pacify her by telling
                     her that his father should never want for anything while he lived; that the
                     only way to save anything for him was for Tom to keep it in his own hands.
                     Hadn't she seen that long ago? But the lessons of experience were all lost on
                     her. She knew nothing of the miserable drunkard who had rendered the greater
                     part of her life so wretched. With the film of death over her eyes, all she
                     could see was the godlike form of the brave, noble man she had married,—the
                     father of her darling boy. Shall we say that this film of death had darkened
                     her understanding so that she could no longer see the truth? Or shall we say
                     that as the eyes of the flesh were slowly closing in death, their light (the
                        testimony timony of the senses)
                     going out in eternal darkness, the eyes of the soul were opening, the light of
                     heaven taking the place of the light of earth?
                  As I look upon that bloated, disfigured sensualist, and compare the impression
                     he makes upon my mind with the impression he has made on the heart of that
                     dying woman, I cannot help but see the contrast of the two pictures, and I
                     cannot help asking the question, which of us has the correct likeness of the
                     man? Is it she or I who sees the soul, the real Mr. Price?
                  Alas, dear reader! I am asking a question that neither you nor I can answer
                     until the film of death shall have covered our eyes, and the light of heaven
                     illuminated our souls. Until that time, it is our highest wisdom to keep
                     property and power out of such hands as his, and in practical affairs act as
                     the lessons of experience shall declare the wisest course. Tom was anxious to
                     do this; he tried to reason with his mother, but to no purpose. That proud,
                     noble husband she so much loved must not have his feelings wounded by asking
                     his son for money. So Tom promised, and she was satisfied. Then her anxiety for
                     her country was revived, and while one moment she was imploring him to save her
                     from the grip of the monster death, the next she was begging him to save her
                     country from its enemies. For the first time, she asked him "if he wouldn't go
                     into the 'Southern army.'" He told her he had already made up his mind to do
                     so; his country demanded his services, and they should be freely given.
                  The face of the dying woman lit up with joy, and something of the old-time
                     pride and admiration for her boy shone in her pale countenance as she said:
                  "I might have known you would. I reckon no son of ours could ever be a traitor;
                     but when you were a boy you used to think so much of the Rosewells, and I
                     thought it would be hard for you to fight against them. Eva was a nice child,
                     and if she'd only been a lady I'd been willing to—to——But it's all over now,
                     Tom, in the n—n——"Here she sank back into the stupid state she lay in most of
                     the time.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  LAST HOURS.
                  EVA on one side, and he on the other? What could his mother mean by such a
                     speech as that? Fight against the Rosewells!
                  "Oh, it is the delirium of death," said Tom. "I'll think no more about it."
                     Still, the thought haunted him. Was he going to fight on one side, and Eva's
                     folks on the other? Was this the meaning of civil war? Good heavens! what was
                     the country coming to? This war must be stopped. He must go right off to the
                     wrangling, fire-eating crowd collected at Montgomery, and tell them who it was
                     they were making war on. He must go to those miserable, misguided men who had
                     been firing on that little garrison at Fort Sumter, and tell them these were
                     American citizens. There was an awful mistake somewhere. Is it possible that a
                     man of Tom Price's intelligence, so thoroughly posted in the politics of the
                     country, had never known this before? Could there be a new thought to him? If
                     this be so, what is the use of trying to learn anything by reading? Verily, the
                     fool knows as much as the wise man; and so he does, until love opens the eyes
                     of the wise man.
                  It was with Tom at this time as it afterwards was with the company of men who
                     followed Stonewall Jackson to repel a secret attack they expected from the
                     enemy: they must needs be in the darkness, lest they should reveal their
                     position. In the silent watches of the night was heard the sound of approaching
                     footsteps. Jackson had ordered them to fire in such a case. They fired. The
                     heavy fall of a man told them their fire had hit the mark. They had slain their
                     enemy. The light was brought. Oh, horror of horrors! Those men, accustomed to
                     the ghastly presence of death in every form, turned pale as the dying man
                     before them at the work of their own hands. There, right before their eyes,
                     writhing in the agonies of his
                     death-wound, lay the bleeding body of their brave commander, the darling idol
                     of their hearts. Not one of them but would have joyfully laid down his own life
                     to bring back the one they had just taken. For years those soldiers had been
                     killing men. Think you that one of that sorrow-stricken band ever knew before
                     what the killing of a man meant? How was it possible for them to know before
                     love opened their eyes?
                  In a different way, but under the operation of the same law, love had opened
                     Tom's eyes to see somewhat of the real meaning of the contest. When he and his
                     college-mates at the North talked so wisely about the war, and thought it so
                     dreadful that they couldn't be together as they had been, for some must be on
                     the opposite side, they thought they knew all about war. They supposed it was
                     much the same thing as when, in their debating society, they stood up on
                     opposite sides and declaimed against each other. Ah, it is going to take rivers
                     of blood to wash the dust out of people's eyes before they can see war as it
                     is.
                  Tom thought of the old war talk, when the happy group around Mrs. Rosewell's
                     chair used to fancy themselves on the field of battle with Napoleon; he thought
                     of Eva's dread and horror of war, of the hasty speech unthought of for years:
                     "I never'll speak to you at all, if you are a general." What a meaning it had
                     now! The torturing anxieties awakened by these reflections, as to how Eva would
                     feel about the war, made it seem to him as though he must fly to her at once.
                     Then he looked at his mother in the stupid sleep that opium produces, and his
                     impatient spirit chafed and fretted under the galling chains that held him to
                     her side. He could not do her any good, she must die just the same, and Eva
                     might be in trouble about the war. She had the first claim on him. Here he
                     thought of his drunken father, whose duty it was to be by her side in this
                     trying hour. She was his wife, he had sworn to love and cherish her, and his
                     heart rebelled againt the man who had sunk so low as to leave the wife of his
                     bosom to struggle with her great agony alone. His whole nature revolted at such
                     baseness. But was not he doing the same thing? Was not he leaving Eva alone?
                     How did he know what trouble she might be in? Was it not base of him to leave
                     her, the dear lamb, in the hands of that prowling old wolf?
                  How astonishing it is that we can so easily persuade ourselves that a certain
                     course is right, and it is our bounden duty to follow it, when it chances to be
                     just the course our passions are clamoring for! When duty links herself with
                     passion her burdens are wondrous light, her yoke wondrous easy.
                  Tom was going to do his duty now, he was going straight to Eva just as fast as
                     steam and his fleet horse would carry him. He stole softly to his mother's side
                     that he might imprint his last farewell kiss on her once beautiful face. His
                     heart bled as he looked at her. The owner of hundreds of slaves, the mistress
                     of untold wealth, the proud beauty whom the South had so delighted to honor, in
                     these, the last moments of her earthly existence, lay moaning on her couch of
                     pain, more to be pitied than the humblest child of poverty in all the land.
                  There are few of these but what in the last extremity of dissolving nature have
                     friendly hands reached out to clasp theirs, as they take the first step that
                     leads into the dark valley and shadow of death. Love goes with them to the very
                     portals, even though it may be able to go no farther. There are few so
                     friendless, even in this cold, selfish world of ours, but they have some warm
                     hand to clasp in theirs, as the chill of death comes creeping over them. But
                     here was this petted child of beauty and of fortune dying alone. The only one
                     who did care for her, her only son, was going to leave her. And Tom knew that
                     there was not one of the slaves but was as impatiently waiting for her death as
                     a child for Christmas.
                  Tom possessed that intuitive perception and sympathy that enabled him to see
                     and feel his mother's awful desolation in all of its untold bitterness. Oh, how
                     his heart ached for her! how gladly he would have smoothed the rough waves and
                     stilled the dark billows of the Jordan of death! It was not that he loved his
                     mother less, that he, her brave, darling boy, was thus leaving her alone to
                     wrestle with the king of terrors. It was because he loved Eva more.
                  
                  But he must not stop to look at his mother now, Eva might want him, he must be
                     gone. His lips pressed her cold brow, they touched her wasted cheek, when, with
                     a piercing shriek, she clasped her hands around his neck and in the most
                     heart-rending tones of torturing fear begged of him not to let her die. The
                     scream brought mammy into the room. One less anxious than she must have seen
                     that a great change had come over the dying woman. The doctor was soon brought,
                     and when he had succeeded in unclasping her arms from Tom's neck and taken a
                     close look at her, he shook his head with an ominous look towards Tom and the
                     slaves, who had crowded in, and told them if they had any preparations to make
                     for the funeral it was now time, "for the end was near."
                  That doctor had been the physician of her father's family, and I cannot help
                     but think of the contrast between his actions now and the time long past, when
                     in hushed whispers, in a room far from where the sufferer now lay, he had
                     pronounced the case "a critical one." How circumstances will alter cases! Then
                     he had everything to gain by her living,—professional reputation, the patronage
                     of the rich, the good-will of the people were all suspended on that brittle
                     thread that bound the beautiful belle to life. Then the loved ones who,
                     weeping, surrounded her bedstead, were willing to give all they possessed to
                     save her life. Those around her bedside now had dry eyes, and looked for
                     happiness only when she was gone. A doctor would have to be more than human to
                     act the same under such different circumstances. If his words seemed cold,
                     heartless, and cruel, what shall we think of the words of her own son? "The end
                     near! the end near! that's the story I've heard ever since I came home, and it
                     hain't come yet. If you hadn't have written what you did, I could have gone
                     where I wanted to and got back before she died."
                  He spoke as bitterly as though the doctor was to blame because he was kept
                     there. And that worthy, not liking to be reproached for what was not his fault,
                     in his peculiar sarcastic way replied, "Well, I reckon it's natural for young
                     colts to be impatient to get into fat pasture; time does seem mighty
                     long,—'waiting for dead men's shoes,' and maybe the debts are crowding,—it
                     takes a right smart pile to keep up gambling. Well, it's in the blood. Can't
                     help it, I reckon."
                  If there is anything that could make me believe that mankind is born of the
                     devil and belongs to him by the law of descent, it is the facility with which
                     one can clothe another in his own meanness, and put the worst construction on
                     words and actions. Actions are very much like a looking-glass: it reflects the
                     image of the persons who looks into it.
                  An impartial, cold critic, looking at Tom's conduct for the last few days,
                     would see much that was blameworthy; he would find the image of a thoughtless,
                     impatient, fiery spirit. Love, looking in the glass, would see a heart of
                     boundless love, an indiscretion, beautiful in its simplicity and naturalness.
                     Old Rosewell, looking in, saw the seducer and betrayer. This selfish old
                     doctor, who has always kept himself poor at the gambling-table, looking in,
                     sees the gambler "out of luck." What a sad commentary on human life! What a
                     world of meaning in that simple passage, "To the pure all things are pure!"
                  Of course, every person must blame Tom for that impatient speech at the bedside
                     of his mother. So will they blame him for that register at the hotel. Their
                     blame, in both these cases, will be the exact measurement of their
                     understanding of his passion for Eva. Neither Eva's father nor his own mother
                     had the faintest conception of this; hence the fatal consequences that arose
                     from their misunderstanding him.
                  This remark of her son's was the last drop of the bitter cup pressed to her
                     dying lips. She now felt how "sharper than a serpent's tooth it was to have a
                     thankless child." It was too late to feel the resentment of pride, those cruel
                     words overwhelmed and crushed her.
                  "Tom wants his mother to die, does he? Oh, doctor, can't you kill me, and let
                     me get out of his way? Tom wants the money to gamble with? Oh, my Lord! my
                     Lord! why did I ever live to see this hour? why couldn't I have died before he
                     got here? What made you send for
                     him? I was so afraid of hell. But can it, oh, my Lord!—can it be
                     any worse than this life? To think that my boy, my beautiful, brave boy, that I
                     was so proud of, so fond of! Oh, if I could go where he couldn't see me, he
                     could have the money then!" She sprang up, as though she would run out of his
                     sight; she shuddered as she felt herself clasped in his arms as he tried to lay
                     her back on the bed. This was the worst of all, to see her dread and shun him
                     as she had dreaded death before.
                  Tom was utterly overwhelmed at the awful consequences of that thoughtless
                     speech. He tried to soothe her by telling her how much he loved her, that he
                     didn't want her to die! His own heart was breaking for the dear girl he loved,
                     and he felt as though he must fly to her; he didn't know what trouble she was
                     in.
                  Alas! the deafness of death was in her ear. That answer of the doctor was the
                     last she ever heard on earth. What a thought! Freed from Tom's arms, she
                     reached her arms for mammy. Her dying anguish touched the black woman's heart,
                     and in her turn she felt angry with Tom.
                  "Dere, honey! Massa Tom can't hurt yer here." She stopped. The great monster
                     will have silence when he does his work.
                  The end has come at last.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  THE WORK OF DEATH.
                  THERE is in all living organisms a force called the "life-force," which resists
                     and rebels against the encroachments of death. It is by virtue of this vital
                     endowment that animal life is preserved at all in a world of so many
                     death-dealing influences. The muscles of the living heart fight against the
                     encroachments of the enemies of its own life, even as the intelligent
                     householder fights the midnight assassin he finds in his house.
                  Eva Rosewell was of that peculiar, poetic temperament in which the soul and
                     body are so intimately connected by a sort of electric influence that the first
                     effects (as we have already seen) of the soul-poison her father had injected
                     into her ears was manifested on the physical organism, just as the thought of
                     the operator at one end of the telegraph wire is first manifest in the written
                     symbols at the other end.
                  The poison that, entering into the soul-heart, froze it with the chill of
                     death, showed its first effects on the physical heart. Hence its deathlike
                     stillness. But like all other living organisms, the heart revolted against its
                     own death, and strove to release itself from its icy grip.
                  Mr. Rosewell seconded these efforts of nature to save his daughter, and in due
                     time the color returned to her cheeks, the light of life to her eye, the throb
                     to her pulse.
                  "My dear daughter, do you know how you frightened your father by looking so
                     pale just now?" he said, trying to press her cold hand to his lips.
                  It took Hamlet some time to find out how a man "could smile, and smile, and yet
                     be such a villain." And Eva had not yet found out how a father could soothe and
                     pet a child while his dagger was under her heart, already whetted for a
                     death-stab.
                  But her feelings instinctively revolted against any of his caresses, and she
                     drew her hand away, with a look of such sickening aversion that it sent a
                     keener pang to the father's heart than the first look of icy coldness. Ah, Mr.
                     Rosewell! you are already reaping of what you have sown.
                  It takes some time for the most subtle poisons to work their way through the
                     avenues of the body; so it took some time for this foul, poisonous lie to make
                     its way through the avenues of the soul. Suspicion is the offspring of
                     unbelief, a lack of faith in manhood, or a distrust of, and disbelief in, human
                     nature. This principle then is, and ever must be, the deadly antagonist of
                     humanity, simply because it destroys the integrity of, and in reality blots out of existence, the human
                     soul,—transforming man into a devil.
                  Unbelief has exactly the same effect when turned towards man that it has when
                     turned towards God. We all remember how the unbelief of the suspicious Jews
                     transformed the Holy Ghost, the Being of infinite goodness, by which Christ
                     wrought his works of mercy and love, into a Beelzebub, the prince of devils,
                     thus virtually destroying the integrity of the living God and turning him into
                     a spirit of evil; and how explicitly Christ declared that for this sin there
                     is, there can be, no forgiveness.
                  The reason of this is obvious. Every living organism does, and ever must, place
                     itself in direct antagonism to that principle which is seeking to destroy its
                     own life. To give up the fight would be to insure its own death. Inasmuch then
                     as unbelief, the parent of foul suspicion, is the one principle that has power
                     to destroy the integrity of the living God and his offspring, man, these two
                     beings must, by the law of their own vital existence, ever maintain a position
                     of direct antagonism to this death principle; they must, of necessity, resist
                     it with all the powers of their being, exactly as all animals, all living
                     organisms, must, of necessity, resist the encroachments of death in every form,
                     and fight for their own lives.
                  Thus it was that the soul of Eva Rosewell arose in the plenitude of its power
                     to battle with this foul suspicion, which, if received as truth, would
                     transform the pure, noble, manly Tom her heart confided in, into a
                     cold-blooded, selfish, designing libertine. The soul of that woman must needs
                     "be twice dead, plucked up by the roots," that wouldn't fight for the soul-life
                     of the man she loved. But the soul of Eva Rosewell was terribly alive; it
                     flashed through her eyes in a manner to make that brave man, who had
                     unflinchingly faced all the horrors of the "border ruffian" war, cower before
                     her look, and shrink back in the farthest corner of the seat.
                  "I don't believe a word of it. It is a foul slander, a wicked lie, whoever told
                     it first" (she had no thought of her father originating it). "And, pa, if you
                     will take me to Tom, I'll prove it to you." As she said this she arose from her
                     seat as though she would start right after him.
                  He took hold of her with a firm grasp and sat her back in her seat. It was no
                     use to try to contend against such strength as that.
                  "Oh, pa, let me go! let me go! This air is stifling me; I cannot live
                     here."
                  We have already seen how little effect our knowledge of the existence of such a
                     city as Constantinople has on our feelings; but let us suddenly be set down in
                     the midst of the burning city, the air stifling us, the smoke choking us, every
                     avenue of escape cut off, our most piteous cries for help wasted on the
                     smoke-filled air. Ah, what a different thing is Constantinople now! All that we
                     have read of its devouring flames, baffling all human skill, and wrapping in
                     their fiery mantle so many thousands of human beings in different ages, comes
                     to us with such vivid distinctness as the record of our own awful doom, that we
                     marvel that we could ever have been so careless and thoughtless about it. How
                     could we have eaten and drunk and been happy while such a city existed on the
                     face of the earth?
                  So with Eva's latent knowledge of bad men. Ah, what a different thing was
                     impurity and unchastity in men now, now when the fire and smoke of their evil
                     deeds was scorching and stifling her very soul! In the lurid light of this
                     awful fire she saw as with other eyes and heard as with other ears all those
                     frightful stories she had read and heard of the thousands and tens of thousands
                     of confiding, trusting girls who, becoming the prey of man's devices, ended in
                     shame and sorrow a life begun in hope and joy. Was there no way of escape? Must
                     her very soul be consumed in this frightful fire, kindled by unholy passions?
                     She lifted her pleading eyes to her father. Couldn't he do something to save
                     her? Not her personally,—a thought of her own safety or her own good name never
                     once entered her heart. All she asked to be saved from was a belief in Tom's
                     guilt. This foul suspicion was the more than hell-fire that was consuming
                     her.
                  As before her father's efforts had taken the side of life, in this contest he
                     now took sides with death; instead of aiding the efforts of her soul to throw off the poison, he put more in, to
                     make the work doubly sure.
                  "I can't tell you how you surprise and pain your father by this unnatural,
                     unladylike course," said the calm man at her side.
                  "Who cares for the lady? Do you want me to die politely? Somebody, a foul
                     wretch, has been hatching this lowest, basest slander against Tom. I demand the
                     proof, my very life depends upon it; and you, my father, are only afraid I'll
                     make myself ridiculous, afraid the folks in the cars will hear me talk."
                  Mr. Rosewell was confronted by a power he had not thought of, he did not know
                     the gentle Eva had so much spirit. But there was no drawing back now, he must
                     go forward and prove his point or go down to the slanderer's perdition—the
                     seventh hell, if there be such a place. He wanted her quiet first.
                  "What would her mother say if she should see her little Eva now?" He spoke low
                     and distinct, and the word that could always still the passions of Eva's soul
                     had the effect of partially quieting her now, so she could listen to his
                     proof.
                  She sat very quiet, a tremulous quivering of her sensitive frame, the only
                     visible sign of the awful soul-anguish she endured while her father went
                     through with all the corroborating points of the case. When he came to the
                     grand climax, when he produced the paper that would furnish the most undoubted
                     proof of what he said, her whole soul went into her blood-shot eyes as she
                     fastened them upon the paper where she saw, as written with the pen of fire,
                     that unfortunate and hastily written sentence, "Tom Price and wife."
                  A low moan, like the cry of the stricken deer, and she sank back cold and
                     helpless in her seat. The cold steel of the two-edged sword of suspicion and
                     unbelief had at length done its mischievous work, and pierced the soul of Eva
                     Rosewell.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  EVIL OUT OF GOOD.
                  THERE is nothing so heart-rending in this mixed world of ours as the
                     consequences that often grow out of that suspicious distrust of our fellow-men,
                     which, like the deadly nightshade, turns life into death, transforms good into
                     evil. How happy we all were when we saw that noble young man, so dignified and
                     grand in all the natural guileless simplicity of manly love, walk up and so
                     proudly register the word that stood for the fulfillment of his manhood! Ah,
                     yes, he was a complete man now. Before this he had possessed houses, and lands,
                     and slaves, and social position; all natural gifts and graces had been lavished
                     on him by the liberal hand of nature. Still there was a lack; he was not
                     satisfied. His nature was too rich and deep to be able to feed on the blind
                     fondness of his partial mother, the admiration of the frivolous girls attracted
                     by his wealth and beauty, and be satisfied with it. All of these met a certain
                     want in his nature, but its greater and higher wants were unsupplied. In the
                     midst of all this wealth of nature and glitter of gold his heart was hungry.
                     The soul of Tom Price was dying daily for want of food.
                  It has been truly said that Mother Nature, in her wise prevision for the bodies
                     of men, has kindly provided a supply for every demand, food for every natural
                     hunger. Our Father, no less wise than good, in his prevision for the souls of
                     his children, has provided a supply for every demand of the soul's being.
                  Tom Price had been hungering and thirsting for an appreciative love, that,
                     having its foundation in a correct knowledge of his character, should meet the
                     demands of his higher nature. What was it to him that the girls loved him
                     because he was handsome and made a fine appearance? How insipid to a manly soul
                     is such admiration! But he had not been hungry all this time because there was no girl in the world who could
                     satisfy his soul-want. His high nature had been starving simply because he was
                     away from Eva Rosewell. But he has got her now; he shall hunger and thirst no
                     more. Eva understands him, she loves him for what he is, not for what he has
                     got. The happy golden dream of his boyhood is realized. Eva is his, his
                     forever.
                  This all-absorbing, all-satisfying fact has thrown all lesser facts into the
                     shade, as the stars are hidden by the sunbeams. Of course he knows he must get
                     the minister and have a ceremony performed. That is just as necessary as for a
                     child to have a name. But the child having a name is not what makes it a
                     reality to its mother. It is just as precious to her, just as much hers,
                     without the name as with it. That dear girl up-stairs is his just as surely as
                     though her name was Eva Price. But Tom never thought of all this when he so
                     proudly wrote that word wife. The act was the spontaneous outgrowth of their
                     perfect oneness. Had he stopped one moment to think of what he was doing he had
                     not done it at all. He knew too much of the ways of the world for that. Had his
                     knowledge and politeness dictated his pen it would have written Miss Eva
                     Rosewell. But love had it all its own way now. And when it dictated that
                     charming word wife, he obeyed, without ever stopping to think of
                     the consequence.
                  As an unconscious, involuntary testimony to the authority and sanctity of the
                     higher laws of marriage, this simple act becomes sublimely beautiful; pregnant
                     as it is with the highest, most important meaning. Beautiful indeed is this
                     simple act, clothed in all the charming innocence of nature, to the eye of
                     faith and love. But what has it come to in the hands of suspicion and
                     unbelief?
                  Go with me to that same dusty car where a little while ago we saw that
                     beautiful, trusting, happy maiden sleeping so sweetly on her father's breast.
                     Look at her now; like a frightened child she shrinks into the farthest corner
                     of her seat. As far as she may she must get away from the grasp of
                     that horrible creature, man. His touch is pollution, his presence the death of
                     virtue, his beauty and strength the weapons with which he entices and secures
                     cures his prey, his vows of love and promises of protection the means by which
                     he disarms his prey and renders her capture more certain. Oh, God! how can such
                     things be!
                  To some natures a feeling of hate and desire for revenge would come into the
                     soul as the offspring of deceived love, and stimulate and give increased life
                     and activity to the faculties. But it would be the activity of the destroying,
                     avenging angel. Woe be to that man on whose head its vials of wrath should be
                     poured out!
                  But Eva's nature was made of love as its vital principle. And it were just as
                     impossible for hate to become the outgrowth of such a nature as for an
                     apple-tree to become the outgrowth of the acorn, or the deadly nightshade to
                     grow on the stalk of the lily.
                  Suspicion chilled and froze the life-currents of her being at their
                     heart-centre, but it gave birth to no feelings of hate and revenge; simply
                     because in her heart there were no seeds of either that could be quickened into
                     life. But what has become of all those seeds, little though they were, from
                     which sprung her jealousy of Emily, her disagreeable feelings towards Tom, and
                     the girls he flirted with?
                  Go ask the farmer where the nutritious elements of that compost he spread over
                     his land in the spring have gone to. He will point to the golden sheaves of his
                     wheat-field, and tell you that nature has converted it into life and vitality
                     for man. Go ask the butcher whither has gone the life and vitality of all the
                     animals he has slaughtered, and he will tell you that nature has converted the
                     vital principle of all this brute life into life and strength for man.
                     Everywhere you will get the same answer. All-conquering man lays his hand on
                     all the life-forces of nature, and forth-with they are converted into life-food
                     for him. Nature points to all the treasures of the material universe, and says
                     to her darling offspring, man, "All are yours!"
                  Thus with Love. It lays its all-conquering hand upon every force, every power
                     of our being, and forthwith all is converted into life-force for itself. It
                     absorbs and takes into its own life all the vitality of the soul. Therefore, if
                     you would know what has become of all the vital forces of Eva Rosewell's being,
                     that she sits so pale, so motionless
                     less, so helpless now, know ye then that love has absorbed them all. They are
                     vitalizing and enriching the life of their conqueror, just as that roast
                     chicken you ate for dinner is vitalizing and enriching your being.
                  Shall we blame the poor child, then, and say she is a white-livered goose,
                     without spunk or spirit, because she don't get angry with Tom, because her
                     heart clings to her supposed betrayer?
                  Are you a "white-livered goose" because you can't pull out the right lobe of
                     your heart, tear it to pieces, stamp upon it, and hate it when it don't beat to
                     suit you? Suppose one of the hemispheres of your brain turns against you, and
                     instead of obeying the heart's call for blood, retains it till, stagnant, it
                     every moment threatens your life; what can you do about it? Can you fight the
                     ugly, selfish membrane, and compel it to do your bidding? What can
                     you do but to quietly lie down and die?
                  
                  Think of that, brave men, and braver women, when you are tempted to call people
                     "mean-spirited, slavish cowards, "because the limitations of our nature will
                     not allow them to fight the right or left rib of their own being.
                  If all this had happened before the process of soul-growth, begun in their
                     childhood partially, though not entirely suspended by their long separation,
                     had become perfected as it had during their late interview, you would have seen
                     how our gentle Eva would have arisen in all the majesty of outraged womanhood
                     to overcome and over-throw the foul betrayer of maidenly innocence. If I read
                     Eva Rosewell aright, she is not deficient either in womanly pride of character,
                     love of virtue, or hatred of vice. It is not the weakness of a deficient nature
                     that silences her tongue, that she utters no reproaches, that enfeebles her
                     heart that it can't hate, that stagnates her blood and hushes her pulse into a
                     deathlike stillness. It is the strength of Love. If I could think
                     it the weakness of nature that keeps her so quiet now, I should know she would
                     soon recover from this shock. But I have no hopes of this. And as her father
                     bears her cold, helpless, unresisting form into the home of her childhood, I
                     know, alas! all too well, what a weight of anguish and sorrow he bears with
                     her. It almost breaks her mother's heart to see the child whose presence always
                     brought sunshine and gladness to their happy home, whose bounding step always
                     brought life and electricity with it, so quiet, pale, and lifeless now. Her
                     step is the slow, uncertain motion of the traveler who fears he may be on the
                     top of a volcano, and knows not into what frightful abyss the next step may
                     plunge him! She trembles at the approach of man, and hides behind her mother's
                     chair, as though that were the only place of safety.
                  Since we last saw Mrs. Rosewell she has known much of sorrow and bereavement.
                     Her husband has been for months in the perilous guerrilla warfare that stained
                     the bordering counties of Missouri and Kansas with the blood of noble, brave
                     men and cowardly ruffians. During these awful times she had followed the
                     childish prattler, that made such sweet music in her almost empty house, to the
                     silent grave. Patiently, ay even joyously, she had gone back to her empty
                     house, and borne the heavy burdens of her daily lot. People wondered how Mrs.
                     Rosewell could be so cheerful, who endured so much.
                  But one day when a young man had come in to inquire about Frank and Tom, she
                     looked back of her chair and saw her once beautiful, gay, and brilliant
                     daughter crouching and cringing to the earth, as though she were begging it to
                     open and swallow her up, and save her from the sound of that name that was
                     scorching and withering every nerve and fibre of her being; her eyes wearing
                     that same strained, blood-shot look with which she first read that fatal paper.
                     The mother's heart fairly broke down beneath its awful load, and going to her
                     own room she fell to the floor and wept as though her eyes had become a
                     fountain of tears. She had heard nothing but Mr. Rosewell's version of the
                     story, and thus it came to her as the blackest, foulest crime of man,—the
                     betrayer. That boy that she had so loved, for whose welfare she had toiled and
                     prayed as though he were her own child; and this was her reward! Ah, how the
                     frightful words of Aunt Polly, that had so strangely startled her at the time,
                     rang through her ears now! Why had she been so foolish as to disregard that
                     warning voice?
                  After her mother had left her chair, as though running from the sound of that awful name, Eva had
                     jumped up and ran rapidly down the road till she got to that place forever
                     memorable as the place where Tom first took her to his heart,—the birthplace of
                     her love. She sat on the old stone where the fighting boys had accidentally
                     thrown her. Something seemed to chain her to this spot. The power of that
                     new-born love, transmitted through the long years, seemed to melt the frozen
                     currents of her being; her eyes lost somewhat of that vacant, stony gaze that
                     had made her look so pitiful, and she wept,—the first tears she had shed since
                     the serpent had crawled into her heart. Oh, blessed, blessed tears! How
                     thankful I am to see them coming so thick and fast!
                  Meanwhile Mrs. Rosewell had been aroused from her soul-struggling anguish by
                     the sound of angry voices in the yard outside. She got up and looked out of the
                     window, and saw two men who seemed to be engaged in a violent quarrel. She was
                     too much absorbed in her own grief to notice them particularly, but kept on
                     repeating Aunt Polly's awful words, "the destroyer of your children." "Oh,
                     heavens! of my husband too!" she shrieked out, as she flew through the open
                     door and got to the angry men, just in time to arrest the club that was
                     uplifted to take her husband's life.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  THE FUNERAL.
                  THE pain and anguish he had caused his mother in her last moments made Tom
                     doubly anxious to gratify every wish that he could; so he gave orders to his
                     attorney to have a deed made out at once, conveying the plantation and slaves,
                     and all that was there, except his horse, to his father. He wanted to sign it
                     before he started. The lawyer protested against it; Colonel Price was not fit
                     to hold property, it would all be in the hands of the gamblers before a month.
                     But what did a few thousand dollars signify to Tom when put into the balance
                     against his mother's wish? It was all the amends he could make for his cruel
                     words. The lawyer had to obey; and while he was filling out the blanks Tom
                     imagined that the soul of the woman that so loved his wretched father was near
                     him, smiling upon him.
                  But there was one who stood outside the room, listening at the key-hole, to
                     whom those words, the "gamblers will have all this property before a month,"
                     came freighted with an awful meaning. To the lawyer and his client it was
                     property changing hands; to that black chattel outside it was being sold to the
                     Southern trader (the particular torture of house-servants), it was all the
                     untold horrors of the auction-block.
                  It is astonishing what a power there is in personal danger to open our eyes to
                     our own guilt. Joseph's brethren had no conception of their "guilt concerning
                     their brother" until they supposed themselves facing death. So it was the
                     distant sight of the auction-block opened mammy's eyes to the guilt of wishing
                     her mistress out of the way.
                  "De poor dear lamb. 'Twa'n't hurtin' de Bible, as I knows on, for de dear lamb
                     to lay thar. She didn't eat 'nuff to keep a chicken libin'. Oh, it must be de
                     debil put up them ar niggers to wish de ole missus dead! And now de Lord's
                     goin' to pay 'm for 't by let'n 'm be sole tu de South. I neber can understan'
                     de ways ob de Lord. If I'd been in his place I'd a' kept de debil away. They's
                     nothin' but niggers, nohow."
                  Poor mammy's philosophy was not much more use to her in the hour of trial than
                     that of her wiser white brother. But if her philosophy was useless to her now,
                     her inventive genius served her a good turn, for without spending much time
                     trying to "understan' de ways ob de Lord," she set about trying to thwart his
                     purposes. She gathered a pile of clothing together just outside the hall door
                     where Tom and the lawyer were, and just as Tom had got the pen in his hand to
                     sign the fatal document there was a loud cry of fire, and the door burst open
                     by the excited woman showed the hall in flames. Both rushed out, and while they were gone the papers were slipped
                     into mammy's bag, where they were safe for the present.
                  The fire out, it was time for the funeral; and just as the negroes were all
                     assembled in their best clothes, "waitin' for de funeral to begin," mammy took
                     Tom one side and, with the look of the avenging angel commissioned to pour out
                     the vials of wrath, asked, "Do you know what 'riginated (mammy must have her
                     big words in) dat ar fire?"
                  "No," said Tom; "there had been no fire in the hall."
                  "'Twas de fire ob heben sent by de Lord hisself to 'xcute wrath on de wicked
                     lawyer and de wicked young massa (oh, what a withering look she gave him here!)
                     dat would dare to put his niggers in de hands ob de gambler to be sole South,
                     niggers as has never been sole out ob de family ob de ole col'nel, your
                     grandfather."
                  Mammy's eloquence was more effective than she had thought possible. For even
                     while she was talking Tom turned as pale as the corpse they were going to bury.
                     His quick thought had taken in the meaning of her words long before they were
                     out of her mouth. He looked over that large group of human chattels and thought
                     of his fine plans for improving their condition when he got to be their master,
                     and now in their dumb helplessness he was going to turn them over to the
                     merciless hand of the abominable, detested slave-trader. This was the result of
                     his noblest and best efforts to do what was right—to please his mother. Was
                     ever a man in such a strait before? It had always seemed such a simple, easy
                     thing to do right before. But, oh, the complex thing that right seemed to him
                     now! He looked at the brutish faces before him, and, oh, how he envied them
                     their stupidity!
                  The minister came, and went through the usual ceremonies for such occasions. He
                     talked wisely about the mysterious dispensation of Providence, offered the
                     usual consolation to the bereaved mourners. But Tom heard as one whose soul is
                     so absorbed in its own painful reflections that the ears are closed to all
                     earthly sounds. When the king himself is talking, who stops to listen to the
                     prattle of courtiers? The King of heaven was talking direct to Tom through
                     these awful providences, and he could not hear anything else. But one gleam of
                     hope remained, one precious comfort was his: Eva would know what was right, she
                     always did. She had always hated slavery and men, he could now see with what
                     reason. Oh, how his tempest-tossed heart went out in longing for her tender
                     sympathy in this his hour of darkness and sorrow!
                  The ceremony of putting "ashes to ashes" duly performed, he received the
                     condolence of his fashionable friends with the same seeming indifference he had
                     shown before. The girls that had flocked around him dressed in their best, to
                     make an impression, were piqued and angry at his coldness. But who shall tell
                     how much of real sympathy and genuine human tenderness were mixed in and
                     mingled with their frivolous thoughts about their dress, and their ambitious
                     desire to captivate that "handsome fellow"? For the credit of womanhood, let us
                     hope there was a great deal of these ingredients in that curious mixture, their
                     "feelings." Let us believe that as on their return home they cast such longing,
                     wistful glances toward the beautiful home Mrs. Price had just left, that they
                     desired to occupy it that they might bless its owner and become the proud
                     mothers of happy children. And if ever we are tempted to judge them or any
                     other of our erring fellow-men harshly, let us remember the judgment that Mr.
                     Rosewell and the old doctor pronounced upon Tom.
                  This meaningless performance over, the white people on their way home, Tom felt
                     the touch of a warm hand. He looked up and saw the tearful eyes of mammy's
                     pious husband.
                  "De dear, dear Lord bless de young massa and keep his soul from de
                     chill ob dis wicked world!"
                  That prayer seemed like holy oil poured over his troubled spirit, and with a
                     better feeling he mounted his horse and started for St. Louis. But where was
                     his father all this time? When his wife first died he looked upon her with the
                     same brutish stupidity he had shown through her sickness; but when he came to
                     look at her the next morning, the traces of the past sorrow seemed to have
                     faded out, and he beheld the beautiful girl he had led to the altar in the
                     better days of his manhood. How had he loved and cherished her? It
                     was no use to stop to think of himself,—no use to make vows of reformation. He
                     sickened with disgust at the thought
                     of the promises made to that woman before him,—made only to be broken. But
                     there was still one hope left. The great curse of his life had been a lack of
                     employment. Born in New England, and brought up with habits of tireless
                     industry, he went to Kentucky as the private tutor to a family of wealth. Here
                     it was that the proud belle of Louisville fell in love with him. At this time
                     he was a model of every manly virtue, but his virtue was of that negative kind
                     that results from an absence of temptation. Had he been put into the furnace
                     under different circumstances, he might have come out like gold purified in the
                     fire. But, a young man of twenty-one, he found himself the envied husband of a
                     wealthy heiress, whose beauty and wealth had been the coveted prize of so many
                     men far superior to him in wealth and position. As these could not rival him
                     they now determined to ruin him; besides, his temperance,
                     chastity, and varied learning was a continual standing reproof to their
                     intemperance, licentiousness, and sensuality; but, worst of all, his wife's
                     wealth left him nothing to do at a time when all his powers demanded activity.
                     Envy, malice, and idleness proved too much for him, and he went down,
                        down, DOWN, to this place of torment.
                  There was one ground of hope left to this miserable man. The war would furnish
                     him something to do. The restraints of a soldier's life would be a barrier to
                     drink. None but those that have felt in themselves what it is to sink below the
                     brutes can imagine how eagerly this poor man clutched at this straw of hope of
                     regaining his lost manhood, even as the drowning man clutches at any straw he
                     can see. With the decision and promptitude that belonged to his character, he
                     went straight to the recruiting-office and enrolled himself as a volunteer in
                     the Confederate army. As he left the office he met an old friend, who must
                     treat him in honor of such an event. At the sight of the fatal cup the undying
                     thirst of his stomach flamed up afresh, and the bell, tolling his wife's
                     funeral dirge, fell on the ears of her husband in a state of beastly
                     intoxication. But I ought not to disgrace the brutes by calling it beastly; it
                     was the intoxication of lost, lost, lost manhood!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  ARRIVED THERE.
                  TOM rode all night that he might get to the boat to take him to St. Louis in
                     time for the second-day morning train. During the night his horse's bridle was
                     caught by a ruffian, who demanded his purse. Tom clapped his hand into his
                     pistol-pocket, but lo! it was empty. Coming direct from his mother's funeral,
                     he had no weapons with him. He plunged his spurs into the sides of his horse;
                     the noble beast gave one mighty plunge; the ruffian lay sprawling on the
                     ground, and Tom was saved. At this time the country was infested with a whole
                     tribe of the ruffians that the Kansas-Missouri war had brought into the State.
                     Tom thought how careless it was of him to travel in such a place with no
                     weapons; but he could not wait to go home after them.
                  On the afternoon of the day in which Tom's friend called at Mr. Rosewell's to
                     inquire after him and Frank, a hungry, weary, care-worn, anxious traveler was
                     seen riding along the road that led to Mr. Rosewell's house. He stopped at an
                     inn that was but a short distance from the house to leave his horse.
                  "Thunder and lightning! Tom Price, is this you or your ghost?" exclaimed one
                     who had known him in other days. It was well that his mother's death screened
                     him from observation. The landlord, all politeness, urged him to have some
                     dinner; he had not eaten much since that fatal speech just as his mother died.
                     He thanked the man, who was an old friend of his boyhood, but refused. He never
                     could eat again till Eva's hand should put the food to his mouth. The strong
                     man was a child again, he must be fed by a woman's hand.
                  Arrived at Mr. Rosewell's, the old man met him at the gate. Tom felt his
                     spirits rise at the sight of the man; but he was Eva's father, and he should
                     treat him well. Tom was the first to speak.
                  
                  "And has the gentleman come to see the wreck he has made of my daughter?" was
                     Mr. Rosewell's reply.
                  Mr. Rosewell expected that the proud man would be angry and give him an answer
                     of defiance. But all that Tom extracted from the speech was that something was
                     the matter with Eva.
                  "Why, what's the matter? Is Eva sick?" he asked, turning a shade paler and
                     trembling with apprehension.
                  This look and appearance, so unlike the haughty, self-possessed Tom Price he
                     had always known, confirmed all of Mr. Rosewell's suspicions. "It was a
                     confirmation strong as holy writ." What but guilt of the deepest dye could make
                     that fiery Southerner, who had never taken an insult from mortal man, stand
                     pale and trembling in the presence of such insult and accusation? There had
                     been some doubt before, some possibility that he might be mistaken; Tom's looks
                     and actions cleared it all up. He had the proof now. And with the same look of
                     Satanic triumph with which he held the paper up before Eva's eyes, he
                     exclaimed:
                  "Vile seducer and betrayer! How dare you insult a father by asking after the
                     daughter you did your best to ruin? Where would she have been to-day if I
                     hadn't have come just in time to save her? And now you add in——"
                  Tom was very quick to take in a person's meaning, but it took him some time to
                     comprehend the meaning of what Mr. Rosewell said. But before he could finish
                     the last sentence he began to get a conception of what he meant. With the
                     agility of a panther he jumped upon him, and seized his throat just as the
                     "insult" was sticking in it. It never got out, for Tom held his windpipe as
                     though it had been in a vice.
                  "Liar! Villain! Scoundrel! Take that lie back or you are a deadman!"
                  There was no mistaking Tom's meaning. Mr. Rosewell looked in his face; he could
                     see nothing but his own doom in the flashing eye and firm-set lips of the man
                     that held him as a giant would a baby. Tom read his thoughts. Again the voice
                     of thunder:
                  "Liar! Take that foul lie back, or you are a dead man in one minute!"
                  His heart heavily laboring to throw out the blood accumulated there; his lungs
                     painfully struggling to throw off their poisonous load; his brain stifled with
                     blood that could not leave it; instant death staring him in the face, the poor
                     wretch began to realize that pouring his poisonous slander into the ears of Tom
                     Price was quite a different thing, as far as he was concerned, from pouring it
                     into the ears of his defenseless child. But he could not stand this choking any
                     longer. He made a motion to Tom that he wanted to be allowed to speak. Tom
                     loosened his grip so that a little air could get through.
                  "I beg—I beg——" whispered the miserable coward. He was conquered, and Tom, too
                     brave to hurt a fallen foe, let go his hold entirely. Mr. Rosewell thought to
                     take advantage of his liberty by running away without making confession. Tom
                     noticed the movement, and calling out in the same voice, "Take another step
                     away from me, and you are a dead man," he felt in his pocket for his pistol;
                     but, as the reader knows, it was not there. It was well that the pocket was
                     empty, for Mr. Rosewell had got under such headway running away that he could
                     not have stopped so short. And from the look on Tom's face I have no doubt but
                     he had kept his word.
                  He now seized a rail off the fence. It was short and small, and he handled it
                     as though it were a cane. Mr. Rosewell's running was soon stopped, and cringing
                     and trembling under the uplifted club, the mean wretch looked up and saw his
                     brave wife coming to the rescue. She threw herself between her husband and Tom,
                     and the blow aimed at his life fell harmless at her feet. Tom was now
                     confronted by the same look that in other days had pierced the heart and stayed
                     the hand of the murderous old Jones. But he did not quail before it; innocence
                     never quails before such a look as Mrs. Rosewell's. He was calmed, reassured,
                     and strengthened by it.
                  With the instinct of the lady, respectful in the presence of genuine manhood,
                     she inquired, "Will Mr. Price please tell me why he comes to take my husband's
                     life?"
                  Tom's heart was touched. Her sweetness and gentleness, her womanly strength and
                     fortitude, were more than a match for his indignant anger.
                  
                  As he stood clutching the throat of the vile slanderer that had so poisoned the
                     heart of his darling and blackened his own character, his face sublimely grand
                     as the personification of avenging justice, executing wrath and just
                     retribution upon the guilty man who, carrying "the poison of asps under his
                     lips," had stung the innocent and unsuspicious, I thought him a grand
                     representation of the wrath of an avenging god.
                  He was grand and awful when he confronted Mr. Rosewell; but it was a grandness
                     that carried death in its womb then. Now he is grand and good.
                     Insulted, outraged, suspected innocence comes down to the ground on a level
                     with guilt in deference to human weakness. They greatly mistake who suppose it
                     is brave for innocence to stand aloft, wrapped in the mantle of its own
                     perfection, and refuse explanation and defy criticism. Innocence doth so often
                     wear the garb of guilt that she should learn to be humble and gentle.
                  Tom's lip quivered; a moisture was in his eye as he said, "I never thought of
                     hurting your husband when I came here. But he came and took Eva away from me,
                     just as I had got her back again after so many years. And when I got so that I
                     could come after her,"—here his voice choked, and Mrs. Rosewell could see there
                     was something he did not tell,—"I rode night and day to find her. But just as I
                     got to the gate that vile wretch accused me of ruining his daughter,—my own
                     dear Eva, that I've always loved better than my own life."
                  He looked straight into Mrs. Rosewell's eyes. It was that same appealing,
                     wistful look his face had worn years ago when he had looked into hers and said,
                     "Ain't you going to give me a good-night kiss, too? Ain't I your boy now?"
                  That was the boy's look appealing to her motherly sympathy and love. This is
                     the look of the pure, virtuous man appealing to womanly trust and confidence in
                     man's virtue, as opposed to the suspicious distrust of integrity and virtue her
                     husband had shown.
                  The heart of Mrs. Rosewell believed him. But, alas! will the time ever come
                     when people shall be wise enough to trust their own hearts? I fear not until
                     they shall have become wise enough to trust each other. She hesitated. She was
                     so apt to act upon her impulses, without stopping to consult her judgment. All
                     this time her instincts were trying to make themselves heard. She must believe
                     him; it was a sin to be so suspicious; and but for one little circumstance I
                     think her faith would have triumphed, and Tom and her daughter been saved. And
                     what do you think it was, dear reader, that turned the scale against this young
                     man? Why, it was the trepidation of his manner and evident determination to
                     hold something back at that point of the story when he told of her father
                     taking Eva away from him.
                  Oh, heavens! Shall we ever learn better than to select the vilest and poorest
                     attire that can be made to fit a person's actions, and dress them up in it? I
                     fear not until we learn to do just as we would be done by. Why couldn't she
                     just as easily have imagined some good and reasonable excuse to account for
                     Tom's delay as the one she did?
                  In this world of disappointments, accidents, and deaths, it is not so very hard
                     to think of causes that might detain a man against his will. And why must she
                     needs conjure up an image of guilt, confronting and scaring him, to account for
                     the tremulousness of his voice? Are there no powers but guilt and fear that can
                     make one turn pale and tremble, or blush and look down?
                  Mrs. Rosewell is the last person I had ever expected to see guilty of this
                     great crime against human nature. From what I know of her I had been led to
                     expect that she would have frankly held out her hand to Tom, told him she
                     believed in him, and asked him to explain what seemed dark concerning that
                     writing. But, alas! it is very hard to live and sleep in a coal-mine, wearing a
                     white dress, and never get it soiled. Harder still for the soul to breathe the
                     foul air of suspicion that vitiates the atmosphere of this life of ignorance
                     and blindness, and not have the soul tainted by it!
                  Tom read distrust and fear in Mrs. Rosewell's looks, and it pierced him to the
                     heart. His mother had shrunk from him in her last moments, and now the dear
                     friend that had been more than a mother to him distrusted him. Weakened by long fasting and anxious watching
                     and impatient delay, the reaction from the late terrible excitement just
                     setting in, he felt too weak to endure more. He longed to throw himself at Mrs.
                     Rosewell's feet, as he had in childhood gone to his mother with his childish
                     griefs, and beg her to pity him and take him to Eva. I wish he had done so. But
                     her manner wasn't calculated to inspire such confidence, and he was too proud
                     to stoop to beg it. She wanted to speak to him; but she feared to tell him she
                     believed him, and she didn't know what else to say.
                  The old man was thankful enough for a chance to keep still. All he
                     asked was to be let alone.
                  With a sickening sensation of disappointed hope Tom turned to go into the
                     house. His mother and Mrs. Rosewell against him, he must go to Eva. But what
                     was it that pierced his heart as though the cold steel had entered it? This
                     thought: "What if Eva should distrust me? What if she should be cold to me?
                     Merciful heavens, spare me this blow! I can't bear it!"
                  And as the frightened child tries to run away from its own shadow, Tom tried to
                     run away from that thought. He dare not go into the house to see her, lest it
                     should become a reality. In his boyish days mammy had often inflamed his
                     childish imagination by telling him frightful stories of ghosts and hobgoblins,
                     so well known to the negroes. His system was just in that state now that would
                     cause a recurrence of these frightful bugbears to his inflamed imagination.
                  He was positively afraid of meeting Eva, lest her coldness should unman him. He
                     must walk awhile, collect his scattered senses, and be strong again. So he
                     walked rapidly down the road in the same direction that Eva had gone a little
                     before. Too much astonished to speak, too much puzzled to know what to think of
                     this, Mrs. Rosewell stood silently watching the retreating figure. When he was
                     at a safe distance, Mr. Rosewell made up faces at his back, and said, "There,
                     what'd I tell you? You couldn't hardly believe me! Does an
                     innocent man run like that?"
                  Tom seemed to gain strength by contact with the same ground he had trod when he
                     was strong and brave. He could walk straight and firm now. He ran against
                     something, against the old stone. A sweet, pale face, wet with tears, met his.
                     Another low cry of joy, and again Tom Price clasps to his bosom the loved form
                     of Eva Rosewell.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  THE GREAT CONFLICT.
                  "WELL, well! Is this all? Is this the end? A little while ago Eva was all but
                     gone up, for jealousy and fear of Tom. She nearly died because her father told
                     her he didn't want to marry her. She hides behind her mother's chair when his
                     name is spoken, and when her mother gets up she jumps up, runs into the woods,
                     sits down by a stone, and begins to cry. Tom happens to stumble over her, and
                     she grabs him before he can get away."
                  My dear, thoughtless reader, you who are too lazy or too nice to go down into
                     the lowest depths of our being, where, in the dark caverns of the soul, passion
                     holds her court, and from thence sends out her edicts of death and damnation;
                     all ye who think that art is too sanctified to portray the struggles and paint
                     the passions of the human soul; all ye who would have the story-teller follow
                     the example of the pulpit and platform, and make out and sign a
                        quit-claim deed of the seventh commandment, "with all the
                     appendages and appurtenances thereunto belonging," in favor of the
                     old-fashioned Jews, I pray you read this chapter no farther. Read the words at
                     the head, and pass on.
                  For the time being the overpowering sensation of his presence held
                     every other thought, feeling, or purpose in abeyance, and Eva's soul is
                     thrilling and vibrating with the same wondrous, divine joy that gave us so much
                     delight to witness a few days ago.
                  Well, honestly, were not we a little extravagant in our talk about that poison that her father poured
                     into her ears a little while ago? Could not our sympathies have been given
                     where they were more needed? To look at Eva resting so sweetly in the arms of
                     her lover, does it not seem as though there was some ground for the sneer of
                     the critic that opens this chapter? Certainly there is, if this be all. If that
                     poison we talked about left no more impression than this, and she goes to his
                     arms as confidingly as ever, it was as harmless as bread-pills. But we must
                     hold our judgment in suspense till we see the end. It would not be wise for the
                     traveler to make up his mind he was out of danger because he no longer heard
                     the sound of the rattlesnake. The snake, coiling up for the fatal plunge, does
                     not rattle,—he is very quiet. Thus with the snake in Eva's heart. It was biding
                     its time. Tom felt a shudder pass over and through the frail thing he held to
                     his heart; then a convulsive effort to release herself from his embrace. He
                     unclasped his arms, and held her out so he could look into her face. It had the
                     appearance of one stifled for want of breath,—as though the lungs were
                     smothering under some outside pressure. Her tongue, protruding from her mouth,
                     was making the motions of speech, but no sound escaped those purple lips. Her
                     blood-shot eyes looked frightful beyond description. Tom was scared. "My own
                     darling, what can be the matter? Did I hold you too tight? Oh, speak to me,
                     Eva!" No sound; but she turned her face from him, and motioned for him to leave
                     her. She could not bear the sight. Tom was now really alarmed. "Dear, dear Eva,
                     do tell me what's the matter! Are you choking? What does ail you?" No answer.
                     He could not see now whether she was trying to speak or not. Her face was still
                     turned from him.
                  "You'll drive me mad if you turn away from me that way. I can't endure it from
                        you. I'd rather you'd plunge a dagger in my heart than turn
                     away from me in this way," said Tom.
                  He spoke with such deep feeling that there was a force in his words that
                     carried them direct to her heart and awakened new emotions. Tom was suffering,
                     and her heart bounded to the rescue with a force that gave a new impetus to her
                     blood, and she breathed more freely. She turned her face back and looked into
                     his eyes. Oh, what a look of tender sympathy and pitying love was that! What a
                     revelation of the woman's soul,—all love and tenderness! So piteous it was,
                     too, in its silent reproof for his sin, and sorrowful hope of his repentance.
                     It was such a look as the Saviour might have given the unhappy woman whom the
                     Jews brought to him that he might judge her.
                  Tom was puzzled. What could it mean? One moment she turns her face from him, as
                     though his presence was suffocation; the next she turns and looks at him as
                     though her heart were dissolved in love and tenderness. He could not understand
                     her; no more did she understand herself. He was afraid to speak lest he should
                     break the spell. It was so precious to have Eva by him and look at him so
                     tenderly. And yet there was something in that look against which his heart
                     rebelled. He could not tell why, he did not like to have her look
                     at him that way, so he hid her face on his shoulder with the caressing fondness
                     of the accepted lover. But Eva's feelings for him now were of a very different
                     nature from those that delight in such caresses as are the joy of perfect
                     loves. Again she struggled to free herself from him; again she turned her head
                     from him, as though the sight of him was too painful for her to endure. This
                     was more than he could bear.
                  "Eva, if you want to kill me, you can keep on acting this way; but if you want
                     to save me, turn your head back and tell me what ails you! I can't endure this
                     any longer; you must speak!"
                  He spoke earnestly and passionately, as one whose fate was trembling in the
                     balance. She turned her head back again, her sorrowful eyes bent on his face.
                     She began to speak.
                  "Oh, Tom, how I did——"
                  Her voice faltered, but something in her look had chilled his blood. He bent
                     his head close to her ear, and in a voice hushed to whispers by the intensity
                     of his feeling, he exclaimed:
                  "For God's sake, Eva, tell me the truth! Do you love me?"
                  
                  His breath was so hot it seemed to scorch her cheek. She shrank farther away
                     from him. He looked into her face with the same strained gaze and
                     soul-consuming eagerness with which she had looked at that paper.
                     It was a riddle he could not solve. He thought she was trying to hide her
                     feelings and puzzle him by the contradictions on her face. It appeared so
                     simply because her face was so transparent that it revealed all the conflicting
                     emotions of her soul. He read her backwards.
                  "Eva Rosewell,"—his voice was stern and full of purpose now,—"if this is a
                     trifling matter to you it is not to me. I may be a fool to tell you so, I may
                     be a slave to have it so; but it is the truth, and I can't alter it,—God knows
                     how hard I've tried!—that you hold my destiny in your hands. On your answer to
                     that question is hung all my hopes of happiness in this world and in the world
                     to come; for heaven would be hell without you! And now I will have no more
                     evasion or shuffling. As God is your judge and mine, answer me truly: Do you
                     love me, or do you not?"
                  Eva felt herself confronted by a will she was powerless to resist. She felt
                     herself bound to Tom by a force as indissoluble as that which makes the soul an
                     indivisible whole; while she was held still, as though her heart were
                     paralyzed, by the coils of the serpent she could in no wise free herself from.
                     In this helpless, distracted state she was confronted by the visage of a
                     strong, powerful man, demanding, in the most imperative tones of supreme
                     authority, to know whether she loved him or not, when the poor child did not
                     know any more about it than he did, if indeed she knew as much. She knew her
                     heart was breaking for him; she knew it was torture to be with him, and worse
                     than death to be without him. But how was she going to know whether this was
                     love or not? And here she was commanded to give an answer without a moment's
                     delay.
                  Was ever a poor maiden in such a state of extremity before? Poor Eva! my heart
                     pities you, but you must not think your case is at all singular. It is natural
                     for one smarting with the pain of a first burn to think no one was ever burnt
                     like that before. If so, how could they ever be happy in a world of so much
                     fire? Nevertheless they live to see themselves tolerably comfortable, in spite
                     of the fact that the earth is filled with wood and coal. But, spite of all the
                     comfort to be extracted from the fact that people always have got burned, and
                     always will, the smart is there. All the suffering that love ever
                     has or ever can inflict upon its victims did not make it any easier for Tom and
                     Eva to bear theirs. It did not make it any easier for him to wait for the
                     answer to that awful question; it did not in the least help her to answer
                     it.
                  But, ah, she has one resource left,—the last and greatest resource of
                     womanhood. If she cannot do anything else, she can cry; and cry
                     she does, with all her might. Tom looked at her with undisguised contempt.
                     Could that be the object he was ready to part with his soul to obtain? Was this
                     the being that had enslaved him? Verily, he ought to exchange places with his
                     own niggers and become their slave. "They are more fitted to take care of
                     themselves than I am."
                  Eva knew that Tom was angry with her. She knew, when he tried to caress and
                     kiss her, she pulled herself away; and now that he was angry with her, she
                     nestled up to him, put her cheek up to his, and in her own soft, sweet,
                     pleading tones, said, "Kiss me, Tom." How ridiculous!
                  But what should Tom do but kiss her? I have no doubt but this weakness made him
                     think more than ever that he ought to change places with his niggers. But, oh,
                     it was so sweet! It seemed as though there were honey enough in the kiss to
                     take the bitter all out of the humiliation. But this was a problem too deep and
                     dark to be solved by a tear and a kiss. All that Eva gained by this strategy,
                     if strategy it was, was a little more time. That awful question confronted her
                     still. The dark eyes still pierced her; the answer to the question
                     as far off as ever.
                  Tom's face, as he watched the trembling girl, was well worthy of study. It is
                     seldom one has an opportunity of witnessing the effect of such a strange
                     combination of strong passion, devout love, and haughty pride, mingled with childlike humility and manly
                     tenderness, covered over with indignant contempt, as was revealed in his face.
                     Every time he would press the question, she would nestle close to his side, and
                     every time he tried to press her closer to his heart, she turned away with the
                     same sickening look she wore at first. What wonder that, at last, his patience
                     gave out, and he said, with all the firmness he could muster:
                  "It is about time this child's play should end. I have given you all the love a
                     man can give the girl he would make his wife. In return I beg for
                     your love. You turn away from me with a coldness that chills my very
                     life-blood. As I have a right to do, I demand to know if you love me, and you
                     try to put me off with a kiss! That won't answer with me, Eva. This is too
                     serious a matter. I will give you five minutes to answer in. If, during that
                     time, you make up your mind that you love me, and want to be my wife, no power
                     in God's world shall separate us; if you say no, I will leave you forever."
                  He took out his watch, laid it on the stone, and sat with hands folded,
                     intently watching her, as the prisoner at the bar watches the looks of the
                     foreman of the jury that holds his life in their hands. But if he can make
                     anything out of her face, he can do better than I can. All that I can see is
                     stupid amazement, tremulousness, and fright.
                  Tom begins to fear that somehow he has made a mistake. Perhaps he has been too
                     harsh; though he does not see how he could have been any more tender. As the
                     time is nearly gone, and still she sits and neither moves nor speaks, he
                     reaches out his arms, and says to her, "Eva, darling, will you come to me? will
                     you be mine?"
                  Oh, the intense interest of that moment! How little either of the actors in
                     this drama realized what hung upon the next step! Eva's heart gave such a bound
                     towards him that it seemed as though it would take her straight to his
                     outstretched arms; but, alas! like the caged bird, it fell back. Its prison
                     walls were made of iron. She fell on the ground and began to cry. Poor,
                     helpless thing! Tom was more bewildered than ever. What could it mean? He
                     raised her tenderly in his arms, kissed away her tears, and tried to soothe
                     her. When she was again quiet, he looked into her eyes and said, with the old
                     tones that always thrilled her so, "Will you stay here, Eva? May I always keep
                     you close to my heart, my own darling?"
                  A look of untold anguish passed over her face, a cold shudder through her
                     frame, as she said, "Oh, would to God I could stay here! But I can't, I
                        can't! Something chokes me here, and takes away my breath! I
                     can't live here!"
                  She made a convulsive effort to free herself. He made no effort to retain her.
                     A deeper pang than had ever reached the heart of Tom Price seized it now. It
                     took away his breath so he couldn't speak. When he had recovered his voice he
                     spoke to her again; but there was none of the old authority or sternness in his
                     looks or manner now.
                  "Then my little Eva don't love me any more?" Whereat she began to cry harder
                     than ever.
                  "Oh, Tom, don't say that! don't say that! It kills me to hear you talk so. Pray
                     don't!"
                  A ray of hope flitted across his pale face. What if after all she did love
                     him?
                  "Well, Eva, if you will just tell me that you love me. It's all I ask for."
                  "Oh, Tom, don't ask me that awful question again! I can't answer it. I don't
                     know whether I love you or not."
                  Tom was utterly confounded. The ways of a woman seemed as dark and mysterious
                     to him as did "de ways ob de Lord" to his ignorant slave. Here was this man
                     that understood all sciences, was well versed in ancient and modern literature,
                     could read Latin and Greek as though they were his mother tongue, and yet he
                     stood before this girl, on whom all his hopes of happiness depended, as utterly
                     ignorant and unable to spell out the first letters of her strange conduct as
                     the African bushman to read history. And here was this wise graduate of a
                     ladies' seminary periling her own happiness and the eternal happiness of the
                     man she loved better than her own
                     soul, through sheer ignorance of the simplest laws of our being.
                  Well! well! It is no use either to ridicule or blame them. The best thing we
                     can do for them is to help them as far as we may to understand themselves. Now,
                     what was the reason that Eva couldn't tell whether she loved Tom or not? What
                     was it that made his heart rebel against that pitying look of
                     hers?
                  She couldn't answer his question, for the same reason that no man knows the
                     exact time in which his soul began to exist or his body dies. We would think it
                     ridiculous to demand of a dying man to know whether he was dead or not, and
                     then punish him for not answering. Behold the mystery of Eva's conduct!
                  Impurity, unchastity, is the death of sexual love. This is the one unpardonable
                     sin that cannot be forgiven unto man or woman in this world, perhaps not in the
                     world to come. Impurity becomes the unpardonable sin against love, for the same
                     reason that we have already explained that blaspheming the Holy Ghost and
                     suspicious unbelief are the two sins against God and man that can never be
                     forgiven.
                  Sexual love is a vital principle, a living organism, whose work it is to
                     connect the two parts, or factors of manhood,—man and woman,—together, making a
                     complete whole, exactly as the spiral column connects the two halves of the
                     human body, making a symmetrical vital whole. Impurity vitiates and destroys
                     the integrity of this vital union. For this reason love ever has and ever must
                     maintain a position of deadly antagonism to impurity. I know there are plenty
                     of women that will tell us, "Oh, it is useless to expect men to be as pure as
                     women. We must make allowance for their natures," etc. etc.
                  Oh, miserable fools are ye all! Can your puny hands reach the eternal throne of
                     God and alter his nature? Can your silly excuses compel him to
                     forgive the sin against the Holy Ghost,—the crime that transforms him into
                     Beelzebub, the prince of devils? Can your blind ignorance make the human soul
                     cease its deadly opposition to that suspicious unbelief that destroys the
                     integrity of its being, and transforms good into evil? When ye have done all
                     this, and not before, may ye lift up your weak women's hands and implore love
                     to forgive impurity. In as far then as Tom's impurity was a reality to Eva, her
                     love for him was dead. Woman cannot love a libertine.
                  "Now we have you!" says one. "Women do love bad men; and cling to
                     them till the very last."
                  Not quite so fast, impatient critic. Is it licentiousness she loves, or the man
                     on whom this malignant cancer has fastened itself? Now mark the limitation of
                     this law of unpardonable sin. For, like the centrifugal force of the earth, it
                     has continually to encounter the centripetal force of faith and forgiving love.
                     Without this opposite force modifying its action, thus keeping mankind in their
                     natural orbit, men would gravitate towards hell with a velocity equal to that
                     with which the earth, left to itself, would fly into the realms of chaos.
                  It is most extraordinary, that with all the anxious thought and deep attention
                     that men have given to that text on the unpardonable sin, they have never
                     noticed that Christ in no wise declares there is any possibility of a man
                     sinning so that he cannot be forgiven in this world or the world to come. He
                     distinctly asserts that it is the sin that cannot be forgiven unto him. There
                     was a wide difference between the inquiring, devout Jews that attended upon
                     Christ's ministry because of their deep interest in religion, and that ignorant
                     blindness that caused them to imagine that the unseen power that the devils
                     obeyed was Beelzebub, their prince. So there is a wide difference between that
                     suspicious distrust of our fellow-men, which is the outgrowth of our experience
                     of their deceitfulness and meanness, and the kind, loving heart, that for lack
                     of deep insight into the secret recesses of the soul, and a wide, comprehensive
                     knowledge of the contradictory elements of our being, is led to suppose that
                     selfishness, not love, is the motor power of life. The persecuting Jew, by the
                     light that comes from heaven, can discover that it is his own Lord whom he has
                     thought an impostor, and thus attain forgiveness; the child of man, as taught
                     by love, may learn to recognize his brother and be forgiven; the unchaste may repent of their abominations and be
                     forgiven. In all these cases the man may be forgiven; the sin, never.
                  If I had only known this simple truth in my younger days it would have saved me
                     a world of trouble. What awful fears have tortured my childish soul, lest,
                     without knowing it, I had committed the "unpardonable sin"! And, oh, what a
                     world of trouble poor Eva might have saved herself and Tom if she had
                     understood this simple law of love! She would not have thought it her duty to
                     give Tom up and run from him even if vice had fastened herself upon him. She
                     would have joined her powers to the power of his higher and better nature, and,
                     with the help of their Father in heaven, they would have overcome the evil. Ah,
                     Eva, with all of your wisdom learned at the schools, you are not half as wise
                     as you were when love was your only teacher; that time, you remember, when you
                     thought Tom was a bad boy, and it was your duty to run away from him, but
                     instead of which you let him take you right to his arms and kiss you, and you
                     kissed him. Again she thinks he is a bad man, and she must run away from
                     him.
                  "Oh, Tom, I must go! I can't stay here any longer! You've got to be a bad man,
                     and I am afraid of you!" she said, rising to go. "If you'd only tried to kill
                     me, I wouldn't have cared. I believe I could have loved you just the same. But
                     that—that—oh, it is too awful! I wasn't your wife, and it was so wicked of you!
                     Oh, what should I have done if pa hadn't come and took me away?"
                  Pale as death, and trembling with fright, she tried to run, but Tom held her as
                     in a vice. Her safety now lies not in her own strength or fleetness: it depends
                     entirely upon whether Tom gets the mastery over himself or not. In his blood is
                     the concentrated fire of the southern sun. His quick thought taking in the full
                     meaning of Mr. Rosewell's suspicion, as it showed itself in her strange
                     conduct, set his whole being ablaze. The fire of passion threatened to consume
                     his honor, purity, and all that manhood holds dear, even as the powder magazine
                     from the fire that follows the match set to it.
                  "By the very God that made us, you are my wife, and I'll have you spite of all
                     the Yankee devils on the earth!"
                  It was not Tom Price that spoke now. It was passion using his tongue. Eva
                     struggled with all her little strength to get away from him. With a devilish
                     sneer, passion continues:
                  "Oh, the little bird needn't beat itself against the cage; she can't get away.
                     Mr. Rosewell's little virgin is caught at last!"
                  "My own, dear, noble Tom! How wicked of pa to say such bad things of you! And
                     you so good! It was too bad. Dear, dear boy! My own Tom!" She nestled right up
                     to his heart like a dove to its mate, and looked up into his eyes as though he
                     really were the dearest, purest, and best of all creation.
                  In this world of strange things and unlooked-for events, was there ever
                     anything more unaccountable than such conduct as hers? If I didn't know her
                     better, I should say she was a heartless coquette, using the power she had over
                     that man's heart to make him miserable. Look at the inconsistency of her
                     conduct. When Tom took her to himself, with feelings of the deepest love and
                     tenderness, not a thought of evil in his mind, she turns from him with
                     repulsive disgust. When her suspicious distrust has put thoughts into his mind
                     that, acting like a torch applied to the inflammable material of his blood, set
                     his being all ablaze, she looks up into his face as harmless as a dove, tells
                     how good and pure he is, curls up to his side, and goes to sleep.
                  "The wind bloweth where it listeth, and we hear the sound thereof, but cannot
                     tell whence it cometh nor whither it goeth." But it would seem a less hopeless
                     task to foretell and account for the freaks of the wind than to account for a
                     woman's freaks, and foretell what she was going to say or do next. But there is
                     no effect without a cause, and there must be some adequate cause for this
                     strange freak of Eva's. At first I thought it might have its source in that
                     instinct of self-preservation by which poisoned animals seek just the antidote
                     for that particular poison, and by which others are enabled, by skillful
                     manœuvres, to throw their adversaries off the track and save themselves. This skillful
                     appeal to his better nature—thus stimulating and giving increased activity and
                     power to his moral faculties—was the only antidote for the mischievous effects
                     of the poison her father had given her. It was their only salvation. And
                     again,-it might be due to the unconscious efforts of her nature to throw off
                     the poison having at last succeeded. We know, in the first convulsive efforts
                     of her heart to throw off suspicion, it failed. So does the system often fail
                     in its first efforts to throw off disease; but the life-force, beaten back but
                     not discouraged, keeps steadily at its work, and a fever is the result. After a
                     time the life-force gains on the poison of disease, and the fever turns, and
                     the poison is expelled the system.
                  Suspicion is a fever that has to run its course. It is the scarlet fever of the
                     soul, to which it is peculiarly liable, in the earlier stages of its growth and
                     development, as scarlatina and measles belong to childhood. Perhaps with Eva it
                     was time for the fever to turn, and the stimulus of Tom's presence might have
                     helped turn it. By that wondrous facility with which organisms absorb that
                     which is essential to their natures and reject the rest, her mental
                     consciousness absorbed that which was good and essential to her happiness, and
                     rejected the rest. All of Tom's speech that she took in and digested was the
                     simple fact that God had made her his wife, and her father could not get her
                     away from him again. She was safe then, and why should not she be easy? tired,
                     and why should not she rest? sleepy, and why should not she go to sleep?
                  If any reader is tempted to call her a stupid sleepyhead for this, they must
                     remember the girl had not had one moment's sleep since the night before her
                     father showed her that fatal paper. It is true a kind of paralytic stupor had
                     been hers most of the time, but this is as far removed from natural sleep as
                     the numbness that follows a lesion of the spinal nerve is from refreshing rest.
                     Ask any physician if he would not rejoice to see one of his patients thus
                     affected in a good, refreshing sleep? If he were not thankful for such a sight,
                     it would be simply because he wanted to keep up his visits.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  THE GREAT CONFLICT—CONTINUED.
                  HE is not a brave man, but a fool, that will take his sword, stand his ground,
                     and fight the subtle, venomous little serpents that, by reason of their
                     littleness, can sting and poison a man unawares. Rapid flight becomes the only
                     true bravery when a man is attacked by such enemies. So there are serpents that
                     attack our moral being, so subtle and poisonous, which, by reason of their
                     littleness, can attack us in such numbers that we are not brave, but fools, if
                     we stop to contend with them at all. Our only safety lies in following the
                     advice of the wise man and fleeing from them.
                  Such were the enemies that attacked Tom as Eva lay sleeping in his arms. With
                     all the ardor of passionate desire, his whole being cried out for her. She was
                     his. God had given her to him—the one being whose influence had had power to
                     curb his fiery temper and save him from evil. Had not he a right to take her?
                     Was not it mean of him to let her go back to that old devil, her father, when
                     she had come and put herself into his hands? "Oh, Eva! can I ever give you up
                     again? Can I ever let you get away again? What does it signify that some old
                     fool of a justice or minister has never pronounced us married? By God's laws we
                     are married, and I have a right to you. Old Seward says the 'higher law' is
                     greater than the Constitution, and so it is greater than the ceremony. It isn't
                     my fault that the ceremony has never been performed. Am I to suffer this way
                     because he stole her away from me?"
                  All this time "the fire in the blood" was burning with purpose-consuming fury.
                     Would it be wise of any mortal man to stand his ground and fight such enemies
                     as these? The deepest love, all-consuming passion, the sanctions of the higher
                     law, all pleading on one side; and opposed to them, the consent of her father whom he hated,
                     and the trifling formalities of a marriage ceremony. Does it need the wisdom of
                     a seer or prophet to foretell the result of such a conflict?
                  The great crisis in his life-history has now come. This is the great conflict
                     for which the whole of his former experience seems to have been preparing him.
                     For what are these torturing conflicts between passion and purity, between
                     honor and shame, but the birth throes of refined manhood? The next hour shall
                     decide the question whether Tom Price shall take his place in history by the
                     side of Solomon, Mark Antony, Lord Byron, Aaron Burr, or whether he shall stand
                     as an inspiring, helpful example for the tempted ones of earth to look at and
                     learn they can conquer themselves.
                  Ah, yes! Tom is on that great battle-field of life where the bleaching bones,
                     the empty skulls, the open, ghastly jaws of the millions that have already
                     perished here, as well as the millions of slowly mortifying wretches whose
                     diseased bodies still breathe but live no more, tell us such a heart-rending
                     story of the fearful ravages that passion has made in the ranks of the dead as
                     well as the living. Passion has been the blight of the past as well as the
                     present, the fatal mildew that has fallen upon the fairest and noblest of God's
                     work. None but a tropical nature like Tom's, so rich in all that adorns,
                     ennobles, and beautifies manhood, could be so tempted, so tried. The proud
                     ship, sailing so gayly and fearlessly along, has suddenly, and without the
                     least warning struck upon the very rock upon which David, the grandest and
                     sweetest of all the Old Testament characters, wrecked his manhood, and from the
                     dizzy heights of poetry and the first throne of power sunk down, down to the
                     lowest humiliation of dust and ashes.
                  Confronted by this awful spectacle of the dead, forbidden by the immortality of
                     their sins to die and be forgotten, of the living dying daily of their own
                     corruptions yet doomed to the same retributive immortality, "ever dying and yet
                     forbid to die," what wonder if we watch this struggle of Tom Price with the
                     most agonized interest?
                  The field of blood may become the birthplace of a nation, this field of
                     conflict may become the birthplace of manhood. Which is the most important?
                     That noble band of Spartans fought, bled, and died that Greece might be saved.
                     She was saved from the power of her enemy, only to be consumed by the internal
                     foes of her own licentiousness.
                  We shall have to be convinced that a nation is worth saving before we take any
                     great interest in the battle that decides her fate. The nations of Southern
                     Europe had become so debauched and weakened by physical excesses that a mere
                     handful of Christians subverted their empires, overturned their thrones, and
                     converted their idol temples into places of Christian worship. So widespread
                     was the disease, so subtle its poison, that the historian tells us that during
                     the first centuries of Christianity its main efforts were directed to the task
                     of cultivating and enforcing personal purity. The mistaken idea that continence
                     was purity gave birth to that gigantic system of monasteries, which was the
                     peculiar outgrowth of this convulsive, long-continued struggle of mankind to
                     free itself from the fatal incubus of passion. But the history of Southern
                     Europe from then till now gives painful evidence that it is very difficult for
                     southern fire and personal purity to go together. But with the introduction of
                     Northern Puritanism into the Southern States of this Union, may we not hope for
                     a better result?
                  Let us see how Tom comes out, before deciding that question. He has wisely
                     decided to hold no controversy with passion. In an open fight she is sure to
                     win. The fire once kindled cannot be put out. But there is one consolation: if
                     this indeed be the "unquenchable fire," it soon burns itself out. The
                     combustible material in the blood is soon consumed. But, of course, Tom does
                     not know this. No one in the fire knows how long it is going to last. But in
                     reality the victory is won when the will takes the side of purity. It is
                     because Tom's will is undecided that we tremble for him. But one thing he is
                     decided on. He will never be the slave of passion; if he takes the downward
                     course, it will be because he chooses it, not because he is forced into it. He
                     will be an Aaron Burr, not the weak
                     Mark Antony each moment repenting of what he did the minute before. This is a
                     question to be decided on its merits, not by any sudden impulse of feeling.
                  He lays the sleeping girl quietly down on the ground, takes off his overcoat
                     and wraps it around her, and goes alone by himself, as Christ went into the
                     desert to be tempted of man's great adversary, passion. The flames have now
                     forced themselves into the higher realm of his being, and here the conflict is
                     truly awful. Shall he take Eva, now that circumstances have thrown her so
                     completely into his hands, or shall he let her go, and run the risk, through
                     her fickleness,—and, oh, how fickle she seemed to him!—of losing her
                     forever?
                  When passion appeared in her own garb, demanding instant gratification, he was
                     wise enough to flee from her. But now that she had transformed herself into an
                     angel of light, with what weapons should he contend with her? Eva was his, the
                     darling of his heart. Without her life was valueless. But she was so childish,
                     and easily influenced by her father, that she did not know her own mind from
                     one moment to another. In the seclusion and quiet of his own home, where he
                     would take her, she would come to him of her own accord, as she had on the
                     cars, as she did when they were both children. Was it not his duty to save her
                     from herself and her wicked, deceitful father? Was ever mortal man's will
                     called upon to throw its weight into scales more evenly balanced than
                     these?
                  The struggle was long and fearful; the cold sweat stood all over him. Oh, the
                     anguish of that moment wherein he must decide which he would give
                     up, Eva or his own honor! For, spite of all disguises, he knew this was the
                     real question at issue. In this awful extremity he turned his longing eyes to
                     the place where he had left the sleeping girl; it might be she could help him.
                     Oh, how—if we may speak of Him on the same page—did the struggling Man in the
                     garden look and seek for human faces to look upon, for human hearts to
                     sympathize with him in his hour of darkness and trial! But, alas! the sleeping
                     disciples make the loneliness more awful. To the others is added the bitter
                     cry, "What, could ye not watch with me one hour?"
                  Tom finds Eva still sleeping. The full moon shining in her face reveals a being
                     of exquisite loveliness; lovely not merely because of its symmetry of form,
                     delicate outlines, and blooming youth, but lovely because of the beautiful soul
                     shining through it. The words, "I won't give her up," were almost out of his
                     mouth, when he suddenly checked himself and ran away. He was not to be forced
                     into a decision against his better judgment.
                  The sight of her, instead of helping him, increased his trial an hundredfold.
                     Where should his tempest-tossed heart look for succor now? The strong man wants
                     help outside of himself. What does ail the girl, that she does not wake up in
                     this awful moment, when the fate of the man she loves is trembling in the
                     balance? To account for the sleepiness of the disciples during that momentous
                     hour when the world's fate was in the balance, people have supposed that the
                     prince of darkness had somehow stupefied them. I can easily believe that old
                     Beelzebub himself has stupefied her, that she sleeps thus during such a soul
                     crisis! What if she has not slept for two weeks? Interests lasting as eternity,
                     immortal as God himself, are pending the decisions of this hour. But, alas! may
                     it not be as true of each and every one of us, as of the one of whom the poet
                     sings, "Our Saviour must contend alone"?
                  But if Eva cannot help him, help is coming from a quarter where it was least
                     expected. That prayer of mammy's pious husband—forgotten in the wild tumult of
                     feeling—comes back now clothed in a new meaning: "De dear, dear Lord bless de
                     young massa, and keep him from de ebil ob dis wicked world!" That simple
                     prayer, coming into the scale at this critical time, turned the balance on the
                     side of honor and purity, and Tom Price is saved. The simple faith of that
                     untaught negro supplied the missing link in the chain that bound his soul to
                     the eternal powers of good, and made the strength of God his. He is a free man
                     now.
                  He walked back to the still sleeping girl, and, looking tenderly upon her sweet face, exclaimed: "You
                     can sleep on now, dear Eva, as long as you like. You are safe now; you need
                     never run from me again." He lays his face beside hers; the fires of passion
                     are gone out now.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  THE CONFLICT ENDED.
                  THERE is a point when heat becomes so intense that it loses the power of
                     burning. At this point it begins to take on the form of the diamond. Something
                     analogous to this is seen in the phenomena of passion. In its earlier stages
                     love burns, scorches, and blisters its victims, but to deep rich natures there
                     comes a time when the heat of passion becomes transformed into the pure diamond
                     of love. This is the perfection of our nature, the most precious gem of
                     earth.
                  The fires of passion that had so nearly consumed the honor and purity of Tom
                     had reached this point of intensity at that moment when the negro's prayer, as
                     it were, opened the windows of heaven, and its pure light illuminating his
                     soul, his love became purified and godlike. No longer the victim of impulse or
                     passion, he is now brought under the dominion of the higher law of his being.
                     Does he love Eva any less now that he can so calmly press her unconscious head
                     against his slowly-beating heart? Nay, verily. But he thinks he does; exactly
                     as the novice would mistake the coal of the diamond for lack of carbon. He
                     thinks now that his love has come under the dominion of reason, when, in fact,
                     it has but come under the dominion of itself. Love is a law unto itself.
                  Now, as a reasonable man, he asks himself what is the best and most honorable
                     course for him to pursue. If Eva in reality loves him, she is nearly of age,
                     and when she becomes so her father's opposition would make no difference. But
                     there was where the sting came in. Did she love him? He knew he ought to awaken
                     her and take her home. But she was warm, rolled up in his overcoat. The night
                     had that sultry heat that sometimes precedes a storm at this season of the
                     year. There was no danger of her taking cold, and if he should waken her she
                     might turn away from him, as she did a little while ago. It might be the last
                     time he should ever have the privilege of having her so near him, and he could
                     not break the happy spell by awakening her. Did I say happy spell? That but
                     poorly expresses the wondrous joy of this moment. Here was a man hungry and
                     faint from long fasting, weary and care-worn from long watching. The sound of
                     contending armies, brother going to war with brother, is heard through all the
                     land. The girl whom he loves may, in her waking moments, turn the cold shoulder
                     to him; and yet this is a joy so divine that it holds all these disagreeables
                     in solution, and his is a joy unspeakable and full of glory.
                  Dear reader, would you know the secret of this wondrous joy? Know ye, then, it
                     is the soul's stamp of divinity—the image and superscription of himself—that
                     God stamps upon the purified gold that has just come out of the fiery
                     furnace.
                  It is now nearly midnight. The moon seems to be playing at hide-and-go-seek
                     with the clouds. Her face is hid, and in the distance Tom sees the light of a
                     lantern. A little nearer, it proves to be the father and mother of Eva. It had
                     not before occurred to him that they would be alarmed about Eva. He does not
                     want to meet that man again to-night. He does not want to distress his dear
                     friend Mrs. Rosewell with his presence until there shall be opportunity for
                     full explanation; so he will leave Eva before they get to her. One long parting
                     kiss on that fair, girlish face, and he leaves her perhaps forever. Out of
                     sight of the searchers, he watches to make sure they have found her. He sees
                     them stop about the same place where he left her, and he thinks Eva is in the
                     hands of her parents. One long, wishful glance, and he is again going away,
                        away from his darling.
                  
                  It is not Eva, but a sleeping coon, they had come to, and they passed within a
                     few feet of their child but missed her. The clouds increased in size and
                     gathered in blackness. A heavy shower, peculiar to that season, set in. Mr.
                     Rosewell found his daughter had not been to the house where they had hoped to
                     find her. They must go back, call out the neighbors, and have a search for her.
                     She had not been seen since the afternoon before. They take the path outside
                     the road,—if the grass-covered highways of that country can be dignified by the
                     name of roads. They stumbled over their child. Their first emotions were devout
                     joy that she was found. Mrs. Rosewell shook her.
                  "Why, child, what ails you? How long we've been looking for you!"
                  The sleeper did not open her eyes, but put out her arms as though feeling for
                     some one, and she said,—
                  "Oh, Tom, don't go! don't go! I am your wife, ain't I? and pa can't get me
                     again."
                  The rain was fast descending on her fair young face; the light of the lantern
                     threw a strange, lurid light over it. Mr. Rosewell's soul was transfixed with
                     horror as he looked upon her. Pointing to the overcoat he had seen the
                     afternoon before, he said, more to himself than to his wife, "His
                     coat! My God! his hellish work is done!"
                  Mrs. Rosewell gave a low, suppressed groan and fell unconscious beside her
                     unconscious child.
                  As Mr. Rosewell looked upon the two miserable women before him, came there no
                     self-reproaches in his mind? Had not he been the cause of it all? Nay, verily.
                     It was just the opposite. So do men take the consequences of their own sins for
                     proof positive of another's guilt that Mr. Rosewell knew now that he judged Tom
                     rightly at first.
                  The fast-falling rain soon restored Mrs. Rosewell; but it was a long time
                     before Eva could be roused. The reaction from her long wakefulness and deep
                     excitement made it a difficult task to rouse her.
                  "Oh, if she were only safe in the grave with her brother! Would to God I could
                     hide her there tonight!" moaned out the agonized mother.
                  Meanwhile Tom had reached the place where he had left his horse. The landlord,
                     dozing in his chair, with a bright fire in the old-fashioned fireplace, was
                     waiting for him and keeping his supper warm. Such a guest as Tom Price must be
                     attended to. Every person that had come near the place that afternoon had been
                     duly informed that Captain Price's horse was in the stable, and he was to put
                     up there when he got through his business. For a time the war was forgotten,
                     and Tom's horse was the topic of the bar-room talk.
                  The table soon began to groan under its load of fat bacon, hominy, warm
                     biscuits, black coffee, etc. Tom's palate had become so particular during his
                     residence at the North that it positively revolted at this display of food. He
                     was very hungry; but he couldn't see how he was going to outwit his stomach and
                     get that load on to it. He asked the landlord if he had any fresh
                     eggs.
                  "I reckon I have. Right smart of 'm too," was the proud reply. "Will the
                     captain have some cooked?" The captain thought he would. So Tom made out a
                     supper on boiled eggs and salt.
                  The one sleeping-room for travelers was crowded, and as they "were not nice
                     enough for the captain, nohow," Tom was offered a bed in the room with the
                     family, consisting of a wife and ten children. The kind offer was declined. Tom
                     had a letter to write, and he must get to the depot in time for the first
                     train. This is a copy of his letter:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "MY DEAR EVA:
                              
                              "For dear you are to me, spite of all your coldness and distrust of
                                 me. If you only knew, darling, how hard I have tried to be an
                                 honorable man and treat the wives, and mothers, and sisters of
                                 other men as I would have them treat mine, if I had such treasures,
                                 you would never have believed such a thing as made you shudder in
                                 my arms to-day.
                              "Nothing but the memory of the pure, sweet girl that I always loved
                                 has kept me from the evil that assails a young man of my
                                 temperament and position. If ever I was weak enough to think of
                                 yielding to temptation,
                                 the thought of my sweet little Eva turning her head from me always
                                 kept me from the snare. It seems strange that after fighting for
                                 years that your face might always be turned towards me, my eyes
                                 always looking straight into yours, that at last the thing I had so
                                 dreaded should come upon me, and that, at a time when my mother's
                                 death had left me so much alone, I had none to look to but you,
                                 dearest. It seems strange, too, that the very girl whose pity and
                                 loveliness had kept me so many years from falling into sin should
                                 at last turn tempter and assail me with such force that it made all
                                 the other temptations of my life seem as nothing compared to it.
                                 But pray don't blame yourself for this, dear child. If it be so
                                 that men only become strong and godlike as they wrestle with and
                                 overcome temptation, there was no other way for me to overcome. No
                                 other woman in God's world could have so tempted me.
                              "I still feel the smart of that awful flame. I believe I can never
                                 be the same pleasure-seeking man I was before. The memory of this
                                 awful night can never be blotted out. But it is a great relief to
                                 me, dearest, that your pure spirit shall never know such struggles
                                 as these. These belong to the coarser nature of man.
                              "I don't know why I am writing so much to you. I had thought after
                                 it was over and my cheek was beside yours that some time, and that
                                 soon, I should hold your hand in mine and tell you all this. I was
                                 going to tell you how grateful I was for the love and trust that
                                 had saved me. For, believe me, love, it was because you always
                                 trusted me and never thought evil of me that I was able to keep
                                 from evil. I can't tell why this should be so, but I know it is the
                                 truth.
                              "Forgive me, darling, for my harshness in asking and demanding an
                                 answer to my question, 'Do you love me?' If you could only know
                                 what that question meant to me you would not blame me so very much;
                                 I know you would not. You shall answer it now, love, just when you
                                 please. But one thing I entreat of you, my precious lamb must not
                                 allow the wolves to tear her away from me again. If you love me,
                                 Eva, you must trust me, even though anything should appear as dark
                                 as that registry at the hotel. If you and your father had stopped
                                 one moment to think of it, you could not have believed that I had
                                 been unwise enough to have published my own disgrace on the public
                                 records of a house where myself and family were well known. I did
                                 wrong; but the wrong consisted in the determination I felt to have
                                 you my wife before taking you home. It seems to me that my
                                 punishment has been out of all proportion to my guilt. Were it not
                                 that I am conscious of my own error, giving him some ground of
                                 suspicion, I should never leave the place till your father had
                                 retracted that foul slander. But I know that my honor is dearer to
                                 you than it can be to me, love, and I leave this explanation in
                                 your hands. You and your mother can take such steps as you think
                                 best to clear the matter up.
                              "When I began writing this, I only meant to assure you that my
                                 heart was ever yours; that any time you would come to me I would
                                 fly to welcome you. More than that I thought I ought not to say, as
                                 I had already been too importunate in begging for your love.
                              "But my arms still keep reaching out for you, my heart will keep
                                 begging for your love, darling! I shudder at the thought of going
                                 out into this world of war, and strife, and oppression without you.
                                 Never till I learned how I loved you did I realize what this strife
                                 meant. And must I go into it alone? How can I meet the
                                 responsibilities of a citizen and a slave-holder without you to
                                 help me?
                              "This letter is sure to come into your hands; the man is sworn to
                                 take it to you. Oh, Eva, do answer it, and tell me that you
                                    love me! If you can't feel that it is best to marry
                                 me till the war is over, I can wait, if you only love
                                    me. If I could hear you say that, I should be the
                                 happiest man on earth. We have had our little differences, and a
                                 long separation, but I begin to see now that through it all I never
                                 really doubted your love. Never, never since that
                                 morning you came to me, and Frank and I had the fight about you,
                                 have I doubted your love, till that awful moment when you turned
                                 cold in my arms and turned away from me.
                              "God forbid that you should ever know the pang that coldness gave me! But I would you
                                 knew enough of it, to convince you how little I deserved it.
                              "And must I say good-by to you,—to Eva?
                                 Oh no, it can't be so! Eva is mine! my own darling! She gave
                                 herself to me; not in words, but in soul-talk. Oh, so much sweeter
                                 than words! Eva, you don't want me to say good-by, I know you
                                    don't. But what shall I say? I've got to go away for a
                                 little while, just so that you can send for me of your own accord;
                                 and I shall never have to reproach myself that I forced you to
                                 accept me against your own sweet will.
                              "But you will let me come for you soon, won't you,
                                 dearest? My own sweet wife, you never will be afraid of me again,
                                 never turn your face from me? Oh, love, you must surely forgive me
                                 for urging you so! I thought I was strong when I began to write;
                                 and I was not going to write anything but what I thought best. But
                                 the thought of leaving you has made me so weak! so weak!
                              "I was going to say good-by, dearest; but I am coming so soon to
                                 take you away with me, that it isn't worth while. The man that puts
                                 this letter in your hands will bring yours right back to me, and I
                                 shall start for you at once. Pray don't think anything about your
                                 wedding-outfit; mammy will have everything ready. All you will have
                                 to do is to love and bless your own dear Tom.
                              "And then you must once in awhile look up into my face, just as you
                                 did yesterday, and say, 'Kiss me, Tom.' Oh, love, that was so
                                 sweet! It almost took all the smart out of the sting when you
                                 turned your face away from me. Now, mark you, Eva, when you are my
                                 wife, I'm never going to kiss you unless you ask me; just because I
                                 want to keep living that moment over and over all my life. So you
                                 must not pout your sweet lips out, and say, 'Tom don't love me,
                                 because——'"
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  A loud call at the door, from the landlord, brought Tom back to the world of
                     reality—that awful world where Eva was not his wife, and he was just starting
                     off to leave her.
                  (The world of reality where Eva was not his wife, did I say? Is
                     that the truth, dear reader? Now, which was in fact the world of reality, that
                     world of love in which Eva was his wife and they were soul of one soul, or that
                     world of flesh and form where they were separated?)
                  Tom was a strong man, and he was not a bit nervous, but he did give the least
                     bit of a start at that sound. Real or not real, it had seemed to him that Eva
                     was his, and it had seemed possible to him that she might be pouting, as she
                     used to do when he talked about being a general, just because he did not ask
                     her to kiss him, when it was only because he wanted her to ask him,—and—and,
                     oh, dear, dear! is there ever any end to the nonsense of love?
                  A scientific Frenchman tells us, that if it were not for the attraction of
                     gravitation a person giving one jump would keep on jumping the same jump all
                     the rest of his life, and never be able to stop. If it were not for the
                     necessities of life, the limitation of our being, what would become of the
                     unfortunate creature that had "jumped" the first leap of love? Would he ever
                     find a stoppingplace? Could he stop if he did?
                  If it were not so serious a matter, really I could not help laughing to see how
                     Tom's strength and courage kept oozing away as he kept on writing. He was just
                     going to make an explanation; then he was going to make Eva an honorable offer
                     of marriage, and leave her entirely free to accept or reject him, as her best
                     judgment should dictate. He was sure that was the only honorable and manly
                     course for him to pursue. He had begged and pleaded for her love full as much
                     as his self-respect would approve.
                  What does the reader think of this strong man's letter? I think if the time
                     ever comes that he and Eva can read that letter together, beside their own
                     fireside, that mingled with their feelings of sorrow at the bitter pangs it
                     discloses, and devout gratitude at the victory it asserts, will be merriment
                     and laughter at the manifest falling off of dignity and straitness as the
                     writer proceeds. I imagine I see the merry twinkle in Eva's eye as she forces
                     him to read the whole of the letter, when he tried so hard to stop at the first
                     good-by. But, dear me! If I ain't getting as silly as he; and I an old
                     gray-headed woman, that ought to have seen enough of life by this time to know
                     better than to be so childish. But what can be expected pected of a weak, feeble woman, when a strong
                     man like Tom Price is so weak-kneed and trembling? For surely he did tremble as
                     he did up that letter; and he did not look a bit braver than other folks when
                     he took up the pen to write to Eva Rosewell.
                  But there is one comfort for such weak creatures as Tom, and those that
                     sympathize with him. People must have all the starch taken out of them and
                     become like little children before they can enter the kingdom of—of—well,
                     love.
                  The precious letter sealed (I noticed it was not dated), he put it into the
                     hands of his old friend, the landlord, and made him swear that he would himself
                     put it into the hands of Eva Rosewell. He gave the poor man an eagle, and then,
                     to make the thing a little surer, he gave each of the ten young ones a gold
                     piece, then an eagle to the old woman. He was so grateful to her, because she
                     was the wife of the man that was going to bring Eva's answer to him. He was
                     afraid to trust the precious message that was to call him back, in the
                     mail-bags. Mails sometimes get delayed or robbed; and delay was torture in this
                     case. He showed the man five twenty-dollar gold pieces, and told him he should
                     have them just as soon as he put Eva's letter in her hand. Then he started off;
                     but in a moment he was back again. He wanted his friend to tell Eva to put a
                     letter into the office too, for it might get there sooner than he could.
                  "I reckon that ar is a trick o' his to git out o' payin that ar hundred dollars
                     he's promised to give. 'Twould be right smart of a Yankee trick to tell yer he
                     didn't want the letter, he'd got one by a quicker way," said the far-seeing
                     wife, whose cupidity and love of money had only been awakened and stimulated by
                     the "pile" Tom had given them. How sharp money does make people!
                  "Don't be too hard on the captain, Molly. It's my 'pinion as the gal has jilted
                     him, and he'd be right willin' to give a heap o' money to git her to tell him
                     to come back again. Well, boys will be boys; and I reckon he ain't such a
                     mighty sight different as yer might think from the feller as used to hang round
                     yer when yer was such a purty gal, Molly."
                  Molly gave the least bit of a sigh, and the least bit of a smile flitted across
                     her yellow face, as the memory of that time came back to her. But there were a
                     dozen mouths, besides the boarders, to fill with bacon and corncake; and such
                     are not the conditions most favorable to reflection upon courtship and
                     marriage.
                  The poor man had never had so much money in all his life before, and he could
                     not for the life of him think what use he could put it to. At last a happy
                     thought struck him: he could get drunk with it! And drunk enough he did get
                     with it; and all his neighbors got drunk likewise; at least, those that spent
                     most of their time at his hole. For awhile, the grocery where hard whisky and
                     maggoty bacon was sold was deserted. In such peril is Eva's precious
                     letter.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  FRANK AT HOME.
                  IT is not the being frozen, not the being drowned, that hurts, but the coming
                     to. There are those that speak of the most delightful sensations as theirs
                     during the moments of suspended animation and life. But, oh, the horrors of
                     coming too! How they did wish their friends would cease their efforts to bring
                     them back to such torture and let them die in peace!
                  Such was the torture of poor Eva when her father's and mother's efforts to
                     waken her had brought her back to the world where Tom was a villain and had
                     deserted her. This torture was increased sevenfold by the nervous excitement
                     attendant upon the oncoming fever which resulted from the exposure to the rain.
                     Her poetic temperament was always more or less the creature of impulse and
                     feeling. But now all the restraints of will and the force of pride offered no
                     more resistance to the strong currents of her feeling than so many cobwebs
                     could have done. She was no more
                     susceptible to reason than a maniac would have been. All the proofs of Tom's
                     guilt were no more than so much blank paper,—their talk was idle wind. Tom was
                     the best and noblest man in all the world; she wouldn't give a straw for any
                     other. But Tom had gone and left her alone, and she should die if he didn't
                     come back soon. In calmer moments this thought crushed her,—all she asked was
                     the privilege of dying. During the delirium of fever she raved and screeched
                     and in frantic cries besought him to come to her and take her away. Something
                     was choking her; she was dying, and he didn't come.
                  There was one thing that seemed to make this awful torture doubly awful to her
                     terror-stricken mother, and that was the way that she clung to Tom's overcoat.
                     If they tried to take it away from her when she was rational, she would cry and
                     beg for it till her heart-broken mother would have to bring it back to her. If
                     they took it away when she was delirious, she would scream as though she would
                     go into convulsions. But at last Mr. Rosewell declared that he would no longer
                     bear the sight of his daughter hugging the mantle of her betrayer, and that
                     coat should be taken away whether Eva lived or died; and taken away it was.
                  The next morning the physician came, and after a short diagnosis said there was
                     no hope. The worst symptoms of her case, nervous excitement and prostration,
                     had taken on such a malignant form during the night that her system must
                     succumb to it. He said they might give her anything she wanted now, it could do
                     no harm; the end was so near. Of course he knew nothing of the history of the
                     coat, but he was confident there was something she wanted. She kept reaching
                     out her hands; and such wild, imploring cries; it seemed to rend the very ear
                     in twain.
                  No hope! no hope! Who can tell the heart-piercing anguish of those two awful
                     words falling from the lips of a physician at such a time? How did they fall on
                     the heart of that devoted, loving mother, whose life had been so devoted to the
                     interests of her children? How comes to her the thought of laying her oldest
                     daughter, the pride of her heart, the sweet-tempered little verse-maker, whose
                     whole life had been a poem of light and joy, of laying her away in the darkness
                     of the tomb?
                  In giving a decision on so complex a thing as the soul's emotions we must be
                     very cautious. Nothing so easy as to form incorrect conclusions in a place like
                     this. Nothing so difficult as to know the whole truth. But after the closest
                     scrutiny I am well convinced that those two words awakened emotions of devout
                     thankfulness and joy,—a joy so deep that for the present it holds in solution
                     the pang of disappointment at the failure of all her hopes, and the mother's
                     keener pang of separation and loss. As between Eva, the poor heart-broken,
                     crushed and withered victim of misguided love and another's treachery, and Eva
                     in another world, where conditions and climate might be better adapted to her
                     loving, trusting nature, there was no question of choice. Moreover, the thought
                     of Eva's becoming the victim of such a sin had come to her pure
                     heart with such crushing, destroying force that she welcomed anything that
                     offered escape from it. The horrors of this awful thought concealed and hid
                     everything fearful and repulsive in the appearance of the king of terrors, as
                     the flickering taper is hidden and concealed in the rays of the noonday sun.
                     Her feelings translated into words had said:
                  "I thank thee, O my Father, that my prayer is heard and my dear child is coming
                     to you! Her pure, loving spirit is not for this earth. There is no
                        betrayer up there, dear Father! There my sweet child will be
                     safe."
                  And in this awful moment were there no thoughts of Tom? Came there to that
                     mother's heart no longing memories of that noble, brave, sweet, generous,
                     loving boy that used to sit beside Eva and look into her face with such eager
                     delight and intelligent joy as she told them their evening stories? Yes! yes!
                     Thank God, they are coming like the warm breath of spring on the frozen
                     landscape. All the mother's intense hatred of man the betrayer and seducer can
                     never weaken her love for man the image of her Father in heaven. And more
                     absorbing, more intense (oh, how I thank God that I can give this testimony!),
                     than her prayers for her precious, dearly beloved child, were her cries to her
                     Father that Tom might be saved.
                  
                  I marvel now why this should have seemed so strange and wonderful to me when I
                     first noticed it. I could hardly believe it at first. But why should it not be
                     so? Eva was going to die: The dear Father had seen this was too cold and harsh
                     a clime for her warm, gentle nature, and he was going to remove her to eternal
                     sunshine. Tom, noble, loving and good, had got poisoned. "The worm that dieth
                     not" had fastened its deadly fangs into his soul's vitals. The unquenchable
                     fire had been kindled in his soul, and why should not her heart go out after
                     him with all the intensity of love, sharpened and made acute by fear?
                  If the fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man be a vital, living reality,
                     not a cant phrase of theology, "a glittering generality of the republic," I do
                     not see how Mrs. Rosewell could possibly have felt otherwise than she did. When
                     she went alone to pray, as she always did in any eventful crisis, I do not
                     wonder that she prayed about Eva and went to praying for Tom. I can imagine the
                     horror and disgust which Mr. Rosewell had felt if that prayer had been
                     addressed to him. But I believe it went up as sweet incense to the heart of
                     Tom's Father and hers. I am sure if Tom had been my boy, and he had become what
                     her ignorance had made him, nothing would please me better than to see her try
                     to save him.
                  Nothing grows with such wonderful rapidity as a story. The growth of Jonah's
                     gourd is nothing in comparison to it. And by the time the "no hope" of the
                     doctor had reached Mr. Jones's plantation it had grown to "Eva Rosewell is
                     dying." Tears came into the great eyes of the black people out-doors, the more
                     intelligent ones of the house-servants; and the hard heart of old Jones began
                     to feel a little as it did when he was a boy. The Yankee girl, as they called
                     Eva, had somehow entwined herself around their hearts, and her going away from
                     them in breaking the cords had left a sore spot. Uncle Ned mustered up courage
                     to go up and ask his master if he might go over and see her. It was a hurrying
                     time, and they were scarce of hands. But it was the boy Jones, not the man
                     miser, that Uncle Ned appealed to, and the boy let him go.
                  A great change has come over Uncle Ned since we saw him eight years ago.
                     Looking at his intelligent, manly face, and observing the straight, firm tread
                     of his carriage, I can hardly realize that this is that expressionless animal
                     face, that cringing, slavish walk, that I noticed at the beginning of that
                     camp-meeting, less than ten years ago. What has made such a difference in the
                     man? What is it that has so changed the expression of his countenance? Oh, I
                     see now; it is the same stamp that I saw on Tom Price's face after he came out
                     of the fire. The government puts its stamp upon the small coin as well as the
                     large, so God puts his stamp on the lowest of his children as well as the
                     highest when their souls are ready for it. I remember now about that terrible
                     fire that tried Uncle Ned's soul a few years ago. How sorry we felt for the
                     miserable slave that had risked his all on a promise he had found in God's
                     word, and got disappointed in it, and, instead of finding himself safe in a
                     land of freedom his own master, he found himself the prey of blood-thirsty dogs
                     and still more blood-thirsty men! But I can read it in his countenance now that
                     his anchor has held him fast during these years of trial, and he has lived up
                     to his resolution to "trus' de dear Lord," no matter what he did to him.
                  Arrived at Mr. Rosewell's, his eyes were melted to tears as he saw the pale,
                     white child moaning and tossing on her couch of pain. He went up to the bed.
                     She seemed unconscious of the presence of any person.
                  "She hasn't known any one to-day," whispered Mrs. Rosewell, "she's almost
                     home."
                  Uncle Ned took the thin, transparent hand in his hard, black palm, and pressed
                     it reverently to his lips. "De blessed Jesus is takin' de ten'er lamb to a
                     better pasture. I do no' blame him for 't, nohow. I would do jes' de same wid
                     her ef I was in his place." Uncle Ned's faith had brought him so near the great
                     Shepherd that he never saw any inconsistency or irreverence in supposing
                     himself and Christ to have changed places. What if he was "de great King ob
                     heben," he was his elder brother; he believed they had the same Father. "But it
                     seems drefful hard to part wid de dear lamb. I 'spected when she got back from
                     dat ar school dat Tom would come and
                     take her away, and it make me feel so nice. I's been risin' a little bird to
                     gib her to 'member Uncle Ned wid when Tom took her to de 'Sippi. Oh, I was
                     willin' Tom should have her. But it breaks dis ole heart to hab de bessed Jesus
                     hab her. 'Pears like it's mighty strange; I could gib her to Tom and not to de
                     dear Lord. But I canno' help it. Oh, 'tis hard! 'tis hard!" cried Uncle Ned.
                     Great tear-drops chased each other down his black cheeks; his great body shook
                     with grief. He little realized what a pang his words carried to her mother's
                     heart.
                  But whether it was his love for Tom or the magnetism of his presence that
                     quieted her, it is impossible to tell, but the sick child took the great hand
                     that held hers close to her throbbing temples, and they beat less wildly. She
                     stopped moaning so piteously, and she seemed to rest. Meanwhile Frank, who had
                     been sent for, arrived. Eva was quiet then, and the muffled footfall and low
                     whispers threw that deathlike pall over the house that many of us remember so
                     well.
                  In all the years that had passed Frank had not learned to fully understand his
                     sister, if, indeed, such a nature as his ever can fully understand such an one
                     as hers; but he loves the companion of his boyhood,—his "little sissy." As he
                     stands looking at her wasted, sunken cheeks, resting on the black palm of that
                     friendly negro's hand, it gives him a severe pang to see that in her last
                     earthly moments she must rest on the hand of a stranger. He remembers all their
                     childish quarrels now, even to that scene in the garden when her bright,
                     glowing, happy face became so clouded and angry because he was more interested
                     in his fat worms than in her verses. What would not he give now to hear her
                     read her verses with the old-time spirit? We never can know how
                     dear our friends are till we are in danger of losing them.
                  From what his father had told him Frank had learned that somehow Tom Price was
                     concerned in the trouble; so he gave his mother to understand he wanted to
                     speak to her alone. He demanded the story. She hesitated. She could not tell
                     it; it was no use.
                  "Eva is my sister, and I have a right to know; and if I find that Tom has been
                     trifling with her, playing with her heart as though it were a foot-ball, as
                     sure as there is a God in heaven that hates deceit, I'll pay him for it!"
                  Frank brought down his fist with the same all-evil-defying motion that we used
                     to laugh at, when he was a boy and felt angry with his mother for not making a
                     Spartan of him. But his mother did not feel much like laughing at the motion
                     and looks of her boy now. It boded no good for Tom. Frank had evidently thought
                     of nothing worse than a lover's quarrel, a "jilt," or something of that sort.
                     But what would he say when he learned the whole truth? He would
                     surely kill Tom. She must get him to promise not to
                     beforehand.
                  "But promise me, my son, that you will do nothing rash against Tom; promise me
                     not to kill him!"
                  "I shall kill him if he has done anything worth dying for," replied Frank.
                  "Oh, dear me! Then I can't tell you at all. I've got all I can
                     bear now. I never can live to see you wet your hands with that
                     man's blood!"
                  She was so distressed, so helpless, in her woman's terrors, that her son's
                     heart was touched. He came down off his high horse of unquestioned and
                     unquestionable dignity, to soothe and assure his weak mother. "My mother has
                     not brought up a boy that she is afraid to trust to do what is right?" he said,
                     with the least bit of tender reproach for her lack of trust.
                  Oh, how the heart of woman flies to the strong arms of manhood in its hour of
                     trial and weakness! How she longs for his strength to lean upon! And how good
                     it is for him to have her come to him thus! He grows so strong, noble, and
                     godlike, bearing such a burden. The pressure of woman's weakness is as
                     essential to the development of perfected manhood as the pressure of the
                     atmosphere to the action of our lungs. Alas for the poor woman when this
                     God-ordained support proves a broken reed!
                  Thus had it been with Mrs. Rosewell of late. Her husband's strength, turned
                     into channels of suspicion and distrust, had crushed instead of upholding her.
                     Her son's words touched the right chord. She would trust him. She had got some one to throw her heavy burden
                     on now. It was Christ offering her his strong arm to lean upon through her
                     son.
                  "You are right, my son," said the now weeping mother (she could not cry
                     before); "I ought to have known better than to think of anything but your own
                     sense of right to guide you. But, oh, my boy, if you had the least idea of what
                     your mother has suffered you would not wonder that she is childish! But I am so
                     glad you've come; it is such a help to me to have you."
                  If there was any danger before of Frank losing his self-control and acting
                     hastily, it is all gone now. His mother's appeal to his manly protection and
                     wise sense of right has done the work. He will surely justify her confidence.
                     Frank listened patiently, without once interrupting her, to the whole of the
                     story, even to the final removal of the overcoat. She paused.
                  "It is a damned lie!" Mrs. Rosewell was startled. She looked in
                     his face. "It is a damned lie!" thundered out again from the depths of Frank's
                     lungs.
                  "Why, Frank, I never heard you talk so before! I hope you haven't learned to
                     swear," said she.
                  "I didn't swear. I told the truth. That lie came from the infernal regions, and
                     it has the stamp of the devil on it. Yes, and the meanest devil of the crowd it
                     took to get that up!"
                  Had Mrs. Rosewell been simply a "wife," she had been very loth to welcome an
                     opinion or fact that converted her dear husband into the meanest devil of all;
                     but we have studied her to little purpose if we have not yet learned that she
                     had never sunk the woman in the wife; ay, or the mother either. These were only
                     functions, all-important though they were, of the being whose name
                        was—woman. The feelings of the wife and mother had led her to
                     take sides with Mr. Rosewell; but the instincts of the woman, the lover of men,
                     led her to take sides with Tom.
                  "I only hope you are right, my son," she said, with a sigh of relief, that
                     showed how ready she was to welcome any testimony in Tom's favor.
                  "It can't save the poor child's life now, but it saves Tom from something so
                     much worse than death; but how come you to be so positive?"
                  "Mother, I have seen Tom Price tried. There wasn't a scamp in college but what
                     was determined to make Tom just like themselves. They all leagued together to
                     do it. They didn't care about me, because I never cared for the girls, nor they
                     never cared for me; but Tom was different. Go where he would, the girls were
                     always tagging after him. I used to get so disgusted I wanted to kick 'm, but
                     Tom always said we must remember our mothers were girls once, and Eva was a
                     girl, and he never could wrong a girl while she was alive. I told him his blood
                     must be made of water if he could stand all he had to there. His answer I shall
                     never forget: 'You don't know anything about me, Frank. There's fire enough in
                     me to burn me up, if it were not for Eva; but while she lives I'll never be a
                     bad man. She's always believed in me, and I swear, by the very God that made
                     me, she always shall!' He always kept his word," continued Frank; "and when the
                     fellows saw they couldn't make him like themselves, they confessed how mean
                     they felt, and wanted him to help them reform; and many a scamp owes what
                     little virtue he's got to him. Now, after all this, do you suppose he's going
                     to turn around and do a trick meaner than the meanest of them ever thought of?
                     Why, I don't know but you might make me believe the moon is made of green
                     cheese; but you'll never make me believe that Tom's a mean man. I suppose he'll
                     be in the rebel army, and, in that state, I owe him no good will; but, as a
                     man, I'll tell the truth about him."
                  Blessings on your head, Frank! You are enough braver than the Spartans you used
                     to admire so. You'll fight for the truth,—you detest lies. We'll forgive you
                     that mixed-up prayer now. I'm not sure but what your hatred of meanness, your
                     resolution to fight wrong, that kept you imagining yourself shooting the wretch
                     that fired Wesley's house, was almost as acceptable to the Father that saw your
                     heart, as the prayer you tried so hard to get right. But one thing we must
                     especially thank you for, and that is what you have told us about Tom's tests
                     at college and elsewhere. That's worth a million. It supplies plies just the one missing link in our chain of
                     cause and effect. It explains the fact of Tom's great victory over
                     temptation. It explains what seemed such a mystery: that in this artificial age
                     of conventional politeness a young man from the high life of the South could be
                     so perfectly natural, unaffected, and boy-like in the company of the girl he
                     loved, as Tom was during their unexpected interview. Such all-absorbing,
                     soul-satisfying love as he showed on that occasion is only born of perfect
                     chastity. Perfect chastity is the tried metal. It is
                     the great curse of impurity that it makes a deep, pure love an impossibility. A
                     paralytic, dyspeptic sort of love can starve out a miserable existence in a
                     soul tainted with impurity; a happy, fruitful, vigorous love, never. Remember
                     that, young man, when your heedless feet are turned towards the house of "her
                     whose ways take hold on hell!" And, surely, if Tom's lesser temptations had
                     made him the high-priest of virtue to his fallen companions, how much better is
                     he fitted for his work now!
                  Some Christian sects there be who seek, by artificial barriers, to remove those
                     that will minister at their altars from such temptation. The Hindoos, with a
                     juster appreciation of the wants of the human family, send their priests
                        out to be tempted. The holy oil is only poured on those who
                     have come out of the furnace without the smell of fire on their garments. This
                     is as it should be. The High-Priest of humanity "must be tempted in all points
                     like as we are."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  THE BLACK TEACHER.
                  WHEN Frank and his mother returned to Eva's bedside they found her again
                     restless, moaning, and reaching out her hands as though begging for
                     something.
                  "She wants something. Can't you find what it is?" Frank inquired.
                  Chit was boiling over. She could not keep in any longer. Taking hold of her
                     brother's arm she drew him on one side, and told him all about her father
                     having Tom's coat taken away from Eva. The girl's indignation was terrible. "It
                     ain't a bit better than killing her, so there, it ain't!" said the child. But I
                     don't know as we ought to call her a child now. She looks quite womanly: her
                     face so intelligent, it shows the experimenter willing to burn herself for the
                     sake of testing a scientific fact regarding the action of fire on the nerves of
                     sensation. She was always Frank's favorite; and now that her eyes were flashing
                     with the indignant fire of her soul at her father's wrong, he thought he had
                     never seen anything so grand and beautiful in a girl's face before. Patting her
                     on the shoulders, he said:
                  "You are a trump, sis, every time! Catch you breaking your heart
                     over any of the fellows, and they'll catch a weasel asleep. You and I are made
                     of different stuff, ain't we, Chit?"
                  A keen observer could have seen that Frank was asserting the essential
                     toughness of his heart more because he was determined to make it so, than
                     because of any comforting conviction that it was already so. I can read it in
                     his looks, that a heart that cannot be broken is the thing he is trying to
                     attain to, not a something he already possesses. Poor Frank! and so you are hit
                     at last, are you?
                  Chit blushed, and looked down to the floor. It don't do to press bright,
                     intelligent girls of Chit's age too closely about their "hearts." But this
                     isn't business. It's only sentiment. Frank was a man of business; and we
                     must
                  "But where is the coat?" he demanded. Chit showed him. It was soon under Eva's
                     head,—she asleep.
                  Mr. Rosewell's face was blacker and more fearful than a thunder-cloud when he
                     came in and saw what had been done. He found out it was Frank that done it.
                     With a withering look of sarcasm and defiance, he said to Frank, "When Master
                     Rosewell is too old to obey his father, he is too old to stay under his roof
                     longer. My orders will be obeyed here." He went towards the bed.
                     Chit return. took her place between
                     her father and her sick sister. She fixed her dark, piercing eyes upon his.
                  "Father," said the resolute girl, "if you take that away again, you will carry
                     me with it. It is no better than murder; and my sister will never be murdered
                     before my eyes and I not lift a finger to save her."
                  Mr. Rosewell faced Frank's anger without a flinch. But there was something in
                     the looks and words of his daughter that made him turn pale and tremble. If
                     there was anything in all the world he loved or could love, it was his darling
                     Eva. How had he always lived, planned, and hoped for her! How had he just
                     risked his life to wrest her from the clutches of the destroyer! And now he was
                     confronted by her sister, and charged with her death. If he could only have
                     been perfectly sure he had acted right, he could have borne it. Innocence can
                     always bear reproach. But what if he wasn't right? His conscience told him in
                     that case he was a murderer, as Chit said. How true, "conscience makes cowards
                     of us all!"
                  The doctor found his patient greatly changed for the better. But there was no
                     one but Uncle Ned that could put her to sleep. He had gone away when the time
                     had come that he had promised his master to be back. The doctor said that sleep
                     was the one thing that could save her; and Uncle Ned must be kept there at all
                     hazard.
                  Mr. Rosewell was now thoroughly alarmed. Eva's dying the victim of Tom Price's
                     villainy, and Eva's dying the result of her father's groundless suspicion, were
                     quite different things. He was willing to do anything now. But the difficulty
                     was that Mr. Jones hated Mr. Rosewell, and Mr. Rosewell hated him; and he
                     expected of course that Mr. Jones would be glad of an opportunity to revenge on
                     him. So, true to his nature, he began to contrive how he could outwit him, by
                     getting the doctor to go and hire his slave. He was to offer five times as much
                     as his time was worth for a month.
                  Mrs. Rosewell listened to their plans with indignant disgust. She replied:
                  "Always appeal to the lowest and meanest motives of a man, and you help him to
                     be governed by them; you make them grow. One reason why Mr. Jones is the
                     contemptible temptible miser that he is, is because, once he had got the
                     reputation of loving money, everybody that wanted anything of him appealed to
                     that motive. Now let Chit take her horse, and go over and tell Mr. Jones the
                     whole truth; offer to put two men in Uncle Ned's place, for he is worth
                     two."
                  Chit was a fine horseback rider, and it was not long before she was with Mr.
                     Jones. Mrs. Rosewell had judged rightly. The eyes of the hateful old miser
                     positively grew moist to find himself appealed to as a human being of kind
                     feeling and tender sympathy. It was very hard for him to spare Uncle Ned, the
                     other niggers "was no account" when he was gone. Here the miser-grip gave an
                     awful clutch at the heart; but the love-grip was the strongest, and the miser
                     had to let go. Eva should have Uncle Ned as long as she needed him. The poor
                     man's generosity grew so fast under this new stimulus that he would not even
                     take anybody in his place.
                  Eva is out of danger. Carried in the strong arms of Uncle Ned the pale child
                     takes her sun-bath every morning. Her body seems to recover more rapidly than
                     her mind from the shock. She clings to Uncle Ned like an infant to his mother.
                     When she is tired he lulls her to sleep. When she is hungry he feeds her. When
                     she wants exercise he rocks or carries her. Not one of the family have
                     mentioned Tom's name to her since her sickness, and Uncle Ned has been
                     forbidden to talk about him. In her weak state a strong excitement might snap
                     the slender thread that binds her to earth. He obeys orders in so far that he
                     never speaks it aloud. But when he sees the poor girl rubbing her hands on the
                     soft texture of the garment that Tom put around her, when he sees the hungry,
                     wistful look in her sunken eye, he whispers:
                  "Massa Tom is here, Missus Eva; not in dat ar coat, but right here in dis yer
                     Uncle Ned's body. It's Massa Tom's lap yer rockin' in, not de poor nigger's.
                     Jes' put yer little han' on dis yer heart. Dat's Massa Tom's heart goin' fur
                     dis poor little lamb. Now yer mus' jes' lay yer head on Massa Tom's bosom and
                     res', coz yer weak and can't stan' this."
                  
                  It might be difficult to tell on what principle Uncle Ned claimed to be Massa
                     Tom. But whatever or howsoever deficient the logic in the case, he acted as
                     though he was telling the truth; and Eva believed him, and the weary child
                     would forget her pain and rest as sweetly as though Tom was with her.
                  But one day Uncle Ned was obliged to go over the plantation to see about some
                     work. While he was gone something seemed to revive Eva's dormant memory, and
                     she was thrown into a state of great nervous excitement. Nothing could quiet
                     her, and Chit went with all speed to bring Uncle Ned back. Her eyes had that
                     same look of fright and terror they had when, by the rock in the darkness of
                     the night, she awoke from her long, semi-unconscious stupor and deep sleep to
                     find herself alone—Tom gone.
                  Uncle Ned was frightened. He had never seen her look so bad before. His fright
                     made him forget his usual reserve. Heretofore, when he had been personating
                     Tom, he had always had the rest out of the room, or had whispered: "Tom has
                     come back to yer, honey. Now jes' come right here and go sleep right in his
                     arms. Ye'r his little, darlin' honey."
                  He took the frail child, her cheeks flushed with excitement, her pulse
                     throbbing wildly, and began to rock and soothe her. "Tom do lub Eva! Eva's my
                     little wife," he breathed out in the soft, thrilling tones of negro melody.
                  Eva put her white hand on the black face, laid her feverish, throbbing head on
                     the great, loving bosom, and grew quiet and happy,—such a sweet smile on her
                     face! Her mother looked at her in astonishment. She asked Uncle Ned:
                  "How can it be that she rests so good with you, and the rest of us can't do a
                     thing with her? I can't see into it."
                  "I do no' fully understan' de reason ob it; but I specs it's coz I'se Massa
                     Tom, and the rest of yers ain't," said Uncle Ned.
                  "You Master Tom!" said the astonished woman. "Why, what can you mean? I thought
                     you just said that to still her. How can you be Tom?"
                  "Jes' de same as de whale wur Jonar when dat ar fish had him in his belly.
                     'Twasn't der fish but der man dat cried to de Lord out of de whale's belly, an'
                     de Lord hear him. Jes' zactly so do Massa Tom 'peak to Missus Eva out of de
                     belly of de black man."
                  Uncle Ned stretched himself up with the air of a logician that has got a
                     "clincher" on his opponent. After such an unanswerable demonstration from "de
                     bery inside ob de Bible itself," there was no room for argument or
                     question.
                  Mrs. Rosewell had to go on one side to laugh. Chit declared that she should
                     "burst." She had to hold her nose with all her strength to keep in till she got
                     out-of-doors. She run and found Frank, and they enjoyed the first laugh they
                     had had since he got back. Well, it did them good, and Mrs. Rosewell too; but
                     she found food for something besides laughter in the strange idea of the slave.
                     She was a deep, earnest student of "life" in its varied phenomena, and here was
                     a fact worth studying. There must be some reason why that sick child would go
                     to him and be cosy, and so wild and restless with all the rest. Animal
                     magnetism afforded only a partial explanation.
                  Mrs. Rosewell was in that perplexing state of half doubt, half remorse, that
                     often follows our noblest and purest efforts to find a new and better path for
                     the footsore, weary travelers on the highway of life; when all of a sudden
                     darkness comes upon us, and it seems that the new way, instead of leading to
                     greater light and freedom, leads us into impenetrable darkness and error. If it
                     were only ourselves that had been ruined by our mistake, we could endure it,
                     but when we see the dear ones we had tried to bless and save involved in ruin
                     through our mistake, oh, that is indeed the bitterness of the path of the true
                     reformer! This is the bitter cup that all that would go to the front and open a
                     new highway for the redeemed to walk in must at times be compelled to drink
                     of.
                  We have seen how anxiously and prayerfully Mrs. Rosewell sought to train her
                     children in the way they should go. We have seen too how her investigation
                     often led her into methods different
                     from the traditions of the New England of old. And now she was confronted by
                     the heart-rending spectacle of her darling child—one whose brilliant talents,
                     poetic insight, and sweet temper had given such bright promise of the future—a
                     hopeless wreck, weakly clinging to the garment of her betrayer. Alas! if she
                     had been wise as Aunt Polly, and spurned him and turned him from the house,
                     might it not have been different? If she had taught her daughter how bad men
                     were, and taught her to be suspicious and watchful, had she not known better
                     than to trust Tom as she had? It might have been different. We
                     shall never know what that "might have been different" means till we see our
                     hearts' treasures in the state Mrs. Rosewell saw hers. The wise woman had much
                     to learn; the strong woman had need of strength outside of herself. She turned
                     from the volumes of sermons and long catalogue of religious works in her
                     library with the same feeling of nausea and despair that the wretched dyspeptic
                     turns from the bill of fare of a first-class hotel, and begs the waiter to
                     bring him a little Graham bran to ease the gnawing pain at the pit of his
                     stomach.
                  There was plenty in these books to feed some natures. They spoke sublimely of a
                     faith in God that should be able to stand firm through all darkness, conquering
                     all doubt. But what had these to say of faith in man? She was
                     exhorted to believe in her heavenly Father through all contradictions, even
                     though he hid himself behind thick clouds of darkness. But could she apply the
                     same principles to Tom and her husband, and believe in them,
                     though their ways seemed so dark and fearful? Alas! her guides were only "blind
                     leaders of the blind" when they came to this thorny path filled with dangerous
                     pitfalls and bottomless morasses. There was one ray of light in this thick
                     darkness, one hand outstretched to grasp hers. What if the hand were black?
                     What if the light did come from poor, benighted, heathen Africa?
                  "I don't see how it is possible for you to have so much faith in Tom Price,"
                     she said to Uncle Ned when Eva was quietly sleeping by her side. "If it hadn't
                     been for his being such a wicked boy, you might perhaps have been free all
                     these years, instead of being a slave. And now see the trouble he has brought
                     upon us; and I am sure I treated him as well as I could if he had been my own
                     boy. I loved him too," and did the utmost to help his training.
                  Mrs. Rosewell put Tom in his worst clothes just to see how his admirer could
                     change them; besides, she wanted to see how dark, suspicious deeds looked to
                     the faith of the poor negro.
                  "Well, Missus Rosewell, I 'spects I treat de Lord jes' as well as a poor nigger
                     could treat he, and I'se sure I lub him a heap more nor you can lub Massa Tom;
                     an' jes' see de trouble he lead me inter. He promise me he'd gib me what I ax
                     fur; but he didn't do it. He gib me to de dogs and to de cruel massa, an' I
                     'spects ebery minute to be kill', when you come'd an' stop de massa from
                     killin' me. Well, it 'pears like 'twas mos' drefful hard to trus' de Lord when
                     things went so much agin him. He deceib me so much when I trus' him. I'se sure
                     I neber could use he so mean. Oh, it was drefful! drefful!" Uncle Ned cringed
                     and drew himself together as though the memory of those awful pains still had
                     power to bring back the old pang. "A heap o' times I tinks de Lord is a heap
                     worse nor de debil, and I go to him. I a'most be burnin' in hell dan hab to lib
                     wid de Lord! But 'pears like I neber could stick to dat ar feelin'. I'd allus
                     see de blessed Jesus on de cross as de ole missus in Virginny showed him to me,
                     talkin' to dat ar thief, and lubin' and prayin' for de man dat was crucified on
                     him; an' I sez to myself, if de dear Lord can lub men when dey are so mean to
                     him,—when dey crucify him an' gib him vinegar and gall to drink,—den surely me
                     a't to lub he when he crucify us. Turn about's fair play."
                  Mrs. Rosewell listened with eager interest. Here was an ignorant slave,—a
                     chattel that Mr. Jones could sell as though he were a horse,—he had not a thing
                     in all the universe he could call his own except his soul; and yet he assumed
                     to meet the Creator of all things, all worlds, on terms of perfect equality.
                     His body was a slave, but his soul was a man, and as such he stood in the
                     presence of God with rights as dear to him, as sacred and inalienable as any right of Deity. As pronounced
                     by her theology, the Elder Brother text was a beautiful emptiness; in the mouth
                     of this negro it meant everything. It was man-hood; man, the son of God. His
                     wiser and elder Brother had made him certain promises. Apparently he had failed
                     to redeem them. But Christ had loved and trusted his fellow-men through their
                     awful wickedness to him, and he had a right to demand the same love and trust
                     from them when his ways appeared dark and they could not understand him. And so
                     it was Uncle Ned continued to give him his love and confidence.
                  "W'en I take de Bible an' read de promises and turn and look at these yer scars
                     and think ob de mis'rable slave I is, I tink sure de Lord has got a cur'us way
                     ob gibin' us dat we ask for. And den I says, 'Uncle Ned, which ob dem ar tings
                     is you's goin' to believe in most, dem ar scars on dat black body, or on de
                     scars on de mighty Jesus; on de hole in yer neck, or de hole in his side?' Den
                     I say, 'De debil take de holes in de black nigger, I'll stan' by de holes in de
                     Lord!'"
                  Mrs. Rosewell was deeply moved. But one thing more she must learn. It seemed
                     all right, that faith of Uncle Ned as regards God; in believing in him rather
                     than in the testimony of his own senses, the slave was doing what scientific
                     men always must do. Our senses declare the sun goes around the earth; science
                     says the earth goes around the sun. None but a fool would believe in his senses
                     instead of accepting the demonstrations of science.
                  "But what had believing in God to do with believing in Tom?" Mrs. Rosewell
                     asked.
                  "I reckon I can't 'splain it, but I feels it jes' de same ting," said Uncle
                     Ned.
                  "I don't see how it can be the same thing," said Mrs. Rosewell, "when we know
                     their wickedness; when we know how evil they are sometimes!"
                  Uncle Ned put his head close to the inquiring woman; he spoke low, as though
                     uttering one of heaven's deepest secrets that none must hear save those whose
                     ears had been opened to understand it. "Missus Rosewell, 'taint de wickedness
                     ob man dat de Lord wants us to belieb in, he wants us to belieb in de God
                        dats in 'm!"
                  Mrs. Rosewell uttered a low cry of joy and fell at the feet of the black man.
                     He had brought a message of joy from her Father to her tempest-tossed soul.
                     Yes, it was God's message, as truly as it was God's message to Peter that
                     showed him he was not to "call any man common or unclean." It was a part of a
                     continuation of the vision of all manner of beasts that he was to eat. She was
                     not only forbidden to call any man common or unclean, but she was called upon
                     to honor, love, and trust the God within them. This was just what she wanted to
                     do, just the dictate of her loving heart. Tears of devout joy chased each other
                     down her anxious, care-worn cheeks as she hid her face between her hands and
                     thanked God for the message he had sent her.
                  Mrs. Rosewell on her knees at the feet of Uncle Ned, weeping for joy at the
                     glorious truth he had disclosed to her! The mighty intellect of New England
                     that can understand all knowledge, fathom all mysteries, master all science,
                     learning the all-important lesson of life from the simple faith and child-like
                     trust of the African! The proud Caucasian taught by the humble African! Ah, but
                     the African had learned this lesson in the fiery furnace! No school, no
                     university, can teach the higher science of faith and love. Pointing to the
                     poor invalid, Mrs. Rosewell said, "Teach her, Uncle Ned, as God has taught you.
                     Teach her to believe in Tom! May God bless her!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  MAN THE SOVEREIGN.
                  NONE but the pen of a reformed drunkard is competent to describe, none but the
                     tongue of Gough is able to portray, the agony, the frenzied torture, of the
                     poor drunkard leaving off liquor; therefore I shall make no attempt to describe
                     what Colonel Price endured during the first few weeks of his soldier life, when
                     he was learning to be temperate. It
                     was well for Tom that these trials of his father gave him something to think of
                     besides his own.
                  Day after day passed and no letter came. All great excitements are followed by
                     corresponding depressions. And now came the reaction of Tom's nature against
                     the undue excitement of the love faculties. Moreover, there were other things
                     to absorb his attention now. The country was all ablaze with excitement about
                     the war. The call of the President for seventy-five thousand men as three
                     months' volunteers was speedily followed by a call for three hundred
                        thousand for three years. So did the meaning of the conflict force
                     itself upon those who had determined not to believe in the war. There was a
                     corresponding activity on the Confederate side. All the industries of the
                     country were turned into the channel of war. The furnace-fires, that had
                     formerly been used to smelt and mold iron for the convenience and use of man,
                     were now employed in forging implements for his destruction and overthrow. The
                     country was one vast military camp, where all the energies and resources of one
                     party were employed to destroy the other. If an inhabitant of Jupiter had made
                     a tour of observation at this time, and been told that this country was the
                     ripest and best fruit of the world's civilization, that this was the most
                     perfect development of the religion taught by Jesus Christ, he had hardly gone
                     back to preach Christianity and freedom to the Jupiterites; that is, unless he
                     had been blest with a wider, farther-reaching vision than the inhabitants of
                     this little planet are wont to possess. But perhaps the people that live in a
                     big world like Jupiter have big eyes, so that they can see more than us little
                     folks. This is the way it looked to the different parties here. On the other
                     side of the ocean some said that the North, having grown strong and rich,—true
                     to the instinct of power to crush the weak,—was determined to subjugate the
                     South and make of her a conquered province; it was not a question of freedom
                     and slavery at all, it was simply a question of which section should rule: and
                     this was right. The North looked upon themselves as the most heroic,
                     self-sacrificing people in all the earth; freely laying themselves, their
                     children, their property, their all on the altar of freedom; a strong
                     government, able to protect the weak; an undivided nationality, the hope of the
                     despairing victims of Old World monarchy, the refuge of the oppressed and
                     ignorant of all lands: and the North was right in this estimate of itself. The
                     South looked upon itself as the most liberty-loving, brave, enthusiastic people
                     that ever took the sword to uphold and defend its liberties and maintain its
                     self-existence: and the South was right in this estimate of itself. And that
                     only proves how much more correctly people judge themselves than they do
                     others. Compare the estimate of the continental despot, the estimate the North
                     had of the South, the estimate the South had of the North, and you will see how
                     differently we look to ourselves from what we do to others. But how did we look
                     to our Father in heaven,—he who could see all the good that we saw in ourselves
                     and all the evil that our enemies see in us? He heard the prayers on both sides
                     and answered them all. He gratefully accepted and rewarded the sacrifice of
                     all, and sought by their mistakes and crimes, as well as by their success and
                     devotion to the right, to educate them to a higher manhood.
                  We have already seen how the broad, comprehensive, all-seeing mind of Tom had
                     taken in the conflicting feelings and opinions of the different parties since
                     love had removed the scales from his eyes so that he could look at the question
                     from the Northern stand-point. And for the first few weeks after his return
                     from the journey he made, hoping to bring Eva back as his wife, his mind was in
                     the most distracting state of perplexity. The guns fired at Sumter had made of
                     the North one man. And that man roused all his energies to avenge
                     the insult to his flag. Exactly so the South roused itself to confront and defy
                     him. States and men that had hesitated and stood back, not knowing which side
                     to take, were hurled headlong into the whirlpool of rebellion by the mighty
                     torrents of opposition created by this change in the sentiments and feelings of
                     a large portion of the North. There was no longer any middle ground to stand
                     on. The South, pointing to gigantic armies, the untold instruments of death and
                     subjugation, said, in the language of the Great Teacher, "He that is not for me
                     is against me; he that gathereth not
                     with me scattereth abroad." The North said the same. There were only two kinds
                     of men now—Rebels and Loyalists. Tom's nature was neither passive nor negative;
                     and the state of indecision and inactivity into which circumstances had thrown
                     him was the worst of torture to his fiery spirit. The war-horse in him "smelled
                     the battle from afar," and oh, how he foamed and fretted and longed to plunge
                     into the contest! But the war-horse had a bridle around his neck, a bit in his
                     mouth; and though the bridle was twisted out of the silken strand of love, and
                     the bit was the impalpable power of a kiss, it held him tight as no twisted
                     wire or band of iron could have done.
                  But we have seen how the daily reaction of Tom's nature against this thralldom
                     was steadily weakening the texture of this silken cord. And as the postman
                     daily returned with the same monotonous sound of no letter (none from her), and
                     every horseman eagerly scanned proved to be some other than the one that was to
                     bring the answer to his letter, the conviction daily grew upon him that he was
                     to give his life, now seemingly so valueless, to his country. And mingled with
                     feelings of sorrow at the loss of his heart's treasure was a feeling of
                     sickening disgust at such fickleness and shallowness; such cowardice that
                     feared to offend her father; such indecision that made her want to turn both
                     ways at once and left her like the weathercock, to turn her face in the
                     direction the wind was the strongest. To him, Eva was womanhood. Womanhood
                     stood for all that was sweetest, most lovable and beautiful in life. Losing
                     faith in her was losing faith in all that is sweetest and purest in life.
                  A shallow, cold, or heartless nature can never have the faintest conception of
                     what this means to a man of Tom's temperament. Oh, it was a time of sore trial!
                     This is the point at which so many that have bravely been into the lions' den
                     of passion and come off victorious make shipwreck of their manhood, and strive
                     to bury and forget themselves in the lawyer, the doctor, the student, or the
                     money-maker. Satan has had the privilege, because he desired it, of sifting men
                     as wheat; and if they can go through the sifting process, and "their faith fail
                     not," there is "substance" to them; and the devil's work has been of
                     incalculable value to them in ridding them of an inconvenient bulk of chaff.
                     But woe be to the man whose soul is so light and flimsy that it is blown away
                     with the chaff! I have been more fearful of Tom through this trial than the one
                     when he was with Eva. There is something stimulating and inspiring in such a
                     conflict as that; especially to such a courageous, fearless nature as his. But
                     this long, quiet endurance! This dog-like watching and waiting for the bone
                     that never comes. Oh, how humiliating! "Am I a dog, that I should do this
                     thing?" has been the language of more than one heart.
                  Tom felt so one night in good earnest. It had been a day of unusual
                     heart-longing and anxiety. At night there was a bustle and confusion among the
                     slaves. A traveler had come who had important business to do with "massa," and
                     nobody else would answer. Tom's heart began to beat, not like a trip-hammer,
                     that is the way a girl's would have done. His went thumping like a rolling-mill
                     hammer; but it stopped very suddenly when he found the stranger wanted to sell
                     him a drove of hogs instead of bringing him a letter from Eva. How angry and
                     disgusted he was with himself! He began to think he must go into the army to
                     save himself from his own weakness, as his father had done.
                  Oh, it was a bitter humiliation! And through it all did his "arms still keep
                     reaching out for Eva, his heart still crying out for her"? They did. And if
                     what we have said about their being one was true, if our talk
                     about soul-union was anything more than empty phrases, I do not see how it
                     could be different. We are told that persons who have the misfortune to lose
                     any of their limbs never lose the sensation of them, as though they were
                     present. The man feels a pain in his lost arm, feels the ache of his lost foot;
                     the nerves of sensation are true to the facts of nature. They never
                        can recognize a divided body.
                  Thus with the sensations of the soul. They never will recognize a sundered,
                     divided soul. This tenacity of the soul, clinging to the invisible facts of its
                     own being, spite of all the contradictory evidence of the senses, is the loom
                     upon which is woven some of the most heart-rending rending tragedies of life. Tom's heart told him
                     Eva was his,—soul of his soul, the beauty and blossom of his being. His senses
                     declared she was fickle, shallow, unworthy of the love he had given her;
                     probably in love with some other man. That "some one else" is the ghost that
                     always haunts the vision of the true lover.
                  When Tom was awake, the senses in the state of the greatest activity, the
                     predominating impression was one of loss and humiliation. But when sleep held
                     the senses in abeyance, it is not strange if Tom had his Eva. Let us
                        hope he did; and one thing that strengthens our confidence that
                     he did is the fact that he felt so much better in the morning when he awoke
                     than he did at night before he went to sleep. But for the present we shall have
                     to content ourselves with conjecture and speculation. The eye of the flesh can
                     in nowise trace the flight of the spirit, nor discern its mission; and we have
                     no instrument to supplement the weakness of our vision as the telescope and
                     microscope assist in the world of matter, and reveal things invisible to the
                     naked eye. Therefore, for the present, we may not know whether the longing soul
                     of that loving girl had power to go with her thoughts and find the loved one;
                     we may not know but what the few miles of space that separated them was the
                     "impassable gulf" the soul could in nowise cross over. Perhaps only thought is
                     so ethereal that it is not imprisoned in the body. Perhaps the soul is the
                     body's prisoner, and can in nowise go on a journey except its jailer goes with
                     it. But it is hardly reasonable to suppose it is so. Thought is only one
                     attribute or function of the soul; and if, under certain limitations, thought
                     can go where the soul wills, why should not love have the same power? Love less
                     spiritual, less godlike than thought? It is a great deal more so. Therefore I
                     think it possible that in calling himself Massa Tom to Eva, Uncle Ned had
                     seized upon one of the deepest mysteries of our being. Tom's love was the
                     godlike love of man for woman. In all its varied manifestation, this love is
                     the same thing, a vital principle of our being, as much as gravitation is
                     always the same. Uncle Ned's sympathy for Eva, his helpfulness in her weakness,
                     his manly strength supporting her, was only a manifestation of the same love
                     Tom had for her. Had Tom been privileged to sit by her bedside, his had been
                     the same quieting, soothing presence that Uncle Ned was in his absence. Tom was
                     to Eva the embodiment of manly love. Uncle Ned felt something of the same
                     tender love for her; and by virtue of that vital endowment of force by which,
                     when repressed in one direction, it manifests itself in another, love, unable
                     to manifest itself through Tom, manifested itself as best it could through
                     Uncle Ned. We should not think so strange of this if we only realized that love
                     is an omnipresent force, a living power. Nor should we have to resort to any
                     such supernatural contrivance as Jonah and the whale to account for its
                     phenomena.
                  Uncle Ned was in nowise mistaken when he called himself "Tom" to Eva. For the
                     benefit of those who want a thing logically proved, we would say, Tom was love
                     (for Eva); Uncle Ned loved and helped Eva when sick: therefore to Eva in her
                     sickness Uncle Ned was Tom. So we see Uncle Ned was all right as
                     to the main fact of the case. He only erred in locating Tom where the whale had
                     Jonah. In Uncle Ned's soul of love was Tom concealed.
                  Whether Eva was with him or not through the night, the next morning Tom thought
                     better of his purpose of enlisting, and the next day he walked straight as ever
                     by the recruiting-office. But as often happens when our purposes are in the
                     balance, and we can't decide which course we ought to take, some outside
                     influence throws its weight into one of the scales, and down it goes. It was
                     thus Tom was drawn into the Confederate army.
                  After weeks and months of such struggles as only the drunkard, trying to
                     reform, can know, Colonel Price found himself a man again. Who of
                     us can imagine what that short sentence means to a wretched creature who has
                     for twenty years wallowed in the mire and filth of intemperance? How proud the
                     man felt of new-born freedom, when he could pass a saloon like a man and the
                     burning thirst was quenched with water! For awhile the joy of recovered manhood
                     absorbed his thoughts so, that he had little understanding of the contest in
                     which he was engaged. He had been
                     like one buried before, and knew no more than a dead man what was going on in
                     the country he lived in. When he was buried, or rather when he begun the life
                     of the drunkard, slavery had occupied very little of the public thought. Since
                     that time it had become the all-absorbing theme of political life. It was this
                     had plunged the country in war. But the impression on his mind was the one of
                     twenty years before. The excitement consequent upon the battle of Bull Run
                     awoke him from this dreamy ignorance. The South was now drunk with the madness
                     of victory. She had met the Yankees on the field, and they had at sight of the
                     Confederate soldiers turned like sheep, and run back to Washington with all
                     their might. In their haste to get away they had thrown away the guns that
                     Lincoln had put in their hands, left everything on the field, and run like the
                     frightened children trying to get away from the bear the prophet had called to
                     eat them up. A few had got away from the bear, and got back to Washington; but
                     they had only to wait till they ventured outside the ramparts again, and the
                     rest of the country would be their spoil, as the guns and knapsacks of the
                     flying soldiers were now. What an easy victory! How short the time before
                     Toombs would call the roll of his slaves on Bunker Hill, and this should be the
                     land of human slavery! One night Colonel Price sat alone by his camp-fire
                     reading the papers that glowed and flamed with these brilliant prophecies. Like
                     one awakening from a long stupor, the truth began to dawn upon his mind. He
                     held in his hand a copy of the New York Tribune, thrilling with
                     the most eloquent appeals to the people to rouse and fight for the country our
                     fathers had given their blood to free from the English yoke, now threatened
                     with overthrow and ruin. Our dearest liberties were in danger. We had belittled
                     the enemy we had to fight. The rebels meant death to freedom, etc, etc.
                  "Good God!" exclaimed the awakened man, "am I a rebel? I a traitor? I fighting
                     for slavery?" He was again in the old New England kitchen. The family were all
                     sitting around the great fireplace. An old soldier of the Revolution was there
                     telling his tales of foot-prints of blood left in the track of their armies.
                     How his soul thrilled with pride and joy to learn of their deeds of daring and
                     danger. How proud he was to belong to such a country. How he gloried in its
                     blood-bought liberty. How he longed to distinguish himself in the service of
                     liberty. And now he was fighting against the country his fathers had fought and
                     died to save.
                  To him slavery was the embodiment of all evil, the curse of curses. It was that
                     that had robbed him of his manhood and made him a slave to drink. If he had
                     stayed in the North he had always been a man. And now he was fighting to save
                     the life of this great destroyer! To spread this great curse over territory
                     consecrated to freedom! And this was what he had endured all the untold agony
                     of the past few weeks for. He had saved himself from a drunkard's grave to save
                     himself for the grave and curse of the traitor: another Benedict Arnold! He
                     rushed out into the open air. The great moon, with her calm, smooth face, was
                     shining as placidly and unfeelingly upon him as though he was not a traitor.
                     What a mockery was its silent shining to his raging heart! How he hated it,
                     because it looked just as it used to when he was a boy, and had never been a
                     drunkard or a traitor! The wildness of despair was upon him. He rushed along,
                     he knew not whither. He got outside the camp limits. He was before the door of
                     the grocery. There were rows of barrels that had a fire in them that could burn
                     up this one now kindled in him. He drank. He is lost! Under the
                     influence of liquor he began to talk what was called treason to the South. He
                     cared nothing for their punishment. He kept drinking, and acting treason, till
                     he was ordered to be shot. This was the news that Tom got from his father: he
                     was to be shot at eleven o'clock the next day. Tom got to the camp at ten.
                     There sat the creature, whatever you can call, him, his senses dissolved in
                     liquor, his brazen face stupidly defying his fate. He too felt that if hell had
                     anything worse than earth for him he was ready to try it. Tom begged for his
                     life,—the man had been drunk, and did not know what he done. Vain talk. There
                     was only one thing that could save him: Tom could enlist and take his place.
                     The South, victorious, could afford
                     to be lenient to her erring soldier; and if they could get the wealthy,
                     influential, brave, daring son, they could afford to spare the life of the
                     drunken father. Tom hesitated. It was not an easy thing to cut the last thread
                     of hope of Eva, even if it was such a cobweb thing. And then that other awful
                     question; to which power did he owe allegiance: his State, his country, or the
                     United States government? It was no longer a question of the expediency or
                     right of secession. It was now subjugation or independence. The tone of the
                     Northern papers since the battle of Bull Run left no doubt on his mind as to
                     what they meant.
                  The recruiting officer was before him with his paper. His watch pointed to five
                     minutes to eleven. His father had fallen into the drunkard's stupor. A friendly
                     old negro had brought him a good quantity of liquor that morning to smooth his
                     passage and make him insensible going through the dark valley. The master of
                     ceremonies entered.
                  "Wake up, old cuss, and be at yer prayers, or ye'll never have a chance to
                     finish 'm, I reckon," he said, giving him a kick. "Come, I'm in right smart of
                     a hurry to be through with this yer job."
                  Tom seized the wretch and kicked him into the street. He looked at his father.
                     Could he let him go thus into the presence of God, and he had the power to save
                     him? His mother was before him; her sad, half-reproachful, half-trusting eyes
                     looking into his. He seized the pen, wrote his name, and Tom Price was sworn in
                     a volunteer soldier in the army of the Southern Confederacy. What
                     independent sovereigns we free-will agents are, though! Aren't we?
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  THE LETTER.
                  OH, the rest of decision! Oh, the rest of despair! Of anything that succeeds
                     the torturing anxiety and suspense that racks us during the time of uncertainty
                     and indecision! Tom has realized his worst fears of himself. He has been
                     brought to take up arms against the government; to take his place among
                     so-called rebels and traitors. Eva is away from him. She sends him no token of
                     continued love. He has settled down with the conviction that he must do without
                     her. So have the fates decreed, and he is happy.
                  Yes, compared to the suspense of the last few months, this is happiness. It is
                     not suspense, anyway. In the Confederate army he is in the way of
                     duty. The war-horse has had the reins given him now. He is free. Tom's early
                     training had fitted him for a soldier's life, and he rose rapidly in command.
                     His friends prophesied a brilliant future. He had got into a business now that
                     taxed all his energies, and oh, how he did enjoy the use of his faculties! What
                     a glorious thing is activity to the youthful body, when the pulse is bounding
                     with life and activity! No wonder war has always had such a fascination, when
                     it furnishes such ample scope for the use of all our powers; when it calls out
                     all that is brave and enthusiastic in our nature.
                  Tom was soon put on to the staff of the commanding officer, and he became his
                     most trusted adviser and help. It is not surprising if, in those days of pride,
                     exaltation, and joyous excitement, he looked back at the day spent on the cars
                     with Eva, and thought how it seemed to him then that she was the only light of
                     the world, and felt a tinge of shame, and often called himself a "sheep-head"
                     for feeling so.
                  But the absorbing duties and excitement of camp-life left him little time to
                     dwell upon his "sheep-headedness" or anything else but the triumph of his
                     cause.
                  
                  This was the proudest time, for the South, of the whole war. The inactivity of
                     McClellan's army of the Potomac, the failure of all the numerous plans for the
                     taking of Vicksburg,—the key of the Mississippi,—the failure of the Northern
                     fleets to reduce and retake Sumter, the strong probability of European
                     interference in favor of the South, the distant murmuring of discontent among
                     the friends of the administration, the loud-mouthed opposition of some of its
                     enemies, made the final triumph of the South, the dismemberment of the Union, a
                        very strong probability, to say the least of it. The dreams of
                     a Southern confederacy, which should absorb the Southern half of the continent,
                     the equal of the North in every respect, her superior in aristocratic
                     greatness, where each class should contentedly occupy the position that God and
                     nature assigned them, where the "lion" of capital and the "lamb" of labor
                     should lie down together (the lamb being inside of the lion), began to lose the
                     haziness of dreamland and assume the form of reality. And Tom looked forward to
                     the time when the success of their cause should justify their revolution, and
                     he could go and offer to take Eva to a republic as proud and grand as the one
                     it had seceded from,—one whose foundation was laid on the great facts of
                     nature,—the superiority of the Caucasian race,—the physical adaptation of the
                     African to physical toil,—instead of the glittering generalities of one-idea
                     fanatics declaring that all men are "equal."
                  Tom always gave his imagination a slap in the face when he found it building
                     air castles, in which Eva should be the mistress and he the master. He would
                     have no more of that "foolery." But no matter how often the poor cripple may
                     slap the stump of his arm for its lying report that the lost hand is there, it
                        will keep on telling the same story. The only way to get along
                     with such incorrigible story-tellers is not to pay the least attention to what
                     they say. If Tom could not stop the soul nerves reporting his lost darling
                     still his, he could at least drown their voice in war. But there was one
                     thought that stung him to the quick, and that was, Eva's insult in not
                     answering his letter. He was sure she had gotten his. Had not the man taken an
                     oath to put it into her hand, and nobody else's? And to think she could not
                     treat him with ordinary courtesy, and answer it, though she must refuse his
                     offer! Oh, how cutting! Still, he does not allow himself to think of it, and he
                     is possibly happy and content,—about as well off as most men in this world,
                     where we meet and associate with each other very much like those friends that
                     meet and dance together at a masked ball; some motion, some of the same tones
                     of voice, some peculiarity, keep tantalizing us with the thought it is "him" or
                     "her"; but the mask is so skillfully put on we are defeated in every attempt to
                     discover the truth.
                  Ah, yes, with all his trials Tom is as well off as most men, not excepting
                     those that have got the "adorable creature" they sought after right by their
                     side sharing their pillow.
                  It is hard to tell which is the most to be dreaded,—to stand and look up with
                     eager, longing eyes to the image of a beautiful angel, radiant with the golden
                     tints of love, and flashing with the wondrous light of the diamonds, yet see it
                     receding and moving higher and higher up, as you climb up to grasp it, always
                     keeping just the same distance above you; or to be able to grab it and bring it
                     down to your own level, when you find it is nothing but cold marble after
                     all.
                  Catch your "beautiful angel," and confine her in your own home, and like the
                     witches of superstition she transforms herself into all shapes and forms. She
                     is a cat to scratch you and tear your eyes (no doubt they deserve to be torn),
                     a ghost to watch you (doubtless you need watching) in your secret
                     hiding-places, a shrew to scold you, a multiplier of teeth to eat up your
                     substance and empty your pockets.
                  What a blessed thing that Providence has so multiplied the tortures of man
                     trying to "be alone" that they are ready to get on their knees and beg all
                     these tortures to "be mine" to get rid of these! What is the use of standing
                     and reasoning with the poor fish put into the frying pan alive, and telling it
                     it is no use to flounder and throw itself about so? If it should succeed in
                     throwing itself out of the pan, it would only go into the fire. Could all
                        your wisdom make the fish lie
                     still and be cooked for your dinner? Alas, no! He is out of his element on the
                     fire, and he will flounder to get back into the cool water, though in doing so
                     he gets into a fire ten times hotter. So men or women alone are out of their
                     element, and they will flounce and flounder till they get a companion, though
                     all the married world should stand by and tell them "they are only jumping out
                     of the frying-pan into the fire." (Well, let 'm jump!)
                  So all our wise talk has not made Tom a bit more willing to accept the
                     situation and go without Eva. After he had been in camp a year and a half he
                     got a short leave of absence, for the ostensible purpose of going home to look
                     after the plantation. But behind his anxiety about his business,—which was
                     certainly going bad enough,—I can see a soft, bright ray of hope that there
                        may be a letter from Eva there. Oh, how that little ray of hope
                     does thrill him! How sweet that trifling possibility of a letter makes him
                     feel! Of course he would deny this if I should accuse him of it. He would
                     stoutly declare that his soldier's cap covered no sheep-head, his gray uniform
                     concealed no baby-heart, no booby weakling. He had thrown off all these boyish
                     follies with his citizen's dress. He was a soldier now, fighting for great
                     principles; but it was nothing strange he wanted to go home and look after his
                     slaves,—they needed looking after. But stiff as his gray coat was, I could see
                     that it moved around the region of his heart when he went into that little coop
                     of a post-office and asked for a letter. The postmaster was stupidly dozing
                     under the combined influence of whisky and tobacco.
                  "Why, colonel, is that you? Jest from the seat o' war, I reckon. Any news from
                     the 'tomac?" Tom cut him short by repeating the question about the letter. The
                     man saw he was very anxious. He had it in his power to make an influential
                     friend of the colonel. "I reckon there is. Been here right smart of a time,
                     too," he whispered, lest the walls should tell his secret. "We's got our orders
                     to burn all sich from Yanks, but she's nothin' but a gal nohow; and I says I
                     save that ere letter if I lose my office by it!" Tom was all impatience to see
                     the letter; but he had to wait till the man got his wife in, and she got an old
                     stocking from between the beds, where her valuables were stowed away ready to
                     bury in case the dreaded "Yanks" came that way. He fumbled in the old stocking
                     a great deal longer than was necessary, improving the opportunity to convince
                     Tom of the imminent risk he had run of having his official head cut off in case
                     the Montgomery government should ever find out how he had disobeyed its orders.
                     But he was sure the colonel never would let him suffer for keeping the letter.
                     And one good turn deserved another, and he reckoned that the colonel would
                     speak a good word for him to the general, etc. Tom saw what the creature was
                     driving at, and snatching the old stocking out of his hand, he picked the
                     letter out himself. He was going to throw the man a Confederate note,—eagles
                     were not as plenty with him as they used to be,—but the sight of that
                     handwriting so "upset" him that all he could do was to assure the man he should
                     be well paid, and off he rode to the woods to read the letter alone. And this
                     is what he read:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              
                                 "MY OWN DEAR TOM:
                              
                              "How could you leave me so? Oh, it was so cruel! so cruel! I was
                                 just wakening up from some awful dream. I had had such a horrid
                                 nightmare. It seemed as though I was buried under a mountain of
                                 ice, that you was a bad man and didn't love me any more. Pa showed
                                 me something dreadful you had done, and I thought I was turning
                                 into stone myself. Then you came to me. I was so delighted; I
                                 hadn't seen you before since I was in St. Louis. You were so good
                                 at first; just as you used to be. Then you got so cold and froze
                                 me. Oh, how scared I was! I thought if you only knew how bad I felt
                                 you wouldn't scold me so. Then you seemed to be sorry for being so
                                 cruel to me, and you took me right up and kissed me, oh, so hard!
                                 and said I was your wife, and pa couldn't get me away from you
                                 again! Oh, I was so happy then, so warm! I didn't want to go to
                                 heaven then, I was happier in your arms.
                              "The next thing I knew pa and ma were shaking me. They frightened
                                 me so with their awful looks, and I called for you, but you had gone. It
                                 was all dark. The rain was pouring on my head. Oh, I was so cold! I
                                 kept thinking you were there, but every time I reached out my hand
                                 to touch you I couldn't find you. I can never tell you the horrors
                                 of that awful night. It makes me shudder every time I think of it.
                                 I fear the memory of that awful time will darken my whole life! And
                                 I often wish I could die and get rid of it.
                              "Tom, don't you remember that Shakspeare says 'our lives are made
                                 of things that dreams are'? If that is so, you mustn't blame me if
                                 I can't tell how much of what I have written you is dream and how
                                 much life. I say you mustn't blame me, when I know you
                                 won't. You were always so good to me; so much better than I
                                 deserved! I often feel so sorry that you hadn't loved some one more
                                 worthy of you. I have made you so much trouble, dear,
                                 haven't I? And yet, much as I wanted you to have somebody that was
                                 worthy of you, oh, how I did feel when the man came from your place
                                 and told me you were married! I am afraid, Tom, I was like the dog
                                 in the manger. I didn't want to marry you myself because I knew you
                                 were too noble, good, and brave for such a silly, childish thing as
                                 I. But, oh, it was dreadful to think of any other woman being your
                                 wife! I wanted to throw snuff or Cayenne pepper in her eyes when I
                                 first heard of it. Then I thought how you would look at me, and how
                                 grieved and disappointed you would be to see your 'little angel,'
                                 your 'blue-eyed verse-maker,' doing such a wicked, spiteful thing,
                                 and I thought how you would wipe the snuff out of her eyes, and pet
                                 her, and kiss her, and then I should wish she had thrown the snuff
                                 in my eyes, so I could have you wipe it out. And all
                                 such silly, wicked thoughts kept running through my head, I had to
                                 get Chit to take me over to Uncle Ned. I can't tell why it is so,
                                 Tom, but someway when I am with Uncle Ned I feel stronger and
                                 better. I feel a little as I do with you. They tell me that when I
                                 was sick he used to call himself 'Master Tom' to me and I would go
                                 to sleep as nice as a kitten, thinking he told the truth. When I
                                 got over there I had got over my angry feeling, and I was crying as
                                 hard as I could cry. Mr. Jones sent to the field for Uncle Ned. Oh,
                                 Tom, you can't think how good Mr. Jones has been to me since I have
                                 been so sick! The doctor says I should surely have died if he
                                 hadn't let Uncle Ned come to take care of me. Nobody else could
                                 keep me quiet at all. You know how you used to hate him, and I was
                                 so afraid of him. It was just because we didn't know how good he
                                 is. Tom, Uncle Ned was so sorry to see me crying. He wanted to know
                                 what was the matter, but I couldn't tell him.
                              "Chit says, 'I'll tell you what's the matter, Tom is married, and
                                 she's going to caterpillar over it; and ma wants you
                                 to learn her better.'
                              "Uncle Ned didn't laugh as Chit expected he would. The big tears
                                 came into his eyes and he couldn't speak for some time, and that
                                 made me cry worse than ever.
                              "'De ways ob de Lord is dark and 'sterious; we can neber fine him
                                 out; but, bless his holy name, we's can pray to him, Missus Eva,'
                                 he said at last. He knelt down, and such a prayer I never heard
                                 before! He prayed so for you and all that belonged to you, all that
                                 you loved, that I thought my heart would break, to think how wicked
                                 I had been. Chit wouldn't kneel down at first. But she dropped down
                                 and began to cry too before he was through praying for you. When we
                                 left he took me by the hand and says, 'Belieb in Massa Tom, Missus
                                 Eva. Lub ebery ting dat he lubs, and trus' in de Lord to make it
                                 all square when ye's come to dat ar land whar dere is neiber marry
                                 in' nor gibin' in marriage. Dat ar female canno' be his wife dar.
                                 Dat's sartin truff.'
                              "Tom, I do believe in you, and I am trying to love
                                 everybody that you love. It is hard work, but I shall persevere.
                                 Send me her picture, Tom. I have grown so thin and old you would
                                 hardly know me. I am quite an old maid, Tom. I was so angry with
                                 Frank for calling me that once. I like to be called so now.
                              "Now, my dear, you can't guess what this old maid is going to do? I
                                 know you can't, so I must tell you. I am going with Aunt Polly to
                                 be a nurse in the army. Ma didn't like to consent to it at first.
                                 My health is so shattered, and I am so absent-minded, as they call
                                 it, she was afraid to trust me. But just as soon as pa enlisted,
                                 Aunt Polly said she was going, and then ma said I
                                 might go too. Won't I
                                 take good care of the rebel soldiers if I get a chance!
                              "Tom, I never can say good-by to you. So
                                 it's no use trying. I may as well stop.
                              
                                 "EVA."
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  It is difficult to say whether Tom most needs our pity or congratulation on the
                     discovery of that letter. My first thought was, was there ever such a
                     malicious, spiteful creature as the thing we sometimes call Dame Fortune? Some
                     people she does not profess to love at all, she kicks and cuffs them about the
                     world like a vixen stepmother. But there are some she pretends to favor. Yet it
                     is difficult to tell which are most to be pitied—the objects of her hate or
                     good-will. Everybody said Tom Price was one of her greatest favorites. And
                     surely she had bestowed upon him everything in her power to give, except the
                     one thing he wanted most. Leaving that out, all her other gifts were glittering
                     mockeries. But at last he has settled down with the conviction that he will do
                     without his darling, and make the best he may out of a bachelor life. And just
                     as he begins to get a little used to it and is tolerably content, she throws
                     such a fire-brand as that letter at him. Why could not she have let him alone,
                     and let him forget Eva if he could? But no, his cup of anguish was not yet
                     full. But I am not sure whether she is going to get it fuller with this letter,
                     or emptier.
                  Tom was deeply grieved, and very angry with himself for leaving her as he
                     did.
                  "A fellow always turns out the meanest when he tries to do his best," he
                     muttered, as he thought how much it cost him to leave her. How honorable and
                     self-denying it seemed to him to leave her to decide the momentous question,
                     without trying to force her to accept him! How cowardly and mean it looked to
                     him now to put her on to the ground and run away from her, when the "dear dove"
                     had gone to sleep so prettily in his arms! She wasn't to blame for the fire she
                     had kindled in him. What did she know about it, the pure creature?
                  But how came she out in the rain? He knew it rained while he was going to the
                     cars, but he thought she was in the house long before. Maybe that was what made
                     her so sick. And he had left Eva to get cold in the rain. She had reached her
                     hands out for him, and he wasn't there. There was an undefinable
                        something about the letter that showed such a change in Eva.
                     How different this from the letters she had written him before! How had that
                     awful sickness affected the mind as well as the health of his blue-eyed little
                     poet! She an old maid, Eva thin and pale; she who had always been brimful of
                     life and joyous activity!
                  All these reflections seemed to be fast filling anew his cup of sorrow. But
                     there was one thought that seemed to keep emptying the cup of trouble faster
                     than it filled up. This it was that made the ingoing trouble seem like pouring
                     water into a goblet with the bottom knocked out. And that was the thought that
                     Eva loved him. She wasn't fickle. There was one on
                     all this wide earth that believed in him, and loved him. Oh, how comforting!
                     How much better a man feels when he knows he is loved! Especially when he knows
                     that love is based on an intelligent appreciation of his character. And no true
                     man or woman is ever pleased with any other love than this.
                  But how about his letter to her? She said nothing about it at all, and it must
                     be she had never received it. He thought of the man who had so solemnly
                     promised to take that letter to her; and he felt as though he could shoot him
                     and the old woman, and every one of the little brats he had given money to, on
                     the strength of their husband and father taking his letter to Eva.
                  Well, how the masculine mind does want the help of its female side in times of
                     perplexity! Since his mother's death, and his separation from Eva had left him
                     so destitute of female wisdom, he had confided in mammy, or rather mammy had
                     confided in him. His unfortunate remark at his mother's bedside, his hurried
                     journey and lonely return, had been the warp out of which mammy had woven the
                     whole story of his fruitless love. Tom had to laugh when he saw how exactly she
                     had hit all the main facts of the case.
                  He was in a very bad dilemma now. He only had a short leave of absence. The
                     siege of Vicksburg and the
                     consequent activity on the Mississippi, made the passage of that river very
                     difficult. And then, after he had braved all these dangers to get where she
                     used to live, it was more than likely that she would be gone; more than likely
                     their house had been burned, and he should find that Eva had been for nearly
                     two years in the army hospitals of the enemy as a nurse. What should he do? He
                     wasn't the hot-blooded, untamed Arab, that had made his mother's dying moments
                     so wretched by his impatience to get after Eva. He was a man and a soldier now,
                     and he was governed by reason, not by passion. Still, there was a secret force
                     that seemed to be drawing him across the Mississippi. Which horn of the dilemma
                     should he straddle? He went home, and after the customary greeting and
                     rejoicing he took mammy one side, and gave her a sling, just enough to sharpen
                     her intellect, without stupefying it. Then he laid the whole case before her as
                     we have presented it to the reader.
                  Mammy sat some time after he had concluded by presenting the two horns to her
                     imagination. She looked very wise, as though she was taking in and balancing
                     the whole case. She wanted her massa to see how intelligently she comprehended
                     the case. She seemed to be stopping for this, more than because of any internal
                     necessity, in order to make up her mind.
                  "Look here, Massa Tom! Ef you was as twaddled arter that ere girl
                     as you used to be, you wouldn't ask me which horn yer ort'r straddle."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  "BELIEVE IN ME."
                  BY the side of one of those living springs for which some parts of the
                     Southwest are so remarkable sits a slight, frail young girl, and beside her
                     sits a large, powerful negro, whom we recognize as Uncle Ned. There is a new
                     expression on her face. There was a faint glimpse, an intimation of it, on that
                     happy night long ago, when she was so absorbed in what her mother was telling
                     of the two Napoleons, and they had such a laugh over the "pid tail" Eddie had
                     made out of her hair, while she was in Europe and knew nothing of what he was
                     doing; but the look her face wore then had about the same resemblance to the
                     look on it now that the faint dawn of morning has to the full light of noonday.
                     She seems to be struggling with some doubt or fear. There is a faith she wants
                     to grasp; it seems to come near her, and she thinks she can seize it, but it
                     constantly eludes her grasp,—she cannot quite reach it. At last she
                     exclaims:
                  "Oh, Uncle Ned, if I only could go to him!—just my soul I mean. I know I've no
                     right to go to him as I once did; but if God would just let me go and be near
                     him for a little while it would do me so much good. And they couldn't either of
                     them see me. Sometimes I wish I had died when I was sick, and then maybe God
                     had let me be his guardian angel and watched over him all the time; and I could
                     always be close to him as I was on the cars. Oh, what a heaven it was to be so
                     near him!"
                  Uncle Ned looked at her with wonder and astonishment mingled with acute pain.
                     His devout religious nature was terribly shocked to think of her manufacturing
                     a heaven out of such earthly material as Tom's presence. Heaven was, to his
                     untaught imagination, a something of dazzling brightness and glory; not in the
                     least like earth, but a place where we, being transformed into angels, should
                     leave all our old loves and hopes and characters, and all else that belongs to
                     us as mortals, in the grave with our decaying bodies. His heaven was more of a
                     negation than ought else; it was something not a bit like earth.
                     Thus it is, and ever must be, with those that have never truly, deeply, and
                     devoutly loved a fellow-mortal. Their efforts to get a just conception of
                     heaven are like the efforts of one trying to climb a ladder when there are no
                     first and intermediate steps, but who has to keep reaching and straining for
                     the top spokes, that he can in nowise reach.
                  Oh, the frantic, toilsome, fruitless efforts of the world to "climb up some
                     other way," and get into heaven by
                     some other means than loving each other! Until Uncle Ned had known Eva he had
                     had no foundation for a conception of heaven. In a certain way, and to a
                     certain degree, he loved Aunt Chloe. But could the poor, henpecked, abused, and
                     down-trodden husband conceive of a heaven wherein he should always have to stay
                     with her? He would have chosen hell rather. Therefore it was that Eva's
                     conception of a heaven, of which the crowning glory was being with Tom, seemed
                     the worst of blasphemy,—the veriest idolatry.
                  "De poor, blind, ignor't chile! She's don't know nuthin' 'bout 'ligion nohow.
                     She's never been born agin, I's awfully 'feared. She's a chile of 'rath, and
                     belongs to de debil. De dear Lord mus' save her."
                  "Oh, dear me! What have I been saying? What have I done to make you feel so
                     bad?" exclaimed Eva. She was deeply distressed and frightened to see the pain
                     and anguish she had caused her friend. She was sure she must have said
                     something dreadful, though she did not mean to. In her earnest efforts to
                     console and comfort him, she had arisen from her grassy seat and knelt right
                     before him. She looked up into his face with such a sweet, tender, sympathetic,
                     pitying look, that involuntarily he exclaimed, "It is de dear Lord Jesus! Bless
                     de Lord, oh, my soul! I've seed him wid did black lady!"
                  The transformation in Uncle Ned's face was so sudden, his face, just now so sad
                     and pitying, was so radiant with "light, peace, and love," that Eva was more
                     puzzled than ever. But her companion was too much absorbed in his own thoughts
                     to notice her. This was the one sublimely glorious moment of that poor slave's
                     life. The one grand moment of our mortal life is that wherein God becomes
                     incarnate to us in the form of a loved one, and the "kingdom of God within you"
                     becomes a living reality. It was thus with that poor slave. He had longed, and
                     hoped, and prayed for death as the only key that could unlock heaven and let
                     his earth-born soul see its beauties and feed on its glories. But, lo, heaven
                     had opened right at his feet. Looking into the tender, loving eyes of the fair
                     girl before him, he had seen and felt the love of God. The bottom rounds of
                     Jacob's ladder were now put in, and it rested firmly on its earthly foundation,
                     its top reaching to heaven, and, like the angels of the patriarch's vision, he
                     could ascend and descend thereon.
                  Eva was very much delighted to see the happy change in him. He was very
                     different from what she had ever seen before. Usually under the influence of
                     religious feelings he was very talkative, full of "glory hallelujah." But after
                     the first shout now he was silent,—deeply thoughtful. The long-thirsting soul
                     was drinking of the water of life, and it tasted too good for him to talk. Eva
                     was too unselfish to try to make him talk when he did not want to. But, oh,
                     what a heavy load of pain and disappointment was weighing down the poor child's
                     heart! She was just on her way from Sunday-school, and the lassitude and
                     weakness that followed her work there, added to her soul-longings, had created
                     such a demand for Tom that she could not live without him longer. There
                        must be some way she could get to him. Uncle Ned was her only
                     confidant in such matters, the only one that thoroughly believed in Tom. And so
                     it was she had asked him to come one side and talk it over as they were on
                     their way from the school-house. And now he was absorbed in
                     something else. Oh, how utterly alone she felt in this great world so full of
                     people!
                  Uncle Ned was so happy she did not mean to disturb him with any of her
                     troubles, and so she walked home-ward by his side in silence. But when she got
                     to the cross-road that led to Jones's plantation, and he had parted with her,
                     and she had seen the last human support going from her, she broke down
                     entirely, and running after him she caught hold of his arm, and said, "Oh,
                     Uncle Ned! Won't you pray for me? You pray different from anybody else. Won't
                     you ask God to-night to let me go to Tom, when they are both asleep? Oh, I am
                     sure I can't live this way long! If I could only die! It's all I ask for!" She
                     wrung her hands in her deep soul-anguish, the tears streaming down her face.
                     Her looks would have melted a heart of stone. It was thus that her father, who
                     had come out to find her, saw her. At first he did not know what caused her
                     grief. She had been so silent and patient since her sickness that he had hoped she had forgotten Tom. So he
                     kept still behind a tree to find out what ailed her.
                  Uncle Ned's heart was deeply touched by her grief, and clasping her hand in his
                     he dropped on to his knees and literally "poured out his soul" in supplication
                     to our Father to "take dat poor chile to Massa Tom, or bring Massa Tom to her.
                     It canno' do dat ar female any hurt jes' for dis once," he continued, as the
                     thought of some possible objection the Lord might make to such an interview, on
                     the account of Tom's wife, came into his mind.
                  When they arose from their knees, looking straight into Eva's eyes, he said:
                     "Now, Missus Eva, if dis yer nigger had de power to bring Massa Tom to you,
                     ye's knows how quick I'd do it. Don't you?"
                  "Oh, yes," she replied, wishing, oh so much, that he only did have
                     the power to bring him to her.
                  "Now, Missus Eva," he continued, with great earnestness and solemnity, "I's
                     jes' got one 'ticular 'quest to make ob you. I's jes' 'quest ob you to trus' in
                     de goodness ob de Lord as ye's trus' in de goodness ob Uncle Ned. Dis is de way
                     to say it: 'Uncle Ned lubs me, and ef he had de power he'd bring Massa Tom to
                     me dis bery night. De great Lord lubs me, and he's got de power. Derefore I's
                     shall see Massa Tom dis bery night.'"
                  This conclusion was in nowise so clear and certain to Eva's weaker faith as to
                     the unbounded faith of her companion. But the bare possibility of seeing Tom
                     was so sweet and precious, that it was heaven to think it might
                        possibly be so. So she hugged the faith that she should see him to
                     her heart, and went home rejoicing. Oh, she little knew what the answer to her
                     prayer to see Tom that night was going to cost her! So it ever is with us
                     short-sighted mortals.
                  But what shall we say of that poor, miserable creature, standing spell-bound
                     behind that tree,—the wretched father,—to whom this scene comes as a revelation
                     of a love and faith he had never had a conception of before? It interpreted to
                     him something of the meaning of Aunt Polly's strange conduct to him; and he
                     felt a secret thrill of joy that he, too, in spite of all his meanness, was the
                     object of such a supreme love. Oh, dear! shall we ever be able, or have the
                     grace given us, to look at this man as we ought to look? I trust we shall. For
                     many a time I have felt thus disgusted with some sinful mortal; but with
                     brighter light and greater knowledge, with more of love and pity, I have come
                     to feel different. So I know that in time I shall be able to conquer this
                     repugnance to Mr. Rosewell, and be able to distinguish between the man and his
                     meanness. With a deeper insight into the inmost soul of the man, with my
                     sympathies excited by his deep sorrows, I shall yet overcome this feeling in a
                     measure; though I am not sure I can ever fully forgive him. His crime against
                     human nature is the one unpardonable sin against that nature. As a human being
                     I cannot forgive the sin any more than God can forgive the sin against the Holy
                     Ghost. And we are distinctly told, that this sin cannot be
                     forgiven either in this world or the one to come. We have shown some of the
                     reasons why it is that this one great sin against human nature can never be
                     forgiven by a human being, as the one great sin against God can never be
                     forgiven by him. But though my faith claims a better feeling for Mr. Rosewell
                     in the future, I do not feel any better towards him now. I hate him, and I wish
                     I could kill him, and blot his name off the face of the earth. (What! blot out
                     the Rosewell name, and let this great family light go out in darkness! Oh,
                     heavens! what a mixed world is ours!)
                  But killing the man would not get rid of the character. His character is the
                     great fact of our present life. Perhaps such a character is impossible in any
                     other state of our being. Perhaps in another state we shall see our fellow-men,
                     either good or bad, just as they are.
                  Suspicion is a deadly gas that can be generated only in the darkness of
                     ignorance. It vanishes before perfect knowledge like the foul gases of night
                     before the morning sun. But here where we must needs see each other through the
                     veil of the flesh, why we can always believe in as many mean things as the
                     filthy imagination can suggest.
                  Yes, Mr. Rosewell is a great fact, and if we undertake take to blot his name out of the book of life,
                     we shall see how much that is lovely and beautiful in family life, how much
                     that is sublimely grand and glorious in woman's devotion, how much that is
                     really commendable and praise-worthy in a patriot's devotion to freedom and
                     love of country, will have to go with it into the shades of nothingness! I
                     never thought of all this when I felt the first angry desire to blot his name
                     out. Did you, dear reader? Like a sudden clap of thunder this after-thought
                     burst upon me; and, as in my childhood I was wont to stop and hold my breath
                     lest the thunder should kill me, I held my breath in awful fear lest the
                     thunders of wrath should smite him and I should get my awful wish. But if Mrs.
                     Rosewell could only have married somebody else, Aunt Polly have loved somebody
                     else, Frank, Eva, Chit, Eddie, and the fat baby been the children of somebody
                     else, would not they all be just as good under some other name? With a good man
                     for her father, could not Eva have married Tom, and all this trouble been
                     saved? Let those who think they can improve upon the works of God and nature by
                     separating the tares and the wheat, not allowing them to grow together until
                     harvest, by putting the weeds all on one side of the fence, and having that a
                     four-feet brick wall, so that they can nowise interfere with the flowers on the
                     other, let them try their hand at it, not me.
                  To me, it seems the highest wisdom to take Mr. Rosewell as a fixed fact, and
                     try to improve him for his own sake, try to save him for our Father's sake,
                     respect him as far as we may for his family's sake, and love him for humanity's
                     sake. But the first thing he has a right to demand at our hands is impartial
                     justice. He has an inalienable right to have the whole truth told
                     concerning him; and, though I have asserted nothing but what is strictly true
                     concerning him, it being but a part of the truth, it has left an impression
                     more false and injurious to his character than the biggest lie I could have
                     told about him.
                  Ordinarily there is no task so pleasant and desirable to me as to open the door
                     of the heart and let the light of truth, shining behind the secret motives of
                     conduct, allow men to see how very different the motive from what they had
                     thought, how much better the person than they had judged. I love to show them
                     the silver lining to the dark clouds that envelop the character of our
                     fellow-men, and, pointing to it, say, Behold your brother! Hence-forth believe
                     in human goodness! But I frankly confess that I do not like to do it in this
                     case, I rather enjoy hating Mr. Rosewell with pure, unmixed contempt. And if I
                     do not allow myself to look at anything but his contemptible course towards
                     Aunt Polly and his suspicious meanness in Eva's case, I can do it; but no
                     sooner do I allow my attention to be diverted by his good qualities, and, ah
                     me! I am all at sea again, floating hither and yonder on the boundless ocean of
                     the human soul. It is the old, old story of admiration mixed with contempt,
                     love mixed with hate, pride contending with shame, good mixed with evil. Ah,
                     yes, I recognize the same old compound that has manifested itself in every
                     variety of character from Adam and Eve till now; and if infinite Wisdom
                     pronounced it good, then it must be good now. I am now ready to do my duty.
                  I am here reminded of a time long ago when I had just "got religion," because I
                     was too much scared not to get it. In the social means of grace
                     the leader would quote the passage, "Ye are my witnesses, saith the Lord," and
                     then he would urge all (sisters included) to do their duty, and portray the
                     fearful consequence of refusing to testify to his glory. With the fear of hell
                     before my eyes, my conscience goading me to the duty, I would stand up, as cold
                     and stiff as a telegraph-post on a frosty morning, and "testify to the goodness
                     of God."
                  With a greater fear than the fear of hell before my eyes,—the fear of being
                     unjust to my fellow-men, untrue to humanity,—with a like feeling of coldness
                     and repugnance, I dip my pen in the blackest of ink and proceed to testify to
                     the goodness of Mr. Rosewell. He had a great enthusiasm for freedom and a deep
                     hatred of slavery. This hatred of slavery was in nowise because of a real love
                     of the negro. He loved the negro a great way off; brought near to him, he was
                     disgusting and repulsive. He hated slavery more because of an innate love of
                     justice, and because he did not want to see the white man enjoy fruits of his
                     toil, than from any other reason.
                     But we must learn to rejoice that men hate evil, even though the first motive
                     be envy. Envy is the perversion of one of our noblest feelings; therefore no
                     one can deeply envy unless they have some nobility in them to start with: so
                     the apostle rejoiced when men preached Christ out of envy. Not a very strong
                     point in Mr. Rosewell's favor this, but a good deal better than nothing. The
                     corner-stone of his nature was a low, cunning, licentious meanness, that he had
                     inherited from his father. He had also inherited a deep, ardent love of purity,
                     a genuine nobility of character, from his mother. This mixed-up warp, with
                     threads of every shade and color, was the warp nature gave him as his life
                     dowry. That he was what he was he owed to the fact that early in life his will
                     took sides with his better nature; otherwise he had been a monument of
                     depravity.
                  But, alas! that corner-stone was awfully big and of fearfully enduring
                     material. It was the granite rock of solid New England, and it took a great
                     deal to make an impression on it. It was this attribute of his nature that made
                     him utterly unable to comprehend Tom. He mistook the tropical richness of Tom's
                     nature for meanness. A poor farmer from the cold, rocky coast of
                     Maine, that had never been able to have any flowers in the garden for his wife
                     without emptying the barn-yard on to it first, was once taken into one of the
                     luxuriant flower-gardens of the South. Amazed at the rich profusion, he thrust
                     his hands into the bottom of his pockets exclaiming, "By gosh! the
                        manure must be ten feet thick here!" He made the mistake of
                     calling the richness of the soil something else that experience had made him
                     familiar with. The world is full of people just like him, who bring everything
                     to the standard of their own experience. I suppose it is natural.
                  Out of such material as this was Mr. Rosewell's judgment of Tom formed.
                     Believing thus, he felt it his duty to rescue his daughter and save her from
                     him. In looking over the analysis of his character, I am conscious of a weak
                     case. But I now come to a point before which all analysis and criticism must
                     veil their faces and be silent. And that is the fact that two such women as
                     Aunt Polly and Mrs. Rosewell could love him as they did.
                  Speaking of the various preparations that science has invented to take the
                     place of the infant's breast-milk, Dr. Carpenter says the infant's stomach is a
                     more delicate test than all or any that science can bring. Behold all the
                     wisdom of science, all the learning of the wise doctors, standing patiently and
                     silently beside an infant's cradle, to be tested, corrected, and governed by
                     the phenomena of its little stomach.
                  So shall all the wisdom of philosophy, all the learning of the schools, all the
                     logic of the reasoner, all the theories and dogmas of theology, stand silent
                     and reverent in the presence of the human heart as the ultimate and final test
                     of human character.
                  Lives there on earth one so mean that no heart can love him? one in whom his
                     Father in heaven can see nothing to love? Be this the standard, this the test,
                     by which all our theories of human nature must stand or fall.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  HEAVEN ON EARTH.
                  "EF you was as twaddled arter that ere girl as you used to be!" Ah, what a
                     world of meaning in that homely phrase! How it brought back all the past to
                     him! What were difficulties or dangers that stood between him and Eva then?
                     They should be nothing now. He would go to her. The dear girl should know from
                     his own lips that no woman ever had, or ever should have, her place beside
                     him,—no head should share the pillow that love had consecrated to Eva
                     Rosewell.
                  He telegraphed to his commanding general and got an extension of his furlough.
                     Off he started to cross the Mississippi. It was a perilous undertaking, but
                     love was greater than all difficulties, and the next Sunday night found him
                     within about forty miles of the old home where he had spent so many happy hours
                     with Eva. He had ridden night and
                     day, and was completely exhausted when he stopped at one of the so-called
                     public houses, to rest and sleep a few moments while his horse was feeding,
                     perhaps not to renew his journey till morning. He rolled himself up in his
                     blanket and stretched himself on the floor to sleep, soldier fashion. But just
                     as he was going to sleep, he heard a sound that startled him into perfect
                     wakefulness.
                  "I reckon they 'll fetch it this ere time. They 'll clean out every —— traitor
                     this time. Old Rosewell 'll wish his cake was dough 'fore mornin'."
                  Tom listened with breathless interest. From their talk he learned that a few
                     days before a raid had been made on the Free-State settlers in that region,
                     their cattle and horses driven off, and they plundered of all that could be
                     carried away.
                  As being the two most objectionable abolitionists, Mr. Rosewell and the doctor
                     living near by were to be killed and their houses burned. The doctor was hung
                     outside his own door. But when the ruffians came into Mr. Rosewell's house, he
                     was absent. And in her childish innocence, with such womanly grace did Eva
                     receive them that the murderous ruffians were charmed into manly decency, and
                     they left without doing the least mischief.
                  "Showed the white feather; run like so many cowards from the face of a gal,"
                     was the comment of their critics. But there was to be no such disgraceful
                     failure now. All was right. Tom was afraid to start right up and demand his
                     horse, lest he should be taken for an enemy. So he laid and snored awhile, when
                     he roused up, and carelessly said that he might as well go on; he had slept
                     enough. He urged his horse rapidly forward, in hopes to be in time to be of
                     some help to the doomed family. But while he was yet afar off the light of a
                     burning building told him he was too late to save the house; but he would hurry
                     on: he might be of some use in saving, or helping, Eva. But when he arrived, he
                     found that a few smoking embers were all that was left of the once beautiful
                     home of the Rosewell family. The family had fled before the desperadoes, and
                     the ruffians, fearful of an attack, had fled also. All was desolation and ruin.
                     With a heavy heart he walked towards the place where he had last seen his Eva.
                     He came to the old rock so memorable in their love history. Concealed beside it
                     was a little bundle. Something induced him to unroll it. What a sight was this!
                     Tom Price had faced death, and all kind of danger in any and every form, and
                     his cheeks had never blanched, his iron muscles had never moved; but at the
                     sight of this bundle he trembled, his cheeks changed their color, and big
                     tear-drops stood in his eyes. What was it thus capable of producing so profound
                     an effect? Dear reader, he had found his old overcoat, and with it an old
                     likeness of himself and a few trinkets he had given to Eva. He sagely concluded
                     that the way to find Eva was to stay where she had hidden her treasures, and
                     wait till she came for them.
                  It was not long before Eva came to remove them to a place of greater safety.
                     But as she drew stealthily near, what was her horror to find that one dressed
                     in the uniform of a rebel officer had got them in his possession! The
                     frightened child crept back out of sight, but love and fear made her bold and
                     strong. She was willing to risk her life to get possession of the last relics
                     she had of her darling. "Oh, sir, will you please give those things to me? They
                     are all I've got to remember Tom by, and I'm afraid I shall never see him
                     again."
                  It is often said the Lord could not surprise us more than by answering our
                     prayers at once, and Eva's conduct seems to give reality to this idea. Had not
                     she and Uncle Ned made a special request that she should see Tom that very
                     night? And now, when he took hold of her, she screamed with fright, thinking
                     she had fallen into the hands of the enemy. "Oh, God! it is her!"
                     was Tom's passionate cry, and she was not scared any more. Their lips met in
                     one long, passionate, exchanging kiss, wherein the soul of one was absorbed in
                     and mingled with that of the other, like two drops of water going together.
                  All the reasons that held us spell-bound in the presence of these two lovers,
                     at the time of their meeting on the cars, are a thousand times more
                        silencing now, and so we leave the happy creatures alone with
                     the reader. Full twenty minutes by the clock, or an age, reckoning time by the joy it brings, passed
                     before either tried to speak. They were together. What need of
                     words?
                  "Why, Tom! What would your wife say to this?" was the awful thought that
                     brought both back to the land of law, of war, and separation.
                  "May the gods give my body to the crows to eat if I ever have any wife but
                     you!" was Tom's reply. Another hug, and more kissing, and Eva felt fully
                     assured that no other woman would ever call him husband. How much
                     we know of what is going to happen in the great future! But the moments so
                     long, and yet so short, were fast passing away; and they must needs come out of
                     the invisible world of love, and face the distressing facts of the present
                     life.
                  So they talked it all over, and decided that each should do their duty, as God
                     made it known to them, till the war was over, and then if their lives were
                     spared they should marry, and be at rest. So now they must part.
                  But they could not part. When Tom took Eva into his arms for the
                     parting embrace, the farewell kiss, how did his passionate love break over all
                     the flimsy barriers that duty and conscience and patriotism had builded, and he
                     fiercely declared:
                  "I never will part with you again! I can die for you, but I can't
                     leave you, Eva,—it's no use trying. For one silly reason or another we have
                     kept apart all our lives, and what have we gained by it? God didn't make you
                     and I one that we should make ourselves two. I feel in my very soul that this
                     is the one great part of our lives, and everything else should be subordinate
                     to it. And as God gives me the power to do it, I will make everything obey this
                     higher law of our being. I won't go away from you; and when they
                     come to take me for desertion, they may shoot me right here, and let me die in
                     your arms. I won't care a bit if they will only shoot you too, and let you die
                     right here."
                  He folded her to his heart, to show her just where she should always remain, in
                     life or in death. And if the poor child could have had her choice, how much she
                     had preferred dying there to living elsewhere! But such choice comes not within
                     the province of our will.
                  She breathed an earnest prayer to heaven for help in this trying moment. And
                     after awhile she said:
                  "My heart tells me you are right, darling. Nothing should or can separate us in
                     this world. If our bodies are a thousand miles apart, our souls can be
                     together. Nothing can part us."
                  "But I ain't so spiritual as you. I must feel you and see you. I can't be
                     satisfied with a spiritual phantom as you can," said Tom.
                  "It's no phantom, Tom. It's a blessed reality. Do you suppose I could have
                     lived all these years I have been away from you in the flesh, if I couldn't
                     have had you some way? I should have died when I was sick if Uncle Ned hadn't
                     told me he was you."
                  "And has my darling been clinging to me this way all this time,—loving and
                     believing in me when she thought I had married somebody else? Did you love me
                     just the same in spite of all that went so much against me? Tell me, dear, is
                     it possible that I can be the object of such a love as that?"
                  "Why, you silly boy, you! How could I help it? You are the dearest, blessedest
                     creature in all the world, and how could I stop loving you just because you had
                     married somebody else?" She looked into his eyes with that peculiar, sweet,
                     tender look that is one of the most delightful charms of womanly love and
                     confidence. And strange to say, she so thoroughly believed what she said that
                     she inspired him with the same faith; and as he looked into her clear, loving,
                     intelligent eye, he began to feel of a truth that he was in reality the
                        dearest, blessedest creature in all the world. Her love had
                     made him so.
                  What a wondrous power there is in love to create the conditions it desires!
                     Love is the mightiest creator in all the universe. The wondrous transformations
                     of the Arabian Nights' tales is nothing compared to it. You can make anything
                     you please out of a man, or a woman, or child, if you can only love them
                     enough. All things are possible to love.
                  
                  "Yes, darling, I am supremely blest and happy that you love me so. There is
                     nothing in all the world I would give in exchange for this. Your love would
                        make the poorest man in all the
                     earth the wealthiest," said Tom.
                  "Dear me, how dreadfully easy, then, for me to make people rich! I shall have
                     to go round the country making all its paupers millionaires. It is so easy for
                     me to love, I can surely make everbody rich," she replied,
                     laughing at the discovery of this new and wonderful gift.
                  Oh, the jealousy of love! There is one heart in the which
                        one other heart demands the first and highest seat. This is not
                     selfishness either, it is the true instinct.
                  "And can my darling love everybody else just as she does me? Is it just as
                     easy?" he asked.
                  The teasing little witch in Eva tickled all over at this remark, and wanted to
                     have a little fun. But there was such a deep mournfulness in his eye; he had
                     suffered so much away from her; the time was so short she had to be with him
                     she could not spend it in merriment, so she said,—
                  "If my love would only judge his darling by himself, he never would ask me such
                     a question." She looked so sweetly reproachful for his want of trust, that it
                     pleased him more than the highest compliment she could have paid him. He wanted
                     to eat her up, and then he didn't.
                  Oh the rapture of that moment, when Tom fully realized that Eva loved him as
                     she could not love anybody else! He had been fully persuaded of
                     this truth as regarded himself for a long time; indeed, ever since they were
                     children. And now to find that he could judge her by himself,—to find there was
                     one heart that could love him always,—oh, that was heaven
                     indeed!
                  A pious old lady used to declare that she always kept herself like a packed
                     trunk, all ready to start for "glory" at a minute's notice. But these two had
                     brought glory right to themselves. They did not have to go on a pilgrimage to
                     find the "mountain," they brought the "mountain" to them. They did not take the
                     trouble to sail for heaven, they sailed heaven to themselves. And I am glad
                     they had sense enough to know what was the matter with them.
                  "Eva," said Tom, after a long pause of deep thought and solid, sweet enjoyment,
                     "I really believe I have learned what religion is."
                  "When did you learn it, Tom?" she innocently asked.
                  "Just now, when I saw how you loved me."
                  Eva's eyes danced with fun for the instant, and she thought she would tell him
                     he had better announce his discovery at once; she was sure all men would have
                     religion if they could have it as easy as that. But he was too deeply moved,
                     his heart was too full, for her to joke. Ah, yes, his heart was full! His
                     nature is stirred now to its lowest depths, its lowest and also its highest
                     depths!
                  There be chords that lie so deep in our natures that it takes a long time to
                     find them. Indeed, we are more fortunate than the most of our fellow-mortals if
                     they are ever discovered at all. And, what is stranger still, they respond only
                     to the touch of one hand; but once let that hand touch these
                     soul-chords, and they make music for all around. It is only Moses's rod that
                     can so smite the rock as to bring water from it; but once the water is running,
                     everybody can drink and be refreshed.
                  There was only one key that could unlock Tom's religious nature, and that key
                     was Love. No other feeling could touch it at all. And now that Eva has unlocked
                     the door, other folks can go in and enjoy the treasures. But they do not seem
                     to think of anybody but themselves just now. And as I look at them now, locked
                     in each other's arms, I am very sure of one thing: except some outside help
                     comes to them, they never will or can part. They
                     cannot tear themselves asunder.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  THE GREAT MYSTERY.
                  THERE was much of tickling and in-their-sleeve laughing when Aunt Polly, with
                     pockets in every by-place of her wardrobe and every pocket stuffed to its
                     utmost capacity with something or other that would "come handy," presented
                     herself among those who were preparing to be nurses.
                  
                  "I pity the man that she takes care of; her hands would be worse than a
                     bomb-shell. I should rather have a bullet touch me than her," was the remark
                     one girl made to the other when they were one side.
                  "You ought to be ashamed to talk that way," said the other, laughing as though
                     she was not much ashamed of the joke. "Just look at her face, what a tale of
                     suffering! I should think the gods had tried their worst on her; I never saw
                     such an object of pity before."
                  "She looks as though she had been disappointed in love every day since she was
                     born," said the first speaker.
                  The thoughtless girls soon talked themselves into soberness. Verily, none can
                     stand long in the presence of such a great mystery as Aunt Polly's being,
                     without being sobered by it. These girls felt a great deal more
                     than they knew of her life-history. It is this felt knowledge that
                     affects us most deeply. In the presence of such a being we cannot but inquire,
                     "Why was she made so? A heart so formed for deep, ardent, devout,
                     self-sacrificing love, and nothing to bestow it on. Was there in all the
                     universe no food for this hungry soul? Was she born only to suffer, starve, and
                     die of soul-hunger?"
                  Suppose the naturalist should find an animal of exquisite beauty and wondrous
                     power. Everything bespeaks it the most glorious work of its Creator, made to
                     bless and be blessed of others. But alas it has nothing to feed on! Its life
                     can only be prolonged at the expense of others equally valuable, and so it
                     drags out a miserable existence and goes down to the regions of forgetfulness.
                     For what was it made? What beneficent purpose did it serve in the great economy
                     of nature? Such problems as these are continually forcing themselves upon the
                     observer of human life.
                  And now we are drawing near to the end of this greatest of mysteries,—Aunt
                     Polly.
                  Talk of the mysteries of the unseen worlds, the mysteries of protoplasm, of the
                     creation, etc. There is no such mystery for the mind to face, for the soul to
                     fathom, as an unloved woman. An unloved man is this mystery in a germ. It
                     reaches its full development only in the heart of woman. Therefore we approach
                     the dying bed of Aunt Polly with reverent awe and profound silence. Why has the
                     end come so soon? In the prime of life, is such a constitution as hers going to
                     succumb to the slight duties and privations of camp life—the very influences
                     these that are developing the strength of others so much weaker?
                  Dear reader, this is what the doctors say about the cause of her death, only
                     just because they don't know any better. She is dying of soul-starvation. That
                     is all. "That is all?" What could be more? You and I, dear reader, have
                     probably known enough of this hunger to make us understand about as much of her
                     sufferings as one whose milk-teeth have sometimes ached knows of the acute
                     pains of neuralgia, or gout, and inflammatory rheumatism. But, however wide the
                     distance between these two degrees of ache and pain, it is only one of degree,
                     after all. And the most soulless of us all has felt in a little measure the
                     hunger-pains that killed Aunt Polly. So we can all pity her a little, as she
                     lies on her soldier's couch waiting for the final struggle with the last
                     enemy.
                  She has a right to lie on a soldier's couch. None have fought more bravely than
                     she. And now that she realizes that her work is done, she feels that there is
                     one more sacrifice for her to make. She has gone through the garden, the
                     judgment-hall of this world, and endured the scoffs and sneers of its
                     unfeeling, ignorant critics. But the cross is still before her, and bravely she
                     takes it up for the last time. She sends for Mrs. Rosewell, and in broken
                     accents tells the story of her early love, of her later agonies and tortures,
                     with which the reader is already so familiar.
                  Mrs. Rosewell listened to the story like one receiving a revelation from
                     another world. Had she lived in the same house, eaten at the same table, talked
                     of the same subjects, knelt at the same altar, partook of the same communion
                     with her for all these years, and yet known no more of her life-history than
                     she did of the angels in heaven, or the devils in hell? Verily, instead of
                     studying so much about angels and devils, we had better strive to learn a
                     little something about people
                  
                  After she had finished her long story, she sank back on her pillow to rest. Ah, yes, she can rest now;
                     the last cross has been borne; she may now peacefully enter the sweet dreamland
                     of death. Yes, this is the dreamland of her faith through all her weary, hungry
                     pilgrimage. If there was nothing for her to eat here, in her Father's house she
                     would find bread enough and to spare.
                  Mrs. Rosewell saw how rapidly the change was coming on, and she must needs ask
                     her one question. "Why did you give him up? Why didn't you marry him when you
                     had the chance?"
                  "No one in all the earth but you must ever know that, Mary. And, mark you, the
                     secret must die with you. Do you promise this?" said the dying woman.
                  "I do," said Mrs. Rosewell.
                  She drew the listener's ear close to her lips, lest the faintest breathings of
                     her secret should be heard by anybody else, and told the reason.
                  Again she rested. Mrs. Rosewell, stunned by what she had heard, sat looking at
                     her. After a little the dying woman opened her eyes again, and a smile of
                     triumph was on her face.
                  "And now, Mary, that I have told you all, I have one request to make of
                     you,—one last favor to ask," she said, with deep emotion. "May I die in
                        his arms?"
                  "Oh, merciful Father, this is more than I can bear!" exclaimed Mrs. Rosewell.
                     "Why didn't I know this before?"
                  Aunt Polly interpreted her deep emotions as a feeling against the request. A
                     look of pain, sharper and deeper than her death-agony, passed over her face as
                     she said, "It was too much to ask. I ought not to have said it."
                  Mrs. Rosewell saw that she was misunderstood, and, running quickly out, she
                     sought her husband and said, hurriedly, "I know all. Go to her
                     quick, she is dying!"
                  What passed in that final interview between these two beings, so strangely
                     linked together by an invisible tie, so strangely separated by impassable
                     barriers, will never be known till that time when earth shall yield up her
                     secrets to the perfect knowledge of the other world. This is the most fitting
                     close of a life that has been all mystery, it is meet and proper that mystery
                     should be its winding-sheet sheet. But when Mrs. Rosewell came in after a long
                     time, she was so startled by the change in the dying woman that she almost
                     fancied the Aunt Polly she knew had passed away, and her glorified body had
                     come back to commune with them, even as Moses and Elias appeared on the mount
                     and talked to Christ and the disciples. Alas, with all her knowledge and piety,
                     Mrs. Rosewell little knew how love can glorify humanity!
                  "Mary, can this be death?" she inquired, with a smile of rapturous joy. "If so,
                     how sweet it is to die! I never thought it could be so."
                  Mr. Rosewell's position was surely a trying one. He sat at the head of the cot
                     holding her in his arms, her head pressed against his heart. But to his credit
                     we must acknowledge he had now no thought of himself. For the first time in his
                     selfish life he had attained the grace of self-forgetfulness. It will do him
                     some good at all events. But Mrs. Rosewell's religious belief was shocked at
                     the thought of a fellow-mortal just going to try the realities of the unknown
                     future, just going into the presence of God, with a soul thus absorbed in a
                     fellow-mortal; that the man thus loved was her husband did not affect her in
                     the least. But she wanted to say something to direct her attention to the One
                     in whose presence she was so soon to stand. So she asked, "Is Jesus precious to
                     you now?"
                  A heavenly light shone through her glazed eyes, a divine joy lit up her face,
                     as she replied, "Oh, yes; Jesus is precious! And so is he
                     precious, oh, so precious!"
                  With the last effort of nature to move, she raised her head to his; her arms
                     around his neck, she gave him a long, last kiss, that bore away her hungry,
                     thirsting soul to the place where God shall wipe all tears from her eyes.
                  They have put her body in the dark, cold grave—fit emblem of her dark and
                     cheerless night of life. And now we leave her alone with the God who alone can
                     solve the great mystery of her being, who alone can tell why, and to what end,
                     Aunt Polly lived, loved, and suffered as she did.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  ANOTHER MYSTERY.
                  BY virtue of Tom's joining the army, his father's shortcomings and drunkenness
                     were frequently passed over. Tom always paid his fines; the South had plenty of
                     soldiers, the money answered every purpose. But the coils of the great anaconda
                     the papers talked so much about are tightening around them. The garrison at
                     Vicksburg is in a tight place: the South needs all her available strength now.
                     So it comes to pass that the cords of discipline begin to tighten. Mr. Price's
                     drunkenness, and worse than all, his traitorous talk under the influence of
                     liquor, cannot be winked at any longer: he must be made an example of.
                  It was a sweet, balmy morning in June. Nature seemed to have outdone herself,
                     and she appears now in most beautiful, fascinating dress. If ever the world
                     looked bright and tempting, a place to make life desirable and pleasant, it was
                     this morning. Who would not hate to leave such a beautiful world as this on
                     such a morning? Nevertheless, through the length and breadth of the land
                     hostile bodies of armed men stand confronting each other in deadly array,
                     longing to plunge the dagger in each other's hearts. But in a little camp near
                     the plantation of the Price family men are falling, pierced by bullets shot by
                     men wearing the same uniform as themselves.
                  Early in the morning the old negro, that had always contrived to supply his
                     master with whisky, got into his presence. With a grin he exhibited the
                     concealed bottle, that the "carnel" might take a last draught. But Mr. Price
                     turned from the bottle with disgust. His stomach, wiser than his judgment,
                     revolted against it. It positively made him sick. The degraded man had been
                     glad to have drowned his senses in whisky till all was over; but he could not
                     do it. Till his "turn comes" that wretched creature has to stand face to face
                     with himself! Can we conceive of a hell so soul-consuming, so fearfully
                     dreadful, as this? His turn has come! His body is pierced with twelve
                     bullets.
                  Oh, what frightful distortion of the features! What a tale of drunken
                     debauchery is written on his once handsome face! It must be that my picture,
                     not his wife's, was the "correct likeness" of that man. I can see it now.
                  His body is delivered into the hands of mammy's husband to await the arrival of
                     Tom. Next day he comes. I go with him into the room to take a last look. What a
                     change has come over that face! It looks as though the sun had been struggling
                     with dark clouds that had been hiding its face and had now conquered and come
                     forth brilliant and beautiful. Involuntarily I exclaim, This is
                        her picture; she was right, not I. Love is the one infallible
                     teacher, the omniscient guide.
                  They buried him beside the wife of his youth. The soldiers stood with uncovered
                     heads; they played the dead march, for a fallen comrade, and went back to their
                     own work of death,—to kill or be killed, as the fortunes of war should
                     dictate.
                  And now another "great mystery,"—a degraded, debauched, drunken husband; a
                     devoted, loving wife, believing in him to the last, clinging to him with all
                     the tenacity of unchanging love—has passed from the realm of flesh and sense to
                     be solved by the higher powers. From the stand-point of infinite wisdom and
                     infinite love such a phenomenon may wear a very different aspect; it may have a
                     very different meaning from that it has to our limited knowledge and limited
                     capacities for loving. May we not believe that all the unsolved mysteries—the
                     deep, dark, perplexing problems of earth—will find a satisfactory solution
                     there?
                  In this faith, and rejoicing in this hope, we take our leave of this pair,
                     singing and believing with the poet that 
                        "Earth has no sorrows that heaven cannot heal."
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  THE LOVED AND THE LOST.
                  IT is often said that necessity is the mother of invention; so also is it the
                     mother of a great many other things. It is the great reinforcer of the will. It
                     helps us to do a great many things we would not do of ourselves.
                  When Tom and Eva found it an utter impossibility to part, of themselves, when
                     all their strong purposes bent and swayed to and fro like a reed shaken by a
                     strong wind, before the mighty tempest of feeling they could in nowise control,
                     necessity comes to their aid and they have to part; they cannot
                     help it now. It happened on this wise. The news of the rebel raid
                     was sent to the nearest rendezvous of federal troops. There chanced to be
                     plenty to send to the relief of the terror-stricken inhabitants, and they
                     started in immediate pursuit. By daylight the blue-coats were in sight of the
                     burned house. Scouts had run to Mr. Jones's plantation with the news of their
                     coming, and he had intrusted his money to Uncle Ned and sent him into the woods
                     to bury it, while he made tracks to get out of sight. Uncle Ned had buried his
                     treasures, and as his time was his own now he started over to see if he could
                     be of any service to his friends. And lo and behold, who should he stumble over
                     but Tom and Eva! He was not at all surprised, but began to shout just as though
                     he had expected this,—
                  "Bless de Lord! He's more dan answer our prayer! He's let me see
                     Massa Tom, too!"
                  Was there no remainder of the angry feelings with which he had once regarded
                     the boy that caught him?—none of the old feeling he had when he held the pistol
                     over Tom's head? None! He put one of his hands on each of their heads—their
                     heads were so near together that his hands were not far apart—and blessed them
                     like the old patriarch blessing his children.
                  "De dear Lord look 'pon dese poor children. Bless 'em. It's mighty hard for 'em
                     to lib 'part. But, Lord, we has a heap more hard nor easy tings in dis life. I
                     reckon de easy tings come by-and-by. But now, Lord, dey's got to part. Lincoln
                     soldiers's comin' and they'll hang him for dese murders and house burnin's if
                     he don't git out ob de way."
                  We often get our first knowledge of events and things by the manner in which
                     our brethren talk with the Lord about it. But seldom do we receive anything so
                     startling through this medium as that information about the blue-coats was to
                     Eva. The power of love, that had held her to Tom, now drew her from him. She
                     freed herself from his embrace. "Fly! fly! for my sake, go at once! Don't wait
                     an instant! For my sake, go!" she continued, as she saw his determination to
                     remain.
                  "I will go, Eva, if you will go with me, not without," he said firmly. "I told
                     you we could die together, but we can't live apart. That is final!"
                  "Oh, no! I can't go with you! The rebels would kill me, and then I could never
                     be your wife in this world, and I want to be your wife so much!" said the
                     frightened child. "If you go now I shall see you again, I know I shall; the
                     Lord says so!"
                  "Dat's de bery word ob de Lord," said Uncle Ned, with corroborating grace: "and
                     heben and earth shall pass 'way 'fore one jot or tittle ob de word shall
                     fall."
                  Tom's face brightened. In the calmness of his study, with fair breezes and
                     pleasant sailing, he would have laughed at the presumption of Uncle Ned in thus
                     authoritatively speaking the decrees of the Almighty, he would have called Eva
                     a "superstitious pet" for thinking the Lord could speak to her.
                     But now in this moment of untold anguish, when the heart must be torn asunder
                     and its bleeding parts take opposite courses, when the dearest, the sweetest,
                     and strongest ties of our nature must be cut asunder by the sharp knife of fate
                     and necessity, how he longed for the simple faith of that childlike girl and
                     that simple negro! In exchange for it, how gladly would he have given all his
                     scientific knowledge, all his worldly wisdom! "But why couldn't he have had
                     both?" says one; "must we purchase faith at the expense of knowledge edge?" By no means. But because of
                     the limitations of our nature it must needs be that during the earlier periods
                     of its growth scientific knowledge, broad philosophy, and deep human sympathies
                     with every phase of our being, must needs develop in a soil unsuited to the
                     production of unquestioning faith. Doubt, distrust, deep searchings, the most
                     intricate cross-questionings, believing nothing that cannot be proved, is the
                     highest wisdom of science. To keep the mind in a position of suspended judgment
                     is the proper attitude of all who would seek for truth in the world of sense
                     and intellect.
                  It is exactly the opposite qualities that prepare and qualify the soul to
                     apprehend the higher truths of our being. Childlike trust in the soul's
                     instincts, faith in the invisible, believing what cannot possibly be proved, is
                     the profoundest wisdom of the soul. And instead of keeping the soul in a state
                     of suspended judgment, waiting for proof, deeply and humbly conscious of our
                     liability to mistake, it must link itself to the invisible with so firm a grasp
                     that nothing can shake it. The conflicting and seemingly contradictory evidence
                     that our senses present to us can in nowise affect it. No one that will accept
                     the testimony of his physical eyes, the declaration of his physical senses, in
                     opposition to what his soul sees, feels, and apprehends, is a fit person for
                     discerning spiritual truths. The visible and material is the proper sphere for
                     such an one. The invisible belongs to minds of different cast. In short, he
                     must believe in the unseen, intangible testimony of his soul with the same
                     devout confidence that a loving husband once exercised in believing the
                     testimony of his wife. He was telling a friend that he had seen a
                        bear. His wife said he hadn't. The friend asked,—
                  "How large was the bear you saw?"
                  "I never saw a bear!" the man replied.
                  "Why, you just said you had," replied the astonished friend. Indignantly the
                     man replied,—
                  "Don't you suppose I'd believe my own dear wife 'fore I would my own
                        lyin' eyes?"
                  Tom had not yet arrived at that condition of faith-exaltation when he could
                     accept the testimony of Uncle Ned's faith in preference to the warm, loving,
                     satisfying reality before him. Eva was a reality, when he could clasp her in
                     his arms, hug her to his heart, and feel her there. The thrill of
                     joy that vibrated through his whole being as her lips touched his was more real
                     to him—he liked it better—than anything that she or Uncle Ned could suggest as
                     a substitute.
                  He didn't want to grieve them by casting any reproaches on their faith, but all
                     the same he thought that if that phantom satisfied them they were welcome to
                     all the comfort it could bring them; but as for himself, he must have
                        Eva. Nothing else could satisfy him,—so he said:
                  "It's all well enough to talk that way, but I won't go away
                     without you. If you will go with me, I will get you safely over the
                     Mississippi. But if you won't go with me, I will stay here and die with
                     you."
                  Good heavens! Can this be the cool, self-possessed, heartless gallant the world
                     calls Tom Price? Can this man, staying on the enemy's territory, liable, in the
                     present exasperated state of feeling against the rebels, to be hung upon the
                     nearest limb strong enough to hold him, be the wise, judicious, cautious
                     counselor his general so confides in? It is hard to believe, but it is even so.
                     He knows he is running the most imminent risk of his life clinging to that
                     girl, and yet she is so much dearer than life to him that he could not leave
                     her.
                  This folly and indiscretion of his made Eva love him better than ever. How
                     beautiful and charming such indiscretion and folly is in the man we love! So
                     much lovelier and sweeter than wisdom and prudence! Dear me! it does seem as
                     though nature might have set apart one little island in all the boundless
                     expanse of ocean where people did not always have to be wise and prudent. It
                     seems as though one little spot in all this great earth ought to be sacred to
                     indiscreet lovers. A little spot where they can love all they want to, without
                     the fear of the gibbet, the bullet, or the halter before their eyes. But who
                     knows but what nature is preparing the whole earth for such a blessed Eden of
                     love? Let us hope she is, anyway. But we are sure of one thing; she is a long
                     way short of it in this case. For hardly had the first thrill of joy that this new proof of love
                     gave Eva passed away than her heart sunk with fear and terror as the sharp
                     rattle of muskets in the short distance told her the enemy was near. Ah, yes,
                     the blue-coats were her enemies now,—notwithstanding that the last few days of
                     fear and horror of the murderous rebels had made her watch so longingly and
                     hopefully for their approach. How gladly she would have welcomed a rebel army
                     now,—an army that could protect her Tom! But she knew this could not be. Her
                     only hope was to get him away from her.
                  At the first sound of the guns Uncle Ned fell on his knees, and with faith
                     inspired by the most dreadful fear and forebodings he began to call on the Lord
                     with his most piteous, pleading tones to send Massa Tom away from Missus Eva.
                     In this hour of extreme peril he remembered the "massa" and "missus." Eva too
                     fell on her knees, and began to pray with all her might that God would send him
                     away and spare his life, that they might meet again. Their earnestness and
                     faith suggested a new thought to Tom's mind.
                  "And is my life so very precious to my darling?" he said, looking intently into
                     her tear-stained face. "If it is, I'll try to save it for her sake."
                  "Oh, Tom! if you only knew how dear your life is to me, how dark and miserable
                     the world is without you, you would try your best to save it!" she replied,
                     weeping.
                  "For your sake then I will go and do my best to save the life so dear to you,"
                     he replied, mournfully, but firmly. "Kiss me, dear, and I will go and try to
                     believe as you do, that we shall meet again."
                  When Tom declared that he would not leave her, fear made Eva strong to send him
                     away. But now that that stimulus was removed, and she began to realize that he
                     was in reality going, she fell helpless in his outstretched arms.
                  Uncle Ned tenderly, but firmly, took her from him, and pointing to her
                     terror-stricken countenance, said to Tom, "For her sake, go." They could now
                     hear the clanking of the horses' hoofs that were bearing the troops to where
                     they stood. They could distinguish Frank's voice urging them on.
                  "For her sake!" murmured Tom, in a tone of soulagony that made
                     Uncle Ned, accustomed as he was to soul-torture, tremble. Tom was gone; and
                     when Eva fully realized this and knew she was alone, she reached her arms out
                     in the direction he went, uttered a low, wailing cry of mortal agony, and sank
                     senseless on the ground.
                  When Frank at the head of his men rode up a few minutes after, he found Uncle
                     Ned chafing her cold hands and trying to bring her back to this world of
                     torture.
                  "Poor chile! de han' ob de Lord is heavy 'pon her. 'Pears like ef she was my
                     chile, an' I had de Lord's power, I'd let her hab Massa Tom an' be happy. She's
                     too ten'er to stan' dis, de sweet lamb is. But de Lord knows a heap better nor
                     me what's bes' for his chil'ern. I'll trus' him."
                  When Eva was restored to consciousness she saw Frank bending over her. With the
                     acute, quick instinct of love, she felt that he and his men must be kept from
                     pursuing Tom. Once she thought of begging their protection for him. Then she
                     knew that would not do. All the faculties of her mind were now on the alert to
                     keep them there, lest in pursuing the rebels they should find Tom.
                  Had Frank seen anything of Chit? she asked. Their mother was gone to the army,
                     she said. She had been sent for because Aunt Polly was dying, and must see her.
                     Chit had gone to some of the neighbors to stay all night. When the fire broke
                     out, Eva and Eddie were in the house alone, as they thought. The rebels came in
                     to secure what plunder they could, and Eva had run off with Eddie and a few
                     little things she wanted to save (she did not tell what the things were), and
                     when she got back the house was all gone. She knew Eddie was safe, but what of
                     Chit? They started at once for the place she meant to stay at all night. They
                     found the sick one she had gone to watch with had got so much better that Chit
                     was not obliged to stay all night, and she had started for home about eleven
                     o'clock. An awful fear took possession of Eva's heart at this news. What if
                     Chit had got——Oh, horrors! it was
                     too awful to think of. She had stopped somewhere else, or else she had run out
                     of the burning house when nobody saw her; she was safe somewhere, but nothing
                     could be heard of her. At last some of the men who passed the house at the time
                     it was burning came forward and said that through one of the chamber windows
                     they had seen something they thought was a ghost. It was all in white, the arms
                     lifted to heaven, and the face looking up. The house was all aflame; they could
                     not save her if it was a person, and so they run.
                  How different the Englishmen that saved John Wesley's life under similar
                     circumstances! How little did that happy family think, as, surrounded by their
                     cheerful circle, they listened to and talked of the story of that fire, that it
                     would ever be theirs to experience anything like it! As near alike as the
                     sunrise of different ages are the events that it beholds. History is always
                     repeating itself. And let us hope that that darling girl found peace in
                     committing herself to the same God the imperiled boy looked to.
                  Was Chit really burned up in the house? She was. In the ashes underneath her
                     chamber were found a skull and other bones. They gathered them together and
                     laid them tenderly in their last resting-place, to await the greater fire that
                     shall consume all things. Frank, Eva, and Eddie were the only mourners there.
                     But when the news reached the place where the remains of Aunt Polly were being
                     prepared for their final rest, other mourners were added to the number. A young
                     man bowed his head and wept, as though his soul had been parted by that chariot
                     of fire that bore the spirit of the beautiful girl to the upper realm. Chit
                     Rosewell is no more here in the form of flesh; but she lives still in the soul
                     of a loved one, to whom she was dearer than life itself. He is waiting to join
                     her.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIX.
                  THE NEW PHILOSOPHY.
                  SUCH events as were described in our last chapter could not fail to leave a
                     deep impress on the actors of this awful drama. Tom Price rejoined his regiment
                     an altered man. He went through all the routine of duty that goes to make up
                     the life of a soldier with the same punctuality and regularity that had marked
                     his conduct before. But the life was gone out of him as a soldier; or rather
                     the higher life of the lover had entered him and absorbed much of the force
                     that hitherto had gone to feed the life of the soldier. He now began to realize
                     that the chief end of his existence was not to fight, to be a great man,
                     admired and envied by his fellows; a ladies' man, to be petted, flattered, and
                     caressed of silly women. I said he now began to realize this, but he had always
                     realized it. The only difference, between his experience then and now, was that
                     now he had found out what he was made for, what life meant. Before this he had
                     been in the condition of the tortoise of tradition.
                  "What does the world stand on?" asked the ancient seer.
                  "On an elephant," was the answer.
                  "What does the elephant stand on?"
                  "On a tortoise."
                  "What does the tortoise stand on?"
                  "On nothing."
                  Thus the masses of mankind are by our wisdom and philosophy left standing on
                     nothing.
                  "What is the chief end of man?"
                  "To glorify God," is the answer.
                  "What does the glory of God stand on?"
                  "On religion."
                  "What does religion stand on?"
                  "On nothing."
                  
                  So our souls are left suspended in space, standing on "nothing." A mere
                     negation.
                  All men and women will tell you they know their lives do not mean what they
                     are. The miser knows his life does not mean money, railroad
                     shares, or government bonds; the soldier knows it does not mean
                     blood; the statesman knows it does not mean fame; the most
                     frivolous belle knows it does not mean dress; the most devout
                     religionist knows it does not mean adoration of Jehovah. They may
                     have any or all these things, and yet they are restless seekers after rest. Any
                     one of all this eager, hungry, hurrying crowd can tell what life does
                        not mean. They each and all know it means exactly the thing they
                        have not. Each one is apt to think it means something his
                     neighbor has got. And so they keep looking and reaching from the world to the
                     elephant, from the elephant to the tortoise; but it is all "nothing" in the
                     end, and with the wise man they cry out, "All is vanity and vexation of
                     spirit."
                  Alas, in the midst of all this "vanity," these negations, this nothingness, who
                     shall tell us what life does mean, what the soul rests on? Tom thinks he has
                     solved the problem. As the falling apple gave Newton an idea of the laws of
                     gravity, that is the earth's firm foundation, so his last interview with Eva
                     has given him an idea of a foundation the soul can rest on and be satisfied.
                     Yes, Tom thinks now that he knows what life means. I only hope he does.
                  But before accepting his conclusion as the ultimate truth of human life, I
                     should want it tested by a long experience. It is not enough for him to
                     testify: "I was with Eva for a few hours, and I found in her that which
                     satisfied every want of my nature. We were supremely happy in each other's
                     love, and were conscious that the difference between our condition and that of
                     the angels was simply one of degree. Looking into the depths of her loving,
                     sympathetic eyes, I felt God near; she brought him to me. All those things that
                     had seemed so mysterious in religion before were plain now. I had been like one
                     trying to read the Bible and nature in the dark. Her love was like the lighted
                     candle that, shining on the page, enabled me to read it so clearly. I know of a
                     truth now that human love is the only interpreter of God's love. It is the unit
                     from which we must start to know God. We may fill our slates with ciphers, and
                     they are nothing but a multitude of o's, of nothings after all. But just let us
                     begin with a I, and every o added multiplies the figures before it ten times,
                     the increase being in direct ratio to the distance from the starting-point. I
                     know what God's love is now, because I know it is her love and mine multiplied
                     to infinity. Therefore Eva and I know God, and are happy. We have found that in
                     each other that gives peace and joy. The whole story is told in those few
                     words, 'we love each other!'"
                  As a matter of course, if Tom was testifying to these facts, he would use his
                     own language, not mine. But I have no doubt that the above is in substance the
                     exact truth of his experience. Still, we must bear in mind that rich as it is,
                     it is a limited experience. If, after he had lived with Eva ten, fifty, seventy
                     years, he could testify that her love and presence was all-satisfying, that his
                     life had been rounded out into symmetrical wholeness by her companionship; if
                     he could say that he felt the same thrill of joy, only a great deal more so, as
                     he took her trembling, tottering, aged form to his arms and pressed it to his
                     heart, as when he pressed the rounded, girlish form of Eva Rosewell to his
                     youthful, passionate heart; if her kiss were just as sweet, only a little
                     sweeter than then: why, such facts as these would be a foundation upon which we
                     might begin to build a philosophy of life. But we could by no means hope to
                     arrive at the ultimate truth by knowing the experience of these two persons. A
                     complete philosophy of life must be founded upon the facts of life in all its
                     varied forms and manifestations. It must take in the experience of all tribes,
                     and tongues, and kindreds, and peoples.
                  There might be something peculiar in the temperament of these two persons,
                     something peculiar to the country in which they were born, that made love so
                     all-satisfying to them.
                  Is it possible for the Hottentot, the savage, the cannibal, retaining, as they
                     always must, through every grade of cultivation tivation, the peculiarities of their own
                     temperament, to attain the same experience? Any system of religion, philosophy,
                     or love that fails to provide rest, happiness, and peace for these, must of
                     necessity be defective, and we must still look for another.
                  "Can love, in its broadest sense, satisfy each and all the race?"
                  Until the facts of life warrant us in answering this question in the
                     affirmative, we must hold our judgment in suspense, waiting for proof. And
                     though we heartily rejoice in the blessed condition of Tom and Eva, and are
                     glad when we see how love exalts, beautifies, and adorns the life even of a
                     soldier, we cannot accept such limited proof as the ultimatum of truth.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXX.
                  THE SMOKED LETTER.
                  IT took but a day to transform the wealthy, honored, envied citizen, the happy
                     father of a numerous family, into the poverty-stricken, despised, childless
                     outcast of the dung-heap, with only the sharp tongue of a wife to taunt, the
                     folly of three friends to torment, him. Life is full of such changes. It has
                     not taken long to change the beautiful home of the Rosewells into a
                     heart-aching woman, a miserable man, a lonely daughter, with two sons.
                  The awful news of Chit's fate, coming at a time when her nervous system was
                     strung up to its utmost tension of endurance at the distressing revelations of
                     Aunt Polly's last moments, so shattered her nerves that it seemed as though
                     faith, hope, and love, all that made her what she was, must go down before the
                     awful tide of misfortune that was sweeping over the once happy Mrs. Rosewell.
                     But there was still a lower depth of anguish for her to sound.
                  When they arrived home and found that all Frank's efforts to find the
                     perpetrators of the deed had failed; when they learned that Tom Price was the
                     only rebel seen in that vicinity on that fatal night, their house being the
                     only one burned or touched that night, to Mr. Rosewell's suspicious mind the
                     conclusion was inevitable that Tom had fired the house. At first Frank rebelled
                     against the conclusion. But his experience of the conduct of rebels made it
                     seem less of an impossibility than it would two years before, and he gave way
                     to the proof that his father presented, and his friendship for Tom was turned
                     into a burning desire for retaliation and punishment.
                  Mrs. Rosewell's heart revolted at first; but, as we have already seen, she was
                     in no favorable condition for charitable judgment of the rebels, and she too
                     began to look at Tom as the author of all their misfortunes. I am certain that
                     in forcing her to believe so great an evil of Tom, her husband inflicted a
                     deeper pang than her mother's heart felt over Chit's death. To such a nature as
                     hers, to believe evil of those we love is torture more than death, burns as
                     fire cannot. The more she suffered, the more she believed in Tom's
                     deviltry herself, the more surprised and angry she was with Eva for not
                     believing it. Had it not been for the sympathy and support of Uncle Ned that
                     poor child had been utterly overwhelmed and crushed by the angry denunciations
                     and threats of her family. They made her feel how "sharper than a serpent's
                     tooth it was to have a thankless child," one that should take sides with their
                     worst enemy. She was loving the destroyer of their peace, the murderer of their
                     child, the would-be seducer of herself, the traitor to his country. She was of
                     age now, and she must choose between her family and the traitor. As their
                     child, she could no longer hug that man's image to her heart. Only as a
                     despised outcast, disowned of her family, could she be the loved one of Tom
                     Price.
                  Mrs. Rosewell was in that state of half-numbed faculties that made her the
                     passive approver of all her husband's cruel demands.
                  But Eva had a strength now she never had before. It was the strength of perfect
                     love. Their suspicions could not
                     freeze up her soul now, simply because her soul would not take them in. Love
                     had clothed her with a coat of mail, and not even in the heel could the enemy
                     hit her now. She begged and entreated them to be patient and wait. She would
                     promise not to see him, not to write to him; not to love him was beyond the
                     powers of her soul. But nothing would satisfy the angry father and brother but
                     a promise never to marry him, never to speak to him again. She had twenty-four
                     hours to balance the question, and decide between her family and the bloody
                     traitor, Tom Price. Now, in point of fact, she did not want any time to decide
                     what her choice would be; but when she looked at her
                     broken-hearted mother, and felt what it would be to leave her in this hour of
                     mortal anguish without a daughter's love and care,—she who had been such a
                     loving, devoted mother to them,—her heart misgave her, and she felt it hard to
                     decide what her duty was She could not give up Tom in heart any more than she
                     could kill her own soul and his, but then, for her mother's sake, she might
                     give him up as a husband. She would have him all the same when she got to
                     heaven.
                  The perplexed child had no recourse but Uncle Ned, and to him she went in this
                     hour of trial.
                  "Let us ask de Lord 'cernin' dis matter," was the answer to her tearful
                     inquiries as to what she ought to do.
                  Uncle Ned loved Eva very much,—more than anything on earth,—but he loved truth
                     and right more, and the simple-minded man feared that the presence of the loved
                     one would bias his feelings. When he went before the Lord to inquire concerning
                     duty, he always tried to free himself from all prejudice, to leave his mind
                     entirely free, to be directed as God saw fit. It would seem an insult to the
                     Almighty to go with any other feeling, yet there are plenty that go like Balaam
                     to entreat the Lord to bless or curse on the side where money and gifts and
                     power lie.
                  "I feels as I mus' go alone, Missus Eva, to 'suit de Lord on dis yer' casion.
                     Ef you was by my side it sort o' might make me a little deaf in de ear dat
                     hears de word of de Lord."
                  A choking sensation was in the old negro's throat as he looked at the
                     sorrow-stricken girl before him. It was just such a feeling as a noble,
                     generous, pure-minded white man that loved Eva as his own soul would have
                     experienced.
                  "I do hope de dear Lord 'll 'cide in favor ob Massa Tom," he said to himself as
                     he limped off with his eyes full of tears.
                  The time of Uncle Ned's absence was a season of agonized suspense to Eva. What
                     if she should be called upon to give up Tom?
                  "Oh, heavens! I never can do it, and I won't try. I've made a fool of myself
                     long enough. It's just as Tom says, and I won't give him up!"
                  Eva held her breath to choke back the passionate words that her heart forced
                     out of her mouth. She clinched her hands firmly together, and walked up and
                     down the road to keep herself still till this wave of passion had passed over
                     her. She was calm when Uncle Ned returned, like Moses off the mount. She was
                     ready to obey God, whatever he bade her do through his servant. One look into
                     his smiling, happy, glowing face, and she fell at his feet in rapturous joy.
                     She kissed his great black hands before he could stop her. Uncle Ned
                     interpreted her joy.
                  "You've seed de truth ob de matter. De dear Lord has 'cided for Massa Tom. De
                     answer was 'what God has joined together let not man put 'sunder.' 'Twud be
                     jes' as bad for a woman to put it 'sunder as man. So your mother can't do it.
                     What you says 'bout havin' Massa Tom in heaben is well 'nough. But de Bible
                     says a 'bird in de han' is worth two in de bush.'"
                  Like mammy, Uncle Ned was prone to confound human traditions and worldly wisdom
                     with Bible teachings. To him there was only one book in all the world, and all
                     wisdom and truth came from it.
                  Eva laughed and petted his black cheek with her soft, white hand. Spite of all
                     his ignorance, how she loved and reverenced him! And well she might, for a
                     braver, nobler, manlier soul than inhabited that black temple she knew not. A
                     cruel, painful, unnecessary separation was before her. She loved her father and
                     brothers, and oh, how deeply she loved her mother! It was tearing out her heart-strings to separate thus
                     from these; but after all it was not like killing her soul. Now she could bear
                     all things.
                  Uncle Ned went almost home with her. It was so hard to part with her to-day. He
                     said, "I have a 'pression dat I shall neber see you dis side ob 'ternity, ob de
                     riber of death. Nex' time you sees me yer won' no see dis yer black body. We
                     shall be all white den, Eva, when we gits de white robe on. No black robes
                     dare."
                  The reader will observe that he left the missus out this time. He did it
                     unconsciously. It was because he fully realized the great fact that he was a
                     son of God,—a slave no longer.
                  Weeping and heart-broken at her parting with her dear friend, which she too
                     felt was for the last time, she entered her home, that is, the place where they
                     were staying, to make known her decision. She met her father first. He received
                     her kindly, hoping to win her by love; but in vain.
                  "Father, I shall never give Tom up! I shall marry him as soon as I can!"
                  Mr. Rosewell was transported with rage. To be defied thus by his own child; to
                     have his cherished purposes thwarted by such obstinacy. He would not bear it.
                     He would crush her. He would rather kill her than see her marry
                     Tom. He told her so. Then it was that Eva showed the real strength of her
                     character. Then it was she arose in the real strength of her womanhood,—the
                     strength of love,—and commanded the strong man to be silent. Ah, she was
                     sublimely grand and glorious then! Who could have believed that the
                     sweet-tempered, gentle childlike Eva could become the very impersonation of
                     indignant wrath and majestic power? Her eyes flashing indignant scorn and stern
                     defiance, she told the miserable creature what he was. She drew his mean;
                     cringing, malicious, suspicious soul out of its hiding-place and held it up, in
                     all its monstrous deformity, in the blazing light of day.
                  It was a desperate remedy. No person on earth but the daughter he so much loved
                     could have shown him what he was, could have put the knife to the cancer that
                     was eating out the vitals of his character. Ah, yes; it was a desperate remedy.
                     And I may truly say, that while her sharp knife was working among the nerves
                     and fibres of his soul, that soul-life hung in the balance, as truly as the
                     life of the patient hangs in the balance while the surgeon's knife is working
                     at the cancer that has fastened itself on the vitals. Desperate cases require
                     desperate remedies.
                  And we will see, if we continue to study him, which were the most effective
                     means in renovating his character: the devotion, love, and kindness of his wife
                     and Aunt Polly, the gentle obedience of his children, or the fearful wrath, the
                     fiery indignation, the awful denunciations of Eva. He certainly looked weak and
                     helpless enough when she had got through scourging him. He entreated her to
                     leave him and let him alone, he began to realize now that slave-holders and
                     rebels were not the only sinners in the world worthy of death and
                     extermination.
                  "If it is your wish that I should leave you," replied Eva, "I will go; but if
                     you wish me to stay, I will stay and do the best I can to help you become a
                     better man."
                  "I feel the best thing you can do for me now is to leave me," said the wretched
                     father.
                  Eva left him. Her mother parted with her in sorrow but not in anger, and alone
                     she went out to face the world and bear its heavy trials. But what sunny spots
                     we come to even in our darkest hours! The darkest clouds will suddenly part,
                     and behind them we see the same warm, genial sun that shone upon us in our
                     happiest, brightest hours. Eva walked as far as the little public house, where
                     Tom had stopped so long ago. Outside stood a ragged, dirty, besotted man, with
                     a crowd of wretched children,—the next editions of himself and their mother. He
                     knew Eva.
                  "Hollo, stranger! I reckon as I've got suthin' as belongs to you. Wait a minute
                     and I' ll fetch it."
                  The children flocked around Eva as they were wont to in Sunday-school. Love and
                     sorrow had opened a new vein of sympathy and tenderness in her heart, and as
                     she looked on the worse than orphan children she was leaving, with no teacher
                     now to care for their souls, she wept bitter tears; such tears as parting with
                     all her friends had failed to call
                     out. When the man handed her the dirty letter, yellowed with age and smoke, she
                     could not even thank him; she hurried to get out of sight.
                  Alone with her letter, she is in another world. Every doubt is cleared up. She
                     can now believe in Tom with just the perfect confidence her heart longs for.
                     She can take him to her confidence now without a shadow of suspicion that he
                     ever meant to injure her, meant any wrong.
                  "Oh, what a sweet letter!" she murmured, as she pressed it again and again to
                     her heart, cried over it, and kissed it as though it were the living Tom.
                  If the reader will only remember how his own heart thrilled, and how the tears
                     would force themselves into his own eyes, as he read and thought upon that
                     letter, the outpouring of a tempted, truthful, manly heart to the girl he
                     loved, but who had been forced to suspect him, he will hardly be in a condition
                     to judge her very harshly for her emotions. I love her for being so childlike
                     over that letter. She was sublimely grand and divinely glorious when she was
                     talking to her father; she is lovingly sweet and divinely womanly now. Bless
                     her heart! She may cry, and I'll cry with her. And if you want to enjoy a real
                     good, refreshing, soul-irrigating, enriching cry, dear reader, go and sit by
                     her side, so you can in somewise feel the throbbings of her heart and cry too.
                     But with the letter Eva felt she had received a sacred trust, to clear his name
                     of the foul slander her father had invented. She wrote a note to her father,
                     requesting an interview before she left for good. He was in no condition to
                     refuse her request, and so he went. She put the letter in his hand. It could be
                     no more than the truth to say his heart was touched by it. Eva had so riddled
                     his panoply of self-conceit that his soul was now open to be reached by truth;
                     but the ruling passion was strong still. He said: "This all looks fair enough,
                     but it is not at all reasonable to suppose this letter has been all this time
                     in that man's hands. Just see, there is no date on it. This is a trick of his,
                     to make you think he wanted to marry you then. If you knew the whole, I've no
                     doubt you'd find he smoked up that letter and bribed that old man to make you
                     think he wrote it then, when he was here before."
                  Heavens and earth! Can man become an incarnation of the devil? Doubtful. This
                     life seems too short, its possibilities and capacities too limited, to allow
                     any one to wholly efface the divine image of goodness from his heart. All
                     experience demonstrates that the worst of men have good points, that the
                     hardest heart has a soft spot in it. But with all these limitations, we know
                     that men can come mighty near the stature of the devil. It is the
                     great curse of such a nature as Mr. Rosewell's, that every fact coming to him
                     comes through the perverted medium of his own trickery, deceit, and low
                     cunning. His mind of necessity inverts facts as the lens of the artist inverts
                     the objects before it. It is only when the eye is single that the body can be
                     full of light. Oh, the curse of meanness, suspicion, and selfishness! If men
                     could only see these things in all their awful deformity, would they ever
                     harbor a mean, vile thought again?
                  Nothing daunted, Eva demanded of her father to go at once to the house of the
                     man who gave her the letter, to investigate the facts of the case. "This matter
                     shall be sifted to the very bottom," she said, as her father hesitated about
                     going with her. There was a power in Eva now that it was useless to think of
                     resisting. Tom's honor was at stake, and to her his honor was as sacred as to
                     him. She felt confident that she could go through fire and water but what
                        his name should be cleared of that foul suspicion.
                  They went. Every fact was brought out. The man and the woman were closely
                     questioned and cross-questioned. Even the money that Tom gave them was all
                     brought in. Mr. Rosewell looked incredulous. It was unreasonable to suppose Tom
                     would give so much money to have a letter taken a little way.
                  "Have you got any of the gold pieces left?" asked Eva of the woman. She was
                     frightened. She thought she would be called upon to give it up in exchange for
                     Confederate scrip. So she blushed, and declared she had used it all. Mr.
                     Rosewell gave a very meaning look at Eva, as much as to say, "There, don't she
                     show guilt? See how she blushes." Eva took the trembling woman on one side and
                     reassured her. She told her they only wanted to be sure Mr. Price gave it to her. The tears
                     were in Eva's eyes.
                  The poor woman could not resist the pleading of the angel girl who had done so
                     much for her children. She told her if they would get her old man out of the
                     room,—she didn't want him to know about the money,—she would show it. The money
                     was exhibited.
                  "How do we know but what this money is some she has stolen away from her
                     husband? Why else should she want him to go out?" said the ever-suspicious
                     man.
                  Eva looked the personification of disgust and contempt. Why waste proof on such
                     a being? She sat down and wrote a note, making the most unqualified
                     retractation of all the slanderous stories about Tom up to the time of his
                     previous visit. For proof of his innocence of the house-burning she was willing
                     to wait. But this thing that touched his honor and purity she would have
                     contradicted now.
                  "Father, I want you to sign that note," she said, in her calmest tones. Calm,
                     did I say? Well, it was the calmness that had the possibilities of the tornado
                     and tempest in it. Mr. Rosewell felt a greater dread of that calmness than he
                     would of the wildest passion of other women. The paper shook as he held it in
                     his hand to read it. It was awful for a man of his pretensions to have to eat
                     his own words, swallow his own poison, in that style. He begged for a little
                     delay.
                  "Father," said Eva, "as far as you could, you have ruined my life and blasted
                     my hopes, withered my heart, by your foul suspicion of that man I love better
                     than life. I but just escaped with life. For all the wrong you have done me,
                     all the misery and anguish you have caused me, I can forgive you. You are my
                     father, and I love you still. But for the wrong you have done him in blackening
                     his character, in tarnishing his honor, I never will forgive you without the
                     most complete restitution you can make." Wasn't she divinely grand and
                     invincible, though, in this her action?
                  All you who think physical force rules the world, look here and see what moral
                     power means. Her father looked at her with wonder and admiration. That glorious
                     creature ture was his daughter. There was not another such a girl in all the
                     world. He dreaded her disapprobation more than all the guns of the Confederate
                     army. He wasn't afraid of death; but he was afraid of life without her
                     forgiveness and love. His hand trembled, but he signed the paper.
                  
                  "And now will my daughter forgive her father, and love him as she used to?" he
                     said, imploringly.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXI.
                  THE GREAT CRISIS—GETTYSBURG.
                  THE time has come now when the balance in which the great republic is being
                     weighed and tested is steadily going down on the side of disunion and
                     disintegration. The proud, conceited people who began the conflict with the
                     conviction that they could "lick the whole South in ninety days" have learned
                     by bitter experience what metal the South is made of; and they have the
                     greatest reason to fear that instead of "licking" they are going to get
                     "licked." This was the condition of things at the beginning of the memorable
                     campaign of 1863. Every effort to retake Sumter has failed; Vicksburg is still
                     in the hands of the enemy.
                  The crisis has come at last. General Lee is on free territory. The invaded have
                     become the invaders, and Pennsylvania, instead of Virginia, is the theatre of
                     war. The next few days will decide whether the Northern opponents of the
                     administration mean fight or not, whether there are any considerable number
                     that will fly to the rescue of the South, to her help, in this hour of her
                     triumph. For truly victory now perches on the Confederate banner.
                  The stoutest hearts are failing through fear. To thousands who have been
                     sanguine of final triumph before, the dissolution of the great American Union seems inevitable. Those that have
                     been its stanchest and boldest defenders are beginning to cry Peace! peace! let
                     us divide the country, that we have war no more! Had such counsels prevailed,
                     and this great light of the western continent gone out in darkness, what a
                     fearful day for the race! What a blow to human freedom!
                  The spring and early summer of 1863 marked one of the greatest epochs of the
                     world's history. It was the culminating point wherein the two life-long foes,
                     Freedom and Oppression, met in their long, last struggle, wherein neither would
                     retire from the combat until he had given his antagonist a mortal wound. For
                     six thousand years the world had been getting ready for the battle of
                     Gettysburg. How did a world's fate hang in the balance through that awful third
                     of July! As we look back to it now it seems a marvel that the sun had not
                     "stood still," and angels and men held their breath in awful suspense, watching
                     the death-struggle between these two combatants; the one the friend, the other
                     the enemy and destroyer of mankind.
                  The day is nearly gone, and the great enemy has been baffled and defeated in
                     every attempt to give his adversary a death-blow; and now, driven to
                     desperation, he rallies all his failing energies, concentrates all his forces,
                     and prepares for a final charge. Cemetery Hill (fitly named) is the scene of
                     this grand conflict.
                  Historians and war-painters never tire of telling the story of that brilliant
                     charge and its crushing defeat. And truly as an exhibition of courage, bravery,
                     and daring, it is one of the most interesting of all the varied scenes of the
                     war. But what is it when looked at through the lenses of the philosopher, the
                     Christian, and the poet? Gettysburg carried in its womb the world's freedom. No
                     marvel that the working-men of the Old World stood with hushed breath and
                     stilled pulse to hear the news of that battle. That fight was the last
                     birth-throe that gave to the world a higher freedom. Oppression no longer hopes
                     or seeks to overthrow its mortal enemy. After its century's fight in every form
                     and under ever possible disguises, it knows it is at last beaten.
                     Beaten, but not subdued; overcome, but not destroyed. It still keeps up a bold,
                     defiant front. It will sell its life as dearly as it may. But it has received
                     its mortal wound now. Its death is only a question of time.
                  But what a glorious day was that fourth of July that followed this great
                     victory! What finite mind can fathom its meaning and tell us how much we owe to
                     that victory? Its glory and grandeur increase in direct ratio of the distance
                     we travel from it. How could we have worked during those awful hours? Why was
                     not every shop closed, every mill shut up, every farm left to itself? Why was
                     not every eye strained towards Gettysburg, every ear on the alert to hear the
                     faintest sound from that field of carnage? How could we have cooked and eaten,
                     bought and sold, read and slept, during those hours of mortal strife? Because
                     it is in this waiting, working, patient mood and condition that God would have
                     us usher in the great events of the world's history. Those hours of mortal
                     anguish that ushered a Christ into the world of flesh and sense were marked by
                     no unusual phenomena. It was only a repetition of the woman's story, from Eve
                     down to the mother of Christ: "I have gotten a man from the Lord,"—triumphant
                     song of woman from then till now!
                  The advent of the "wise men," the visit of the shepherds, came afterwards. The
                     coming of the Son of Man was marked by nothing to distinguish it from the birth
                     of any ordinary child of poverty. How little did any of that weary, anxious
                     throng, journeying forward to pay their taxes, realize, of what was going on
                     around them, yea in their midst! How little did the weary soldiers, the
                     wounded, suffering, dying men that covered that bloody field that night, know
                     of what they were doing, what part they were acting in the world's drama! And
                     to this day the wisest of us, as well as the simplest, can do no more than say,
                     We begin to realize a little of the meaning of Gettysburg. But may
                     we not hope that the exaltation of faculties that often waits on dissolving
                     nature opened the eyes of many a dying soldier to the meaning of the victory
                     that had cost him his life?
                  Eva Rosewell, in company with others, spent the night of the third on the gory
                     field. The angel of life follows in
                     the wake of the angel of death, and tries, as far as may be, to bind up the
                     bleeding wounds, heal the broken hearts he leaves in his desolating train. An
                     impression she could in nowise define or explain led Eva to stray down in the
                     direction of the Emmettsburg road. The field was strewed with dead—the wounded
                     partially removed. She went on,—she could not stand still,—something seemed
                     drawing her to a certain spot. What was it? Was it the soul's attraction
                     drawing the sundered parts back to a common centre? We cannot tell. Our
                     instruments are too coarse, too material, to measure or define the soul's
                     attractions.
                  She went on and on, with no thought of personal danger, till she came to an
                     object that riveted her to the spot. She could go no farther! There in a pool
                     of clotted blood lay a man supposed to be dead. She put her hand on his bloody
                     face to see if he were of a certainty dead. Oh, the thrill that followed that
                     touch! Was it not the same force that always set her pulse to bounding and
                     throbbing with the wildest, sweetest joy at the touch of Tom Price's hand, the
                     pressure of his lips,—ay, even the subtle influence of his presence? It
                        is the same power.
                  
                  Let us each and all lift up our hearts in devout gratitude to our Father that
                     in this hour of darkness and death he has sent Eva to the very spot where Tom
                     lies weltering in his own blood.
                  In the early part of the day he fell in this out-of-the-way place, pierced by a
                     sharp-shooter's ball as he was carrying an order from the commanding general.
                     The bullet struck his neck but a short distance from the spot where the gallant
                     Reynolds was mortally wounded, dying in a few moments after he was shot; but in
                     such a place a little distance makes a great difference sometimes. Tom's wound
                     bled profusely, he fainted and fell off his horse. The horse wanted to stay by
                     his master, but he was soon mounted by one whose horse had been shot under him.
                     A few days before Tom had been wounded in his left arm, it had been cut off
                     above the elbow, near the shoulder. When the new wound commenced bleeding, the
                     weakness consequent upon such loss of blood so relaxed the blood-vessels of the
                     wounded part that it began bleeding afresh. There was no one near him. All the
                     forces of his friends were called into activity for the last great struggle.
                     And surely his enemies had enough to think of without looking after him or any
                     other rebel soldier! So it seemed he must die—alone!
                  The shock of falling from his horse roused him, and for awhile he was
                     conscious. He calmly reflected upon his situation, and he was fully aware of
                     the probabilities that he would die alone.
                  "Oh, my darling! If I could only see her once before I go. But no,
                     it can't be; I have lived alone, and I must die alone!" were his
                     faint moanings.
                  Who can tell the meaning of that word alone to the soul thus
                     launching out on its long, last voyage to reach the great ocean of eternity?
                     Eternity! And was there now no thought of the companions in arms he was leaving
                     behind? No thought of the cause for which he was sacrificing his life? Ah, no;
                     the thought of his darling one, whom he was leaving alone in this world of war
                     and tumult, was so overpowering as to hold all others in solution. Well knowing
                     the uncertainty of a soldier's life, he had already made his will, in the which
                     the bulk of all his property had been given to his "betrothed wife, Eva
                     Rosewell." In the event of emancipation, which, though it seemed then
                     improbable, was not impossible, she was to educate his slaves and help them to
                     become self-sustaining, never forcing any to leave the old plantation except
                     for bad conduct. To mammy and her pious husband he left a pension during
                     life.
                  Business matters thus arranged beforehand, he had nothing to do now but to
                     think of her. He had written a long letter to be given her in case
                     of his death. But he wanted to write a few words more. He had no pen nor ink,
                     but he had a small piece of paper. He picked up a little stick, and dipping it
                     in the fresh blood of his wound, wrote, "Send my body to Eva Rosewell." He
                     wanted to write something to her, but his failing strength could no longer keep
                     his fingers steady, and the other marks were only bloody blotches. He fainted
                     again. As he was going off, off into the regions of nothingness, darkness, and
                     loneness, he faintly breathed out, "I am going, dearest. Kiss me, love. Mine, mine, mine
                     forever! My darling Ev—E——"
                  That sweet word died on his lips. But we may rejoice that the thought only died
                     out of his heart when it stopped beating and his pulse was still. Blessed
                     thought, "Eva is mine." Oh, happy, happy soul! that, launching out into the
                     great unknown, feels that it is not alone! It has a companion, a loved one,
                     ever at its side. To a soul who has never known this higher love, who has never
                     tasted the sweets of perfected love in human companionship, there always will,
                     and ever must be, a sense of loneliness as he thinks of the unseen world of
                     spirits. His conception of heaven may be ever so high and spiritual, his
                     religious experience ever so deep, he is lonely till "God is made flesh," and
                     dwells with him a companion and friend.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXII.
                  WOMAN'S SOVEREIGNTY.
                  THE sanguine hopes of those devout abolitionists who thought that directly Mr.
                     Lincoln issued a decree of emancipation the Lord was going to array himself
                     with all the hosts of heaven on the side of the North, and they were going to
                     overwhelm their enemies as Joshua's men took Jericho by blowing rams' horns,
                     have not been fully realized. The South scoffed at the paper
                        bullet of its enemy, and grew more defiant, became more successful
                     than ever. It strengthened the enemy's hands, inasmuch as it put an end to all
                     the fond hopes that many had cherished of "The Union as it was." That could not
                     be now. To the South the question was one of independence or an existence in a
                     new Union, on political equality with niggers. Thus threatened, she rallied all
                     her forces for fight. There were others that saw in that first proclamation of
                     September a bribe of the souls and bodies of men, offered to the South to buy
                     her off and tempt her to stop fighting. They thought it was the same as though
                     the President had said, "If you will only lay down your arms and stop killing
                     these white people the American Union will give you four millions of its black
                     children to do just as you please with. They shall be your slaves forever. All
                     the force of the Federal government will be pledged as a guarantee of their
                     perpetual slavery. But if you do not accept this offer within the next three
                     months, lay down your arms and become peaceable citizens, I will take every
                     nigger away from you. The North do not want them for slaves, but she will not
                     let you have them. They shall be free and have the same privileges as the
                     whites."
                  The friends of freedom, thus divided, were but putting guns and ammunition into
                     the hands of the enemy. The enemy defiant and hopeful, it soon became evident
                     that something besides blowing the proclamation horn was needed to stop the
                     war.
                  A tender parent might take his naughty child to his arms and stuff him out with
                     candy as soon as he stopped thrashing his brother, even though he was obliged
                     to stop because his brother was getting the better of him. But not exactly thus
                     does the Lord deal with his people that oppress and trample upon their fellows.
                     He don't pet them and stuff them up with candy because they've got licked when
                     they so richly deserved it.
                  During the first years of the war the North deserved to be beaten. The fiery
                     furnace through which she had to pass on her march to final victory was the
                     only discipline that could cure her of her indifference to the negro, could
                     cast out the demon of caste and prejudice that fastened the fetters on the soul
                     and body of the black man. A thousand times more potent and irresistible these
                     than any statute law. That first proclamation was but the expression of the
                     average sentiment of the American people at the time it was issued.
                  In nothing did Mr. Lincoln display a wiser statesmanship than the manner in
                     which he felt the pulse of the people, and only moved when he was sure they
                     would follow him. Else had he found himself in the condition of many a fool
                     that had gone before and followed after him, blating high-sounding phrases about freedom,
                     equality, and brotherhood to an audience of—himself.
                  Without being what is technically called a religious man, Mr. Rosewell was one
                     that felt that his services in the cause of freedom gave him a strong claim on
                     the Almighty for a little petting and a good deal of candy. The Lord was just,
                     and it was only his just dues for a life-long service in the ranks of the then
                     despised abolitionists. He had that idea of the Lord ordering all events, and
                     making a special arrangement for each person and case, that waits on the faith
                     of some people. Therefore it was that when he found his cause defeated, spite
                     of the January proclamation; one daughter brought to a horrible, untimely end
                     by the rebels; when he found himself forsaken and despised of the daughter he
                     loved better than he could love anything else; his wife crushed and despondent;
                     his home in ruins; the memory of Aunt Polly haunting him with thoughts pleasant
                     and dreadfully unpleasant, he felt himself the most abused man in the
                     world.
                  It seems strange and contradictory to say such a creature as he, such a heart
                     as his, could suffer of love-hunger, could perish of love-thirst. One would
                     sooner think his heart would die of apoplexy, a plethora of love, than of
                     inanition,—want of nourishment. Yet such was in reality the case. Aunt Polly's
                     love did not satisfy him, it was an entirely different kind from what his
                     nature demanded. His wife's love came nearer to meeting his wants, and yet that
                     failed to satisfy: it wasn't discriminating enough; or, in other words, it had
                     not enough of fire and brimstone. It lacked that retributive vengeance-dealing
                     force that burns and saves. People are sometimes shocked at hearing devout
                     persons pray for some impenitent ones, that they may be "shook over hell," that
                     they may feel its fire, and smell its sulphurous smoke. They need not be
                     shocked at such a prayer. To pray thus for certain temperaments and peculiar
                     casts of mind, is no more than to pray for some sick people that they might be
                     able to take a bitter pill and be cured by it.
                  But no one could desire to see Mr. Rosewell more thoroughly "shook over hell"
                     than Eva's speech had already done. Oh, how her denunciations still ring in his
                     ears and thrill his soul with awful anguish and terrible fear! How he shudders
                     at the picture she gave of himself, as men shudder at Dante's pictures of the
                     dread Inferno! Could he ever hope that Eva would love such a father? Oh, no!
                     she did not love him! Instead she loved his mortal enemy. Ah, that was the
                     bitterest pang of all! Still, there was a secret hope that thrilled the
                     wretched man's soul,—a hope that Eva might yet love him. All this man's
                     ambition has finally centred in that one hope. It is now the grand desideratum
                     of existence. He believes that he shall yet be able to rid himself of that
                     horrid shadow. He can alter that dreadful picture, and compel Eva to draw
                     another of her father. His heart tells him how gladly she will do it. He is
                     going to be a different man, so the dear child can do it. This is all he lives
                     for now,—to become worthy of his daughter's love and confidence.
                  Oh, if women could but realize what a power God has clothed them with, what a
                     regenerating, renovating force their love may become, they would never look in
                     any other direction than the perfection of their own woman-hood for weapons
                     wherewith they might subdue all things unto themselves, for instruments of
                     power whereby they might purify and elevate society!
                  A woman's approving smile is the reward which God intended should stimulate men
                     to the noblest deeds, should lead them on to the most heroic self-sacrifice.
                     How plainly can we see this principle manifest in the conduct of brave knights
                     in all ages, and in the applause they have received for risking their lives for
                     woman's favor and smiles!
                  What class of men is it that awakens our highest enthusiasm and calls out our
                     finest feelings? Is it of those that, like Napoleon, have done brave and mighty
                     deeds for themselves, their own honor and advancement, or of those that, like
                     the heroes and sages of Troy, have fought, suffered, lived and died in behalf
                     of woman? Why is it that the songs of Homer so thrill us to-day? Why is it that
                     no poet has ever sung of war, that has had the power to clothe it with such
                     fascinating charms, to encircle it with such a halo of immortal glory? It is
                     truly said that all that succeeding
                     poets have done is to try and imitate Homer when they have sung of war; and the
                     reason why they have so failed is because they have failed to understand the
                     vital point of interest in his war-song,—the love of woman.
                  
                  Imagine the Greek heroes laying siege to Troy for no higher motive than to get
                     possession of the city,—to plunder and get gold. Who would care for them?
                  The crowning glory of that war, a glory that grows brighter and more dazzling
                     as the ages roll on, is the central life-giving fact that it was begun and
                     carried on in the simple interest of beautiful woman. It was this
                     all-controlling fact that has lent such an interest to the exploits of the
                     Greek heroes—an interest that the Crusaders, with all their lofty enthusiasm,
                     their heroic daring, have failed to excite. Homer sang at a time when the heart
                     of man lay nearest the heart of nature. The records of his heroes are nearest
                     like the battles of those heroic male birds that fight and die in behalf of
                     some beautiful female they want to secure. This is the simple elementary
                     principle of man's nature. Hence Homer has touched a chord that finds a
                     response in every man's heart. Ay, and woman's too! for they like to be fought
                        for as well as men like to fight for them.
                     Shakspeare wrote at a time when men had traveled far away from the simplicity
                     of nature, and he began to feel other impulses and be governed by other
                     motives. Ambition, the crown of a king, not the crown of a lover, was the
                     controlling motive of his war heroes. Mark Antony was the exception to this.
                     But his love was fearfully mixed with ambition. Richard the Third
                     is the embodiment of his war heroes. What a hateful creature!
                  We refer to these simple facts here because they show the elementary principle
                     of our nature. They show how woman is the great motor power that acts upon the
                     nerves of manhood. It is through her that God will exalt, purify, and ennoble
                     men, re-creating them in his own image. What the Greek youths did and endured
                     for Helen's sake, men will always be ready in different ways to do for
                     beautiful womanhood. But it is said all women are not beautiful as she. But all
                     women can become a great deal more beautiful than she. Hers was
                     the lowest type of beauty: a beauty of form and color. They may have a beauty
                     of soul, that gives the loveliest form, the sweetest expression. These facts
                     indicate the direction in which women are to seek for sovereignty and power.
                     Not the sword, not the ballot, is to govern the world. In the world of the
                     future, woman's smiles and frowns will be the chiefest good, the most terrible
                     retribution. But this can only be when her nature is so perfectly godlike that
                     her smiles and frowns are the simple reflection of infinite love. To seek to
                     become godlike not man-like, then, is the highest wisdom of
                     woman.
                  Without fully realizing it, our darling Eva (yes, she is our darling as well as
                     Tom's) has been growing more and yet more into the likeness of the perfected
                     woman,—the bride of Christ. After that night, awful yet glorious, when their
                     house was burned, she went forth alone (yet not alone, for Tom was with her) to
                     her self-imposed task of curing the sick and caring for the wounded. No hand so
                     gentle, no smile so sweet, no heart so hopeful as hers. And yet we must confess
                     that it was only when she had the privilege of caring for the enemy she was the
                     sweetest and tenderest. People thought it was because she was so fervent a
                     Christian. Perhaps it was.
                  
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
                  POSSIBILITIES OF SPIRIT-TALK.
                  OH, no, there was no such thing as mistaking that thrill. What
                     touch but Tom's had power to set her heart to throbbing so wildly as this? But
                     was he dead? Would he ever speak to her again? She put her face close to his
                     powder-begrimed bloody cheek. He did not kiss her. Ah, surely Tom Price must be
                     dead, or Eva Rosewell's lips had never met his without an answering kiss. She
                     took him into her arms. Oh, what an earnest prayer did she breathe to heaven that she might join him in
                     the other world! Her hand was on his heart. "Oh, my Father, my Father, let me
                     come too!—I can't stay here alone; I must come to see Tom! Let me come, oh,
                     God, let me come!"
                  She now became sensible of a slight warmth under the hand that pressed his
                     heart. Hope revived. Maybe, instead of her going to Tom, he was coming back to
                     her. What if Christ pitied her so that he was sending the angels back with his
                     soul so she could have him again! It would be no more than he did for Mary and
                     Martha when their brother had left them. And the dear Saviour certainly loved
                     her as well as the two sisters of Bethany. To her natural, simple faith,
                     increased and strengthened by Uncle Ned's teaching, there was nothing at all
                     unreasonable in supposing that if her Father did not want to take her to Tom,
                     he should send Tom back to her. Why, how could he help it when she wanted Tom
                     so much? God loved her, and he delighted to please her as much as Tom did. How
                     quick Tom would give her what she asked for if he had it in his power! Eva's
                     faith is real, a living force, because it is based on experienced, known love.
                     It is not based on what somebody has said about God. It rests on what she
                        knows of God, of love. How beautiful is such a sight on that
                     field of carnage! All those horrid instruments of war, the ground plowed by
                     artillery and drenched with the blood of brothers, the air heavy with the
                     shrieks and groans of the wounded and dying, all these frightful things become
                     changed and take on a different form as we look at them in the light wherewith
                     this woman's love illuminates the scene. As this girl clasps the brave but
                     mistaken enemy to her heart, and by its own life-force wins it back to a higher
                     life, so does the nation clasp her would-be destroyer to her motherly arms and
                     seeks to win the South back to a higher and freer life. It is love
                     by its own life-force saving the enemy and transforming it into its own
                     likeness.
                  "Oh, my sweet girl, how good to be with you, how happy!" Tom faintly breathed
                     out at last. He showed no surprise at seeing her there,—never thought of how
                     she came there.
                  How do we know but what during these moments and hours, when the form of flesh
                     was rocking in the cradle of death, the unfettered spirit was rocking in the
                     cradle of love, encircled in the arms of the sweet angel who had been drawn
                     hither.
                  "My own dear Tom, you've come back to me; I thought you wouldn't leave me alone
                        always," murmured Eva, as she drew him closer to her heart.
                  "Did I leave you alone? Where have I been? Where are we now, Eva?" Tom asked,
                     in a manner that showed how the mind was struggling to comprehend the facts of
                     its own being. A thought of its last occupation now dawned upon his mind. "Eva,
                     did we take that position?—is the battle over?" he inquired with a strained,
                     eager look.
                  The nurse was aroused in Eva now. Tom must not think about the
                     war: he was too weak for that; besides, God had not sent him back to her that
                     he should worry about the defeat they had suffered.
                  "My darling has got the position he wanted right in his love's arms, and so he
                     must rest and not ask her any questions, but just go right to sleep."
                  She rubbed her hand over his blood-stained face in her own sweet, petting,
                     caressing way. He surely could not resist that delightful authority; but awful
                     thoughts were in his soul, and an awful anxiety overpowered him, and even the
                     lovely presence of his loved one could not banish these thoughts. Even
                        her word was not potent enough to exorcise the demons that war
                     had invoked.
                  "Don't trifle with me, pet. Tell me truly, did we gain or lose the battle?" he
                     said, earnestly.
                  "We gained it," was the soft answer whispered in his ear.
                  A smile of relief and hope lit up his warm face, and calmly as the infant goes
                     to sleep in its mother's arms did he resign himself to her loving care. An
                     entire paralysis of consciousness followed this short interval of reason and
                     memory. His muscles relaxed into a deathlike stillness, and much of the time
                     Eva did not know whether or no she was pressing the form of her darling, from
                     which the immortal part had taken its flight.
                  
                  Oh, what moments are those when the spirit of a loved one is on the border-land
                     that separates the seen from the unseen, the world of flesh from the world of
                     spirits! Wide apart as these two worlds are, distant as they seem measured from
                     the points of their widest difference, there is a point where they touch each
                     other; there is a boundary line where the spirit takes a single step, and lo!
                     it has changed worlds! The form of flesh is left behind, as the bird leaves the
                     now useless egg-shell in the nest behind. Time was when that shell was a
                     necessity of that bird's existence; there came a time when it was only an
                     encumbrance,—a prison-house. But its Creator never ordained that that beautiful
                     bird should be a prisoner; so, when the fullness of time was come, the
                     prison-walls were broken, and the freed bird went forth to the enjoyment of its
                     new life of freedom, light, and song. Thus does the long-imprisoned spirit
                     burst the bands of the flesh, and it soars out on its upward, onward course to
                     the enjoyment of its new life of freedom, light, and song. When the bird breaks
                     its shell we call it life; when the spirit leaves its shell we
                     call it death. It is a distinction without a difference.
                  Of a spiritualized temperament, Eva had always thought and felt much of the
                     soul's relation and connection with the invisible world of spirits. 'She had
                     that rare gift of poetic apprehension that makes the hidden things real to us.
                     She had the still rarer gift of clothing the spirit, ridden of its covering of
                     flesh, with a new and beatified form, a glorified body. But,
                     though nature has gifted one never so highly in this direction, it is not till
                     the soul has followed, or rather gone itself in the person of the one with whom
                     love has made it one; that it realizes this great mystery of human
                     existence. It seems strange that in all the ages that have come and gone, from
                     the beginning till now, there never have been two souls so thoroughly one, so
                     inseparably connected, that one could stand on the outside, the other on the
                     inside, of this realm of flesh, and know each other perfectly,—be able to talk
                     together as a man converses with his friend.
                  Perhaps there have been. Who of us have ever sounded the possibilities of the
                     spirit-world, or read its unwritten histories? Perhaps we are ignorant of
                     spirit intercourse, simply because the spirit language by which they become
                     intelligible to each other is not yet born. We know not how long the human race
                     was on this earth before the birth of language. With all the boasted
                     discoveries of this century, there has been no discovery that in importance
                     bears the least relation to the discovery of speech,—symbols of thought and
                     feeling. The next best discovery was the art of writing, by which the
                     discoveries of one age and country can become the property of all. The next
                     highest boon to be conferred on men will be the discovery of a medium of
                     communication between the divided family of earth and heaven, means by which
                     the discoveries, experience, and higher wisdom of those that have "crossed the
                     flood" can become the property of those on this side.
                  The human heart has been instinctively seeking for this, from the beginning
                     till now. In the days of Christ, we are told of people that crossed and
                     recrossed the boundary line of the two worlds. And yet they have left us no
                     record of what they saw or heard in that other land. What is the reason of
                     this? Were there no reporters in that day to "interview" Lazarus, and get from
                     him a description of the unknown land he had been in for three days? And of all
                     the people whose "graves were opened" on the day of the crucifixion, why have
                     we no records from them? Was it because they had nothing to say? or was it
                     because there was no language wherewith to make themselves understood?
                     Undoubtedly the latter.
                  It was such thoughts as these that kept Eva's mind engaged during those awful
                     hours of suspense and darkness, when she held her lover in her arms and knew
                     not whether he was living or dead. A high, and to her unselfish soul a very
                     precious, thought came to her now. What if God had chosen her to reflect some
                     of heaven's light on a dark world of shadows? She and Tom were one soul. They
                     always would be one. How could she help knowing something of what he felt and
                     experienced? Hadn't it been so ever since that ride on the cars? A great deal
                     more so since that meeting in the woods, when perfect confidence cemented their
                     souls into a complete living whole. She and Uncle Ned had often talked of this. Whenever
                     she and he were alone together, he was always asking "de dear Lord to send Eva
                     to Massa Tom, and gib 'em a good time togeder." The Lord had answered; and how
                     much of Tom she had enjoyed, even when he was hundreds of miles away! Whether
                     this be anything more than Eva's fancy I am not prepared to say; but one thing
                     I believe, if we ever are to know of the world whither our friends are gone,
                     before we get there ourselves; if a spirit language corresponding to the
                     language of the flesh is among the possibilities of the future, Eva is on the
                     right track to discover it. She is looking in the right direction for it. And
                     just as we make a unit of human love, and keep adding on ciphers to infinity,
                     to understand God's love, so must our first unit of the knowledge of the
                     spirit-world be our perfect oneness with a human soul on the other shore. Death
                     cannot put asunder souls that love has made one; and it is by means of the
                     interchange of thought and feeling, that exists between the two halves of those
                     parted but not divided souls, that we must take our first lessons of
                     spirit-life.
                  But, ah, how the youthful blood clings to the life of the flesh! While there
                     was nothing that Eva could do to save Tom, she could busy herself with thoughts
                     of talking to him after he was dead, and making the world richer and wiser by
                     what she learned from him. But no sooner was there the least sign of help
                     coming than she dismissed all her fancies, and thought only of how she could
                     save him.
                  While Tom is removed to a place of care and safety a short distance off, there
                     is leaning over a fence a pale, disappointed, haggard-looking man, on whose
                     face is written a heart-rending tale of despair and defeat. The shadows of the
                     downfalling Confederacy are gathering thick and black around him. He risked all
                     on that brilliant invasion of Pennsylvania. He has lost all. What
                     remains now but the possibility of saving a remnant of that great army? That
                     hopeless, despairing, sorrow-stricken man is General Lee.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIV.
                  REST FOR THE WEARY.
                  IN the spare-room of a small farm-house, no great distance from the bloody
                     field, one bright July morning just as the sun was welcoming a world of
                     sleepers back to their wakeful life of work and care, Tom Price awoke from a
                     long, feverish dream of Eva, of charges and counter-charges, of defeat and
                     victory, of hopes and fears,—shadows these of the material that go to make up
                     our waking hours,—to find himself on a cool, clean couch, the form of his loved
                     one bending over him, her face close to his to catch the first sound of
                     returning reason. Since the night he was brought here, not for more than ten
                     minutes at a time had she ever left his side. When he slept her cheek was
                     beside his, and she slept too. When he was restless and wakeful, it was her
                     soft hand and gentle touch, the magic of her presence, that quieted him and
                     lulled the excited nerves to repose.
                  She had been absent from her post in the hospitals, but not missed, for
                     directly the telegraph flashed the news of the battle to every part of the land
                     the field of Gettysburg was crowded with nurses and surgeons to care for the
                     wounded and sick. In nothing does the enterprise and swiftness of the American
                     people show to better advantage than the manner in which they fly (for that is
                     the right word) to the relief of the unfortunate or suffering. All honor to
                     them.
                  Tom was free from pain at this time of his first waking. Too happy to speak,
                     too weak to think of anything but that she was with him, he lay
                     for some time feeling her warm breath on his cheek, her soft arms around his
                     neck, her loving, sweet, and gentle caresses lulling him back to the land of
                     dreams and visions. Again he slept: this time the restful sleep of recuperating
                     nature.
                  Who can fathom the joy or measure the happiness of that devoted watcher, as she
                     is thus privileged to stand on the
                     border-land of this world, and welcome back that loved one to this land of
                     light and sunshine? Oh, yes, with all its dark spots, all its vile suspicion,
                     all its cruel separation, all its bloody wars, and burning fevers, it is still
                     a world of joy, beauty, and sunshine. Who would not like to live in just such a
                     world as Tom and Eva lived in that bright, hopeful July day, when the future in
                     the which they should always be together seemed so beautiful and delightfully
                     certain to their imagination?
                  When Eva was a girl, and first felt the flutterings of the vibrating
                     love-chord, we remember she could not tell which it caused her most of, joy or
                     pain; I predicted it would be many a weary year before she could answer that
                     question. I had no idea then of the pain and weariness in store for her. And
                     yet the answer has come sooner than I expected. Ask her now of her pain and
                     sorrow, and she will tell you they are all drowned, blotted out of sight, in
                     the great ocean of love, even as the old world of wickedness and sin
                     disappeared beneath the flood. These few days alone with Tom would compensate
                     her for a life of loneliness and sorrow without him. If Aunt Polly's short hour
                     of love-reverie, in the which she at best only caught a glimpse of the hidden
                     world of love and beauty that God designed for every woman, but which so many
                     fail of entering, did so much for her, atoned for so much of want and hunger,
                     what is this grand, glorious, realized experience of boundless love, given and
                     returned, in an endless eternity of interchange of sweetness and joy, peace and
                     divinity, and oh what not, to the happy souls thus drinking at love's fountain,
                     ever emptying and yet ever filling up faster than the lovers can drink it out?
                     No possibility of exhaustion here, and, oh, dear, what else? what else? To
                     begin to travel the great world of love, hoping to find a jumping-off place, is
                     as absurd and foolish as to be one who should undertake to run around this
                     great globe of ours, hoping to find a square place to jump off from. Let him
                     travel the circuit of the world, and every place is just as round and smooth as
                     the other. Just so would we find ourselves if we should try to follow these two
                     happy creatures in their daily experience. They would go the rounds of their
                     love-world again and again, never finding a stopping-place,—never wanting to
                     find one,—always drinking, always ready to drink more. Walking, leaping,
                     sailing, soaring, flying through love's domain, they never tired; exercise was
                     rest, and rest was exercise; love was sweetness, and sweetness was love; love
                     was joy, and joy was love; love was peace, and peace was love; love was
                     divinity, and divinity was——Oh, Jupiter! here I am right in this charmed
                     treadmill again, running round and round this circle of infinity. Ah, well, as
                     we are in the whirlpool we cannot help whirling around with it, so we may as
                     well take it cool, and sip a little from this fountain of overflowing
                     sweetness. It cannot hurt us, and it may do us good. It may sweeten some of the
                     sour, crabbed, bitter moments of our own experience. It may indescribably
                     soften us a little.
                  "Hush, Eva; be quiet. Lie still and drink," Tom said, as he sealed her lips
                     with his right hand, and with his left drew her head right under his chin.
                  He was sitting braced up with a chair and pillows at his back, and she was
                     sitting beside him as usual. I don't know what she was talking about; but I do
                     not imagine it was anything very profound. She was very willing to stop and
                     drink when Tom told her to. So we will put our hearts beside hers and drink
                     too. We will do as Charles Reade bid us, "put ourselves in her place," and see
                     how the waters of this love-fountain taste.
                  The sensation is somewhat like that produced by the purest of the old European
                     wines. It tingles in the fingers' ends, thrills every nerve, throbs in every
                     artery, bounds in the pulse, overflows in the heart, electrifies the brain,
                     lets us into the secret of what nature has done for man—the image of God—when
                     she gave him animal life. This fountain is the true wine of life, that
                     intoxicates without injuring, blesses without cursing. All other wines are only
                     a clumsy device of men, they produce only a spurious, counterfeit effect. So
                     much for physical effects.
                  The effect on the mind or soul is similar to that produced in some persons by
                     the most melodious harmony, the most thrilling melody. In some temperaments
                     these higher chords are sooner reached by the magnetic force of eloquence. In others they are touched by
                     beautiful scenery, magnificent works of art; in others by beautiful women,
                     brave heroic men. In short, it is just that particular thing that has power to
                     touch every key of the soul's being and from it evoke the harmonious song of
                     the soul's higher life. Perhaps your soul's ear has never listened
                     to these melodious songs. Maybe the right hand has never touched the chords of
                     your being. So much the worse for you, then; for you can only wet your lips at
                     the fountain from which these lovers are drinking. In such case the best thing
                     you can do is to try and conceive of the thing whose possession would give you
                     the highest, sweetest, divinest joy. Then imagine you have got it; just as Tom
                     had got Eva right under his chin.
                  The predominating sensation of this stage is perfect and entire
                        satisfaction. Every want, every craving of the soul, is
                     supplied. Nothing remains to be desired. The body has felt the thrilling,
                     intoxicating effects of the first drink, and now sinks into the dreamy repose
                     of rest. The soul has tasted, yea feasted on, its choicest wine, milk, and
                     honey. It is not satiated, but satisfied,—it rests. Rests, just as the infant,
                     whose rosy lips still moist with the dew of its mother's milk let go because
                     the stomach is filled, filled to overflowing, and the satisfied, happy child
                     sinks down in its mother's arms and sleeps, sleeps and grows fat. Can it be
                     possible that in this strained, anxious, toilworn life of ours there can be
                     such places of perfect rest as this? For the weary travelers over this great
                     desert are there such oases as these, where we can stop, drink, rest, and be
                     refreshed, where we can with matured powers, and the expanded mind of manhood,
                     lay ourselves down to rest in the lap of mother nature and sleep the restful,
                     growing sleep of infancy,—sleep, because we are full and can ask no more?
                  Looking at the miserable, pinched, starving, careworn creatures, whose
                     soul-life has left such a record on their sharp noses, their wrinkled
                     foreheads, their furrowed cheeks, their compressed lips—their restless, weary
                     eyes ever looking for that they never find—I should say, no! such spots on this
                     desert of life are only the dream of the past,—the temporary short-lived
                     experience of youthful lovers. But I know the records on people's faces lie, or
                     they speak the truth only as far as their own experience goes. God's promise,
                     written on every youthful soul, is rest, satisfaction, and happiness; and
                     because they don't find it, shall we say his promise fails, he has made no
                     provisions for our wants? "Yea, rather, let God be true and every man a liar."
                     With my heart next to Eva's, my head beside hers, I can feel there
                     is perfect happiness here; and, best of all, happiness on the simplest
                     conditions that nature supplies, without our asking. A man and woman: the old
                     simple story of Eden! But though these conditions are so simple as to be within
                     the reach of children, they are so high that only the sons and daughters of the
                     Lord Almighty can reach them. None but the pure in heart can see God, can know
                     love. None but those that have cleansed their hearts of ambition, lust, envy,
                     and pride can be clothed with the wedding garment, and come into this feast of
                     love, and sup with Tom and Eva this bright July day. And now as they don't seem
                     to need our company,—they are complete in each other,—we will go to their old
                     friend, Uncle Ned. May we not whisper the secret in his ear, and tell him his
                     prayer is answered? They are "habin' a good time together." Ah, we are too
                     late! Some subtle power we don't fully understand has got ahead of us, and his
                     soul is rejoicing in their completed joy.
                  Since Eva left he has had an attack of fever. His system, worn out with long
                     years of slavery, and the intense excitement and fearful struggles of that
                     period when he tried to realize a literal fulfillment of the promise to get
                     what he asked for, failed to rally from the attack, and, though he partially
                     recovered, he gradually sunk lower and lower. His daily chill became longer,
                     the reaction feebler and feebler. His sight became dim, and he left his cabin
                     only to totter feebly on his cane. His mind has been too weak to fully
                     comprehend the meaning of the Emancipation Proclamation. He hasn't yet taken in
                     the meaning of Gettysburg.
                  But after the loss of Vicksburg the Confederate army had to abandon the
                     Mississippi. Then Union raiders went through the country west of it, to make
                     reprisals for rebel raids, and
                     collect what they could. This afternoon such an expedition is on its way to Mr.
                     Jones's plantation. They have been collecting chickens, pigs, calves, horses,
                     mules—everything eatable or ridable—on their march.
                  Uncle Ned was unusually weak this morning, and when Aunt Chloe brought out her
                     choicest wines (Mr. Jones was in the rebel army, and the negroes had full
                     sweep: so does the wheel of fortune turn), he seemed to do nothing more than
                     taste. His appetite was gone. He tottered feebly up to the corner shelf, where
                     the old bloodstained Bible, whose history the reader knows so well, lay; and
                     opening to the place where Jesus ate the last supper with his disciples, he
                     read. He was now nearly blind, but he could have read just as well if he had
                     been quite blind, so had every word of those sacred pages burned itself into
                     his consciousness.
                  Aunt Chloe felt the true wife's desire to get him to eat something. Putting
                     some wine into the tumbler, she took it to him, saying: "I reckon dis yer wine
                     'll be a heap better for yer nor that old book" (Aunt Chloe had never got over
                     her aversion to that awful book). "It 'll be a mighty sight more help to yer in
                     gittin' ober yer arternoon ager. I wish dat ar book was in de lake ob fire and
                     brimstone wid de worm dat neber dies 'nawin' on 't," she continued, as she saw
                     how little he noticed her kind offers.
                  The feeble-minded old man made an effort to answer; but he forgot before he
                     began to speak, and so he read aloud the next verse: "I will not drink
                     henceforth of the fruit of this vine until that day when I drink it anew with
                     you in my Father's kingdom."
                  Aunt Chloe understood her husband about as much as plenty of other women
                     understand theirs. She took this remark as an insult to her wine. He was going
                     off a great way, and he was going to drink wine with some other woman,—wine
                     better than hers. What wonder, that at the insult to her wine and through
                     jealousy of that "other woman," she flew into an awful rage. She has not forgot
                     to strike and kick through all these years, and at it she goes after the
                     old-time fashion.
                  The old slave has had too many blows to feel these a great deal. Silently and
                     patiently he sits and lets her strike and kick. The body is no longer
                     sensitive; but a sharp arrow has entered his soul. Eva's talk about having Tom
                     in heaven had often made him think of the possibility of there being husbands
                     and wives in heaven.
                  The devil took advantage of these ideas to give a parting thrust at the old
                     saint. "Ef Missus Eva's goin' to hab Massa Tom in heaben, yer 'll hab to hab
                     Aunt Chloe dar."
                  With a deep groan, born of exquisite torture, the old slave fell on his face
                     before the Lord. Through all these years of torment with that quarrelsome,
                     sharp-tongued, contentious woman he had tried to be patient, looking ahead to
                     the time when he should be free from her in the other world; and now, just as
                     the promised land arose in sight, to be told he had got to have her there, she
                     was going with him!
                  "And can I neber git shut of her, Lord? Mus' I allus hab to hear
                     dat ar talk?" (This was the crowning torture of that wretched existence.) "I
                     can't stan' it, Lord! Dis nigger is too weak for dat, Lord! An' I jes' got one
                     'ticular 'quest to make. De dear blessed Lord hear dis, for 'pears like I'll
                     neber make anoder. Ef dat ar female goes to heaben let me go to hell, and ef
                     she's goin' to hell let me go to heaben. Gib me dis, for Jesus' sake,
                     amen."
                  Uncle Ned was now covered with his shield of faith, and the arch-enemy with all
                     his cunning could not hit him again. He has shot his last arrow at that simple,
                     faithful child of God.
                  Like all ignorant people, Aunt Chloe was superstitious. And when her husband
                     gave that unearthly groan she was frightened and ran away from him. He resumed
                     his reading, read the old promises over and over again, remembered how they had
                     thrilled his soul when he first learned them. How sure he was that the Lord was
                     going to help him to freedom! But he was still a slave, the woman his master
                     had forced him to take for a wife was still his torment.
                  "Oh, dear, dear! Surely de Lord has a cur'us way of gibin' his chil'ren dat dey
                     ask for; but he gibs it, he does gib
                     it, I know he does," was the language of his trusting faith.
                  Ah, Uncle Ned, you will have need of that faith but a few hours longer. In a
                     few hours you can look back to that shield as the beautiful butterfly looks
                     from the flower, where it sits gayly sipping the early dew, and sees the
                     unsightly covering that protected it in the chrysalis state. So from yon
                     flowery home in the sky may you look down to the battered old shell that has
                     done you such excellent service. Had it not been for it you had never been the
                     beautiful angel you are.
                  The book dropped from his nerveless grasp. He dozed. He was aroused by a great
                     noise, a great excitement,—hens cackling, pigs squealing, calves bleating, and
                     an awful confusion generally. Aunt Chloe was in a hand-to-hand fight with a
                     "blue-coat" that had seized her favorite rooster.
                  The old man took his cane and tottered along to the cabin door. The first thing
                     that met his eye was a soldier riding a mule that was literally covered with
                     live stock; the eyes shining in every direction. The old patriarch was too
                     blind to distinguish anything but the eyes. The spirit of his old friend came
                     upon him, and he began to feel how his prayers had been answered. His rapturous
                     joy found vent in praises as usual. His eyes uplifted to heaven, he
                     exclaimed:
                  "Yes, tank God! Dat is de bery beast of de 'pocalyptic vision, wid eyes fore,
                     and hind, and all ober; de man's head and all,—a nigger at dat! At las' de
                     black man is free. De Lord has answer' Uncle Ned's prayer. We's
                     free!" He stretched himself on his couch, saying, "Now, Lord, let dis yer
                     nigger 'part in peace, for dese eyes hab seen dy salbation."
                  The chill came on earlier to-day than yesterday. The little blood he had
                     congested around the heart and lungs. The exhausted muscles made no effort to
                     throw it off. His limbs grew cold and deathlike; but it would seem that the
                     spirit of the dead minister had come back to finish the work his death had left
                     undone, and show that slave what the promises of God meant.
                  For a little while after, when Mrs. Rosewell arrived, she was astonished to see
                     the new thoughts and ideas he expressed. She had never been able to make him
                     understand the meaning of the war,—that this was the answer to his prayer. She
                     had tried to show him how much more God was giving him than he had ever asked
                     for. He had only asked for his own freedom; but God was freeing his race.
                  "He has gib more nor I ask for, or tink of," said the dying saint. "Oh, how
                     good he is! how good!"
                  And now comes back the memory of a shiny-faced, bright, happy-looking mulatto
                     that he had been so happy to work beside in other days.
                  Can it be that the heart of this poor chattel has had its hidden romance, its
                     unsung love-song? Very likely. In that day when the secrets of all hearts are
                     made known, when all hidden things are brought to light, it will be seen that
                     the unsung love-songs greatly outnumber those that were sung.
                  Uncle Ned had known the time when to work by this girl was happiness. In his
                     little measure he felt the same joy when his black face touched her whiter,
                     fairer cheek that Tom felt when his pressed Eva's,—the same joy that you, dear
                     reader, feel when you touch the loved one. His master
                     found it out, and because he wanted the bright girl himself he sold his slave
                     to the trader Jones, who was stocking his new plantation in Arkansas. Mr. Jones
                     was a shrewd calculator, and he thought that two negroes that had cost him as
                     much as Ned and Chloe ought to be able to raise enough stock for the market to
                     pay the interest on their purchase-money. So it was that Ned and Chloe became
                     man and wife, according to the slave-code of the South. We sicken with disgust
                     at the thought of such a marriage. Money the basis of marriage! How shocking!
                     My much-disgusted reader, stop a minute to take breath. Did you ever hear
                     anything about a good home, a fine house, horses and carriages, farm and city
                     lots, stores and bonds, money and position, in connection with marriage? I
                     don't mean you, of course I don't. I know that you married for pure love, or at
                     least you are going to if you get the chance. But I mean that friend of yours
                     that did not want to be an old maid, and that other one that had taken in the American idea of
                     the main chance, etc. Some time, when you have nothing else to think of, you
                     just put down on your mental slate the reason of that slave-marriage. This is
                     the subtrahend. Then take the motive that prompted your friend's marriage for
                     the minuend. Now subtract and tell us the difference. Thus as the greater we
                     have money; our lesser is house. Now subtract house from money and tell us what
                     is the difference in favor of your white neighbor. If you like the exercise,
                     you can take all the other motives, such as dress, beauty, position, good
                     chance, etc., for your lesser number and tell us the difference against the
                     black marriage. This difference will be the exact measure of the
                     superiority of our match-making papas, mammas, aunties, and friends over the
                     money-seeking, match-making slave-trader, old Jones. But the time is come when
                     this ill-assorted marriage is to be dissolved. And already the deeper insight
                     of death, the kindlier feeling it awakens, has given birth to a certain
                     tenderness for his wife. He could not alter that "'ticular 'quest" he made this
                     morning. But he calls the weeping woman to him to give her his blessing. His
                     cold hand on her head, he said, "De Lord bless de poor nigger. 'Twa'n't her
                     fault nohow. She'd a heap ruther had Dick. Forgib her, Lord, and let her hab
                     Dick at las'."
                  His own case attended to, all his requests made, he now began to think of the
                     dear child whose gentleness, sweetness, and grace had done something to fill
                     the empty place in his heart. He must ask the Lord to let her have Tom for
                     good. He had Mrs. Rosewell kneel beside his couch while he prayed for Eva. He
                     put his cold hand on her head and besought God that her heart might be softened
                     towards Tom; that she might learn to forgive and love him. He made the same
                     request in behalf of the father and brother. Then he began to pray the Lord to
                     "bless Eva and Tom and—and——" He stopped; his face brightened. "He is blessin'
                     on 'em! Praise de Lord! Glory, glory to his lub! He is blessin' on 'em! He has
                     gib Eva her Tom! I see it, I see it!"
                  The dying saint was satisfied now. His earthly work was done. It was meet that
                     the last prayer of his unselfish selfish soul should be for another. It was
                     glorious that his spiritual vision was far-reaching enough to see into that
                     little house near Gettysburg, and see how abundantly his wish was realized, how
                     perfectly God had given Eva and Tom to each other.
                  The news that Uncle Ned had a "'gestive chill" ran rapidly around, and when the
                     negroes had recovered themselves they began flocking in and around the cabin;
                     their sorrowful faces and loud lamentations gave proof of the warm place he had
                     won in every heart. Women flocked in, bringing their children, that he might
                     put his hands on them once more. Strong men came weeping, and begging
                     forgiveness for some offense that none but themselves knew of. Wild young men
                     and maidens, that wouldn't "git up for prayers" when he held his meetings, now
                     came and begged him to pray for them. "De debil neber can git us if de old man
                     prays for us," they exclaimed under deep conviction. It was too late!—too late!
                     The ear that had always been open to their cries, that had always so rejoiced
                     to hear one say "pray for us," was now deaf to all their cries. He called and
                     they refused; he brought Christ to them, and they put him away, yes, put him
                     away, and now they call in vain for him. It was a deeply solemn and very
                     touching scene.
                  To these ignorant, oppressed, and uncared-for people, Uncle Ned had stood for
                     years as a visible pledge of an invisible Father. Slaves though they were, they
                     never could lose their manhood while Uncle Ned stood as the connecting link
                     between them and their Father in heaven. But now he was going. He could not
                     hear their sorrows any more, could not pray for them again. They would be like
                     lost children in the dark, trying to find their way home. There was no light
                     for them. Mrs. Rosewell tried to restrain and modify their grief. But if the
                     negro feels he must have some outlet for his feelings. So to put an end to
                     these piteous, useless wailings, she got them to sing, the people outside
                     joining in the chorus.
                  The dying man had lain some time without moving, and Mrs. Rosewell knew not
                     whether the angels might be singing "a child is born," when suddenly he reached
                     out both arms, saying:
                  
                  "Yes, lub! I'm comin'! I'm comin'!"
                  "Who do you see?" asked Mrs. Rosewell.
                  "Sally! Sally! Don't you see? Oh, how white she is!" His arms fell down,—his
                     spirit was gone.
                  Shall we follow him and his beautiful companion, the woman that he loved on
                     earth, in their upward flight to the mansion that their Father had already
                     prepared for them? Shall we contrast that glorified spirit, robed in white,
                     waving the palm of victory, wearing the crown of joy, radiant with heaven's
                     brightest jewels, with that broken, scarred, black body that Mrs. Rosewell is
                     now preparing for the grave? If so, we shall feel as she did. As she put her
                     fingers into the holes left there by the dog's teeth,—as she traced the long
                     scars made by the slave-owner's lash,—she thought of what he said, "De Lord has
                     a cur' us way of gibin' us what we ask for, but he gibs it all de same." Ah,
                     truly, his ways are "cur'us," past finding out. But oh how glorious! How little
                     could that soul conceive of what was in store for him!
                  The next morning the negroes nailed some pine boards together, Mrs. Rosewell
                     put the old Bible in for a pillow, and in death as in life his head rested on
                     it. The box was nailed up and put into the ground. The negroes sang one of
                     their hymns. There was no minister there, but Mrs. Rosewell tried to show the
                     weeping friends how they might profit by the life and death of their companion.
                     With uncovered heads and beating hearts they knelt beside the open grave, and
                     Mrs. Rosewell, in a short, fervent prayer commended them to a Father's care.
                     The pine coffin was covered with wild flowers. Slowly and sorrowfully the
                     bereaved ones wended their way homeward and left Uncle Ned in silent rest.
                     Sleep on, happy saint! you have earned this joyous repose. You can rest, for
                     you were tired! Bravely you fought, and sweetly you sleep!
                  I cannot leave this rough grave with that little board at the head without
                     offering one prayer: "Oh, Father! grant me the simple faith of that slave: the
                     faith that brings Christ near and makes him my companion, my Saviour, the
                     supply of my every want."
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
                  LOVERS' QUARREL.
                  "OH, Tom! the air is so delicious and cool, you must come outside with me and
                     enjoy it," said Eva.
                  "But I am not strong enough to walk. Don't my love know she's got a cripple
                     now?" he replied.
                  "Your love hain't got a cripple. If you have lost one arm. here
                     are two come to take its place," she said, holding out her two arms to him. "I
                     almost wish you had lost your eyes, feet, and tongue, so I could see, walk, and
                     talk for you. But mind you, I wouldn't shoot for you, even if General Lee
                     should tell me to."
                  "I could do that for myself, pet. See, I've got my right arm yet." He spoke
                     playfully, but Eva could see how deeply he was moved.
                  During these hours of convalescence his mind had apprehended the meaning of the
                     late defeats. He knew it meant the downfall of the Confederacy. He knew it
                     meant emancipation. They had founded a republic on the grand philosophic fact
                     of the inferiority of the black. Black and white were to have just the place
                     that nature gave them. They had gone before the world and fought bravely for
                     this idea. The testing came, and the event proved it to be a figment of a
                     selfish slave-holder's brain. Offspring of hell, it was driven back home. Tom
                     was not sorry it had met the fate it deserved. All his natural instincts were
                     in favor of freedom. His noble soul hated oppression, and it was only because
                     he knew how the spirit of caste ruled at the North, how thoroughly the masses
                     detested the negroes, spite of the fine talk of a few, that he had finally come
                     to think the South would do better for them than the North. We have seen how
                     carefully he balanced the question, how anxious he was to take the side of
                     right, how reluctantly he had entered the Confederate army.
                  And now he begins to realize that he was mistaken. He was on the side of oppression. In his heart of
                     hearts he is glad of the result. He had an enthusiasm for the old flag he never
                     felt for the new, and always felt like shooting the hand that he saw raised to
                     tear it down. The proudest Confederate victory always gave him pain when he was
                     obliged to see the dear old stripes and stars trailing in the dirt. But this
                     joy was not unmixed with painful humiliation and deep sorrow. It is dreadful
                     for a proud, high-spirited young man to feel he has been wrong, he has been
                     giving his sword to the oppressor. Moreover, during those long campaigns he had
                     learned to love his companions in arms. He knew they were deceived more than
                     himself. Oh, how he felt for them in their crushing defeat!
                  At this time the North was filled with joy,—joy deep, profound, mixed with
                     devout thankfulness. The South was filled with sorrow,—sorrow deep and
                     universal,—penitent and humbled. There was one soul that took in both North and
                     South, that felt what each enjoyed, what each suffered. That soul was Tom
                     Price. Men called him a rebel. Eva sympathized with him as far as she
                     understood the case. Her soul-faculties were not exactly adapted to such
                     issues; and Tom would fain spare her pain by thinking and talking of other
                     things. And yet it was easy for her to see that he suffered now. Putting her
                     arms so coaxingly around his neck, "Let me drink, Tom," she begged so
                     prettily.
                  To be sure he had to let her drink, and while she was sipping the sweet wine of
                     love he could not be worrying about the war.
                  "Mine! mine! mine forever, dearest!" he murmured, tightening his one arm around
                     her.
                  "No, not yours: I am you, love," she breathed so sweetly in his
                     ear.
                  "Yes, darling, we are one, ain't we? Nothing can ever separate us. One to all
                     eternity," said Tom.
                  "One for time and eternity," she said, slowly.
                  Neither spoke for some time. The greatest mystery of our being, the
                     incomprehensible yet felt fact of the soul's oneness, was before
                     them. They stood face to face with this unfathomable mystery,—a mystery that
                     sages and wise men of all ages have diligently inquired into but failed to
                     comprehend. None ever did comprehend it till they felt it, and then but half.
                     To fully comprehend it would be to fathom the mystery of the Trinity and show
                     us how God and Christ are two, yet One. Be this the work of eternity. Time is
                     only long enough to commence it.
                  Ah, these are the bridal moments of the soul, such moments as come but once in
                     a lifetime! The other bridal feast, when the happy bride is first called by her
                     new name, when she first feels a husband's kiss, is only a shadow of this. That
                     is but a type of this soul-sacrament of love.
                  They sat by the open window watching the setting sun. Watching, but not
                     thinking. For awhile the soul's bridal song deafens the ear to every other
                     sound, blinds the eye to every other sight. Every key of the soul's being is
                     touched. It is well that nature has made provision that these moments shall be
                     short. They seem to be given more as an earnest, a foretaste, of what there is
                     in store for us in the future, than anything to be continually realized
                     here.
                  "There is a provision in nature that trees shall not grow to the skies," says
                     one; so there is that men and women shall not grow to
                     the skies. From five to six feet is doubtless a better stature for the
                     inhabitants of such a world as this than that of a sky-reaching giant.
                  The same principle operates in soul-life. This common working world is
                     doubtless a better place for our growing natures than such a world as Tom and
                     Eva are in now. It is all well enough for the sky to open once in awhile and
                     let us gaze into heaven; but it would not be well for it to keep open, and us
                     to keep gazing and gazing into our future home, instead of improving the
                     opportunities of the one we are in. Therefore, by a law of its own nature, the
                     soul strung up to such a high pitch, on arriving at a certain point, bounds
                     back again like india-rubber stretched too tight.
                  We should not speak so slightingly of "lovers' quarrels." These are the very
                     things that keep them out of the sky. It is nature's protest against a heaven
                     on earth. The "quarrel" is the force by which nature maintains the equilibrium of things. They are as
                     useful as the centre of gravity in the body. Would you like to watch the
                     outstretched souls relaxing and coming back to their normal tension?
                  "Oh, Tom, I just heard Uncle Ned praying for us! I believe he is dying! I have
                     such a strange feeling! There is always something happens when I feel so!" said
                     Eva.
                  "Eva, if you want to please me, you will leave off talking in that way. I have
                     no idea of marrying a fortune-teller or a sight-seer. You can't tell how
                     mortified I used to feel when you were a little girl to see how strange and
                     wild you used to look, and such odd speeches as you would make. I hope I shall
                     never have occasion to be ashamed of my wife on the account of such
                     superstition."
                  Tom might have said all this in some moods, in his charming lover style, and
                     Eva would not have minded it. She had thought perhaps she was superstitious;
                     she must get over it, so Tom would not be ashamed of her. But Tom was not in
                     that kind of a mood; no more was she. Their nerves, stretched out too long,
                     were bounding back, and in bounding back there was a painful collision.
                  "Well, you are an old fool!—that's just what you are,—and you needn't to fret
                     yourself about being ashamed of me as your wife, for I never'll be your wife at
                     all!" replied Eva, in a passion. Ha! ha! What is it about the "not
                        yours? I am you, dearest," now?
                  Tom looked at her in perfect surprise.
                  "I didn't know as you had such a temper as that," he said at last.
                  He could not help looking at her with admiration. She was beautiful as a summer
                     thunder-storm. Tom began to enjoy it.
                  "Well, I have got just such a temper, and I'm glad you've found it out before
                     it was too late; and I'm glad I've found out what you are before
                     it was too late. It may save us both a great deal of shame and
                     mortification,"said Eva. Her eyes flashing fire, her face brilliant with
                     excitement, she arose like a queen and strode majestically out of the room, and
                     left him alone in his glory.
                  Tom did not like this. If she had only stayed in, and let him enjoy her freak
                     of temper, when he got ready he would pet her back into good humor, as he used
                     to when they were children.
                  Ah well, she was gone, and he had to make the best of it. No more
                        drinking just then.
                  It would be a curious study and doubtless a profitable exercise for one to
                     analyze Eva's feelings after she left him. But it were indeed a hopeless task
                     to describe them. One might as well try to describe the action of sour milk
                     when soda goes into it, and tell how each of the conflicting elements felt
                     while coming together. She wanted to walk off the excitement, so she ran
                     rapidly along a cow-path that led in the direction of the place where Tom was
                     found. The sight of a tree that reminded her of the one against which he lay
                     brought back all the memories of that eventful night. Where was she now?
                     Running away from him, from Tom. She burst into
                     tears, sat down by the tree, and cried and cried. What a blessed waste-pipe for
                     the overflowing waters of a woman's heart is the tear aqueduct! And if you are
                     only wise enough to let these tear fountains freely empty themselves, it does
                     not take long for a girl to cry herself into her normal condition. The first
                     gush washed out all her anger: she did love Tom, and she could not help it if
                     he was cruel to her. The next gush washed out the conviction that he was cruel:
                     he was not cruel, he was the tenderest-hearted creature that ever breathed a
                     mortal breath. The next gush washed out the conviction that he was
                        bad: he was the blessedest creature that ever was, and she the
                     only one to blame. Did ever a fit of anger experience so sudden a collapse?
                     Certainly, dear reader; such a collapse is the ordinary, natural phenomenon of
                     love-anger.
                  Dear husbands and lovers, you can as surely calculate on this collapse as the
                     astronomer on the eclipse. You may walk right up to the dear one and ask for a
                     kiss, as confidently and hopefully as you go into your flower-garden to pluck a
                     rose after a refreshing shower.
                  Tom was dreadfully restless and uneasy. That is as it should be.
                        Unhappiness is the normal condition of a lover under such
                     circumstances. He felt decidedly bad
                     and uncomfortable at the insult he offered her. Of course she had no business
                     to be so superstitious, but then he had no business to reprove her so harshly.
                     He felt a good deal pleased and a good deal pained at seeing her show such a
                     temper. It made her piquant and interesting then, but in a wife it might not be
                     so pleasant. The highest good of a married life seemed to him a quiet home,
                     where love and reason, not passion, should have dominion. Was this possible
                     with one who had such a temper? What matter whether it was or not? It was Eva
                     he wanted, not quiet, home, or anything else, and he must have her right off.
                     He was astonished to see how well he could walk. He stepped outside the door,
                     walked on in the direction she had taken; kept walking. Her head buried in her
                     hands, Eva felt an arm around her waist.
                  "Eva, will you forgive me?"
                  "For—give—"[Sobs.] "Oh, Tom!" [More sobs.] Reader, I do not care to follow the
                     outstretching nerves through another circuit of expansion. Do you?
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVI.
                  A PHILOSOPHICAL CHAPTER.
                  THE roar of the thunder is no longer heard, the lightning's flash is no longer
                     seen, the rain has ceased, the clouds have parted, the sun is again shining
                     with increased brilliancy, shining through drops on leaves and flowers, and
                     other drops still suspended in the clouds, clothing all nature with the
                     wondrous beauty of the rainbow, the sapphire, the ruby, and the diamond. What a
                     transformation! One going forth now would be led to think that while he had
                     been in-doors the beautiful city, with its gates of pearls, resplendent with
                     all the glory and beauty of its jeweled walls and pavements of gold, had
                     descended from heaven and become the dwelling-place of men. All nature unites
                     with, man in praising God for the rain. Surely this is an unmixed good!
                  Not quite so fast, my happy friend. Not till we have taken in all the phenomena
                     of the thunder-storm can we pronounce its good unmixed. Let us
                     walk through the fields. See that giant oak, the growth of a century. All these
                     years it has stood proudly defying wind and storm, its topmost branches
                     towering to the sky, the fowls of the air lodging in it, the beasts of the
                     field rejoicing in its shade. But a mighty current of electricity has gone
                     through it; it sbowels are ripped open, its giant arms and limbs are slivered
                     up like kindling-wood. The very power that has purified the air for your
                     bounding life-blood has sent death and premature decay to the heart of that
                     mighty monarch of the forest. A rap at a cabin door brings no answer from
                     within; you open the door to see a company of haymakers that were eating their
                     dinners while the storm was raging. One has his mouthful ready to swallow;
                     another has a piece of meat half-way up to his mouth. All are in the exact
                     posture and condition they were when the lightning struck them. With a look of
                     horror at that ghastly spectacle of dead men eating, you turn away and begin to
                     realize the good was not unmixed. Ah, no! it has left great seams in the earth
                     and trees, deep wounds in the hearts of men, great scars on the face of nature,
                     that time can never obliterate. And yet who of us would say, better not have
                     the shower, better to depend on the uncertain overflow of the Nile, the dews of
                     other countries, than run risks of a shower?
                  The soul of man is the world (the field), and all those deep upheavals of
                     feeling, those storms of passion that shake us from centre to circumference,
                     those terrific thunder-storms that carry light, life, and beauty in their right
                     hand, wounds, sorrow, and death in their left, are phenomena traceable to the
                     same universal law of nature,—good mixed with evil, darkness in the womb of
                     light, night the twin sister of day. Good and evil are as inextricably woven
                     together as the nerve tissues of the brain and spinal column. They cross and
                     intercross, at right angles and left angles and diagonally. Affect the nerves
                     in the left lobe of the brain, and the effect is seen in the right foot and side. Who can untwine that
                     twist? If the union between good and evil was a mechanical one, like that of
                     the crossed threads of a web interwoven together, the skill of man might devise
                     a way of separation. But be it observed that good and evil are living, vital
                     principles. The force that binds them together is a living, vital force. And
                     you cannot lift the destroying hand against one without destroying the other.
                     What, then, shall we do,—resign ourselves to our fate like the ancient
                     philosophers, and say if we cannot help it we will not
                        heed it; we will pluck our rose and enjoy its fragrance, though
                     our fingers smart and bleed with the prick of its thorn, and say, Let us eat,
                     drink, and be merry, for to-morrow we die? Or shall we, like the Christian
                     theorist, say, the devil has got this thing into the world and we cannot get it
                     out; all we can hope for is a supernatural power that shall protect us from the
                     claws of this roaring lion? Or shall we, like the masses of men, think as
                     little as we can about this great problem, and be absorbed in something else?
                     Verily, there is a higher wisdom than this!
                  There is a law of nature that will help us out of this difficulty. It is the
                     great law of the convertibility of forces, the law by which the
                     stronger absorbs the weaker, and converts its life-force into life-forces for
                     its conqueror. It is the fundamental law of nature,—the primary cause of the
                     continuance of the phenomena we call Life.
                  The big fish eat the little ones, and the life-force of the little ones is
                     given to the eater. The strong animal eats the weak one, and his life is
                     strengthened by it. And man absorbs the life-force of all. The power of
                     absorption and assimilation is life-force. This law is the shadow of the
                     fundamental law of soul-life,—a reflection or material image of it; the soul
                     has the same power to absorb and assimilate all minor forces, and convert them
                     into life-force for itself.
                  The highest wisdom, then, it would seem, would be for the soul to absorb all
                     these minor forces of evil and convert them into life-force for good; or, in
                     other words, we should eat up the devil. We do not want to fight
                     him (except to overcome him), we do not want to banish him, we need him to
                     eat.
                  The ancients had a faint conception of this principle, that was embodied in the
                     theory that when a warrior slew an enemy all the valor and strength of the dead
                     hero went to enrich the life of the conqueror.
                  What might we not expect from a man that had the bravery, courage, endurance,
                     enthusiasm, perseverance, wisdom, and cunning of the arch-enemy added to his
                     own! Verily, he would be a giant.
                  This may not be possible to one man, but it is possible to men in the
                     aggregate—the Church. Not the separation of good from evil, but the absorption
                     of evil to feed the life of good, is the wisdom of to-day. It is all
                     comprehended in the simple saying of the apostle, "Be not overcome of evil, but
                     overcome evil with good."
                  Verily, this is a singular train of thought to be set in motion by a petty
                     little quarrel of two silly lovers. What possible connection between this
                     little episode and the great problems of evil? I suppose it has the same
                     relation to this unsolved problem as the falling apple to the great unknown law
                     of gravitation. When Newton understood the force that made the apple fall, he
                     knew what the world stood on. So, when we watch Tom and Eva, and see how this
                     little freak has set them to thinking, how firmly they have resolved to be more
                     considerate and respectful to each other in the future, how it has deepened
                     their feelings by showing them how vitally they are connected together, I
                     think, why may not all quarrels be utilized in this way? If the limitations of
                     our nature make the reaction of deep, high, strong feeling a necessity, why not
                     utilize the reacting force,—make muck out of it, to enrich the soil of the
                     soul? Tom and Eva were richer for this quarrel. They understand each other
                     better. They love each other better. I do not mean to say this is the result of
                     every such quarrel; far from it. But I do mean to say that such a result is
                     possible to a strong, rich nature, possessed of a force positive enough to
                     absorb all negative forces. Such a nature was Tom's. Of herself, Eva had never
                     possessed this force. Her nature was not strong, but sweet. But it came to pass
                     that, in the mutual interchange of soul-forces and qualities that had been
                     going on between these two beings from their childhood, each had taken on much of the character and gifts of
                     the other. It was the force she got from Tom that made Eva so successful in
                     dealing with her father; it was the sweetness Tom got from her that made it
                     come so easy to ask her forgiveness.
                  When I saw these two begin their "making up" I thought I did not want to watch
                     any longer, so I ran off into the woods, as soon as I saw it was "all right
                     between them," and began to philosophize. But really I could not help coming
                     back to watch them. Oh, it is so nice to make up! It is so blessed
                     to forgive and be forgiven! The fangs of sin are sharp and fearful; but then
                     when they are only the birth-throes of the sweet angels, Mercy and Forgiveness,
                     why, we can bear them. If man had not traveled in sin in the garden of Eden,
                     forgiveness had never been born in the heart of God. So does evil give birth to
                     the highest good.
                  Some theorists have marveled and marveled why it was that God permitted Eve to
                     be tempted when he knew she would sin. If such a person had only loved a girl
                     as Tom loved Eva, and for once enjoyed the privilege of taking the dear
                     creature to his arms, hushing her sobs, wiping away her tears, kissing away her
                     fears, and forgiving her for calling him "an old fool," he would see that it is
                     not so dreadful to have a woman sin against him after all. It is so delightful
                     to forgive her.
                  Shall we sever and cut off our Father's heart from all such tender, sweet,
                     loving sympathy, in welcoming back and forgiving Eve (the name stands for
                     woman), the mother of his children, the companion of his garden walks, the
                     bride of heaven? Pray tell us where did Tom get that tender, loving, forgiving
                     spirit that could welcome back the offending one with such divine sympathy, if
                     he did not get it from the heart of his Father? We don't fail to attribute to
                     our Father an ambitious desire to get glory to himself,—a desire to rule all
                     nations, to be loved and honored of all his creatures. We don't fail to realize
                     that he is angry when men disobey him, that he punishes, etc. These are the
                     very feelings and desires of men; only when we apply them to God we try to
                     separate them from all that is wrong, base, or ignoble ble. This is as it
                     should be. All these feelings and desires we are most certainly warranted in
                     ascribing to the Almighty, and it is only when they are mixed with wrong and
                     perverted by selfishness that they become evil. But shall we stop here, and
                     fail to attribute all those finer, tenderer, gentler, sweeter feelings that we
                     find in the human heart to him? Shall we say that he desires to show his power,
                     to exercise authority, and be glorified in common with all grand, noble, and
                     good men? And then shall we think we degrade or belittle him by saying he has
                     the same kind of loving appreciation and tender care of womanhood as the purest
                     and best of men manifest?
                  I believe my Father has the latter class of feelings as much as the former,
                     only a great deal more so. And I love to think of his taking that frightened,
                     unhappy, sin-stricken woman, as he takes all, to his great heart of love,
                     loving her into penitential sorrow for her fault, forgiving her, and rejoicing
                     her aching heart by that precious gift, the baby. Of course this forgiveness
                     did not preserve her from the consequences of her fault, she had to suffer; so
                     do all that sin. But this suffering may become pregnant of a
                     higher, diviner life.
                  Take Eve as the genius of Milton has painted her, in her garden of roses! It is
                     all well enough for children to run thus from flower to flower, hearing the
                     birds sing, lying in the "arbor," eating "bread and honey;" but how soon even
                     children tire of such joys, and want something higher! I don't wonder the poor
                     thing wanted to get some fruit that hadn't that insipid, flat taste. I have no
                     desire to depreciate the joys of Milton's happy pair in the garden of Eden.
                     Those that like such childish, ignorant bliss, are welcome to it. There is a
                     time of life when it is natural and proper that we should live thus, and enjoy
                     it. But, dear me, I would rather enjoy one hour of Eva's life in Tom's arms,
                     this July night, on that blood-stained field, than all of Mother Eve's
                     honeymoon in Eden.
               
               
                  
                  CHAPTER XXXVII.
                  COAL, AND DIAMONDS.
                  EVA was gone; Chit was dead; and his mother was alone; and Frank Rosewell loved
                     his mother, and wanted to do what he could to bind up her broken heart.
                  He was detailed for service in the locality of their home till such time as the
                     rebel hordes that infested the country should be driven out. These two
                     circumstances brought about an event that wasn't going to happen till the war
                     was over. Or rather they suffered as a pretence for an "event" that I think
                     must have happened any hour when Frank came home.
                  It don't require a very deep knowledge of science to enable one to predict that
                     when dry kindling-wood and bright live coals of fire are put together, there
                     must be a blaze. So it does not require a very deep knowledge of human nature
                     to enable one to predict that when the infatuation has reached a certain point,
                     and "Barkis is willin'," and all the rest are willing, there will be a wedding.
                     Thus it was with Frank Rosewell, Emily Goshen, and all the interested parties.
                     It is true it wouldn't have been Mrs. Rosewell's choice for her son; but then
                     it wasn't for her to choose at all. Every one has got to be born and die for
                     themselves, so has every one got to choose a mate for themselves. This is the
                     high prerogative of a free being,—sovereign man.
                  Emily was a sweet, gentle, tender, loving child of the South; a rare and pretty
                     flower, to be matched and cared for with the most delicate attention. In such
                     an atmosphere it would develop exquisite beauty and rare fragrance. In a cold,
                     chilling atmosphere it would shrivel up and die, like a blasted lily.
                  Aunt Polly didn't like the girl. She used to say to Frank, "If you are such a
                     sap-head as to marry that gal, you'll get enough on't, that's sartin. She's
                     nothin' but a grown-up baby. She couldn't git up a meal of vittels fit for a
                     hog to eat. She has to have a nigger stuck to her all the time, to take care of
                     her. She'd be a purty one to take care o' young ones."
                  Frank's judgment was fully convinced of the truth of what she said. But it is
                     one thing to convince the mind, quite another to affect the heart. It wouldn't
                     have done much good for any wise old maid to have stood by Romeo when he was
                     looking up at Juliet in the window there, and told him she "could not take care
                     of young ones." About as much effect did all the wise advice he got have on
                     Frank's heart and conduct.
                  Emily's heart opened to the warm sunshine of his love like a rosebud unfolding
                     in the sunlight. I don't say but what her heart would have opened just as
                     readily to the light of Tom's love if it had shone upon her. Time was when I
                     thought she loved Tom the best. I think so still. But Tom did not love her as
                     Frank did, and that makes all the difference in the world. She was one of those
                     tender clinging vines that, reaching out in every direction for support, fasten
                     their tendrils on the first thing that comes in their way. To this inherent
                     weakness (if you be pleased to call it so) of some women we owe some of the
                     most painful dramas of life; and yet would we have no tender vines, because
                     they sometimes get fastened on to gnarled, knotty oaks?
                  Oh, they are so beautiful when they get the right kind of support! And they do
                     so beautify and adorn the object they lean on! Let us hope that Frank will be
                     such an object; that the gentle child-woman that is now clinging to him so
                     fondly may soften and tone down the sharp outlines of his character; that he
                     may appear as grand and godlike in supporting her as she is beautiful and
                     lovely in leaning on him. There were no festivities at the wedding. A time of
                     war is not the time for rejoicing. A few friends gathered in the home that had
                     taken the place of the one burned up, and witnessed the simple ceremony that
                     sealed the bond of love between Frank Rosewell and Emily Goshen. Emily's mother
                     had died in her infancy. So she was without a mother, and Mrs. Rosewell was
                     almost without a daughter. Mutual want and mutual interest brought these two
                     women together, and for the first time in her life poor Emily felt a mother's love. She was happy.
                     Frank was all devotion and tenderness for awhile; but it wasn't to last.
                  "Be darned if I ever thought I should be such a spooney!" he
                     muttered to himself one day, as with his hands in his pockets, his nose in the
                     air after the old-time fashion, he sauntered into the garden. "But the thing is
                     about played out. There's no use in my being around here any longer. The rebs
                     'll never show their heads here while I'm here. It's a pretty how-d'ye-do for a
                     soldier to be spending his time this way at such a time as this. "That night he
                     told Emily he was going back to his regiment. The poor child held her breath in
                     terror; but she tried to be very brave. She knew Frank did not like crying
                     women, and she wasn't going to cry.
                  But it had been much better for her if she had cried, for the tears forced back
                     must have some vent, some outlet. It is on the inside, not on the outside, that
                     tears wear such deep furrows in the cheek. There were already some sharp lines
                     in her sweet face, such lines as only one kind of a knife can cut. I don't say
                     it is the worst, or bitterest, or deepest, but surely the most cutting
                     experience that ever comes to a woman's heart is that time when the husband, so
                     to speak, eats up the lover. You know the lover is there; he is not lost to
                     you. You know where he is: he is gone into the husband. But, dear me, what poor
                     consolation it was for the poor old woman, when she lost her teakettle in the
                     ocean, to think it was not entirely lost because she knew where it was! So when
                     the aching heart loses the lover in the husband, it does not make it ache much
                     less to say, I have not entirely lost my lover, I know where he is.
                  "But what would you have?" says one,—"would you have a man act the
                        spooney all the time? Ain't the honeymoon long enough for such
                     business? How silly Frank and Emily have been acting! Like two sick cats."
                  Why, bless you, have not cats a right to be sick sometimes, and have not we a
                     right to be silly sometimes? Have we always got to be wise and dignified? In
                     all our threescore years and ten, is there not a little time that we can devote
                     to love-dreaming?
                  For my part I really enjoyed Frank's and Emily's honeymoon. I know they acted
                     awful silly; but it was a silliness born of nature's efforts to make her
                     children happy. So out of respect to our kind-hearted mother I am going to be
                     happy when she lets me walk with her in the garden of Eden! And what is such an
                     experience but the old story of Eden revived and repeated in all forms! In the
                     hazy atmosphere that surrounds the young couple, that creates such a beautiful
                     illusion of an angel and a hero, nature has provided for a continued Eden among
                     men. And it is only because we have departed so far from the simplicity of
                     nature, and so much of "wedding presents," and making a good appearance, houses
                     and lands, and all such trash, enters into our civilized marriages, that we get
                     so woefully cheated out of our Eden.
                  "But it is so short," says one; "if it cannot last longer than this I do not
                     want to have it at all." Why, what if it is short-lived? Cannot you enjoy it
                     while it lasts? Is not the rainbow short-lived? but is it less beautiful on
                     that account? It is a continued pledge that the world is not going to be
                     drowned during that rain. And so do such phenomena as these stand as a visible
                     pledge in the social world that it is not to be overrun with old maids and old
                     bachelors.
                  Emily was so natural, so ignorant of life, so innocent of its evils, her heart
                     was so completely absorbed in her adorable Frank (she did not think of Tom at
                     all now, only to want him to be happy with Eva), that I love to watch her, I
                     love to put my heart close to hers and look at Frank through her eyes. Let us
                     do so, reader. In the name of human vision we demand, can this be the man that
                     we saw before? This the Frank Rosewell of our eyesight and senses? Do our eyes
                     deceive us in this way? Science tells us that when our eyes testify that the
                     sun goes round the earth they tell what is not true. Are they all the time
                     bringing in such lying reports about our fellow-men? A man would be a fool that
                     should trust his eyesight in opposition to the demonstrations of science, and
                     say the earth goes round the sun. Is he any less a fool if he trusts his
                     eyesight in opposition to the testimony of love, and says men are mean
                     creatures, you cannot trust them? I
                     wish I knew, for I do not want to be a fool, and I had a great deal rather see
                     men as love sees them, than as they appear sometimes to me.
                  Oh it is so nice to see a man as Emily sees Frank! What a blessed darling he
                     is! How brave, how noble, how pure, how good! All the good of the whole
                     universe is centred in that one precious body! The atmosphere that surrounds
                     him is heavenly! It is said where the king is there is the court; so where the
                     loved one is there is heaven. All her objects and aims are centred in him. She
                     loves to look pretty because it pleases him. She is glad she has got plenty of
                     money, because he will not have to leave her to earn it. She is glad the slaves
                     are going to be free, because he does not like slavery. She wishes
                     she knew more, because he likes to see people wise. She always had
                     a great dread of Aunt Polly, but now she wishes she had learned to make
                     doughnuts of her and cook good victuals, so as to please him.
                  Bless your dear unselfish heart! I feel dreadfully to see those sharp lines
                     that are being drawn on your face. But what a lesson you have learned us of
                     unselfish love! I doubt not those sharp lines in your face will help make Frank
                     the wonderful, godlike being you take him for. We cannot see our own faces. The
                     only way we can tell how we look is by the image the looking-glass presents us.
                     So we cannot see ourselves. The only way we can tell what we really are is to
                     look at our image in the looking-glass of love. When Frank saw himself in
                     Emily's heart, he began to realize the possibilities of his soul-life. He knew
                     she thought too much of him; but he had a great deal rather she would think too
                     much of him than too little. Of the two evils this is the least. Somehow it
                     does not make us feel as good to look at Emily through Frank's eyes as to look
                     at Frank through hers. It is not near so nice. His love is more sensual; there
                     is more of the animal in it. Woman's love is man's love double-refined and
                     spiritualized. It has gone twice through the hands of the Creator; his but
                     once. You cannot make steel from ore. The ore must first be made into iron.
                     There is too much dross in it at first for steel.
                  So the right kind of love could not be made out of the dust of the earth. The
                     dust had to be made into a man; the best part of the man—his heart-rib—made
                     into a woman, before you could get the pure article.
                  Behold how love was purified by this process:
                  "The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree
                     and I did eat."—ADAM.
                  "The serpent beguiled me and I did eat."—EVE.
                  Ah, no! It was no fault of Adam. She did not want the blame laid upon him;
                        he was all right.
                  In saying that Frank's love was more sensual and animal than Emily's we mean no
                     disrespect for it. It is no disrespect to say of an ape that he is not a man.
                     He is the nearest to him of anything,—as near to him as unspiritualized matter
                     can possibly approach.
                  That ought to be compliment enough for any material being. So it ought to
                     satisfy any man to say his love is as near like woman's as anything can be,
                     especially when her love is for him. It is only another way of
                     saying he can love more with his "better half" than with the other half.
                  But, to confess the truth, Frank Rosewell was not made for love in the highest
                     sense of that term. He was too much like his father. Not that there were any
                     such moral defects in him as in his father; but his nature was fitted for the
                     rough, toilsome work of the world rather than its highest and sweetest
                     enjoyments. As compared to Tom Price, he was like hard coal and the diamond.
                     Both are made of the same material, only in the diamond we have the pure
                     carbon, and in the coal there is a mixture of the earthy. Shall we depreciate
                     him on that account? In the name of common comforts, warmth, and cooked
                     victuals, we ask, What would become of us if all the carbon in our coal-mines
                     had been formed into diamonds? Could you keep warm by it? Could you boil your
                     eggs by it? No; but we could wear them and look at them. Imagine a company of
                     people—in a country where the wood had all been used up, the thermometer is
                     twenty degrees below zero, and people are shivering with cold—blazing with
                     diamonds, their stomachs filled with raw meat, meal, and dough! How gladly
                     would they exchange that useless stuff for some good black coal! We must think
                     of this when we feel like
                     depreciating the common, ordinary love of our fellow-men. It may be unsightly,
                     and we may get our fingers burned by it, we may get shockingly smoked with it;
                     but perhaps it is better adapted to the wants and temperature of this state of
                     our being than the much-glorified love of knights and novel heroes, or the
                     pure, unmixed love of such exalted natures as Tom and Eva.
                  This is a dreadfully common world, and the commonest things seem the most
                     useful. Therefore when Frank shoulders his gun and says he will be a spooney no
                     longer, I feel a certain admiration for him. Joy go with him!
                  
                  It was not long after Frank went back to the army before he was sent for by one
                     of the rebel prisoners lately taken, who was just dying of his wounds. He had
                     sent for Frank to make a confession. Frank wrote down his dying testimony and
                     preserved it for future evidence. Frank has improved very much since his
                     marriage. He has lost much of that stiff repulsiveness that kept him hitherto
                     from being promoted as deserved. Now everything was prosperous; victory was
                     perching on the banner of the Union, and Frank could fight with real
                     enthusiasm. He was soon promoted and became a colonel; he wrote
                     glowing accounts to his home; he did not forget to put in some sweet things
                     too. Poor Emily hugged the letters to her heart and felt real proud of his
                     bravery. But, dear me, how soon she got over all the long accounts of his
                     victories, and how long she dwelt on all the sweet words! "Dear wife" was more
                     to her than all the story of promotion and glory. It is a marvel to me how much
                     she makes out of that one word "dear." It is well that some women have the
                     faculty of making a little love go a great way.
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
                  THE TIME THAT TRIES MEN'S SOULS.
                  A GREAT fear and a great sorrow has fallen upon the people of the Southern
                     Confederacy. The patient is decidedly sick; getting worse, weaker and weaker
                     and weaker every day. The new conscription brings in only feeble, unwilling
                     recruits. They have indeed this time robbed the cradle and the grave to fill up
                     their army, and yet how small compared to its enemy! There was no lack of
                     doctors that could prescribe this and that infallible cure. But it was like the
                     woman with the broken breast: every old woman that came in had a remedy,—a sure
                     cure,—and yet it kept on breaking just the same. One doctor ordered fasting and
                     prayer. Another would have none of this. They had fooled enough that way. They
                     wanted men and money. An enthusiastic maiden, upon whom had fallen the mantle
                     of Joan of Arc, prescribed hair. The Southern ladies were all to
                     give up this ornamental covering, and let it go to adorn the fair ones of
                     Europe, that their money might furnish food and clothing for the soldiers.
                  In the midst of all this confusion, this wrangle of opinion, these charges and
                     counter-charges, each trying to lay on the other the blame of the common
                     misfortune, Tom Price sat weighing the possibilities and capacities of the
                     South for defensive warfare. He had no confidence in the idle dream of European
                     interference; nor did he want it. The spirit of the American citizen forbade
                     this. Moreover, the logic of events had convinced him that the South was wrong,
                     that slavery was weakness. He felt the increased moral power that emancipation
                     had given the North. He would have the South learn wisdom of her enemy. She had
                     it in her power to do what the North only proposed to do when she got the
                     power. Therefore he would have the South take "time by the forelock,
                     "emancipate the slaves, and array
                     herself on the side of freedom and humanity. He thought that this would be
                     better for the negroes, inasmuch as the interests and sympathies of the South
                     were much more identified with theirs than the North could be; and in this
                     condition the South would be able to command better terms of peace, North and
                     South could separate on good terms, and each be a great power. Alas for human
                     wisdom! If we could see into the future we should all be Solomons indeed. But
                     inasmuch as we cannot, we must keep trying and doing the thing that appears
                     wisest and best. His mind made up as to the best course for the South to take,
                     he longed to be again in the land of sorrow and defeat. In the days of her
                     prosperity and glory he had serious doubts about the path of duty. Now that she
                     was defeated, her people stricken with fear and anguish, he had no doubt it was
                     his duty to stand by her.
                  Eva entered heartily into all his plans and purposes. All she wanted was to
                     have the slaves free. She had no wish to see the South punished. And if they
                     would free the slaves themselves, why, all the better. The war could stop at
                     once, and she and Tom would be married; and oh, how happy and useful they would
                     be! Oh, yes, they were going to be useful. They had both seen enough of sorrow
                     to make them feel for others. And the dear Father was so good in allowing them
                     to be so happy, they were going to do everything they could to please him, and
                     show him how much they appreciated his loving-kindness to them.
                  Tom used to sit and watch her glowing face when she was talking of these
                     things, and wonder how it was possible for one on earth to be so much like what
                     his highest conception had pictured of the angels. Here was a woman that could
                     talk about her plans for pleasing her Father in heaven just as familiarly and
                     naturally as she talked about pleasing her lover. It made Tom so happy to have
                     her love him so and do what pleased him, and so it made the dear Saviour just
                     as happy to have her love him and try to please him. She went from Tom to
                     Christ as naturally as we go from a younger to an elder brother. If she had
                     only talked this idea out, Tom could have argued with her and tried to show her
                     she was in error. But she did not talk it at all. She just acted it out. Tom
                     was well versed in the theology of the schools, and if she had stated any
                     theological error he could have exposed it; but she did not state anything at
                     all. All she did or tried to do was to love and be loved, and how was he to get
                     hold of her there? He could not do anything at all with her but to love her,
                     and let her love him and the dear Saviour all she wanted to. And so, when she
                     prattled on in her sweet winning way of what she was going to do to please him
                     when he got to be her husband, and what she was going to do to please Christ
                     and make them both love her more, all he could do was to take the dear creature
                     to his arms and kiss her sweet, beautiful face, and tell her she might love
                     them both all she wanted to, and he was going to be a better man all the time,
                     so she should find more in him to love.
                  "Oh, please don't never be different! I can't bear to think of your ever
                     changing any. There's not a thing that I could endure to see altered in you.
                     You are just perfection," she said, one time when he spoke about being
                     better.
                  "Was I perfection when I spoke so harshly to my darling about being
                     superstitious?" asked the self-reproachful Tom.
                  "May be not quite, but just as near as I want you to be, love. I don't want you
                     so good you can't reprove me when I am wrong. And maybe I ought to try and
                     control my feelings more; I have always been subject to strange sensations at
                     times since I was a child. I have often thought, since that time I suffered so
                     when you left me, that perhaps God had some lesson he would teach his children
                     through me. I think there must be some law that, if we only understood, people
                     that love each other could commune together and enjoy each other when they were
                     separated, as you and I were. I wish it might be so, for I feel so sorry for
                     people that love and can't be together. I think sometimes we don't understand
                     half the possibilities of our own soul-life."
                  It was the hour of soft twilight, and as Eva said this there was such a deep,
                     spiritual expression on her face, such a far-away look in her eyes, as though
                     her soul might be communing with
                     invisible beings, that Tom was thrilled and somewhat alarmed by it.
                  "There, we won't talk of such things, dearest," Tom said, hugging her to his
                     heart as passionately as though he thought the ethereal thing was going to
                     vanish from his sight unless he held her tight to him. "When you get to be my
                     own sweet wife, and I am quite sure you won't fly away from me, in the
                     seclusion of our own home we may study into this matter and see if there is
                     anything we can do for those less happy than ourselves. My darling has a very
                     peculiar temperament. If she had lived in other days, she might have been a
                     priestess of some pagan temple, and the people have worshiped her."
                  "I am going to be a priestess, and I am going to be worshiped, too," she said,
                     playfully pulling his moustache. "But your home is going to be my temple, and
                     this dear cripple is going to be my worshiper."
                  "I am sure it would be delightful to worship in such a temple and before such a
                     shrine," said Tom, playfully rolling her soft, silky curls over his fingers and
                     laying them against his cheek. "And I have no doubt I should develop into a
                     devout worshiper under such conditions. My darling has always thought I wasn't
                     pious enough, but she'll see when she gets me into the right sort of a
                     temple."
                  "Yes, dear, I have sometimes wished you were more religious," replied Eva, half
                     playfully, half seriously; "but I am sure you will come right when I get to be
                     your wife. Oh, but wasn't it dreadful when I said I wasn't never going to be
                     your wife?" said Eva, with a shudder. Tom had forgiven her and they had made it
                     all up a thousand times over, but Eva never could get over that awful speech.
                     The wound is healed, but the scar is there. Eva never can forget that she got
                     angry at Tom and called him a bad name, and ran away from him. Oh if she had
                     only have listened to her mother, and tried harder to overcome her temper or
                     not speak until she got cool, it might never have happened! "Oh, it is so
                     dreadful to be wicked!" she said, nestling up to Tom as though he had the power
                     to preserve her from the dark shadow of sin. In the light of its consequences
                     how dreadful that little sin did appear to him now! It was his hasty, ill-timed
                     reproof that had caused this lovely girl so much trouble; it should be the last
                     time, though.
                  "Eva, dear," Tom spoke very thoughtfully and seriously, "we have both suffered
                     enough from our hasty tempers and from our doubts and fears of each other. Just
                     think of all the years lost in separation! Now let us profit by the past, and
                     in the future learn to trust each other without any kind of doubting. You know,
                     dear, I love you with all my heart, don't you?"
                  "I could as soon doubt my love for you," said Eva.
                  "Now, darling, will you promise me never to doubt me again, to believe in me
                     whatever happens, and wait for an explanation if anything looks dark against
                     me? You know I have to leave you in the morning, and I shall feel so much
                     better if I know my precious one will always believe in me. Will you promise me
                     this?" asked Tom.
                  "Yes, dear, I can promise that, if it will do you any good," said Eva; "but
                     really I do not like to. It seems as though you and I ought to be above
                     promises by this time. It seems like trifling with sacred things to make
                     promises about love. Can't you realize how impossible it is for me to doubt
                     you, or you to doubt me? Can one doubt himself? We often get angry with
                     ourselves, as I did with you, but do we ever really doubt our own love of self?
                     Self-love is a primary instinct of nature that can't be questioned. So is the
                     love that makes you and me one. I can't doubt you, Tom, or stop
                     loving you."
                  "What a wise little body my pet darling has got to be!" said Tom. "Where did
                     she learn all this wisdom?"
                  "Out of my own heart, which means the whole of it, not just one-half," replied
                     Eva.
                  "How much has this half taught you?" said Tom, putting her hand on his
                     heart.
                  "Dear me, how should I ever be able to answer that question?" said Eva. "They
                     have got so dreadfully mixed up I can't tell which is which."
                  "Nor I don't care which is which," said Tom, folding her to his heart.
                  He held her so that her heart was right on his. Each could feel the throb of
                     the other. Fit emblem this of the heart's perpetual oneness.
                  
                  
                  "All mine! ALL MINE!" he murmured again and again, with increased
                     emphasis and deeper feeling.
                  "All yours! all yours!" she breathed out in such soft sweet,
                     musical tones that she did not seem to be speaking. It seemed like a new kind
                     of articulation. What if her love is going to teach her the new language she
                     believes in! It is a wonderfully sweet way of making one's self understood,
                     whatever language it is; at least, Tom thought so. And oh, how happy they both
                     were!—she in giving, he in taking, her so completely to himself!
                        She thought it surely must be more blessed to give than to
                     receive; and he thought in that case it surely was more blessed
                     for him to receive her than for her to give herself to him; and, looking on, I
                     do declare I cannot tell which is the most fortunate. I think they are about
                     equally "blessed."
                  "And does the darling give herself so freely to me without asking anything in
                     return?" asked Tom.
                  "Why, what do you mean?" said the astonished girl. "Haven't I got
                        you? and what more could I ask for?"
                  "And so I am entirely bankrupt,—I have nothing to give? Is it so?" said Tom.
                     "What! a pauper?"
                  "It is exactly so," said Eva. "You got to be a bankrupt that morning you came
                     to get Frank to go hunting with you. You lost your heart then; you have never
                     had anything to give since; it has been all mine. And should you think I could
                     be so silly as to ask you for what was already mine?"
                  "I rather think I had lost my heart before that," said Tom. "I don't think I
                     have been much less than a bankrupt since that time I first met you in the
                     woods talking to mammy. Some time after the war is over I am going to paint
                     that scene."
                  "So you lost yourself then, did you? And now you have got yourself back and me
                     with it," said Eva.
                  "It is a wonderfully nice way of losing one's self," said Tom, patting her
                     cheek and looking into the depths of her clear, transparent eye. "How plainly I
                     can see myself in your eye! That is the only looking-glass I care to look into.
                     And so I only learned to understand and appreciate myself when I saw myself
                     reflected through your love; it was only then I began to see my faults and hate
                     them; only then I saw how good I could be."
                  "Tom, don't you believe that is what the Saviour means when he says only those
                     that lose their lives shall find them? That always has seemed such a mystery. I
                     believe I begin to understand it now."
                  "How should I know, darling? It is to you that God has given the power of
                     seeing into the deep mysteries of the spirit-world. In such things I am your
                     scholar," said Tom, thoughtfully. "I can only say if that is the way to lose
                     your life, I should think it a great privilege to die every day if I could come
                     to life in you."
                  "This is the same old story," said Eva, half sorrowful, half pleased. "Try as
                     hard as I may to make you be religious, you always come right back to me. With
                     my best thoughts I can't spiritualize you."
                  "I don't know how you could have a thought grander than yourself," said Tom.
                     "And as for being spiritual, you have got to be so ethereal that I
                     have to keep hold of you to keep you from vanishing out of my sight. It is too
                     bad, when I have only one arm and a little stub to hold you with." His tone was
                     half playful, half grieved. Eva was convicted at once.
                  "And did I make my love tired holding me to the earth? It was too bad; and I
                     won't be so spiritual any more; I won't vanish from you what little time you
                     have to stay," she said, coaxingly.
                  "What little time you have to stay" brought both back to the realities of the
                     hour. In a little while they were to part, perhaps to meet no more in the
                     flesh. Eva kept thinking of that last supper of Christ and his disciples. The
                     words, "I will not leave you comfortless; I will come to you," brought such
                     sweet comfort to her own trusting heart she wanted to say them to him. But then
                     she thought he did not like to have her talk too much Bible; so she talked it
                     in her own language, though she was sure she liked the Saviour's better. It was
                     a solemn, touching scene. They felt too deeply for tears. Tears lie on the
                     surface of our being. When you get to the bottom of feeling you don't find
                     them.
                  Their hearts filled with joy and delight in each other, vibrating between hope and fear of the future;
                     they stood on the brink of separation, and yet seemed unable to part. Can they
                     part? Is it possible for two beings so bound together by the highest, deepest,
                     strongest love, to separate, each going into the dark, dreary world alone? Ah,
                     yes, they can part. Think you not that love brings strength with it, strength
                     to bear the crosses, endure the vexations, and do the duties of life with? It
                     is a lower form of love than this that unfits one for the crosses and duties of
                     life.
                  Time was when Tom and Eva of themselves could not have parted, though the call
                     of duty were ever so loud. But they have grown since then; their love is
                     all-powerful now to do the right. Ah, it took a mighty force to tear Tom away
                     from that lovely, beautiful girl, whose presence was delight and joy, whose
                     varied and wonderful gifts supplied every want of his nature. As far as himself
                     was concerned, he cared for nothing on earth but her. He had not been taken
                     prisoner; he had read his own name in the list of killed; nobody but Eva knew
                     but what he was dead; the people he lived with knew nothing about him. He might
                     have been married and gone to Europe—he had friends in London—and waited till
                     the war was over. But the ardent, devout love that tempted him to this course
                     was the very thing that saved him from it. It was this that made him so
                     compassionate and patient towards that wrangling, selfish, defeated people he
                     wanted to serve. Notwithstanding all this, there was a time when he came near
                     falling; it was when he took her hand and looked into her face for the last
                     time. In contrast with her, the embodiment of all that was beautiful or
                     desirable on earth or in heaven, arose in his mind the picture of those
                     disgusting negroes, the selfish crew at Richmond, and the wretched mass of
                     white trash he had always despised.
                  "Can I give you up for these wretches?" he passionately demanded. His whole
                     being cried out against such a sacrifice. The old fury possessed him; the
                     seven-headed devil of selfishness got into him. He stamped his foot and roared
                     out:
                  "No I can't! Nor I won't! Eva, let us be married and go to Europe! It is
                     nobody's business but our own what we do with our lives!"
                  He was weak from his sickness, and his agitation caused great drops of sweat to
                     start out over his face and forehead. Eva pulled his face down to hers, wiped
                     off the sweat, and gently soothed him. Her touch exorcised the evil spirits.
                     And when he was a little calmer he said, in a tone of sorrowful
                     helplessness:
                  "Eva, I can't leave you; it is no use trying. What if I should never see you
                     again!"
                  "Darling, the Lord that Uncle Ned prayed to has showed me that you will see me
                     again," said Eva.
                  "Oh, if I was only sure of that, I could suffer anything! So that I could have
                     you at last, it is all I care for." He spoke more hopefully now.
                  "You shall have me at last, and you shall have me all the time. Only for awhile
                     you can't see me. We don't lose God because we can't see him; do we?"
                  "Oh, if I were only such a Christian as you are!" he sighed out. "But I am so
                     weak when I think of leaving you."
                  Eva looked into his face with the majesty of a goddess blending with the love
                     of a woman, and said, "I expect my darling to do his duty."
                  A low, plaintive sound of self-sacrificing resolution, a sweet, tender murmur
                     of approving love, a single kiss. He was gone!
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXXIX.
                  THE BABY.
                  A WEAK, helpless, divided government, without money, without credit; a brave,
                     long-suffering, enduring people, looking anxiously in every direction for
                     something or somebody to help it out of its difficulty. Such was the condition
                     of things in Richmond and all the South when Tom returned to that capital.
                     Surely it would seem that such a
                     condition was one in which they would be willing to accept of emancipation or
                     anything else that offered any prospect of help or salvation. Not so, however.
                     Some people there are who will part with their life before they will part with
                     their sins, and some nations there are of the same disposition. The difference
                     between the North and the South in this contest was, that the North loved
                     itself, its own life, a little better than its sins; and the South
                     did not love her life quite as well as her sins.
                  
                  So it came to pass that all in vain Tom went from President to Cabinet, and
                     from Cabinet to Congress, and from Congress to the people, urging upon them to
                     emancipate the slaves and to offer terms of peace to the North. The South had
                     taken up arms, and it was only honorable and fair that she should offer to lay
                     them down when they could agree on terms of peace. Tom knew there was a large
                     party in the North that would oppose the continuance of the war after the South
                     had emancipated her slaves and offered honorable terms of peace. In such case
                     the government would be so weakened by defection and opposition that it would
                     have to make peace.
                  With all the eloquence and fervor that is born of deep conviction, he showed
                     them how hopeless it was to think of conquering the North. He might as well
                     have entreated the ocean to make peace with the wind and be calm. There were
                     plenty to denounce the government for its weakness and imbecility, plenty that
                     wanted a change; but they did not want the change in that direction. They
                     wanted a change that should fasten the chains on their slaves a little tighter;
                     not throw them off. He found a few to advocate the emancipation and arming of
                     the able-bodied slaves on the ground of military necessity. It was a pitiable
                     sight to one gifted with comprehensive views of the situation, to see how
                     little those narrow-minded, short-sighted people could understand of the
                     magnitude of the contest and crisis. And yet how trifling was the difference
                     between the area of their vision and his own! He could only see a trifle
                     farther than they. There is nothing like the difference between us and
                     narrow-minded people that we are apt to imagine. It is a simple difference of
                     days and minutes. The grandest discovery, the highest wisdom of one age, is the
                     common property of the next. And verily it would seem that a limited vision is
                     better for this limited world than aught else. What had been the consequence if
                     the Southern people had seen the situation, freed their slaves, and got up
                     another compromise?
                  Let us rejoice, then, that they could not see the certainty of their own
                     defeat, that their confidence in themselves and their love of slavery was
                     turned to such good account. We may feel a certain kind of sympathy for Tom as
                     we see him, weary and anxious, running from this one to that one, traveling
                     from State to State, trying to arouse the people to a sense of their danger,
                     urging upon them to do justice to the negro, and meeting only with
                     indifference, scorn, or vexatious selfishness. There is nothing more trying to
                     the heart of the patriot than in the hour of his country's danger to see those
                     whom she has trusted each coming with their own axes to grind. It was the curse
                     of the Southern Confederacy that her leading officials never could rise above
                     this petty, selfish axe-grinding.
                  But what is this but saying a bad cause cannot awaken the unselfish enthusiasm
                     that a good cause does? While we pity Tom, we are very thankful that he does
                     not succeed any better. Still, we are very glad to see how hard he tries. I
                     feel proud that in the hour of his country's extremity he called in every cent
                     of his European funds, and collected together all he could command, and laid it
                     on her altar. I had a thousand times rather see him weary, footsore, and
                     heartsick, pursuing his self-imposed task, than to see him and Eva enjoying a
                     bridal tour in Europe. Those that are strong ought to bear the
                     infirmities of the weak, and not seek to please themselves. He is a thousand
                     times more of a man, whom Eva can love and think it a privilege to be loved by,
                     for thus standing to his post and trying to do his duty, than as though he had
                     left those people to their fate. We may say "his efforts did not amount to
                     anything." Ah no, it is too soon for us to say that. Not till our knowledge is
                     expanded enough to take in all the complicated facts of the case can we say
                     that he failed.
                  
                  Meanwhile Frank is planning and fighting like a hero. His boyish dreams seem
                     about to be realized. He is really a brave man and no coward; and the prospect
                     is very bright for his being a real general. Sweet, tender-hearted Emily still
                     mourns his absence; but the dear thing is not entirely disconsolate now. For in
                     her arms there is another Frank Rosewell that his grandmamma declares looks for
                     all the world just like the rosy-cheeked, curly-headed, bouncing fellow that
                     she brought back from the East with her at the time Aunt Polly sent her there
                     to recover her health. Emily thinks it may be so; but she is sure that nobody
                     but his father ever could have been such a baby. She "go-o-es" to
                     him, plays with him, pets and frolics with him, sings sweet lullabies to lull
                     him to sleep, and thinks she is the happiest woman in all the world. So
                     gracefully and effectively does nature lead her daughters—ay, and sons, too—out
                     of the honeymoon of Eden, by a thorny path, into the promised land of
                        parentage. The baby's pet cheek pressed against hers seems to
                     have smoothed out the sharp lines on Emily's face, the lonely look has gone out
                     of her eye, and she feels that she has got her Frank in the beautiful,
                     glorified form of the baby. This is nature's way of giving woman a perpetual
                     lover. Woman must have something to love, pet, fondle, and bless. The "baby" is
                     just as nicely adapted to this necessity of her nature as the air to the
                     necessities of the lungs or the locomotion of the bird. Not that Emily has
                     forgotten the old Frank, or ceased to want him. She tries to read the papers
                     and find out all about the war, because he is in it. But, dear me,
                     that bady does act so! when she tries to read, his chubby hand claws right into
                     the accounts of the greatest battles. He seems so determined that his ma's eyes
                     shall be on him all the time, that she just has to give the paper
                     up to him, to make a noise with. It is no use for her to try to be literary
                     with that "rosy-posy," "honey-pie," "diamond-bird" in her arms.
                  While this woman is thus happily performing her mission of love, Eva is
                     patiently, ay even joyously, continuing her ministry of love and helpfulness to
                     the sick and wounded of her country's brave defenders.
                  It is a somewhat singular phenomenon that two persons so perfectly and entirely
                     one should come to be arrayed on opposite sides in such a contest, pulling
                     against each other, as it would seem. And yet what is this but the universal
                     phenomena of life, of rival churches, rival parties, rival countries, rival
                     interests in the world? The force that is gradual and surely moving mankind
                     upward and onward to the goal of a godlike character seems very much like the
                     force that keeps the earth revolving in its orbit. It is a compound of
                     opposites; and those that are pulling at one end of the rope seem to be doing
                     as much good as those that are pulling at the other. So does the "good of man"
                     absorb all other force, and turn it into life-blood for itself.
                  In looking over the world's history I really can see nothing to be sorry for.
                     Take any of the great events of the world's history, and who of us could
                     suggest a better reading? Say that man fell not: then you deprive us of a
                     Saviour, a forgiving Father, you have a race whose knowledge is limited to
                     good. We only become "like God" when we know good and evil. His knowledge takes
                     in all the facts and possibilities of our complex being. So through all
                     history: who can make it read better?
               
               
                  CHAPTER XL.
                  THE BANQUET OF DEATH.
                  WE had need to brace ourselves up by such philosophy as we suggested in the
                     last chapter, and so do we have need of all the comforts of an unfaltering
                     faith, to enable us calmly to reflect upon and witness the closing scene of
                     this life-drama. So short the distance between the highest mount of joy and the
                     lowest depths of woe, that it takes but a moment to lead us from one to the
                     other.
                  General Lee's army have surrendered, given up their arms, and gone back to their wasted homes! The
                     war is ended. The great battle of freedom has been fought and
                     won,—WON! Earth sings, and heaven echoes back that old-time song
                     of triumph, "Glory to God in the highest! Peace on earth, and good-will to
                     men."
                  Flags of victory are flying in every direction; bells are ringing; choirs are
                     singing; men are hurrahing and shouting; boys are screaming; the enthusiasm of
                     the American people is wrought up to the highest pitch. The whole country is
                     riding triumphantly on a wave of joy and victory. Well may the American people
                     rejoice, for bravely they have fought, and proudly they have won, one of the
                     most eventful battles of the world's history; theirs is a victory that
                     consecrates every foot of American soil covered by the stripes and stars to the
                     brotherhood of man.
                  Saturday morning dawns, and the shout of joy is exchanged for the wail of woe.
                     Black takes the place of red; the flag of triumph is displaced by the badge of
                     mourning. By this sad and humiliating lesson has our Father taught us that we
                     are all brethren. The sin of one of the least of the human family is the
                     misfortune and sorrow of all.
                  The nation's wondrous joy over its victory, its sudden and overwhelming grief
                     over the death of its honored chief, Abraham Lincoln, was a tragedy similar to
                     what occurred in the Rosewell family. Frank, jubilant over the great victory,
                     was returning home, with the star of promotion on his shoulder. Mr. Rosewell
                     had already arrived there.
                  The battle of the Wilderness had left so many wounded, that Eva had stayed
                     longer than was really prudent on account of her health; but another had taken
                     her place now, and she was soon to be there. Tom Price had also been sent for,
                     inasmuch as Eva would never enter a house that Tom could not be invited
                     into.
                  The long, dark night of sorrow was past; and though it had left many scars and
                     many wounds that could never be healed in this life, still, there was much to
                     rejoice over. The remnant of the family would soon be gathered together under
                     the same roof; and though it was not the old house, it was comfortable. There
                     were vacant places in the family circle, and so there were additions to their
                     number.
                  It is no use to harrow up our minds with painful details. Suffice it to say
                     that, by one of those causes that deprived the nation of its victorious leader
                     in the hour of its proudest triumph, a fatal bullet was sent into the body of
                     Frank Rosewell just as he was nearing his home to meet his happy wife and
                     family. It was with death-stricken arms that he first pressed his darling boy
                     to his father's heart.
                  Frank had faced death on many a battle-field; he had become very familiar with
                     the thought that there was but a step between him and death. But there is an
                     exaltation of feeling that accompanies the thought of death on the battle-field
                     that takes away half its sting. Had Frank been called to give his life on the
                     field, he could have died like a soldier at his post in the ranks of duty. But
                     to be the victim of a useless, insane desire for revenge, from a spiritless
                     coward, too mean to show himself in open field,—stabbing in the dark! Oh, it
                     was dreadful to die thus! In the full, rich vitality of manhood to have to lie
                     down and die! To close your eyes on the world that is just opening so brightly
                     before you, never to enjoy on this earth the victory you have so dearly won, to
                     yield up your spirit at the call of a sneaking assassin!—these are the things
                     that try the heart of a soldier. But Frank was a Christian as well as a
                     soldier; and while the soldier felt so about the means of his death, the
                     Christian tried hard to say, "Thy will be done." This effort cost him a fearful
                     struggle. His religion was a very different type from Eva's. The faith that she
                     had by nature cost him the severest struggles, and it was a very small portion
                     of it that he ever attained to. However, one thing is certain, that, since that
                     night in the woods when he offered up the first real prayer of his life, his
                     will has always arrayed itself on the side of right, of justice, and of God.
                     One who has lived thus may have many things to regret as he struggles with his
                     last enemy; he may suffer fearfully in view of the narrow prison-house that is
                     henceforth to be the home of his body, but he never can know the anguish of a
                     blasted, useless life.
                  
                  Like a terrified child, Emily threw her arms around his neck, and said she was
                     afraid God was punishing them because she had thought so much of the baby;
                     maybe she had made an idol of it. So she wanted Frank to promise that if the
                     Lord would let him get well he would go to church with her and they would both
                     try to be better. Oh, how it pierced Frank to the heart to think of leaving
                     that tender, childish soul in such a cold, unfeeling world as this! He turned
                     his face to the wall and groaned aloud; the only time he groaned during those
                     terrible hours of mortal anguish.
                  Now it was his thoughts turned to Tom. He thought how tenderly he had cared for
                     her in other days, how fond she had been of him, how she had trusted him. He
                     had been dreadfully jealous and angry about it then, because he wanted all her
                     love for himself. But how differently we feel when we come into the cold
                     presence of the king of terrors! How glad he was now of what he had been used
                     to call Tom's "womanishness"! How he longed to see him, that he might commit
                     his helpless wife and child to his manly care and protection! For other reasons
                     he wanted to see him also.
                  Eva has already arrived. She has never seen him since she fled from his angry
                     presence because she could not accept a foul suspicion about the idol of her
                     heart. What a meeting this! The dews of death are on his brow. The last enemy
                     has possession of his feet and limbs, and is silently but surely throwing his
                     cold mantle over his vitals. But the young life-blood makes a desperate
                     struggle; it is not easy for nature to give up. Will he be able to hold out
                     till Tom arrives? A messenger has been sent to hasten his coming. The minister
                     has come and prayed with him. His mother sits at the head of the bed holding
                     his head. It was hers to receive this precious boon of life from her Father, it
                     shall be hers to give it back to him. The weeping wife is on the other side of
                     the bed, pressing her unconscious child to her heart and moaning over it in
                     childlike anguish. The father stands at the foot of the bed. The man of God
                     sits one side in silent prayer for the afflicted family, wondering at the
                     mysterious providence that had brought such sorrow on those that had tried so
                     hard to please him. Eva is kneeling by the bed, her head buried in her hands,
                     weeping bitterly.
                  The door opens, and Tom Price enters. The dying man has anxiously watched that
                     door; and now he raises his eyes to meet those of the companion and friend of
                     his boyhood and youth. They have not seen each other since that memorable time
                     they parted in the depot at Ann Arbor. What a record those few years have left
                     on the pages of the world's history! what a life they themselves have lived
                     since then! How little those two young men dreamed of the future that lay
                     before them! The sight of Tom revived him a little.
                  "How are you, old fellow?" Frank said, in the tone of other days.
                  Tom could not speak; he took his hand as he had when they parted: its coldness
                     startled him.
                  "It is almost over with me," said Frank, "but I'm glad I've seen you once more.
                     It's too late to right wrongs now, but you'll find some——" He gasped as though
                     the effort to speak was too much.
                  Tom spoke for the first time. "Don't trouble yourself about anything that's
                     past; all will come right. Have you any request to make, is there anything I
                     can do for you?"
                  Oh, how that presence, the sound of that voice, thrilled that woman by the
                     bedside! And was he unconscious of her presence? Was there no electric thrill
                     through him that answered to the vibrations of her being? I tell you there was.
                     Tom dropped on his knees beside her, his arm was around her, hers around him.
                     Her faith was justified, they had met again. The cold, dark night
                     of separation has worn on to a glorious morning. They are together again. Oh,
                     what meaning in that word "together" when Tom breathed it into Eva's ear!
                  Frank had stopped to take breath when Tom knelt by Eva. His mother had given
                     him a teaspoonful of wine, and under the stimulus of it he begins to talk to
                     Tom. He gives his wife and child to his care; and Tom promises to protect and
                     care for them. Frank dozes; and again Tom's head is beside Eva's, his cheek
                     touches hers.
                  
                  Oh, Mrs. Rosewell, I wonder you do not see the danger your daughter is in! With
                     such a temperament as hers, one in which the body is so sensitive to every
                     emotion of the soul, how dare you leave her thus? Don't you know people can die
                     of joy as well as of grief? Oh, that precious, precious life! How can you risk
                     it thus? Have you no thought of your daughter as well as your son? I thought
                     you had studied physiology, and knew something of the delicate mechanism of the
                     human body.
                  Oh, yes, to be sure you know all this; but how should you be expected to know
                     the depth of feeling, the soul-stirring emotions, that thrill your daughter's
                     spirit? Eva is bathing in an ocean into which other women have gone no more
                     than ankle deep. I have watched you for years, and seen how much you were
                     capable of loving, suffering, and enjoying; but I can see now that you are
                     daughter in this supreme moment of her life than that child-woman on the other
                     side is capable of understanding you. Therefore I cannot blame you for not
                     realizing your daughter's danger. But I should certainly think Tom might know
                     better. By himself he ought to know something of what she feels. He does; but,
                     alas! how should his athletic, vigorous manhood be expected to understand the
                     peculiar delicacy of her sensitive, nervous organization? Our only hope is that
                     Frank's immediate death may call her attention to him, and awaken other
                     emotions to keep her soul balanced this side the line that separates the seen
                     from the unseen. So we watch his dying face with intense interest. He revives a
                     little, and in a faint voice asks for the minister. Eva's attention is called
                     to him. There is hope for her. The minister put his ear close to his and heard
                     his whispered request.
                  "He says he can't die till Tom and Eva are married," said the man of God,
                     looking searchingly into Mrs. Rosewell's face.
                  The woman turned pale as death. She gave a low groan of unutterable agony. Aunt
                     Polly's awful prophecy was again ringing in her ears; the awful picture of Chit
                     perishing in the flames, the rivers of blood that the rebels had caused to flow
                     through the length and breadth of the land, all came up before her; and somehow
                     Tom seemed linked with all. Oh, surely it was too much to ask her to give her
                     last child to the rebel in this trying moment!
                  "Oh, my God! It is too much, too much to ask! It is more than I
                     can bear!" she exclaimed aloud.
                  With his glazed eyes Frank bent a pitying, reproachful look upon his mother, as
                     much as to say, if I can forgive I should think you might. She
                     felt the reproach.
                  The man of God put his right hand on Tom's head, his left on Eva's. Looking
                     Mrs. Rosewell full in the face, he said, slowly and calmly, "What God has
                     joined together let not man put asunder."
                  It was an awful moment to Mrs. Rosewell. She raised her mournful eyes to
                     Calvary. She saw the suffering One looking tenderly and forgivingly upon his
                     rebellious murderers. She heard that sweet, pleading voice saying, "Father,
                     forgive them, they know not what they do." Should she be less forgiving towards
                     those blinded rebels who had slain her children and others? In the name of the
                     forgiving Christ she said, No, freely as he forgave so do I. Her woman's heart,
                     her Christian love, all rose up against the evil spirit of unforgiveness and
                     cast it out.
                  The minister saw the change. Again the words, "What God has joined together let
                     not man put asunder."
                  "Amen, and amen!" said Mrs. Rosewell, in a clear, full voice.
                  "Amen!" responded the stricken, humbled man at the foot of the bed.
                  "Amen!" responded the dying brother.
                  "My wife!" said Tom, drawing her nearer to him.
                  "My husband!" said she, nestling closer to his heart. A sudden change, and the
                     soul of Frank Rosewell had launched out on the great ocean of eternity. But it
                     went not alone. Beside it went the companion of his boyhood, the sister he had
                     loved spite of all their differences. They all knew that the grim messenger had
                     done his work though they little knew how much he had done. A solemn, silent
                     moment passed, and they rose to care for the dead soldier. Tom raised Eva's
                     head tenderly from its resting-place on his heart. Her mother looked full into her face. She uttered a low
                     moan, and fell senseless to the floor. That look had shown her she was a
                        childless mother! Tom looked anxiously into Eva's face, felt
                     her pulse, put his hand on her heart. "Oh, God, it is too true!" he groaned
                     out.
                  Oh, yes, it was too true! too true! The moment that had made Tom Price a happy
                     bridegroom had made him a cheerless widower. On the wave of joy that had made
                     her a happy bride the soul of Eva Rosewell had been borne across the dark
                     waters and landed safely on the other side, where she awaits patiently and
                     lovingly the coming of the bridegroom.
                  Shall we follow them there and try to conceive what it must be to greet each
                     other on that shore where there shall be no more parting? We have seen how long
                     their partings, how short their meetings, here. Separation, trial, discipline
                     was the great fault of their lives here. And truly it would seem that only thus
                     can the highest love be developed and perfected. The noblest qualities and the
                     highest happiness are conceived only in the womb of pain, and brought forth in
                     sorrow. Not happiness, but godlikeness is the chief end of our existence here.
                     Happiness is the result of this character. Suffering, sorrow, and discipline
                     are essential to the development of such a character. Will any one suggest any
                     possible way by which strong, noble, loving, godlike natures can be developed
                     except in the fiery furnace of life? But when Tom shall have come out of the
                     furnace as Eva has already, when they have joined hands in an eternal,
                     inseparable union, when they are drinking the new wedding wine of the kingdom
                     prepared by their Father's love, when they are dwelling in that mansion that he
                     has prepared for them, think you they will then wish they had run from the pain
                     and peril of separation, from the thorny, rugged path of duty, to have reveled
                     in the pleasures and delights of Europe? I trow not. This moment
                     time is dreadfully short when put beside the length of eternity. But what of
                     their joys when they get there? These are a simple continuation, a continued
                     multiplication, of the joy each felt when the one murmured that endearing word,
                     "wife!" the other that all-comprehending word, "husband!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLI.
                  WHAT FREEDOM HAS COST US.
                  PLUNGE a glass globe into boiling water, and you will break it. Put it into
                     warm water and apply the heat gradually, and you may boil it with safety.
                  Thus with the heart. The great trial that came upon this nation came so
                     gradually that it was enabled to go on from Sumter to Bull Run, from that to
                     McClellan's defeat, from that to Fredericksburg, and so on through the whole
                     catalogue of defeats and losses, with safety.
                  Thus had Mrs. Rosewell and Tom Price gained strength to attend this "banquet of
                     death" and come out alive. At an earlier stage Mrs. Rosewell had been utterly
                     crushed by such a calamity. And think you that he who feared death so little,
                     he to whom it had been a constant companion, a momentary possibility, for the
                     past four years, would have long stood right in sight of the prize that only
                     death could now give him, his darling Eva, his spirit-bride, and not gone over
                     to her? It is so easy to unbolt the prison doors and let the struggling soul
                     free.
                  But deeper and more powerful than the cry of feeling that bade him join the
                     loved one on the other side, was that voice still sounding in his ears, still
                     thrilling him with its old-time power, "I expect my darling to do his
                     duty!"
                  When the deepest chords of our nature are touched by some great calamity, the
                     shock produces an exaltation of feeling that buoys up the soul and carries it
                     safely over the mountain-wave of anguish. But when the reaction comes, and the
                     agony comes to us without the uplifting force to raise us above it,—when we are
                     under the wave instead of riding on the top of it,—then it is we begin to know
                     what the agony and bloody sweat means.
                  Mrs. Rosewell began to know the meaning of the garden now. For what is the
                     garden but the sufferings that every child of God feels; sufferings that come
                     from the limitations, the ignorance
                     and sinfulness, of humanity? Our sufferings will be in the exact proportion
                     that we can take these in, and feel for those that are in such
                     bonds as bound with them. Thus Christ suffered for the sins of the world. He
                     suffered for them because he felt them. He felt them because he
                     had put his heart in perfect sympathy with ignorant, sinful man. You can no
                     more put your heart in sympathy with a sinful being, and not feel the weight
                     and burden of his sins, than you can take the hand of a person in an electric
                     circle and not feel the shock.
                  Years ago, when Mrs. Rosewell reached out her hand, opened her heart and
                     admitted Tom Price, she joined her heart to that circle, that class of beings
                     that suffered from slavery on the Southern side. She was already connected with
                     the circle that suffered on the Northern side. The ring was now complete, and
                     in Mrs. Rosewell and Tom Price we can see what oppression meant, what its
                     overthrow cost. Truly, they have borne the nation's sorrows.
                  In the little graveyard Frank and Eva lie side by side. At her feet sleeps the
                     body of the slave that had been her teacher and companion. It was meet he
                     should lie near her. Aunt Polly lies on the other side of Eva, and on the other
                     side of Frank lie the few bones that the firefiend could not devour; all that
                     is left of that bright, fascinating, charming girl we used to call Chit
                     Rosewell.
                  All around are the graves of Rebel and Union soldiers. It was in the border
                     States, where persons from the same family, church, and neighborhood took
                     opposite sides, that were witnessed some of the most heart-rending scenes of
                     the civil war.
                  Mrs. Rosewell and Tom are coming to the graves again. She is leaning on his
                     arm,—he is supporting her tottering footsteps. Oh, how does sorrow outrun time
                     and do his work ahead of him. She walks and acts like an old woman. They sit on
                     Eva's grave, and with the gentle tenderness of a woman Tom soothes and comforts
                     the heart of the bereaved mother.
                  "I wonder at it sometimes," said Mrs. Rosewell, "but you seem so much like Eva,
                     that at times I almost fancy she were here."
                  Then Tom remembered what Eva had said to him in that little cabin in
                     Gettysburg: "Not yours. I am you, dearest." What a new meaning there was in
                     these words now! What a wondrous light had this great anguish thrown on them!
                     He had thought he understood them then. He did know their meaning then as much
                     as the boy knows mathematics when he has learned the multiplication table.
                  Tom told her mother all, told her what an original way she had of interpreting
                     Scripture. He spoke of her desire to understand, and show to others, the
                     unknown law of spirit intercourse. If he had been as unselfish as she, he
                     thought he might have learned so much more from her. But he was so afraid of
                     losing her; and the thing he had instinctively dreaded had finally come upon
                     him,—her spirit had flown while he held her so tightly in his arms.
                  "Oh, how little I understood her!" moaned her mother. "Why did I try to keep
                     her from you that time you came for her? I was so blinded. I thought so strange
                     you hadn't come for her before, if all was right."
                  Then Tom told her about his mother's death. How his impatience to get to Eva
                     had imbittered her last moments, etc. Ah, then Mrs. Rosewell remembered how the
                     good angel pleaded with her to trust him! how she had finally listened to the
                     evil spirit of suspicion and distrust! "But who could have believed that such
                     awful consequences could have grown out of so small a thing?" said the weeping
                     woman.
                  I am not sure that Mrs. Rosewell is right in calling that a small thing. It
                     surely can be small only in one sense: it is small just as the serpent's
                     poison-tooth is a small thing.
                  Mrs. Rosewell told Tom the story of Aunt Polly. He was astonished out of
                     measure. How could mortal being believe that in that repulsive, disagreeable
                     old maid there dwelt such a spirit of love and devotion? And there, over the
                     ashes of those two misunderstood, unappreciated women, they learned a new
                     lesson of love and trust in humanity.
                  "I think this must be what Christ meant when he said, 'Ye believe in God,
                     believe also in me.' He wants us to
                     believe in humanity," said Tom. He colored a little when he thought how strange
                     that sounded as coming from him. "I am getting into Eva's way of reading the
                     Bible," said Tom.
                  "We are all getting into her way of reading the Bible; we are learning to
                     understand people; but, oh, what a fearful price we have paid for it!" said his
                     companion.
                  She laid her aching heart close to the cold clods of Frank's grave, that boy
                     she had had so much hopes of, that she had so loved! "And so is slavery
                     destroyed,—the Union is saved," she continued. "But, my God, my God, what a
                     fearful price we have paid for it!"
                  And when I compare that desolate, lonely woman sitting on the ashes of her dead
                     hopes and buried loves, pressing to her heart the cold earth that covers the
                     children she had taken so much pains to train for usefulness and happiness; I
                     say, when I contrast this desolate woman sitting here in the chilly darkness of
                     the night, weeping for her slain children, with the cheerful, happy, joyous
                     woman we met when we first saw the Rosewell family; when I contrast the
                     sightless eyes, the palsied, worm-eaten limbs, the decaying bodies that are
                     lying there, with the bright, sparkling eyes, the rosy cheeks, the rounded
                     forms of the children gathered around the cheerful fire-place that December
                     night; and when I remember that this is only a picture of so many empty homes,
                     so many aching hearts, throughout our land, I can exclaim with her, "Oh, God,
                     what a fearful price we have paid for our country's freedom!"
               
               
                  CHAPTER XLII.
                  LAST LOOK.
                  A NEW house is built on the foundation of the old one; a new fire-place throws
                     its cheerful light around the family sitting-room. The house is not as noisy as
                     it used to be; but the curly-headed, mischievous Frank, with the little girl
                     sister they have adopted, make music and laughter through all the house. Mrs.
                     Rosewell has heart and hands full. She had asked her Father that, inasmuch as
                     he had taken her children to be cared for and cherished in the other world, he
                     would allow her to care for his. She has a school for the freedmen in the
                     little school-house she started the Sunday-school in a few years ago. Sweet,
                     childlike Emily goes every day and gives them a lesson. Frank pitied the
                     slaves, and fought that they might be free. She pities them and works for them,
                     that they may learn to be good and wise.
                  Mr. Rosewell is an altered man. The untimely death of his daughter, the
                     cherished idol of his heart, brought about, as he believes, through the
                     consequences of his own sin, has at last shook his faith in himself, and he has
                     at last seen himself the miserable sinner that he was. He loathed himself and
                     repented in sackcloth and ashes; the blessings promised to the penitent heart
                     were his; he had the courage to cut off the right hand, pluck out the right eye
                     of his sin, and, though he has thus entered into life deficient and maimed, I
                     begin to see the outlines of the man Aunt Polly and Mrs. Rosewell loved so
                     much. I used to look at him and wonder what they could see in him to love. It
                     was only that they could see a little deeper than I.
                  The crippled soldier is busy too. To unite the severed parts of this divided
                     republic, to bind up its wounds, to prepare the freedmen for their new position
                     as citizens, to bring the incorrigible disturbers of the peace to punishment,
                     to protect the weak from the violence of the strong, this, with the care of his large estate,
                     gives him plenty of employment. Mrs. Rosewell has established a school in the
                     old home that was intended for her daughter, and all are pleased with it except
                     mammy. Her turban is very stiff, and her pride very much hurt as she declares,
                     "'Spectable people neber was made to 'sociate wid niggers in dat ar way."
                  Tom is no preacher, but his fashion of getting the people together, and trying
                     to persuade them to accept the results of the war, and make the best of their
                     new condition, has made him quite an effective speaker. He talks in meeting
                     sometimes, too, and the simple-minded people are often astonished and somewhat
                     mystified to see how very different the Bible seems to them when he interprets
                     it to them; but then it makes them feel good, and as long as people feel real
                     good they are not apt to find fault with the doctrine that feeds and nourishes
                     them.
                  Does his heart still keep crying out after Eva? Do his arms still keep reaching
                     out for her? Oh, yes! And they always will, and they always should. Nature
                     never intended that the bride in heaven should fill the place of the wife on
                     earth. His heart will ever be lonely and sad till he shall again clasp his
                     darling. He always feels her as he feels his lost hand; but he knows she exists
                     in the soul's sensation and being, not in the material form, and he is trying
                     to wait as hopefully here for her as she is waiting there for him.
                  Another summer is come. Tom is on his way to father Rosewell's; but he goes not
                     alone: a sun-browned youth, lately landed at New Orleans, goes with him. That
                     night, through the house there rang the joyous cry, "This, my son, was dead and
                     is alive again, he was lost and is found!"
                  Disgusted with the restraint that kept him from being a soldier like Frank and
                     his father, Eddie Rosewell had run away and shipped on board a war-vessel. One
                     of the sharpest thorns in the crown of sorrow that pressed Mrs. Rosewell's brow
                     was the uncertain fate of this cherished boy.
                  In the dew of the morning twilight they all went to the graves of the loved
                     ones. The graves are covered with flowers now; so on battle-fields all through
                     the land flowers are blooming on fields that had been soaked in brothers'
                     blood; so does nature throw the mantle of beauty and forgetfulness over the
                     sins and follies of her children; and so has the nation, learning wisdom of
                     her, and guided by the higher law of love, thrown the mantle of forgiveness
                     over her rebellious children, and freely welcomes them back to their old places
                     in the Union on the simple condition of justice to all men.
                  Tom and Mrs. Rosewell talk of this during this morning walk. He tells her of
                     the old fears that the North would treat the South as a conquered enemy. How
                     happily he had been disappointed! What an example had our country set to the
                     nations of the earth of loving mercy! Beautiful flowers, these! sweet honey,
                     this, from the dead carcass of war!
                  Uncle Eddie had drawn Master Frank in his little buggy. The child was full of
                     glee. It was his greatest delight to come to "pappy drave." By the stone they
                     had erected over the grave of Uncle Ned they found a one-legged decrepit old
                     man. In the gray of the morning twilight that abandoned sinner men called old
                     Jones had hobbled two miles, that he might get a little nearer to his Father,
                     by coming near all that was mortal of his once bleeding, oppressed slave. The
                     war has swept away the money he had so prized, all that is left to him now is
                     to try and be a little like Uncle Ned and Eva Rosewell.
                  A new thought struck Tom as he stood beside Eva's grave that morning. "I am
                     going to write the history of this war. As yet we have had nothing but the
                     ghastly skeleton, reports of battles, names, and dates," he suddenly exclaimed.
                     "What does the world know of the real history of this war?"
                  "Very little," said Mrs. Rosewell; "and I am glad to hear you say that. This is
                     a work that only one that loves and understands both sides can undertake."
                  "I believe I can do that," said Tom, thoughtfully, "and I know it would please
                        her." His face turned towards the rising sun, his heart full of
                     devout gratitude for the dear one, his "for time and eternity," he entreated
                     his Father's blessing upon his work. He had Frank's little boy by the hand, and
                     pointing upward to the sky, he told
                     the wondering, delighted child of the beautiful place beyond, the home of Eva
                     Rosewell.
                  "My pa be dare too," said the animated child.
                  "Yes, your pa is there too," replied his grandma; "and thousands of other
                     fathers and sons are there too. We have paid a fearful price for our country,
                     but it is well worth all we have paid for it."
                  Then they talked of the great Pacific Railroad, soon to unite the two
                     continents. They talked of the great improvements of the day; what a great and
                     glorious country was now opening its doors, and offering the oppressed and
                     down-trodden of all lands a home,—where their children could be educated, where
                     all meet on the broad platform of equal rights, where every soul can approach
                     its Father in the way that he chooses, with none to molest or make him afraid!
                     What a great light was this, shining so brightly through the night of the
                     world's darkness! And now it was to shine thus forever! Yes, thank God, the war
                     had settled that! This country was consecrated to civil and religious freedom
                     forever, forever!
                  
                  She plucked a flower from each of the graves, and pressing them to her heart,
                     where a year before the cold earth had laid, she joyfully exclaimed, "How I
                     thank thee, oh, my Father, for the privilege of laying my children on the altar
                     of my country!"
               
            
         
      
      
         
            APPENDIX.
            THE following lines are offered to the thoughtful reader as the solution of the
               problems of the preceding pages:
            
               MAN LIKE GOD.
               
                  I.
                  Father, we would be more like Thee,
                  Would thine whole image bear:
                  For this will toil up Calvary,
                  The crown of thorns will wear.
                  Thy children, Love, may not we be
                  More like Thee, oh, our God,
                  Infinite Love, like Thee?
               
               
                  II.
                  Father, give us the cup to drink
                  Thou gavest the blessed Jesus;
                  From his baptism we will not shrink,
                  Nor from the fiery furnace:
                  Burn out the dross, thine image see,
                  More like Thee, oh, our God!
                  More, and still more, like Thee.
               
               
                  III.
                  Father, we thank Thee for the cross,
                  Praise Thee for toil and pain:
                  Comforts and treasures count but loss,
                  The likeness of our Lord to attain:
                  Singing through all eternity,
                  We're growing like Thee, oh, our God!
                  Till "Man is Love," like Thee.
               
            
         
         
            
            POPULAR WORKS PUBLISHED BY J. B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.,
            PHILADELPHIA.
            WILL BE SENT BY MAIL, POST-PAID, ON RECEIPT OF PRICE.
            
               Forgiven at Last. A Novel. By Jeannetie R. HADERMANN. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     'A well-told romance. It is of that order of tales originating with Miss
                        Charotte Bronté."—N. Y. Even. Post.
                     
                     "The style is animated, and the characters are not deficient in
                           individuality."—Phila. Age.
                     
                  
               
               The Old Countess. A Romance. From the German of EDMUND HOFER, by the translator
                  of "Over Yonder," "Magdalena," etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1. 
                     "A charming story of life in an old German castle, told in the pleasant
                        German manner that attracts attention and keeps it throughout."—The
                           Phila. Day.
                     
                     "The story is not long, is sufficiently involved to compel wonder and
                        suspense, and ends very happily."—The North American.
                     
                     "An interesting story."—The Inquirer.
                     
                  
               
               Bound Down; or, Life and Its Possibilities. A Novel. By ANNA M. FITCH. 12mo.
                  Fine cloth. $1.50. 
                     "It is a remarkable book."—N. Y. Even. Mail.
                     
                     "An interesting domestic story, which will be perused with pleasure from
                        beginning to end."—Baltimore Even. Bulletin.
                     
                     "The author of this book has genius; it is written cleverly, with
                        occasional glimpses into deep truths Dr. Marston and Mildred are splendid
                           characters."—Phila. Presbyterian.
                     
                  
               
               Henry Courtland; or, What A Farmer can Do. A Novel. By A. J. CLINE. 12mo. Fine
                  cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This volume belongs to a class of prose fiction unfortunately as rare as
                        it is valuable The whole story hangs well together."—Phila.
                           Press.
                     
                  
               
               Rougegorge. By Harriet Prescott Spofford. With other Short Stories by ALICE
                  CARY, LUCY H. HOOPER, JANE G. AUSTIN, A. L. WISTER, L. C. DAVIS, FRANK LEE
                  BENEDICT, etc. 8vo. With Frontispiece. Paper cover. 50 cents. 
                     "This is a rare collection."—Chicago Even. Journal.
                     
                     "Admirable series of attractive Tales."—Charleston
                           Courier.
                     
                     "The contents are rich, varied and attractive."—Pittsburg
                           Gazette.
                     
                  
               
               The Great Empress. An Historical Portrait. By Professor SCHELE DE VERE, of the
                  University of Virginia. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This portrait of Agrippina is drawn with great distinctness, and the
                        book is almost dramatic in its interest."—N. Y. Observer.
                     
                  
               
               
               Nora Brady's Vow, and Mona the Vestal. By MRS. ANNA H. DORSEY. 12mo. Fine
                  cloth. $1.75. 
                     "These interesting tales describe Ireland and her people in ancient and
                        modern times respectively. 'Mona the Vestal' gives an account of the
                        religious, intellectual, political and social status of the ancient Irish:
                        and 'Nora Brady's Vow' illustrates the devotion and generosity of the Irish
                        women who live in our midst to friends and kindred at home."—Philada.
                           Ledger.
                     
                  
               
               Helen Erskine. By Mrs. M. Harrison Robinson. 12mo. Toned paper. Fine cloth.
                  1.50. 
                     "There is a varied interest well sustained in this story, and no
                        ritemader will complain of it as wanting in incident. Higher praise we can
                        give it by saying that the tone is pure and elevated."—The
                           Age.
                     
                  
               
               The Zuaker Partisans. A Story of the Revolution. By the author of "The Scout."
                  With Illustrations. 12mo. Extra cloth. $1.50. Paper cover. 60 cents. 
                     "It is a story of stirring incidents turning upon the actual movements of
                        the war, and is told in an animated style of narrative which is very
                        attractive. Its handsome illustrations will still further recommend it to
                        the young people."—N. Y. Times.
                     
                  
               
               One Poor Girl. The Story of Thousands. By WIRT SIKES. 12mo. Toned paper. Extra
                  cloth. $1.50. 
                     "A deep interest attaches to the volume."—St. Louis
                           Republican.
                     
                     "It is a moving story of a beautiful girl's temptation and trial and
                        triumph, in which appears many an appeal which Christian men and women might
                        well ponder."—Watchman and Reflector.
                     
                  
               
               Aspasia. A Tale. By C. Holland. 12mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth. $1.25. 
                     "It is a very interesting sketch of a life of vicissitudes, trials,
                        triumphs and wonderful experience It is well worth reading, and we commend
                        it to extensive circulation."—St. Louis Democrat.
                     
                  
               
               The Professor's Wife; or, It Might Have Been. By ANNIE L. MACGREGOR, author of
                  "John Ward's Governess." 12mo. Fine cloth. $1. 75. 
                     "The story is admirably related, without affectation or pretence, and is
                        very touching in parts. Miss Macgregor has great skill in drawing and
                        individualizing character."—Phila. Press.
                     
                  
               
               Only a Girl. A Romance. From the German of Wilhelmine Von Hillern. By MRS. A.
                  L. WISTER, translator of "The Old Mam'selle's Secret," etc. Fourth edition. 12mo.
                  Fine cloth. $2. 
                     "This is a charming work, charmingly written, and no one who reads it can
                        lay it down without feeling impressed with the superior talent of its gifted
                        author. As a work of fiction it will compare favorably in style and interest
                        with the best efforts of the most gifted writers of the day, while in the
                        purity of its tone, and the sound moral lesson it teaches, it is equal, if
                        not superior, to any work of the character that has for years come under our
                           notice."—Pittsburg Dispatch.
                     
                     "Timely, forcible and possessing far more than ordinary
                           merits."—Phila North American.
                     
                  
               
               True Love. By Lady di Beauclerk, author of "A Summer and Winter in Norway,"
                  etc. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.25. 
                     "Is a pleasing little story well told."—N. Y. Independent.
                     
                     "This pleasantly told love story presents pictures of English society
                        that will repay the reader."—Pittsburg Gazette.
                     
                     "Many of the scenes of her novel are drawn with truth and vigor The
                        interest is sustained throughout the story."—Hearth and Home.
                     
                  
               
               Carlino. By the author of "Doctor Antonio," "Lorenzo Benoni," etc. 8vo.
                  Illustrated. Paper cover. 35 cents. 
                     "It is beautifully written, and is one of the best delineations of
                        character that has been written lately."—Phila. Day.
                     
                     "It is a capital little story A simple and wholesome story charmingly
                           told."—Brooklyn Eagle.
                     
                     "Strange and deeply interesting."—N. Y. Hearth and Home.
                     
                  
               
               Walter Ogilby. A Novel. By Mrs. J.H. Kinzie, author of "Wau-bun, etc." Two
                  volumes in one vol. 12mo. 619 pages. Toned paper. Extra cloth. $2. 
                     "One of the best American novels we have had the pleasure of reading for
                        some time. The descriptions of scenery are spirited sketches, bringing
                        places before the reader, and there is nothing strained, sensational or
                        improbable in the cleverly-constructed incidents. Even the graduating week
                        at West Point, though a hackneyed subject, is presented with the charm of
                        freshness as well as reality. This is a thoroughly good
                           novel."—Philada. Press.
                     
                  
               
               Askaros Kassis, the Copt. A Romance of Modern Egypt. By EDWIN DE LEON, late U.
                  S. Consul-General for Egypt. 12mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth. $1.75. 
                     "This book, while possessing all the characteristics of a Romance, is yet
                        a vivid reproduction of Eastern life and manners."—N. Y.
                           Times.
                     
                     "He has written us this thrilling tale, based on miscellaneous facts,
                        which he calls 'A Romance of Modern Egypt,' and in which he vividly depicts
                        the life of rulers and people."—Chicago Advance.
                     
                  
               
               Beyond the Breakers. A Story of the Present Day. By the Hon. ROBERT DALE OWEN.
                  8vo. Illustrated. Fine cloth. $2. 
                     All readers of taste, culture and thought will feel attracted and
                        impressed by it We have, for ourselves, read it with deep interest and with
                        genuine pleasure, and can say for it that which we could say of few novels
                        of to-day—that we hope some time to read it over again."—N. Y.
                           Independent.
                     
                  
               
               Compensation; or, Always a Future. A Novel. By ANNE M. H. BREWSTER. Second
                  edition. 12mo. Fine cloth. $1.75. 
                     "It is an interesting work, and particularly so to those who are
                        musically inclined, as much useful information may be gained from
                           it."—Boston Post.
                     
                     "We recommend this book to all who are not longing for agony; for such
                        patrons it is too gentle and too delicate."—Phila. North
                           American.
                     
                     "The writer exhibits a happy talent for description, and evinces a rare
                        taste and genius for music."—Boston Recorder.
                     
                  
               
               
               Advice to a Wife on the Management of her own Health, and on the Treatment of
                  some of the Complaints incidental to Pregnancy, Labor and Suckling; with an
                  Introductory Chapter especially addressed to a Young Wife. By PYE HENRY CHAVASSE,
                  M.D. Eighth edition, revised. 16mo. Neatly bound in cloth. $1.50. 
                     "From this advice any woman may gather some precious ideas as to the care
                        of her health. The manual is very popular in England, where it has passed
                        through eignt rapid editions, and we know of no similar work where an equal
                        amount of doctor's lore is given in the style of plain modern
                           conversation."—Philada. Even. Bulletin.
                     
                     "Possesses undoubted value for those to whom it is
                           addressed."—Chicago Journal.
                     
                  
               
               Advice to a Mother on the Management of her Children, and on the Treatment on
                  the moment of some of their more pressing Illnesses and Accidents. By PYE HENRY
                  CHAVASSE, M.D. Ninth edition, revised. 16mo. Neatly bound in cloth. $1.50. 
                     "For such, and for those who want to rear children judiciously, but need
                        proper counsel, the present volume is one of the most valuable treatises
                        ever published. The new edition contains many new notes, and has undergone a
                        careful revision by Sir Charles Locock, the first physician-accoucheur to
                        Queen Victoria."—N.Y Even. Post.
                     
                  
               
               Counsel to a Mother: Being a Continuation and the Completion of "Advice to a
                  Mother." By PYE HENRY CHAVASSE, M.D., author of "Advice to a Wife," etc. 16mo.
                  Fine cloth. $1. 
                     This invaluable work treats of the following subjects:
                     PART I.—INFANCY: Preliminary Conversation; Ablution; Navel Rupture; Diet;
                        Wet-Nurse; Vaccination; Exercise; Sleep; The Bladder and Bowels.
                     PART II.—CHILDHOOD: Ablution; Clothing; Diet; The Nursery; Exercise;
                        Amusement: A Poem on Childhood; Education; Sleep; The Hair of a
                        Child.
                     PART III.—YOUTH: Ablution; Management of Hair; Whitening the Skin;
                        Clothing; Diet; Air and Exercise; Amusements; Education; Household Work for
                        Girls; Teeth and Gums; Sleep.
                     "Simple, practical, intelligible."—Philadelphia Evening
                           Bulletin.
                     
                     "It is full of sound, practical common sense."—The
                           Household.
                     
                     "There is a quiet simplicity and attractiveness about the book which will
                        induce any woman, and especially if she be a mother, to read it through at
                        one sitting, and thereafter to retain it always for consultation and advice.
                        We are more than pleased with it."—St. Louis Times.
                     
                  
               
               Maternal Management of Infancy. For the use of Parents. By F. H. GETCHELL, M.D.
                  16mo. Cloth. 75 cents. 
                     "We warmly recommend it for its good sense, clearness and
                           brevity."—The Phila. Press.
                     
                     "This little work is deserving the careful attention of all entrusted
                        with the management of infants."—The Inquirer.
                     
                  
               
               Dictionary of Medical and Surgical Knowledge, and Complete Practical Guide in
                  Health and Diseases, for Families, With 140 Engravings. One handsome 12mo vol. of
                  755 pages, Half Roxburgh, $2.50. 
                     The Editor of this volume has brought he experience of more than
                           thirty years of active practice, and over forty years of
                        professional study, to the task of preparing this work.
                  
               
               Dictionary of Daily Wants. A Cyclopædia embracing nearly 1200 pages of Sound
                  Information upon all matters of Practical and Domestic Utility, containing 980
                  Engravings. One handsome 12mo vol. Half Roxburgh, $3.75. 
                     The "Dictionary of Daily Wants" may be said to have done for matters of
                        Practical Utility in Domestic Affairs what the great naturalist Linnæus did
                        for the Science of Botany. It has brought thousands of useful items,
                        scattered in disorder through an unlimited number of channels, into one
                        arrangement and system, by which they may be easily found and
                        applied.
                     The sale of nearly 100,000 copies of this work affords the best evidence
                        of its intrinsic value.
                  
               
               Dictionary of Useful Knowledge. A Book of Reference upon History, Geography,
                  Science, Statistics, etc., with 570 Engravings. A Companion Work to the
                  "Dictionary of Daily Wants." Two handsome. 12mo vols., containing over 1500 pages.
                  Half Roxburgh, $5.
               Lippincott's Treasuries of Literary Gems. Miniature 4to. Choicely printed on
                  the finest toned paper and beautifully bound in extra cloth, gilt and gilt edges.
                  75 cts. each; as follows: 
                     I. A Treasury of Table Talk. II. Epigrams and Literary Follies. III. A
                        Treasury of Poetic Gems. IV. The Table Talk of Samuel Johnson, LL. D. V.
                        Gleanings from the Comedies of Shakspeare. VI. Beauties of the British
                        Dramatists. The six volumes in neat box, $4.50.
                     "A charming little series, well edited and printed. More thoroughly
                        readable little books it would be hard to find: there is no padding in them:
                        all is epigram, point, poetry of sound common sense."—London
                           Publishers' Circular.
                     
                  
               
               Mizpah. Friends at Prayer. Containing a Prayer or Meditation for each day in
                  the Year. By LAFAYETTE C. LOOMIS. 12mo. Beautifully printed on superfine tinted
                  paper within red lines. Fine cloth, $2. Extra cloth, gilt edges. $2.50. 
                     This work proposes Morning and Evening Scripture Readings, and an Evening
                        Meditation. The Morning Readings embrace the Psalms twice, and the evening,
                        the New Testament entire, during the year. The Meditations are not
                        expositions of the text, but rather devotional reflections—generally upon
                        the Evening Reading,—and intended to follow the Scripture and precede
                        prayer.
                  
               
               The Wife's Messengers: A Novel. By Mrs. M. B. HORTON. 12mo. Tinted paper. Extra
                  cloth, $1.75. 
                     "The writer has produced a capital contribution to the cause of domestic
                        truth, and one which will be read with delight in many a
                           household."—Ohio Statesman.
                     
                     "This story is pervaded by a strong religious feeling. The story is well
                        worth reading on its own merits, and some portions of it are written with a
                        real power that cannot fail to command attention"—Philada. Evening
                           Telegraph.
                     
                  
               
               
               Our Own Birds of the United States. A Familiar Natural History of the Birds of
                  the United States. By WILLIAM L. BAILY. Revised and Edited by Edward D. Cope,
                  Member of the Academy of Natural Sciences. With numerous Illustrations. 16mo.
                  Toned paper. Extra cloth, $1.50. 
                     "The text is all the more acceptable to the general reader because the
                        birds are called by their popular names, and not by the scientific titles of
                        the cyclopædias, and we know them at once as old friends and companions. We
                        commend this unpretending little book to the public as possessing an
                        interest wider in its range but similar in kind to that which belongs to
                        Gilbert White's Natural History of Selborne."—N. Y. Even.
                           Post.
                     
                     "The whole book is attractive, supplying much pleasantly conveyed
                        information for young readers, and embodying an arrangement and system that
                        will often make it a helpful work of reference for older
                           naturalists."—Philada. Even. Bulletin.
                     
                     "To the youthful, 'Our Own Birds' is likely to prove a bountiful source
                        of pleasure, and cannot fail to make them thoroughly acquainted with the
                        birds of the United States. As a science there is none more agreeable to
                        study than ornithology. We therefore feel no hesitation in commending this
                        book to the public. It is neatly printed and bound, and is profusely
                           illustrated."—New York Herald.
                     
                  
               
               A Few Friends, and How They Amused Themselves. A Tale in Nine Chapters,
                  containing descriptions of Twenty Pastimes and Games, and a Fancy-Dress Party. By
                  M. E. DODGE, author of "Hans Brinker," &c. 12mo. Toned paper. Extra cloth,
                  $1.25. 
                     "This convenient little encyclopædia strikes the proper moment most
                        fitly. The evenings have lengthened, and until they again become short
                        parties will be gathered everywhere and social intercourse will be general.
                        But though it is comparatively easy to assemble those who would be amused,
                        the amusement is sometimes replaced by its opposite, and more resembles a
                        religious meeting than the juicy entertainment intended. The 'Few Friends'
                        describes some twenty pastimes, all more or less intellectual, all provident
                        of mirth, requiring no preparation, and capable of enlisting the largest or
                        passing off with the smallest numbers. The description is conveyed by
                        examples that are themselves 'as good as a play.' The book deserves a wide
                        circulation, as it is the missionary of much social pleasure, and demands no
                        more costly apparatus than ready wit and genial
                           disposition."—Philada. North American.
                     
                  
               
               Cameos from English History. By the author of "The Heir of Redclyffe," &c.
                  With marginal Index. 12mo. Tinted paper. Cloth, $1.25; extra cloth, $1.75. 
                     "History is presented in a very attractive and interesting form for young
                        folks in this work."—Pittsburg Gazette.
                     
                     "An excellent design happily executed."—N. Y. Times.
                     
                  
               
               The Diamond Edition of the Poetical Works of Robert Burns. Edited by REV. R. A.
                  WILLMOTT. New edition. With numerous additions. 18mo. Tinted paper. Fine cloth,
                  $1. 
                     "This small, square, compact volume is printed in clear type, and
                        contains, in three hundred pages, the whole of Burns' poems, with a glossary
                        and index. It is cheap, elegant and convenient, bringing the works of one of
                        the most popular of British poets within the means of every
                           reader."—Boston Even. Transcript.
                     
                  
               
               Agnes Wentworth. A Novel. By E. Foxton, author of "Herman," and "Sir Pavon and
                  St. Pavon." 12mo Tinted paper. Extra cloth, $1.50. 
                     "This is a very interesting and well-told story. There is a naturalness
                        in the grouping of the characters, and a clearness of definition, which make
                        the story pleasant and fascinating. Phases of life are also presented in
                        terse and vigorous words It is high-toned and much above the average of most
                        of the novels issuing from the press."—Pittsburg Gazette.
                     
                     "A novel which has the merit of being written in graceful and clear
                        style, while it tells an interesting story."—The Independent.
                     
                  
               
               Siena. A Poem. By A. C. Swinburne. [Republished from Lippincott's
                     Magazine.] With Notes. 16mo. Tinted paper. Paper covers, 25cts. 
                     "Is polished with great care, and is by far the best composition we can
                        recall from Swinburne's pen, in more than one of its
                           effects."—Philada. North American.
                     
                     "One of the most elaborate as well as the most unexceptionable of his
                           productions."—N. Y. Evening Post.
                     
                  
               
               Recollections of Persons and Places in the West. By H. M. BRACKENRIDGE, a
                  native of the West; Traveler, Author Jurist. New edition, enlarged. 12mo. Toned
                  paper. Fine cloth, $2. 
                     "A very pleasant book it is, describing, in an autobiographical form,
                        what was 'The West' of this country half a century ago."—Philada.
                           Press.
                     
                     "The writer of these 'Recollections' was born in 1786, and his book is
                        accordingly full of interesting facts and anecdotes respecting a period of
                        Western history, which, when the rapid growth of the country is considered,
                        may almost be called Pre-Adamite."—Boston Evening Transcript.
                     
                  
               
               Infelicia. A Volume of Poems. By Adah Isaacs MENKEN. 16mo. Toned paper. Neat
                  cloth, $1. Paper cover, 75 cts. With Portrait of Author, and Letter of Mr. Charles
                  Dickens, from a Steel Engraving. Fine cloth, beveled boards, gilt top, $1.50. 
                     "Some of the poems are forcible, others are graceful and tender, but all
                        are pervaded by a spirit of sadness."—Washington Evening
                           Star.
                     
                     "The volume is interesting, as revealing a something that lay beyond the
                        vulgar eyes that took the liberty of license with the living author's form,
                        and it serves to drape the unhappy life with the mantle of a proper human
                        charity. For herein are visible the vague reachings after and reminiscences
                        of higher things."—Cincinnati Evening Chronicle.
                     
                  
               
               Dallas Galbraith. A Novel. By Mrs. R. HARDING DAVIS, author of "Waiting for the
                  Verdict," "Margaret Howth," "Life in the Iron Mills," &c. 8vo. Fine cloth, $2. 
                     "One of the best novels ever written for an American
                           magazine."—Philada. Morning Post.
                     
                     "The story is most happily written in all respects."—The North
                           American.
                     
                     "As a specimen of her wonderful intensity and passionate sympachies, this
                        sustained and wholly noble romance is equal or superior to any previous
                           achievement."—Philada. Evening Bulletin.
                     
                     "We therefore seize the opportunity to say that this is a story of
                        unusual power, opening so as to awaken interest, and maintaining the
                        interest to the end."—The National Baptist.
                     
                  
               
               
               Beatrice. A Poem. By Hon. Roden Noel. Square 16mo. Tinted paper. Extra cloth,
                  gilt top, $1. 
                     "It is impossible to read the poem through without being powerfully
                        moved. There are passages in it which for intensity and tenderness, clear
                        and vivid vision, spontaneous and delicate sympathy, may be compared with
                        the best efforts of our best living writers."—London
                           Spectator.
                     
                     "Mr. Noel has a fruitful imagination, and such a thorough command of
                        language as to link the heart and tongue in tha union from which only true
                        poesy is born."—N. O. Times.
                     
                     "Mr. Noel has no rival. He sings with fairy-like and subtle
                           power."—London Athenæum.
                     
                  
               
               Breaking a Butterfly; or, Blanche Ellerslie's Ending. A Novel. By the author of
                  "Guy Livingstone," &c. Author's Edition. With Illustrations. 12mo. Extra
                  cloth, $1.50. Paper cover, 50 cts. 
                     "It is a charming story of English life, and marked by the well-known
                        characterstics of the author's style, in which the gorgeous descriptions of
                        manhood are predominant."—Buffalo Express.
                     
                     "It is intensely interesting, full of life and spirit, and throughout is
                        written in the gifted author's most captivating vein."—Philada.
                           Age.
                     
                     "It is a story which every one will find interesting; and it is written
                        with an easy grace indicative of good taste and large
                           experience."—Albany Journal.
                     
                  
               
               The Voice in Singing. From the German of Emma Seiler. New edition. Revised and
                  enlarged. 12mo. Extra cloth. Ornamented. $1.50. 
                     "We would earnestly advise all interested in any way in the vocal organs
                        to read and thoroughly digest this remarkable work."—Boston Musical
                           Times.
                     
                     "It is meeting with the favor of all our authorities, and is a very
                        valuable work. To any one engaged in teaching cultivation of the voice, or
                        making singing a study, it will prove an efficient assistant"—Loomis'
                           Musical Journal.
                     
                     "This remarkable book is of special interest to teachers and scholars of
                        vocal music. It is, however, of value to that much larger number of persons
                        who love music for its own sake. Here, almost for the first time in English,
                        and certainly for the first time in an American book, we have a satisfactory
                        explanation of the physiology and æsthetics of the art
                           divine."—Philada. North American.
                     
                  
               
               Abraham Page, Esq. Life and Opinions of Abraham Page, Esq. 12mo. Tinted paper.
                  Fine cloth. $1 50. 
                     "It is really refreshing, in these days of sensational stuff, to fall
                        upon a book like this, written with the easy, well-bred air of a gentleman,
                        and the grace and culture of a scholar."—Baltimore Leader.
                     
                  
               
               What I Know about Ben Eccles. A Novel. By ABRAHAM PAGE, author of "The Life and
                  Opinions of Abraham Page, Esq." 12mo. Cloth, $1.50. 
                     "Quite a pathetic story, which, without being at all of the kind
                        denominated sensational, will enchain the attention to the very
                           close."—Pittsburg Ev. Journal.
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
