
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). The Tried and the Tempted .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5655 wright2-0137
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               THE TRIED AND THE TEMPTED.
            
            BY T. S. ARTHUR.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO & CO.  
                     NO. 14 NORTH FOURTH STREET.
                  
               
            
            1851.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1851, by T. S. ARTHUR, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
               Stereotyped by L. Johnson & Co.
               Philadelphia.
               Printed by T. K. & P. G. Collins.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            NONE pass through life without trials and temptations; yet few regard them aright, as means of purification from evil. Unless tried and tempted, we would not know how deeply depraved we are, nor be induced to strive for the mastery over the wrong tendencies of corrupt nature. Trials and temptations are, therefore, real blessings, although, when we are bearing the burden and passing through the fire, they are not joyous, but grievous.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               WOUNDED HONOUR. 7
               
               A STORY FOR WIVES. 24
               
               THE TEMPTATION. 43
               
               THE TWO FATHERS; OR, TRUE PHILOSOPHY. 55
               
               I'VE SAID IT, AND I'LL DO IT. 74
               
               THE MINISTER AND THE MERCHANT. 91
               
               LOSS AND GAIN. 115
               
               THE UNHAPPY WIFE. 122
               
               THE BUSHEL OF CORN. 141
               
               SALLY LYON'S FIRST AND LAST VISIT TO THE ALEHOUSE. 158
               
               KEEPING UP APPEARANCES. 172
               
               THE WIDOW. 198
               
            
         
      
      
         
            The tried and the tempted
            
            THE TRIED AND THE TEMPTED.
            
               WOUNDED HONOUR.
               A FEW years ago, two young officers, while heated with wine, got into a quarrel. It is worthy of remark, by the way, that most quarrels originate when the parties are "heated with wine," as it is said.
               Lieut. T——, who had given cause of offence, and Capt. R——, who considered himself insulted, were, at the time the difficulty occurred, passing a few days in the city of New York, previous to going South to join their respective companies. T—— was an unmarried man; but R—— had a wife and one child, a beautiful boy three years old. Mrs. R—— was in New York at the time. All the parties were staying at the A—— hotel.
               The origin of the quarrel was this. After drinking rather freely one day at dinner, T—— and R——, in company with two officers of the navy, went over to Hoboken, and while there, R——, who had taken more wine than he could well bear, was betrayed into the utterance of a light and insulting remark to a young lady, who, with a female companion, had come over from the city to enjoy a walk in the pleasure-grounds. The girl burst into tears, and taking the arm of her friend, went quickly away from the vicinity of the young men. T—— had a sister for whom he had a most tender regard, and, the thoughts of such words being addressed to her aroused his indignant feelings. Turning hastily towards Capt. R——, he said, with flashing eyes:—
               "That was a shameful outrage, and if she was my sister, I would resent it."
               R—— drew himself up, and replied, angrily, "Consider her your sister."
               "No," said T——, "as she is not my sister, I will let the outrage pass. It is, perhaps, well for both of us, that the young lady has no claims upon me."
               "But I shall not let the matter pass, you may be sure," retorted R——, with assumed calmness, turning away as he spoke.
               The friends of both parties sought anxiously to reconcile the difficulty, but without effect. R—— must have an apology, and T—— was by no means prepared to make one.
               At ten o'clock that night, as Lieut.—— sat in his room, a friend of Capt. R—— entered with a demand for a retractation of the insulting language used at Hoboken.
               "You know that I cannot retract," replied the young man. "Had I, in the heat of the moment, said what my cooler judgment does not approve, I would instantly apologize for the wrong done. But, his wanton insult to the young lady was a shameful outrage, and I cannot retract the words I uttered; though, if there had been time for reflection, I might not have spoken as freely as I did."
               "Nothing will satisfy Captain R—— but an apology."
               "I am sorry for it. If he exacts from me an impossible thing, he must not wonder if I do not comply with his demand. I am ready to say that I spoke from a sudden impulse—from the heat of the moment; but nothing more. The truth of my words, hastily as they were uttered, is undeniable, and therefore they cannot be recalled."
               "Then a meeting cannot be avoided. Will you name your friend?"
               "I will."
               "Say that I shall be glad to see him to-morrow morning, in my room, at ten o'clock." Lieut. T—— bowed, and the representative of Capt. R—— departed.
               It too often happens that those who are called "friends" in affairs of this kind are the worst enemies of both parties, carefully blocking up all the avenues to a reconciliation by heaping fuel upon the revengeful fire that burns in the bosoms of their respective principals, instead of seeking, if possible, to extinguish it. It was so in this case; particularly as regarded R——'s second. He had killed his man, and, instead of suffering the pangs of an undying remorse for the murderous deed, rather gloried in the fact, and felt a secret pleasure as he contemplated the meeting between T—— and R——, which he saw to be inevitable.
               A night's repose, and the company of his wife and child, to whom Capt. R—— was tenderly attached, made him feel rather more serious than he had felt on the evening before. Shame, too, for what he had done, could not be entirely stifled by anger at the insult received from a brother officer. He had insulted a virtuous and unprotected woman, and that fact he knew would come out, and reflect but little upon his honour as a man, even though, in vindication of his honour, he should brave the fire of his adversary. To keep down such thoughts and feelings, he drank brandy almost every hour, and this soon gave him what he considered a right state of mind under the circumstances.
               Notwithstanding the most careful efforts to conceal from Mrs. R—— what was in contemplation, that lady could not help perceiving that something was wrong, and she very naturally became alarmed, and besought her husband to tell her the cause of his strange and altered manner; but he evaded all her eager inquiries, and tried to laugh at her apprehensions. He was too ill at ease, however, in his own mind, to be able to quiet the uneasiness of his wife, who saw deeper than his words and affected indifference.
               The meeting was fixed for the day succeeding that upon which the seconds met to arrange preliminaries, and the spot selected was about a mile above the place where the cause of the difficulty occurred—time, nine o'clock in the morning.
               As a knowledge of the affair passed from one to another, as such things will pass, spite of the efforts of those most concerned to keep every thing as quiet as possible, the real friends of both parties began to come forward, and make use of all the influence they possessed to prevent a hostile meeting. But, as Lieut. T—— could not and would not retract what he had said, and Capt. R—— was resolute in demanding reparation for his wounded honour, all such efforts proved in vain.
               As a last resort, one of these friends waited upon Mrs. R——, and apprized her of what was about to take place, trusting that the wife's tears and entreaties might possess a stronger power over him than the arguments of his fellow-men. But with Capt. R——, pride was an overmastering passion; and this, acting upon his false notions of honour, sustained him in his mad purpose, even against the agonized appeals of his wife.
               "It is useless to urge me, Adelaide," he replied to her almost frantic entreaties. "As a man of honour, I cannot retrace my steps. He insulted me in the presence of others, and I demanded an apology. That he refused to give; and nothing was left me but to require satisfaction."
               "But your life is not your own to throw away, nor have you a right to take his," said the tearful wife, forcing herself into some composure, and trying to appeal to his reason.
               "I have nothing to do with that, Adelaide," he returned. "He insulted me, and, by the laws of honour, must render me satisfaction."
               "It is a false code of honour," urged Mrs. R——.
               "Let the responsibility rest with those who made the laws; while they exist, I must obey them."
               Hopeless of moving him by arguments, Mrs. R——, in the terrible anguish which was almost maddening her, lifted her little boy in her arms, and holding him up before his father's eyes, said—
               "Albert! If your love for me is not strong enough to keep you from throwing away your life, think whether you dare leave this dear babe alone in the world."
               "I will leave it with you, Adelaide, as a sacred trust, should I fall," replied Capt. R——, with strong emotion.
               "With me!" The wife put down the wondering child gently, and covering her pale face with her hands, sank upon a chair, adding in a mournful voice—"And who will care for me?"
               Capt. R—— was deeply moved. But no appeals nor entreaties could make him give up his purpose. Brave as he believed himself, he had not the courage to do that. He had been insulted, and by the laws of honour he must have satisfaction. The cause of the insult—the honourableness of the act which provoked it—were not questions to come into the account.
               As for Lieut. T——, the more he reflected on the affair, the more deeply did he regret the aspect it had assumed. He knew the wife of R——, and esteemed her for the loveliness of her character, and honoured her for the devoted attachment she bore her husband. Their dear little boy, too, had been a favourite with him. To rob the one of a husband and the other of a father, should his aim prove fatal, was a thought that filled his breast with exquisite pain.
               "I will fire in the air," he said to himself, rising in agitation from the table at which he had been writing, and moving about hurriedly, as the image of the widowed wife and orphaned child came up distinctly before him.
               But the love of life is strong in all, and all have individual duties and responsibilities. A recollection tion of these soon came to the mind of T——, and changed the current of his thoughts.
               "No—no—I dare not do that," he said, again seating himself; "I am dragged into this, and it is a duty I owe to myself, as well as to others, to save my life if I can."
               "If R—— will not regard his wife and child, I cannot."
               There was a gentle tap at his door as he said this. On opening it, the wife of Capt. R——, with pale face and quivering lips, came in. He closed the door, and they were alone. It was some time before Mrs. R—— could speak, after she was seated. At last, she said, in a low, tremulous voice, that gradually gained steadiness:
               "Lieut. T——, I need not explain the purport of my visit. Your own heart will conjecture it. Hopeless of influencing my husband in this dreadful business, I have come to you."
               "Are you not aware, madam," replied T——, as firmly as he could speak, "that I am the challenged party?"
               "Oh, yes! I am aware of that."
               "Do you know the cause of this unhappy misunderstanding, and the position in which I am placed?"
               "Not fully. I can get no one to explain it to me. Will you do so?"
               "No, madam, I cannot. All I can tell you is, that I am asked to retract or apologize for words which, though uttered under the impulse of the moment, expressed the simple truth."
               "But cannot you say that you spoke hastily?"
               "I have said that, but it will not do."
               "To let death hang upon a mere expression; a hasty word; an overstrained idea of honour Oh, it is dreadful!" sobbed Mrs. R——, wringing her hands. But she controlled herself, and said in a firmer voice:
               "Lieut. T——, a wife and mother will go far and sacrifice much to save the life of her husband and the father of her child. You cannot know what I suffer, and may not understand how it is that I can come to you with the appeal I have to make. But it is my only hope, and I must urge it upon you. Oh; sir! the thought of my husband's going forth on this dreadful business makes me feel as if I was going mad!"
               "But what can I do, Mrs. R——? I am the challenged party."
               "Refuse to fight."
               "And be branded as a coward! You ask of me too much, madam!"
               "Is the mere word 'coward' to be put against every other consequence?" said Mrs. R——. "Will not the thought that you have saved your friend from murder by your own hand, his wife from widowhood, and his child from orphanage, sustain you under the false imputation? Oh, sir! I know it will! Have the courage to do right. Be truly brave!"
               The tears and entreaties of a young, beautiful, and distressed woman, pleading for the life of her husband, must have in them a power of eloquence sufficient to soften the most resolute will. Lieut. T—— found himself placed in a new difficulty. After a long struggle with himself, during which the anxious wife urged him by many and various considerations to do as she wished, he said:
               "What you ask, madam, I cannot grant. But I'll tell you what I will do."
               Mrs. R—— listened eagerly.
               "I will receive your husband's fire, and then discharge my pistol in the air. If I am killed, let it be so; if I escape, all will be well."
               T—— expected to see the beautiful face of Mrs. R—— instantly covered with a glad expression, and to hear from her an overwhelming burst of gratitude. But he was mistaken. She looked at him for a moment, and then replied, sadly:
               "For such a generous self-devotion my heart blesses you. But that sacrifice cannot, must not be made. I will not accept even my husband's life from you on such terms. No—no."
               "What more can I do, madam?" asked T——, unable to conceal the surprise he felt.
               "Refuse to fight," said Mrs. R——, firmly.
               "Impossible!"
               But Mrs. R—— plead so long, so tearfully, and so earnestly, that Lieut. T—— at last yielded to her entreaties, and she left his room with tears of joy and gratitude upon her face. We need not repeat all she said, nor give the many appeals she made to the higher and nobler attributes of his mind. Enough that her efforts were successful.
               On the next morning, when Lieut. T——'s second called upon him at an early hour, he was confounded to hear him say, very calmly—
               "I have concluded not to fight."
               "What!" he exclaimed. "Not fight! Have not you accepted the challenge, named the weapons, and appointed the time?"
               "Yes, I have done all these; and yet I do not mean to fight."
               "Why? Why?"
               "People will say that it is because I am a coward; and, perhaps it is, I have not the courage to keep my appointment with Capt. R——"
               "T——!" exclaimed the second, looking at him with an expression of astonishment and bewilderment.
               "It is true what I say," added T——, his steady eye showing no trace of any fear. "I cannot meet R—— without returning his fire. It would be wrong for me to throw my life away where a chance of saving it remained. If I fire at him, I shall most probably kill him; and I own that I have not the courage to make his lovely young wife a widow, and that sweet child of his an orphan."
               "That is his business, not yours," said the second.
               "I am aware that the world would say this, and, moreover, laugh at my reason, if I were to permit it to go forth, which I do not, for I must hold you to honourable secrecy. All you have to do is to say that your principal refuses to fight."
               "T——," said his friend, with a marked expression of feeling, "I cannot but admire your motive, but dare not advise you to act from it. Your honour as a man is at stake. You are not responsible for the consequences of your present position, for you were dragged into it against your will. If you refuse to fight, you will not be able to hold your position in the army."
               "I may not; but I am not so sure that I cannot. I trust the time will come, and that soon, when it will be seen whether I am a coward in a good cause. This is a bad one, viewed in any aspect."
               No argument could move Lieut. T—— from his resolution. When his second gave notice that his principal declined going out, there was quite an excitement among those who had been made acquainted with the fact that a duel was to take place between the young officers; and it was admitted on all hands that T—— had "shown the white feather."
               "Then he has got to apologize or be disgraced," was the remark with which Capt R—— received the intelligence.
               "You must post him as a coward, or cane him as a poltroon," said the individual who had stood his friend in the matter.
               "I will cane him!" exclaimed Capt. R——, and, taking up his ratan, went down into the great hall below, to await Lieut. T——'s appearance. He did not wait very long, for T——, who was very far from being a coward, and who did not mean to hide himself away in fear of the sneer or frown of his fellow-men, came down-stairs at the usual time in the morning. His friend, who knew the violent temper of Capt. R——, feared that there would be trouble, and therefore felt it to be his duty to keep in company with T——.
               There were, perhaps, fifty persons in the hall and parlours when Lieut. T—— appeared. The moment Capt. R—— saw him, he stepped fiercely up, and said, in a voice so loud that it could be heard through the parlours, and ringing up the stairway and along the passages of the house:
               "Lieut. T——, you insulted me, and would not apologize; I demanded honourable satisfaction, and you agreed to give it; but, at the last moment, like a coward, refused to meet me. Now, sir, you must make an apology, or I will disgrace you!" And, as he spoke, he raised the cane as if about to strike.
               
               T—— folded his arms calmly, and, without a muscle of his face moving, lifted his eyes to those of his assailant, and looked at him steadily. By this time the two men were surrounded by a crowd, and the second of T—— had placed himself in a position to catch the arm of Capt. R—— and prevent the outrage he contemplated. A moment or two of agitating suspense elapsed, and then Lieut. T—— said, in a very firm, deliberate, and calm voice:
               "Capt. R——, I admit that I spoke to you from the impulse of the moment, warmly, and severely. You know the cause, and can best tell whether my words expressed the truth. I believe they did, and, therefore, cannot recall them; although, if I had taken time to reflect, I might have spoken differently or not at all. As to giving you the satisfaction you have demanded, I at first consented to do so; but subsequent reflection has caused me to change my mind. The reason why I have done so, honour forbids me to state. Call it cowardice if you will; I will not gainsay your words; though the time may come when the opportunity will be given to prove that the epithet belongs not to me. And yet I am free to own that I have not the courage to meet you in the deadly encounter you desire, and will not do it."
               "Then you shall apologize!" exclaimed Capt. R——, losing all control over himself, "or I will disgrace you!"
               "Never!" was the calmly spoken answer.
               A quick flush went over the face of R——, and there was a motion in his arm as if he were about to do as he had threatened, when a sudden cry was heard on the stairs just behind him, and his wife came springing down, and, bursting her way through the crowd, seized his uplifted hand.
               "For Heaven's sake, Albert! let me speak to you a word;" she said, drawing him, almost by force, a little apart from the crowd, that separated and left them alone, when she hurriedly explained the interview that had passed between her and Lieut. T—— on the previous day.
               As soon as Capt. R—— clearly comprehended the truth, the cane fell upon the floor. Turning suddenly away from his wife, he again stood facing Lieut. T——, but with an altered countenance.
               "Gentlemen," he said, addressing those who stood around, "I find that I have wronged, and was about to wrong still further, a man who deserves my respect and honour more than my hate. True, he spoke harsh, and what I felt at the time to be insulting words; but for that I now forgive him. Yesterday, I now learn, that my wife, despairing of moving me from my purpose, called upon Lieut. T——, and implored him to decline the hostile meeting which had been appointed to take place this morning. That he said he could not do, but nobly proposed, in order to make her mind easy in regard to her husband, to receive my fire, and then discharge his pistol in the air. But to this she would not listen a moment. Finally, he yielded to her tearful entreaties, and, for the sake of my wife and child, refused to meet me in deadly strife, although he well knew that he must inevitably receive the brand of a coward, and be, perhaps, driven from the army. Lieut. T——," added Capt. R——, extending his hand as he spoke, "let us forgive the past, and be friends for the future."
               Lieut. T—— accepted the proffered hand, saying, with a smile, as he shook it heartily:
               "With all my heart, captain, and I am sure that our honour is just as whole as if the devil had succeeded in getting us over the river, and we had fired a shot at each other. He's a terribly bad adviser, and sure to involve us in trouble if he can only force his way, in some unlucky moment, into our councils."
               This was assented to all around. The company approved the reconciliation, and gave both parties credit for letting better feelings take the place of hatred and revenge; and so will every one else.
               Mrs. R——, when she was looked for, had retired to her room. Her husband, after a short time, followed, and found her with their little boy held tightly to her breast. Her tears were falling over his face in large drops. Throwing his arms around them both, he held them tightly to his bosom for a long time without speaking.
               "Did I do wrong, dear?" at length said Mrs. R——, in a timid voice.
               "Wrong?" replied her husband. "No! But why didn't you tell me sooner?"
               "It was my first opportunity. You kept away from me most of the time, and would not hear me when I tried to speak."
               "Because I was a madman. But, thanks to your love, and the noble spirit of T——, I have been saved from a deed whose evil consequences might have been of the most afflictive kind."
               "Is it not strange," said Mrs. R——, looking up tenderly at her husband, and smiling through her tears, "that you can now see the madness of what you were so bent upon doing only a little while ago?"
               "It is because, as T—— justly intimated, I had taken the devil for an adviser, and he blinded my eyes so that I could see nothing but my wounded honour. As soon as he was cast out, right perceptions came, and right actions followed. I hope to be a wiser man in future."
            
            
               
               A STORY FOR WIVES.
               "COME round to Guy's to-night, Ned," said a young acquaintance to Edward Nichols, as they stood exchanging a few words at the corner of a street, where they had paused for a moment or two ere taking their different ways homeward.
               "What's to be done there?" inquired Nichols.
               "Nothing very particular. But do you come round, and I'll promise you a pleasant evening."
               "I believe I'll stay at home with my wife," replied Nichols.
               "Well, just as you like," said the other. "Happy to see you at Guy's; but, if you find it more agreeable at home, stay there. Should the time, however, from any cause, hang heavy on your hands, just drop round and help us to spend an hour or two. My word for it, you'll find more than one agreeable companion."
               The young men parted, and Edward Nichols pursued his way homeward. The latter had been married about two years.
               On entering the room where his wife was sitting, Nichols saw with a feeling of disappointment that there was a cloud upon her brow. The cloud had appeared so often, that he was getting discouraged.
               "Is any thing wrong, Margaret?" he asked kindly.
               "No," was the brief reply, uttered in a complaining tone of voice.
               Nichols sighed, and turning to the crib in which their babe lay sleeping, bent over it and looked down upon its pure, sweet face.
               "Don't wake that child, Edward," said his wife, in a fretful voice. "I've been more than an hour trying to get her asleep."
               Nichols stood a moment or two, still gazing upon the tranquil face of the child, and then raised himself from his stooping posture, fixing his eyes, as he did so, upon the countenance of his wife. There was not an expression in it that a man could love. A peevish, unhappy temper had, for the time, absorbed every attraction. The husband felt repulsed. Leaving the room without a remark, he went down to the parlour, and taking a book, sat and read until tea was announced.
               There was no pleasant light in the face of Mrs. Nichols as she joined her husband at the table.
               "Don't you feel well, Margaret?" he asked.
               "My head aches," was returned.
               "I'm sorry. What has caused"—
               "Dish water!" ejaculated Mrs. Nichols, interrupting what her husband was about to say, and setting down the tea-pot she had lifted, with a jar upon the tray. "Such tea!" she added, as she took off the lid and looked within the tea-pot. Then she rang the table-bell, and the cook made her appearance.
               "Haven't I told you over and over, Jane, not to fill up the tea-pot in this way? You've made tea enough for a dozen people, but it's as weak as dish water. Here! Pour it out and draw fresh tea, and don't fill the pot more than a quarter full."
               Jane looked vexed at this sharp rebuke; but removed the tea.
               Mrs. Nichols gave vent to a number of angry remarks about the trouble she had to get any thing done right, and very amiably expressed the wish that her husband had the trial of housekeeping for a short time. He would, in that case, it was her opinion, have more sympathy with her. Nichols was hurt at this gratuitous remark, but said nothing. He had no wish to make still heavier the clouds that came between him and the bright sunshine, and experience told him that such would be the effect of almost any thing he might utter.
               Five unhappy minutes passed before Jane came in with the newly-made tea. Not a word had been spoken for nearly the whole of this time. But Mrs. Nichols's pent-up feelings could restrain themselves no longer.
               "It's too bad!" she exclaimed, addressing the cook. "I'm out of all patience with such doings. Pray, see that my wishes are better attended to in future."
               The girl muttered something as she retired, and then Nichols and his wife were alone again. Both ate in silence, but very sparingly. On rising from the table, the wife went up to her chamber, while the husband took refuge in the parlour, and there sought to forget his uncomfortable sensations in the pages of an entertaining book. In this he was not successful. The pressure upon his feelings was too great. He loved his wife, and would have done almost any thing to make her happy; but being of a cheerful temper himself, and fond of social intercourse, he could neither comprehend nor be indifferent to her fretful, moody, unhappy states. They pained him exceedingly, and at times awakened thoughts in his mind, the knowledge of which would have been to his wife a more real cause of pain than any from which she gathered so much unhappiness.
               While trying to find in the book he was reading a pleasant recreation, Mr. Nichols remembered the invitation of his young friend Anderson to meet him and some pleasant companions and pass an hour at Guy's tavern. His mind no longer took in the meaning of the sentences on the page before him. Soon after, he closed the book, and, rising from his chair, walked for a short time about the rooms. There was a struggle in his mind between duty and inclination. He believed that it was his duty to remain at home with his wife, while inclination drew him strongly towards the friends at Guy's. Had his wife been in a pleasant mood; had she made home bright with the smiles of affection, both duty and inclination would have been on the same side. But, alas! this was not so. At home there was a repellent sphere; while, at a certain point away from home, there existed a strong attraction.
               At length Nichols went up-stairs with his mind made up to remain at home, if he found his wife in a more cheerful and companionable state,—or to spend the evening at Guy's, if no change for the better were visible. On entering his wife's chamber, he found her at her work-stand engaged in sewing. She did not look up, nor speak.
               "Does your head feel any better, Margaret?" he asked, kindly.
               "No," was the only response, made in a low, constrained voice.
               "It is not good for you to sew, if your head aches," resumed Mr. Nichols, still in a very kind voice.
               But to this no answer was given.
               "I'm going out for a little while," said Mr. Nichols.
               "Well," was the brief reply to this communication. And still she sewed on without once lifting her eyes from her work.
               As Mr. Nichols was altogether in earnest, he now turned away and left the room. The moment he did so, his wife let her work fall upon her lap, and, raising her head, listened in an attitude of much interest. She heard her husband descend the stairs, pause at the hat-stand for his coat and hat, and then move along the hall, and finally pass out through the street-door. The moment the jar of the door was heard, she burst into tears and wept bitterly. She did not again resume her work. For a while, after her tears ceased to flow, she sat in a dreamy, reflective attitude.
               "Ah me!" she at length sighed, "I wish I had more control over myself."
               On leaving his house, Edward Nichols proceeded direct to Guy's Hotel. If there had been sunshine at home, there would have been no attraction for him abroad. If he could have found companionship in his wife, he would not have felt the least inclination for such dangerous companionship as he was now seeking.
               "Is Mr. Anderson here?" inquired Nichols of the bar-keeper at Guy's.
               "You'll find him at number eight," was the answer. "It's on the second floor, at the far end of the passage."
               To number eight Nichols repaired. As he approached the door, loud and merry voices were heard within. He did not hesitate to enter, for the voice of Anderson was distinguished among the rest.
               
               "Nichols!" exclaimed the individual just mentioned, coming forward and grasping the hand of the new-comer. "I thought you'd be here. Right gladly am I to see you!"
               Quite as warm was the welcome extended by three other young men, all of whom were acquaintances of Nichols. They were sitting around a table, on which were brandy and cigars.
               "Help yourself," said Anderson, placing a decanter and tumbler before Nichols.
               The latter did not hesitate about complying with this request, but poured out a stiff glass of brandy and drank it off.
               "Take a cigar," was the next invitation.
               The cigar was accepted and lit. Nichols began to feel himself more and more at home every moment.
               "What's the business on hand?" he inquired, after he had commenced smoking.
               "To enjoy ourselves," was replied.
               At this moment a servant entered with a number of dishes on a tray, and commenced laying the table.
               "Ah! some eating to be done, I see," remarked Nichols.
               "And some drinking into the bargain," said one of the company, smiling.
               "Hope you've come prepared with a good appetite." This was said by Anderson.
               "It's in a fair condition," returned Nichols. "Never fear but what I'll do my part."
               Soon the table was covered with oysters, cooked in various styles, terrapin and chicken salad, with all the condiments and accessories of a luxurious supper. To these were added two or three kinds of wine, also brandy and hot whiskey punch.
               Upon these the five young men "with appetites" went to work, exhibiting an eagerness, not to say greediness, such as may be seen in animals who have been for a considerable time without food. As their appetites began to flag a little, they were sharpened by the punch and brandy.
               "Good feeding this, Nichols," said Anderson, coarsely, looking across the table at his friend, the invited guest.
               "First-rate," replied Nichols, in a tone of voice that evinced the satisfaction he felt. "How often do you meet to enjoy yourselves after this fashion?"
               "About once a week."
               "Ah! so often?"
               "Yes. Shall we put your name down as one of our number?"
               "I don't know. I must think about it."
               "Say yes."
               "The temptation is certainly strong. Is the feeding always as good?"
               "Always. And so is the drinking. Shall we put your name down?"
               "Not now. I'm a deliberate sort of a person. Slow to make my mind up on any subject."
               
               "Oh, well, take your time. But, if the arguments now before you do not prove conclusive, I will set you down for an anchorite."
               In truth the arguments were strong. But Nichols was not prepared to yield at once to their persuasions. He could not help thinking of the wife he had left at home; and, whenever her image arose in his mind, he lost, for the moment, all pleasure in what was before him. Even with gay companions and the choicest things to tempt his appetite, he felt, that, for him, a smiling, happy wife, with books, and a cheerful, loving, social intercourse, were worth them all. In the midst of these sensual joys, he sighed for the purer and higher delights of home.
               But as to repeated draughts of wine and brandy were added the superabundant appropriations of rich food, both the mental and moral perceptions of Nichols became obtuse. It was nearly eleven o'clock when the supper party broke up, and the young men separated.
               The lonely hours spent on that evening by Mrs. Nichols were hours of self-communion, not unmingled with self-reproaches. She was conscious of not having made the home of her husband attractive; and yet she felt hurt that he should have gone away because she did not appear to be happy. Many things about the house had worried her through the day. In the morning she had felt nervous, and, instead of forcing down a spirit of complaint, had rather encouraged its approaches. This being so, evening found her completely under a cloud. Though glad at her husband's return, she failed to exercise due self-control. She did not remand the evil spirit of complaint, but let it still reign over her.
               The consequence we have seen. Long before the four of ten arrived, Mrs. Nichols began to look for her husband's return, and to wonder why he stayed out so long. Ten o'clock at length came, and still he was away. She now began to hearken for approaching footsteps, and to listen to his well-known tread among the many sounding feet that echoed along the pavement.
               "What can keep him so late?" she asked herself, with a rising emotion of anxiety.
               At length all became still in the street. The murmur of voices was hushed, and only now and then was heard the footfall of a solitary passenger.
               Mrs. Nichols now began to feel alarmed as well as anxious. Never before had her husband stayed out until so late an hour, unless he had given special notice of his intended absence. Where could he be? In vain she asked herself this question. Eleven o'clock came, and still he was away. As the watchman's voice, giving notice of the hour, came loud and shrill on the air, her babe awoke, and its cries led the chamber. Some minutes were spent in hushing it to sleep, and then the troubled wife stood again at the window, listening for the footsteps of her husband.
               
               Hark! Surely that is his tread? And yet in something it differs therefrom. It lacks the evenness and firmness of his step. Nearer to the window bends the anxious wife; and now she is listening with a breathless eagerness. It must be her husband; yet why should there be a change in his walk? He is at the door. He has paused. Mrs. Nichols's face is pressed against the window-pane. Her eyes are striving to pierce the darkness, but she sees nothing. Hark! Yes! It is her husband. He has ascended the steps, and now she distinctly hears the rattling of his night-key in the lock. Why does he not enter? What keeps him so long at the door? It is not locked against him.
               At last the entrance was effected. The door swung heavily open, and struck against the wall with a jar. Then a shuffling sound of feet was heard, and then the door closed with a loud bang.
               By this time the heart of Mrs. Nichols was throbbing with a new and strange fear. What could this mean? Eagerly she listened as her husband moved along the passage and came with a kind of lumbering noise up the stairs. A moment or two, and the door of her chamber was thrown open and he came in. One glance was sufficient. It revealed the blasting truth that he had come home in a state of intoxication.
               "Good evening, Mistress Nichols!" said he, as he staggered in. "I hope to find you in a better humour than you were in at tea-time." He spoke sarcastically.
               The poor, stricken wife could not utter a word. She stood, as if fixed to the spot, her cheek blanched, and an expression of the deepest grief on her countenance.
               "Hope you've enjoyed yourself," he continued, as he sank into a chair, his head falling on one side almost to his shoulder.
               "I have! Enjoyed myself first-rate. Prime oysters and terrapin; wine, brandy, punch, and good fellowship. First-rate! Better than moping at home with a wife in the dumps! Didn't intend to go. Said I would not. Liked home best—that is, home when the good lady is in a good humour. Happened she wasn't. So went to Guy's. First-rate oysters and terrapin. Didn't promise to go again; but I guess I will. Eh, Maggy! What do you say? Got over your pet? Any sunshine yet? I like sunshine— always did. But clouds and thunder, ugh! They're my especial horror."
               Mrs. Nichols could bear this no longer. Tears gushed from her eyes, and she covered her face with her hands and wept violently.
               "That's always the way," said Nichols, fretfully. "Always crying or scolding; or else looking as if you hadn't a friend in the world. I'm getting sick of this. But no matter. No crying, no gloomy looks at Guy's. That's the place for a man to enjoy himself!"
               "Edward! Edward!" exclaimed the wretched wife, now approaching her husband, and laying her hand upon his arm. "Don't talk in this way, or you'll kill me!"
               "No danger," he replied, coarsely. "A woman isn't so easily killed. She's got as many lives as a cat. But say, Mag! have you any brandy in the house? I must have one more glass to-night."
               And Nichols arose, but, in doing so, he reeled across the room and fell upon the bed, where he remained, and was soon snoring loud in a drunken slumber.
               Oh! what a wretched night was that for poor Mrs. Nichols. Wretched beyond conception. With great difficulty she succeeded in removing her husband's clothes, and getting him covered up in bed. Then, unable herself to sleep, she passed the greater part of the time till morning in weeping or self-reproaches.
               There had existed for Mrs. Nichols no real cause of unhappiness out of herself. Her husband, though not wealthy, was in good circumstances, and supplied every reasonable want she could desire. He was, moreover, a kind, cheerful, even-tempered man, domestic in his habits and feelings, and rather more disposed to seek intellectual than sensual pleasures. Of social intercourse he was fond. With such a husband it would seem that almost any woman could be happy; and Mrs. Nichols was happy in her way. She loved and respected her husband, but, unfortunately for both her peace of mind and his, she was naturally of a fretful temper, which, by long indulgence, had grown into a disease; moreover, she had not the best of health; but indifferent health was most dependent on mental causes. It required only a little thing to disturb the even current of her feelings; and when this current was once disturbed, it took some time for it to run clear.
               Hardly any thing could have been more uncongenial to Mr. Nichols than the April-day life he had led since his marriage. He had no confidence in the smile of the morning, for too often the brightest smiles were drowned in tears at his evening return. Thus it had been going on for two years, and Mr. Nichols was getting discouraged. Instead of gaining self-control, his wife seemed to be losing the little portion she had possessed at the time of their marriage. The consequences growing out of one of her periodical fits of despondency and ill-humour, we have just described.
               Ere this, although her husband had never complained, Mrs. Nichols had often felt that it was wrong to give way so much to her feelings; and she had often tried to force back the unhappy spirits that came intruding themselves into her mind. But it was hard to break a long-continued habit. Her resistance was feeble, and the barriers she sought to interpose quickly swept away.
               The rebuking words of her husband, uttered in his drunken, unreflective state, dragged the veil from before her eyes, and gave her to see the true relation she bore him, and how she had been gradually alienating him from herself and home. And the dreadful consequences of that alienation! How the thought made her shudder.
               It is no wonder that Mrs. Nichols had no inclination for sleep, nor that she spent most of the hours of that dreadful night in tears.
               It was long past daylight when Mr. Nichols awoke. The sun was shining brightly into the room from the open curtains; but all was silent. He raised himself up and looked around. On a sofa lay his wife asleep. Tears were glistening on her pale cheeks. His head ached, and his mind was confused. Some moments elapsed before he was able to comprehend the meaning of what he saw and felt. Gradually, then, the memory of his as evening's debauch grew distinct, and there was a faint recollection of what he had said to his wife on coming home.
               With a deep sigh, the unhappy man threw himself back upon his pillow; that sigh penetrated the ears of his wife, and she started up with an answering sigh. Nichols perceived this, and let his lids fall—feigning slumber. He saw nothing, but he heard his wife approaching—he felt her breath upon his forehead, as she bent over him. What was that upon his cheek, the sudden touch of which sent a thrill along his nerves? It was a tear! A stifled sob was now heard. And then his wife moved from the bedside.
               Oh, how wretched they both were! Oh, how intensely did both shrink from the moment when they should look into each other's conscious faces! Shame, deep shame and mortification were in the heart of one; and self-reproaches and fear in the heart of the other.
               For full half an hour did Nichols continue to feign sleep. He could not make up his mind to meet his wife after the debauch he had indulged in on the previous night, and for which he now heartily despised himself.
               "Ah!" he sighed, as he lay musing over the unhappy aspect of affairs; "If Margaret would only control herself a little more. If she would only make home the pleasant place it should be, nothing could tempt me abroad into such companionship."
               At length, as he lay with such thoughts filling his mind, a sigh moved his lips, and, forgetting that he was acting a part, his eyes unclosed. Mrs. Nichols was standing near, looking upon his face.
               "Are you not well, Edward?" she asked, stepping to the bedside quickly, and laying her hand gently upon his forehead. Her voice was low, earnest, and tender.
               "Not very well, dear," returned Nichols, in a subdued manner, his lids falling upon his cheeks as he spoke.
               
               Mrs. Nichols pressed her lips to his forehead, and then laid her face, now wet with tears, against his.
               Thus was the matter reconciled between them, and never after was there the remotest allusion thereto. Days passed before the pressure on the feelings of both was sufficiently removed to permit their hearts to bound lightly; yet, during the time, they were particularly kind towards and considerate of each other.
               In due time, the sunshine came back again, and it was a more permanent sunshine. Stronger reasons for self-control were seen to exist by Mrs. Nichols than were before apparent to her mind, and she called into exercise a strength of purpose that made her effort successful. Was she not herself happier, independent of the effect upon her husband? Yes, far happier. The fretful spirits were cast out of her mind, and cheerful spirits came in to fill their places. A new habit of feeling was established.
               "Why, Nichols!" said the young man named Anderson, meeting him about two months afterwards, "Where do you keep yourself these pleasant evenings?"
               "At home," returned Nichols.
               "Come round and join us in a supper at Guy's to-morrow night. Marsden's to be one of the company."
               Nichols shook his head, and said "No," in a very unequivocal manner.
               "Didn't get a curtain-lecture last time, I hope?" said Anderson, with rude familiarity. "Shouldn't wonder, for you went home a little high."
               "If I had received one, it would have been no more than I deserved," replied Nichols, coldly.
               "Oh, no offence," said Anderson, seeing that his familiarity was not well received, "I only spoke in jest. But come round to-morrow night. As I mentioned, Marsden will be there; and you know he's all sorts of a fine fellow."
               "Marsden had better stay at home with his family, as I shall do," returned Nichols.
               "I rather think he finds almost any place more agreeable than home," replied Anderson.
               "Why so?"
               "They say his wife is as peevish and fretful as a person can well be; a woman who is ever grumbling, and whom nobody can please for an hour together."
               "That's speaking rather broadly."
               "I know. But the plain truth is, as far as I can learn, that she doesn't make home attractive for her husband, and so he goes abroad for better companionship."
               "It's a pity," Mr. Nichols responded, then adding a "Good day," he parted from his pleasure-loving young friend, and kept on his way homeward, where the sunshine had come back again.
               Does our little story need a word to enforce the lesson to wives that we would teach?
               Men, especially those who are cheerful and companionable, have many temptations to go abroad and mingle with the pleasure-seeking. Let wives who have good, home-loving, temperate husbands, remember this, and let them not fail to repress a peevish, fretful, fault-finding temper, if inclined thereto, for, nothing will so surely estrange a man from home as this. There are hundreds of men who go abroad to spend their evenings in taverns and at political meetings, who would never think of leaving their homes, and going out after nightfall, if a cheerful fire blazed on their own hearth-stone.
            
            
               THE TEMPTATION.
               WARM-HEARTED and generous, my friend Wilson Conner seemed ever to regard his friends more than himself. United with this there was, however, a weakness that led him to yield to the importunities of others in matters at variance with his own judgment. Here was his fault of character. He wanted a strong and manly independence to lead him to oppose even his best friend when wrong, rather than be induced to fall into and countenance that wrong. This fault I often pointed out to him, and warned him against its indulgence; but he deemed it of little consequence, and frequently smiled at the seriousness of my admonitions. He was, likewise, too confiding, and could be easily deceived by specious appearances; and would, moreover, countenance a friend and associate with him, even after he had become aware of some heinous moral dereliction.
               "I was sorry to see you walking arm and arm with Grafton yesterday," said I to him on one occasion, when I thought it my duty gently to admonish him.
               
               "Grafton is a very agreeable companion," he replied, "and has many excellent qualities, notwithstanding his irregular life."
               "But I think you are wrong in associating with him."
               "Why? Because people will make remarks about me?"
               "That is one reason, certainly."
               "Now don't you know;" he replied with warmth, "that I do not care a fig about what people may say? I ask myself in regard to an action— "Is it right or wrong?" and that decides the matter."
               "A very good rule; let us apply it. Grafton is known to be a gambler, and has been detected in one or two very disreputable transactions. Apart from the moral influence which an association with him may have upon your character, is it not wrong for you to mislead society into a false estimate of yourself, and thus destroy your usefulness?"
               "I don't know that I have any thing to do with such a mode of reasoning. If people will make a false estimate of me, and then destroy, as you say, my usefulness, that is their look-out and not mine; they have no right to misjudge me."
               "This, you know," I argued with him, "is a world of appearances. We can only judge by appearances; all that another does in secret, all that passes in his mind, are hidden from us. Of the quality of these we know nothing, except so far as his acts reveal them. Therefore we can only judge by what we see, and are, in consequence, often led to judge men by the company they keep. But there is a deeper reason than this why you should not associate with Grafton."
               "What is that?"
               "The danger of contamination."
               "You are not, certainly, afraid that I will turn gambler?"
               "No, I do not feel afraid of that, Wilson. But then I feel confident that you cannot indulge in feelings of friendship for, and associate intimately with Grafton, without thinking lightly of his principles, which are decidedly bad."
               "Well, I certainly do not think him quite so bad as some esteem him. I know him, and know that he has many good qualities."
               "His good qualities, as you call them, must be more or less tinctured with the evil qualities which decide his actions. The latter are ruling principles, the former, I presume, mere impulses. He is generous from impulse, selfish and dishonest in his actions from a cool deliberate choice."
               "Like the rest of the, world, you judge him harshly."
               "No; his actions judge him: let these be the witnesses against him, and the awarders of his true estimation. If a man, from selfish ends, with coolness and calculation, determines upon a course of action which is based upon injury to his neighbour, then that man is a bad man, and should be shunned as such. No mere personal preference, founded upon a false judgment, should be permitted to influence us and bring us into intimate association with him, because we cannot thus associate without being injured, without having our principles assaulted and weakened."
               "I certainly neither see nor feel the force of your reasoning," my friend replied. "As far as I am concerned, I know that I have no desire to gamble or to cheat, as I know Grafton has done."
               "And still you are willing to make a companion of a cheat and a gambler?"
               "With these derelictions I have nothing to do," he said. "Grafton is a highly intelligent young man, and I cannot help liking him. All have faults of character, you and I among the rest. Shall we be cut off for these?"
               "Wilson," I replied, with seriousness and emphasis, "it is impossible for us to indulge a friendship of love for a bad man or, in other words a friendship involving an affection for the individual, such as you feel for Grafton, without suffering a moral deterioration. While indulging an affection for the person, we excuse his worst faults and learn to think lightly of them. Then that virtuous sensitiveness which is shocked at the first approach of evil is destroyed, and from countenancing we may be led to excuse vicious conduct, and at last not only to tolerate it in all, but to be led insensibly into its practice ourselves."
               "I cannot think so," was Conner's remark, as I ceased speaking, and there the subject was dropped for the time.
               But as I not only highly esteemed the young man, but felt anxious to guard him from injury, I frequently talked with him on the subject, but to no purpose. He liked Grafton personally, and this personal preference led him to excuse and tolerate his worst fault.
               It so happened that both took a fancy to the same young woman for a wife, and both addressed her. Grafton offered himself first, and was rejected; he demanded a reason, and was frankly told that neither his principles nor his actions were approved. Helen Mere, although an orphan, and with no kind adviser, had a heart too pure and too virtuous not to feel the very presence of such a man as Grafton offensive. His company she had been forced to tolerate, because he was received generally into that circle in which she moved. The good qualities of heart and head possessed by Wilson Conner were as quickly perceived and appreciated by the maiden, as had been the evil qualities of the other. When he asked for her hand, it was freely and affectionately bestowed.
               This result excited in the mind of Grafton both angry and revengeful feelings; and with an evil and malignant determination, he set himself to work to corrupt the morals of Conner, and bring him down to a level with himself. His end, inwardly avowed, was revenge on Helen. She had refused him on account of his principles and actions, and he resolved that her husband should be reduced to the same level that he occupied.
               To the young, the pure-minded, and the innocent, it may seem almost incredible that any one could set about such a deliberate act of treachery. They have yet to learn the sad truth, that when men give themselves wholly up to selfish ends, so as to lose all regard for the interests or happiness of others, they are altogether prepared to take an evil delight in injuring them. Let the young and innocent, then, be on their guard in entering upon life, and ever cautious of the advances and seductions of those whose moral characters are known to be impure. Such cannot elevate the honourable and virtuous, but may drag them down to their own level.
               Grafton's first effort was to induce Conner to play.
               "You can play if you choose," was Conner's invariable reply. "You seem to have a taste that way—I have not."
               "But it is a far easier way to make a living," Grafton would sometimes urge, "than trading."
               "For you it may be; not for me. I choose to earn what I get; you to win it from others."
               In persisting against all entreaties of this kind, Conner displayed more than his usual firmness. Year after year passed away, and still they remained friends. But the determination of Grafton to compass the downfall of Conner was as active and strong as ever. His cool malignancy gained strength from the obstacles that sound principles of action threw in its way.
               His efforts were now principally made towards drawing him from his business, and exciting in his mind a love of idle pleasures. He tried too, by frequently getting him into afternoon wine-parties, to create an appetite for drink. Thus had he continued for nearly ten years, with a perseverance almost incredible, when he saw, as he thought, clearly a successful termination to his long-tried efforts about to take place. Conner had several times consented to play for small sums, after urgent solicitations, varied by jeerings and banterings. He was evidently, too, becoming fond of pleasure and fond of wine.
               Of all this his amiable wife was profoundly ignorant. As a matter of choice and economy, they lived in a neat cottage about two miles from the city in which Conner did business. In that cottage besides Helen, there were now three dear children, who were loved by their father with the tenderest affection. Every evening, ere the sun went down, their happy voices welcomed him home, and their innocent prattle cheered his heart. Not even the seductions of his friend Grafton had once been able to keep him an hour beyond his usual time for returning, though various schemes had been tried for that purpose.
               It was about an hour before sunset one pleasant summer evening, that a friend stopped me in the street, and said—
               "I overheard, this afternoon, that villain Grafton boasting of his intention to win from Conner, this day, every dollar that he was worth."
               "You did?"
               "Yes, I did. And had I been sufficiently well acquainted with him, should have gone at once and warned him of his danger. I have already been twice to see you, that you might put him on his guard. But I fear it is now too late."
               A few more words passed between us, and then I hurried off to Conner's store, where I learned that he had not been there for two hours. Much concerned, I turned my steps I scarcely knew where, and had walked for some ten minutes with no defined object, when I met my friend hurrying along, seemingly in no very tranquil state of mind. "I am glad to see you, Conner!" said I; "I have just been to your store in search of you."
               "In search of me? What for?" he asked with a restless air.
               "To warn you of a threatened danger. And most earnestly do I hope that my warning comes not now too late."
               "It is too late to do any good," was his reply.
               "What!" I exclaimed. "Has the wretch indeed a compassed at last your ruin?"
               "No—thank heaven!" he ejaculated fervently, breathing long and deeply, as if relieving his breast of an oppressive load. "But I have had a narrow escape indeed. You allude to Grafton, I suppose, for you have steadily warned me against him. But how you should know of his attempt to rob me of my little all, for by no better name can I call it, I know not. But let me tell you. For years he has steadily and perseveringly tried to induce me to gamble. Until within a few months, though usually weak under the power of persuasion, I could not be induced to play for sixpence. Since that time I have played for a small stake frequently, and often found myself interested in the new excitement thus given to the game. To-day he called for me about the middle of the afternoon, and we went over to his room at the tavern and drank wine for an hour, when a friend of his came in, and in a little while cards were introduced. A small stake was put down as usual, which, after I got interested, and was allowed to win at almost every game, was doubled, trebled, quadrupled, and so on, until what was at first one dollar had risen to a hundred dollar stake. My real capital in business, you know, is only about six thousand dollars, and that with this I have to manage very prudently. Well—led on blindly by the excitement of winning, I finally found the advantage on my side to be five thousand dollars; although I had played carelessly, and did not feel that I had any right to keep the money thus awarded me."
               Grafton now proposed to double this sum, and make a ten thousand dollar stake.
               "'I cannot do that,' said I, 'for I have not that much money with me.'
               "'Oh, as to that, your due-bill will do. Write a due-bill and put it down.'
               Suddenly the thought flashed across my mind that all this was a deep-laid scheme to ruin me. Suspicion once aroused, I looked him steadily in the face, and instantly detected in his eye an eager and sinister desire to get me to make the due-bill.
               "'You must do it now, Conner. You are winner by five thousand dollars, and you cannot refuse.'
               "'I can, and I will refuse,' was my indignant answer, for I became at once angry to think of his cool villany. But why should I have been thus so taken by surprise? It was his trade to win money. This I knew; but my personal preference for him had blinded me, and caused me to excuse faults that were inexcusable, and which should have made me recede from him with disgust, years and years ago.
               "'Stake five thousand, then,' he said.
               "'No, I will not,' was my firm reply.'
               "'Three thousand,'
               "'No.'
               "'Two thousand.'
               "'Not a dollar.'
               "'You cannot leave this room with that money,' he now said, rising from the table, while a dark and malignant scowl settled upon his face.
               "'Don't be uneasy,' I replied, coolly and contemptuously. 'I am no gambler! Here are your ill-gotten gains,' scattering with my hand the pile of notes and silver that lay beside me over the table. 'I would not handle a dollar of them for the world.'
               "And so saying, I turned away and left the room, the very air of which had become oppressive to me."
               "'Poor, pitiable fool!' I heard him mutter between his teeth as I was about closing the door after me."
               "You have indeed made a narrow escape, Wilson;" I said, when he had finished his statement. "A friend of mine overheard him boasting to-day that he would ruin you totally before night."
               "Indeed!"
               "Yes. And what do you think was his reason for so doing?"
               "To get my money, I suppose."
               "No. There was a deeper and more malignant motive."
               "What was that?"
               "He said, I learned from this same friend, that your wife refused to marry him because he gambled bled; and that from the day she had married you, he had resolved to bring you down to his level, that he might be revenged on her."
               "Malignant wretch!" Conner ejaculated, turning pale.
               "This will, I trust, be a lesson which can never be forgotten," I replied. "It will teach you to be careful never again to indulge a personal and confiding attachment for a man whose life is so palpably evil as has been Grafton's. A bitter fountain cannot send forth sweet waters."
               "It shall never be forgotten," he said, as he pressed my hand warmly, and then turned his steps homeward.
               "I never had such singular sensations in my life," he remarked to me on the next day, "as I had when I came in sight of my home last evening. How nearly had that home for my dear ones been lost by my folly! When I entered, Fanny was instantly by my side with her hand in my pocket as usual, for a candy or plaything; and little George was in my arms in a moment with his sweet lips to mine, and his arms clasped tightly about my neck; while Mary leaned upon her mother's lap, and welcomed me with a quiet, happy smile. To me it was a sad as well as a joyful hour. I trembled when I thought of how near the tempter had been to destroying this my earthly paradise—and rejoiced at my timely escape."
               The lesson was not lost upon my friend Conner, and may it not be lost upon any one who reads this brief relation, who, like him, has been too much inclined to associate with others from personal attachment, without any regard to the purity of their principles.
            
            
               THE TWO FATHERS;
               OR, TRUE PHILOSOPHY.
               IN a village near New York, lived a physician named Cornelius. He had an only son, in whose education he spared neither expense nor care. The young man, after being two years at college, decided on adopting his father's profession, to which Doctor Cornelius made no serious objection, although he laid before his son, most plainly, the great responsibility that would rest upon him, and the labour he would have to undergo, in the practice of medicine. This did not deter the young man. His reply was—
               "You have always taught me, that in choosing that pursuit which I am to follow for life, I should think of use to the community as well as good to myself. With this in my mind, I have decided to study medicine."
               
               The father had nothing to urge against this decision of his son.
               In the same village resided a man, of some distinction as a lawyer, named Enfield. He, too, had an only son, for whose future position in society he felt quite as lively an interest as that experienced by Doctor Cornelius. This son early manifested the possession of strong natural powers of mind. He, also, from early childhood, had indicated, in various ways, the possession of a fine moral sense; and was inclined to have religious feelings. This arose, mainly, from the fact that his mother was a pious woman, and had, from his earliest infancy, taught him to fear God and keep his commandments.
               Enfield was exceedingly proud of his son, and, as he saw his mind opening with so much beauty and promise, began to fix, in imagination, his future place in society high up among the names of men who had distinguished themselves as statesmen, and those whom the public delighted to honour.
               When Enfield asked his son about the profession he intended to choose, he was surprised and disappointed to hear him say the ministry. He immediately replied—
               "Oh, no, my son, never think of that. You will attain eminence in any pursuit you adopt; but what is eminence in a minister compared with eminence in a lawyer? To the former, all is restricted to a single circle, and he must move around in that circle without advancing or rising. But the lawyer becomes a statesman if he have ability. He can rise from the bar to the bench—or to the legislative hall and the senate chamber. In fact, the highest office in the nation may be his reward."
               The son had set his heart upon being a minister. As yet, there was no stirring of ambition within his bosom. He had only thought of doing good and being useful. The objection of his father troubled him for a while; but his oft-repeated contrasts of the two spheres in which the minister and the lawyer moved, or might move, at length awoke a feeling of ambition in the mind of the young man. He began to look at and think about the proud eminence to which men of talent had attained, and to feel a desire to win for himself a distinguished name.
               The father's wishes were at length gratified. The son yielded, and, with the end of becoming eminent instead of useful, decided to study law. Not that the pursuit of law necessarily implies the love of becoming eminent instead of useful. That altogether depends upon the individual who enters upon it, and the motive by which he is influenced.
               The two young men had grown up together as boys, and, being about the same age, entered together upon their collegiate course. They were sent to Harvard University. Here they pursued their studies with an ardour and success that fully met the wishes and expectations of their parents, who often conversed about their sons. Doctor Cornelius usually spoke of his son without enthusiasm, but yet with a deep feeling of satisfaction that was very apparent; but Enfield could not hide the delight he experienced whenever he thought of the honours his son was likely to win after he had stepped into the world's broad arena. He watched the intellect of his boy, as it unfolded day by day, with so bright a promise for the future, and almost lost sight of himself and his own position.
               As time rolled on, and the two boys approached the closing period of their college life, full of honours gained upon that field of intellectual strife, the hearts of their parents turned towards them with a still more earnest feeling. Enfield was entirely wrapped up in his son; so much so, that he often seemed to forget his own identity. He talked of him to almost every one, as a prodigy of intellectual ability and acquirements. Doctor Cornelius, on the contrary, never for a moment forgot his own position nor his own duties in life in thinking of his son; nor was he often betrayed into the weakness of making any allusion to him, except in his own family.
               The four years' course, for which each of the young men had entered at Harvard, was within a few months of expiring, and they had nearly attained their twentieth year, when their parents sent for them to come home and spend a few days with them. After a brief but pleasant visit, they left home again, not expecting to return until they came back to enter upon the earnest study of the two professions they had chosen.
               Mr. Enfield was sitting in his office, on the second day after his son left, thinking, as usual, when unoccupied with business, of his son and the brilliant career that was before him, when a friend came in, and said, in a voice and with a manner that alarmed him,
               "Did not your son leave for Boston day before yesterday?"
               "He did. Why?"
               "Do you know in which boat he went?"
               "I heard him say that he thought he should go in the Lexington."
               "I am sorry to tell you, Mr. Enfield, that a rumour of the loss of this boat has come from New York to-day."
               The face of Mr. Enfield became instantly like ashes; and he trembled in every limb. He tried to speak, but could not articulate for some moments.
               "Lost!" be at length said, in a husky whisper— "Lost, did you say?"
               "Yes, sir; that is the rumour. I thought it my duty to let you know instantly."
               "But the passengers?—the passengers? What of them?" eagerly inquired Enfield.
               "Not more than one or two are saved, if any."
               
               "Merciful Heaven!" exclaimed Enfield, shrinking down and quivering in his chair. It was some minutes before the unhappy man had energy enough to rise, stagger into the house, and make hurried preparations for an instant departure for New York. His mind was in an awful state of suffering. It seemed as if his very life were becoming extinguished. All was agitation and wild distress. On the day following, he had a case to argue before the Court of Appeals, which, if lost, would strip a widow and her five young children of every dollar they had in the world. All the evidence to substantiate her claim was in his possession, and there was little doubt of his being able to show the court that this claim was strictly just. But every thing was forgotten in the anguish of mind that succeeded to the terrible news he had heard. He left home in half an hour, and without giving the case, with all the necessary documents and proof, into the hands of another attorney, who would have protected the widow's interest in his absence.
               About a week previous to this time, a poor man had fallen from a scaffold and badly fractured his leg. He had been under the care of Doctor Cornelius since the accident, but from some cause or other every effort to subdue the inflammation that followed the setting of the bone proved unavailing. In spite of all the doctor could do, mortification took place, and an immediate amputation of the limb became necessary.
               The doctor had been engaged all the morning in preparing for the operation. The hour had come, and he was about taking up his case of instruments and putting it into his carriage, when the same individual who had called upon Mr. Enfield entered his office.
               "Doctor," said he, "did not your son return to college day before yesterday, in company with young Enfield?"
               "He did. Why?" The "why?" was quick and earnest, for the way in which the man asked the question startled the doctor.
               "News has come up from New York," replied the man, "that the Boston boat was lost that night in the Sound, and that all on board have perished."
               "Lost! How lost?" asked the doctor, in an anxious voice.
               "Lost by fire. She was heavily loaded with cotton, and fire was by some means communicated to the bales."
               The doctor was standing on the floor, and had his hand upon his instrument case. He did not change his position; nor was there a very marked change in the expression of his face. He asked a number of questions, and when all the information that the man could give him was obtained, he said, in a low, subdued, yet calm voice,
               "This is indeed sad news that you bring me. If my son is lost, I trust that God will give me strength to bear the affliction. Will you do me the kindness to call upon Doctor W——, tell him what has occurred, and say that I would like to see him in my office in two hours from this time. You may have some trouble to find him, but if you will take the trouble, I will esteem it a great favour. Poor Hartman's broken leg is mortifying, and, in order to save his life, I must cut it off. I was just about leaving to perform the operation when you came in. As soon as that is done, I must immediately make preparation for going to New York. Doctor W—— will attend to my patients while I am absent, and I wish to see him in order to give him the list, and particularly to put Hartman under his care, who will need skilful treatment."
               The friend promised to do as he wished, and Dr. Cornelius stepped into his carriage and drove to the house of the poor man upon whom he was about performing a painful operation. There were those in the patient's chamber who knew that the Boston steamer had been destroyed by fire, and that, in all probability, the doctor's only son was on board and among those who were lost, but no one for a moment suspected that the calm, cool, deliberate physician, who, with steady and skilful hands, and without the smallest appearance of hurry or excitement, began and completed the operation, was possessed of the same distressing information.
               After the amputation, the doctor dressed the wound he had made with great care. He then gave the poor man the most minute directions as to what he was to do, and closed by saying in a steady voice, that he had received some painful news that made it necessary for him to leave immediately for New York, but that during his absence Doctor W—— would attend to him.
               In half an hour from the time Mr. Enfield heard of the terrible disaster which had attended the Lexington, he was dashing off towards New York, on horseback, with the speed of a madman. Doctor Cornelius started, nearly two hours later, in his light carriage, and pressed his horse as rapidly as it was safe and prudent to drive him. Five miles from New York he found Enfield, with a broken arm, which had not yet been attended to by a physician, although an effort had been made to obtain one. While riding at a furious rate, his horse had stumbled and thrown him over his head. Doctor Cornelius found him in great bodily suffering, and in a state of excitement and distress of mind amounting almost to derangement. At the call of humanity, whose voice never appealed to him in vain, he stopped to give his friend and neighbour a helping hand. He examined his arm, and, ascertaining the amount of injury done, set the bone, and carefully gave it the required bandaging. Nor was this all: forgetful of his own sufferings, he sought, by words fitly spoken, to calm the deep sea of agitation whose waves were beating so wildly upon his spirit.
               
               "Let us, my dear sir, bow our heads in patient submission," he said, after all that he could do for his body had been done. "If, as I sadly fear, the worst has befallen our sons, we should not fret ourselves in useless murmurings against the Great Disposer of all things. It cannot"—
               "Don't mock me in that way, doctor!" said Enfield, impatiently interrupting him. "Your unfeeling calmness will drive me mad! You cannot love your son as I love mine, or you would not be so cool and self-possessed, while my mind is mad with anguish."
               "We need not contrast our sufferings, my friend, to see whose heart is most deeply wrung. God only can know that!" The last brief sentence was spoken with a slight tremulousness of voice. But he continued more steadily. "If I have the power to bear my affliction more calmly, I can only say that I am thankful for it; and that I would gladly impart to you a portion of the same ability. But I must not linger here. You will have to return home, of course. I will continue on to the city, and obtain all the information to be had, and write you immediately."
               "No—no!" said Enfield, quickly. "I will not return home! What is a broken arm? I do not feel it! Let me ride with you to the city. I must know all as quickly as possible."
               It was vain for Doctor Cornelius to oppose. He therefore gave Enfield a place in his carriage, and started once more for the city, after the delay of nearly an hour. On arriving there, confirmation of their worst fears was obtained. The survivors from the ill-fated boat had been found, and all the melancholy particulars of the disaster obtained.
               A week from this time the doctor and Mr. Enfield returned home, each with the valise of his son, which bad been washed upon the beach. They had visited the shore opposite to that part of the Sound where the vessel had been lost, and there discovered these confirming evidences of their worst fears.
               Doctor Cornelius came back to the village, and among his friends, with scarcely a perceptible change in his appearance. He entered at once upon the discharge of his duties as a physician, and attended his patients with his usual care. It was different with Enfield. He returned, fevered in body and mind. The broken arm was in a highly inflamed state, and his mind was still more excited. Regardless of the advice of the doctor, he would go up the Sound, and encounter the fatigue that necessarily followed. Instead of the healing and uniting process going on in his arm, inflammation ensued, as the doctor had told him would be the case. For a couple of weeks after his return, he was in a very dangerous state, and it was with the utmost difficulty that his injured limb was saved from amputation.
               At least a year passed, before Mr. Enfield attempted tempted to take up the broken thread of his business. The poor widow's case had been disposed of, and she and her children reduced to beggary. It was postponed to another term of court, and new counsel obtained on Mr. Enfield's failing to appear. But he had important documents in his possession, which his grief for his lost son would not permit him to think about, or make search for, although earnestly besought to do so. The want of these documents, as evidence, lost her the case.
               The very opposite conduct of these two men under a similar affliction caused a good deal of talk in the village. No one doubted the deep feeling and sincere grief of Enfield; but some were inclined to think that the sensibilities of Doctor Cornelius could not be very acute. No one had seen him betray emotion—no one had seen him shed a tear. Even within an hour after hearing of the probable death of his son, he had amputated a leg with the utmost coolness. While Enfield was dashing away towards New York, he was calmly and deliberately taking up arteries, and dressing the mutilated limb of the unfortunate man who had been compelled to undergo so painful an operation.
               "I don't believe that any man who had a true affection for his child could have shown so much indifference," remarked one of his neighbours, in conversation with some others. "The doctor is an excellent man, and upright in every thing; but I very much doubt his possession of as deep feeling as Enfield. The one, you see, is completely unmanned, while the other passes before you, the same even-tempered, orderly, diligent person that he was before. The idea of equal affection and equal sensibility is incompatible with the very nature of things."
               "There is the doctor now," remarked one of the company. "Let us allude to the death of his son, and see if it will produce any effect upon him whatever."
               In a thoughtless moment, it was determined to make the experiment. So, a short time after he joined them, allusion was made to the fatal loss of the steamer on the Sound. The doctor made some casual remark upon the subject, but that was all.
               "You have cause to remember that event, doctor, as long as you live," said one of the company.
               "Yes, I shall not soon forget it," was briefly and coldly replied.
               "Doctor," said another, coming directly to the point, "it has been always a mystery to me, how you I have been able to bear your painful loss by that terrible disaster with so much philosophy. While poor Enfield is completely paralyzed by the blow, you scarcely seem to feel it. He has scarcely attended to any business since, while you have not neglected a patient. Are you more of a stoic than he is? or have you more philosophy? or what is the reason? Certainly you are a happier man; yet you have sustained just as heavy a loss."
               
               It was some moments before the doctor replied. Whether the pause was in order that he might rally his feelings, his auditors did not know; but when he spoke his voice was changed. It was not really tremulous; but no one could mistake the sentiment it expressed. No one present doubted for a moment longer the deep tenderness with which he had loved his son, nor the pain his loss had occasioned.
               "The subject you have introduced," he said, is one upon which I have not, until very lately, dared trust myself to speak. I do not know, but I think, few parents ever loved a child more fondly than I loved my poor boy. And in my love I was proud of him; for I knew him to be worthy of both my love and pride. I could love him for his moral worth, for the sincerity, purity, and honesty of his heart, as well as be proud of him for his intellectual ability. As a man, I felt sure that he would be honourable, useful, and distinguished. But he was cut down, suddenly, by a mysterious dispensation of Providence, and I felt it as the severest blow I had ever received. But I was not stricken to the earth; I was sustained in the only way God could sustain me, in this severe affliction—in the only way he can sustain any one—and in the way he will sustain every one who thus looks to him in trouble. I discharged faithfully my duty in my regular calling. It was right that I should leave home and make an effort to recover the body of my lost son, and I did so; not, however, without out first providing for my patients during the time I should be absent; nor did I drop every thing on the impulse of the moment, and hurry away. First of all, I performed a severe operation, necessary to the life of a patient. It was one requiring coolness, calmness, and deliberation. I could not leave it until my return, for it was my duty to perform it then. The man would have died had it been delayed for twenty-four hours. I did not attain the self-possession required, without a struggle; but it was necessary that I should be self-possessed, and I made the effort. Happily I was successful. On returning from the hopeless search I made for my son's body, I did not sit down inactive, and brood over my loss. That would have done no good. Idle grief cannot restore the dead. Nor does the bereavement any one suffers give him a right to injure others; and others are always injured, when a man neglects the performance of his regular duties. I, therefore, resumed the practice of my profession, and I have been sustained in faithfully discharging the duties that appertain to it. I know that if I had neglected these duties, I would have been deeply wretched; in discharging them, I have been able to bear with calmness and resignation the loss I suffered. You can yourself judge whether I acted wisely or not."
               Whoever acts, in affliction, as Doctor Cornelius acted, will always be sustained as he was; but whoever, in the selfishness of his grief, acts as did Mr. Enfield, will not only entail upon himself fourfold suffering in the present, but will find, as he found, the ghosts of neglected duties haunting him, and making many an after hour wretched.
               A few days after Doctor Cornelius had answered, so much to the purpose, the question that had been put to him, a visitor called upon Mr. Enfield at his office, who proved by no means to be a welcome one. It was the poor widow whose case he had forgotten and abandoned in the overwhelming grief he experienced on learning the probable death of his son.
               "I lost my case," said she abruptly to him, after he had handed her a chair.
               "So I have learned, with regret. It was a clear case, and the court, in taking your property from you, has done a great wrong."
               "Rather say," replied the woman with much bitterness, "that in neglecting to attend to this case as you ought to have done, and especially in refusing to hand over the documents in your possession to the counsel I was compelled to employ, you have wronged me. It is not the court that is to blame, but you, for not producing before their court the right evidence."
               Mr. Enfield was exceedingly fretted by this, and told the woman, very sternly, that he would permit no such remarks to be made in his office.
               "It does not do for you to talk to me after that fashion, Mr. Enfield," she said, quite as promptly as he had spoken. "I have five young children, and their support is gone. I had struggled for some months to keep want from my door, but the struggle is in vain. You, sir, have reduced me to this position! Your wilful neglect has beggared me. And now you will not hear me speak!"
               "Woman! Have you no feeling?" said Enfield, with some agitation and some anger. "You know the cause. You know the terrible affliction with which I was visited. You know that I could not have attended to your case."
               "I do not know any such thing, Mr. Enfield. But I do know, that you could as easily have handed over my case, with the necessary papers, to another lawyer before you left for New York on hearing of the loss of your son, as Doctor Cornelius could hand over his patients to another physician, or stop to amputate the leg of a man whose life was in jeopardy, or set your arm that had been broken in your eager flight. But even excusing this first neglect; what is there to palliate your conduct in refusing to make a search for the papers in question three months afterwards, when their production would have satisfied the court of the justice of my cause?"
               "Woman, leave me! You will drive me mad!" exclaimed Enfield, rising from his chair, and beginning to move about uneasily.
               "Will you repair the wrong you have done me?" said the woman.
               
               "How can I repair it? The court has decided against you."
               "But that was your fault. Am I and my children to become beggars because you neglected or refused to do your duty? You have rendered me desperate, and driven me to a desperate resource. Mr. Enfield, I demand of you, in the name of my dead husband, who placed this case in your hands, to repair the wrong you have done. I here most solemnly declare that, until you have done so, I will not cease my importunities, nor fail to stigmatize your conduct as it deserves everywhere."
               "You are mad,—but leave me! Leave me to reflect."
               "If I am mad, you have driven me to madness. But I will leave you to reflect. To-morrow yo will see me again." And thus saying, the woman turned and left his office.
               Enfield did reflect, but his reflections were neither pleasant nor self-approving. He could not justify, even to his own mind, the total abandonment of himself to the grief that had followed the death of his son; much less his culpable neglect of the widow's case, which had resulted in the entire loss of her property.
               He was in a state of sad perplexity. On the next day the woman called as she had said, Enfield tried to get rid of her, but it was of no use. Her condition was desperate, and she felt that she had a claim upon the lawyer, for he alone was to blame for the loss of her case. For weeks she thus haunted him: when, in a state of desperation, he offered her a sum of money amounting to one-half of the property she had lost, if she would never come near him again. This the poor woman accepted, and Mr. Enfield was freed from her disturbing and upbraiding importunities.
               The reader will not find it hard to determine which of these two individuals acted most like a man, a philosopher and a Christian; or which of them grieved most sincerely and with least selfishness for his son. In affliction of mind, no matter from what cause it may arise, let each one act as did Doctor Cornelius. Let him faithfully discharge all his duties in life, and he will surely be sustained. Though he pass through dark waters, they will not overwhelm him. Though his head be bowed to the earth, he shall lift it again.
            
            
               
               I'VE SAID IT, AND I'LL DO IT.
               "HASN'T Phillips paid up yet?" said Hartman Lee. He was looking over the accounts of his collector.
               "No."
               "Why not?"
               "He's hard run, I'm afraid. He promises fair enough, but"—
               "Promises won't do for me, Walker. I can't live on promises. Phillips must pay up. Let me see. How much is due? Two quarters, at least."
               "He's nearly at the end of his third quarter."
               "Is it possible! Then he must settle without further delay. When a man lets his rent go that much behindhand, it shows that he's getting in a bad way. Do you tell Phillips, that I say he must pay up at once."
               On the next day, Lee said to his collector— "Have you seen Phillips yet?"
               "Yes, I saw him this morning."
               "Well, what did he say for himself?"
               "I told him that you had directed me to require an immediate settlement."
               "Well?"
               "He seemed a little fretted, I thought, and replied, that it was out of the question; he couldn't pay you now, and that you'd have to wait."
               "That I'd have to wait, ha!"
               "Yes. So he says."
               "Very well, Walker. Do you see him to-morrow, and tell him, from me, that if the whole of the rent due is not paid immediately on the expiration of the present quarter, I'll recover it by the most summary process the law allows. Have to wait, indeed! It's coming to a pretty pass, when tenants send a cool answer like this to their landlords. Have to wait! I'll show him whether I'll wait or not. If the whole of the rent a'n't forthcoming in one week after the expiration of the present quarter, I'll distrain. There's my word for it. I've said it, and I'll do it."
               Lee was fretted by the delinquency, but more by what he felt to be the assurance of his tenant, in sending him so cool an answer when he demanded the rent. What he said he would do, he meant to do. But, as the time wore on, and he remembered some things in regard to Phillips that had come under his observation, he half regretted his threat, and hoped, for the debtor's sake, that he would take good care to settle the whole amount of rent at the expiration of the quarter.
               "I wish you would see Phillips," he said to his collector, about a week before the tenant's quarter expired, "and remind him of what I said. You need not mention that I sent you, but let it appear as if you came at your own suggestion in a friendly way. I don't want to have any trouble with him; but if the rent is not paid, I shall certainly distrain: my word is passed. I've said it, and I'll do it."
               "I saw Phillips, as you desired," said the collector, a day or two afterwards.
               "Ah! Well, what did he say?"
               "He says you will have to distrain, that is all. That it will be out of the question for him to pay you a dollar before the end of the year, when he will receive money, and settle the whole amount due."
               "Confound his assurance!" exclaimed Mr. Lee. "Does he suppose I will eat my words? Very well, let him take his own course. I will certainly take mine."
               "I think he'll pay you, without doubt, at the end of the year," suggested the collector. "He is, I am sure, an honest man at least."
               "He may be honest enough—in fact, I never doubted his honesty—and my money may be sure enough at the expiration of the year, but that is neither here nor there now. I've given him my ultimatum, and he will have to abide by it. I shall be sorry to trouble him, but, if he doesn't pay, there'll be no help for it. I've said it, and I shall certainly do it."
               The quarter expired, and the collector was sent for the money.
               "It's no use for you to call, Walker. I've told you that before," said the debtor, fretfully.
               "I call as a matter of duty," replied the collector. "Mr. Lee is firm in his resolution to do what he says, if your rent is not paid. You know he is very decided and resolute about whatever he undertakes."
               "The word 'stubborn' might apply to him better."
               "Firm or stubborn," said the collector, "it is all the same in this case. It is no time to make nice discriminations in regard to character, when a matter of so much consequence to yourself is pending. I wish, for your own sake, that you would make an effort to raise this money. I speak not as a mere collector, but as a friend. Mr. Lee will be sorry to distress you, I know, but he has passed his word, and his pride of consistency will make him keep it."
               "It's no use to urge me, Walker. Do you think I would have let this matter be so long, if I had not been forced to do so? It is impossible. I can't raise four hundred and fifty dollars now, and it is folly to think of it; every available resource has been exhausted in keeping my business alive. You know how seriously I have suffered by the failure of Cantwell; it almost drained the life-blood from me. Fortunately, I have squeezed through the tightest place, and in two or three months will be able to pay Mr. Lee the whole year's rent."
               "But he will not wait, Mr. Phillips."
               "Very well, let him take his own course. I have said the best I can do."
               When the collector communicated to Mr. Lee the words of his tenant, that gentleman did not feel the most comfortable in the world; but he had taken his stand, and was not to be driven from it.
               "Just as he pleases," he said, as he walked about uneasily. I've said what I'll do, and that settles the matter as far as I'm concerned. I'm sorry, but it can't be helped now; I gave him time enough. He needn't tell me that he can't raise four hundred and fifty dollars in an emergency like this. In fact, I don't believe he'll permit himself to be sold out; he's not hard-headed enough for that. Do you think he will?"
               "I hope not; but I am afraid he's very hard pushed. Cantwell's failure was very severe on him."
               "I'm sorry to distress him," returned Lee. "I don't like to trouble anybody; but I've given my ultimatum here, and when I do that, there's an end of it. Whenever I pass my word to do a thing, I keep it at all sacrifices."
               A week's grace was allowed, during which time the collector called almost daily; but no money came. As Lee had said, so he did. A landlord's warrant was issued, the goods in the store of Phillips seized, and a sale ordered within the time specified by law.
               Up to the last moment, the landlord hoped and believed that his tenant would settle the bill, and thus prevent a final closing of the execution; but he was mistaken in this. He passed the store of Phillips the morning on which the sale was advertised to take place, and it did not make him feel any the more comfortable to see it closed and bills posted on the door and windows.
               "Too bad!" he muttered to himself; "but it can't be helped now. Painful as it is, the thing must be done; he will have no one but himself to blame. Such stubbornness is unpardonable."
               The sale took place, and out of the proceeds enough was retained to pay the sum due. The balance was handed by the officer who conducted the distraint to the unfortunate debtor.
               "It'll be a good lesson to him," remarked Hartman Lee, as he received from his collector the sum of four hundred and fifty dollars, and credited the amount to Phillips. "Another time, when I tell him any thing, he will believe me. If people were as strict as I am in adhering religiously to their word, society would move on far better than it does. Whenever I say that I'll do a thing, I do it, and those who have dealings with me will find it out one of these days."
               Still Mr. Lee did not feel as happy, on account of what had taken place, as he could wish. The fact of his having merely said that he would do it did not altogether appear, even in his own eyes, sufficient justification for selling out poor Phillips.
               A day or two after the sale, he passed along Second street, and, to his surprise and uneasiness, found that the store of Phillips had not been reopened. A week elapsed, and still the doors and windows remained tightly closed.
               "Doesn't Phillips intend going on with his business, Walker?" the landlord said to his collector, when next he met him.
               "I believe not. Some fifteen hundred dollars worth of goods were sacrificed, I am told, to pay your claim, and this has thrown him completely on his back. Every thing, I believe, has been given up to the creditors. I'm afraid, when the year is up, you will find little in the store to pay the last quarter's rent."
               Mr. Lee made no answer. His feelings were such as none need envy. He inquired no further about Phillips. It was a subject on which he did not wish to hear any thing more. But he could not help walking round every few days into Second street, to see if the store were not opened again. The interest he felt on this subject had nothing to do with the probabilities in favour of getting the last quarter's rent.
               He would have given double that amount to have recalled what he had done. But the store remained shut week after week, though all the signs were up as when business was in its fullest activity.
               At last the year expired, and Mr. Lee directed his agent to go and see about the store, and if Mr. Phillips did not wish to retain it, to get the key, and let it to another tenant.
               Phillips, the individual who had been dealt with in so summary a manner, did not suffer the seizure for rent to take place without making every possible effort to obtain money for the payment of what was due. But he was known to be "hard pushed," and therefore could get no accommodations from friends beyond what he already had. The sacrifice, therefore, took place, without his being able to prevent it, and proved to him utterly ruinous. What remained to him after the sale was not sufficient to warrant his attempting to continue in business, and therefore, mortified and disheartened, he gave up every thing to his creditors, and was left without any present means of supporting his family.
               But for the extreme proceeding of Lee, he would have weathered the storm beneath which he was bending, and retained his business, the profits of which were sufficient to give his family a comfortable maintenance. It was at the age of fifty, he was thrown, almost helpless, upon the world, with others dependent upon him for the comforts and necessaries of life; and this in order that his creditor might be consistent with himself in doing what he had said he would do!
               Honourable in his feelings, upright in his intentions, and sensitive to a fault, the crushing disaster that came upon Phillips, as a consequence of his landlord's extreme measures, completely prostrated him. He made no efforts to resume business again, and could scarcely hold his head up when he went into the street. But some kind of employment must be had, for his family was large, and there was no one to whom they could look but himself. At the time that he was broken up, his annual expense for the support of his household was nearly two thousand dollars a year. The profits of his business were much more, and if he could have continued it, he would soon have made up for the losses that had crippled him without abridging any of the comforts of his home. But now a different order of things had to be introduced. A sad change came over the home circle. Employment, at a salary of seven hundred dollars, was fortunately obtained, after two months' effort to get something to do. An income so diminished made it necessary to give up the pleasant dwelling where his children had been born, and move into a small house, in a retired part of the city, just as his two eldest daughters, lovely girls, were coming forward in life, and attracting attention by their beauty, grace, and intelligence. The change to them hurt him more than any thing else. But there was no remedy.
               "Have you got the key of the store?" asked Lee of his collector, when that individual made his appearance.
               "Yes; but I had a long chase for it, and found it, at last, not half a block from where we now are."
               "He didn't pay you the quarter's rent, I suppose?"
               "No; and it's my opinion that he never will. You might find enough in his house, I suppose, over and above what the law will allow him to keep, to cover it, if you felt inclined to press matters."
               The brow of Lee contracted, and he moved his head with a gesture of impatience.
               "You found him, then?" he said, after a moment or two.
               "Yes, after a long chase, as I remarked. The family have moved from their old house into a little box of a place, in an out-of-the-way street. I had some difficulty in finding it. There I learned that he was employed by Holland, around the corner. At Holland's I found him at the desk posting books, and ascertained that he was acting in the capacity of a clerk, on a very moderate salary. He apologized for not having brought in the key yesterday, his day the year was up, and said that as soon as it was in his power, he would pay the balance of rent due."
               "A clerk at Holland's!" said Lee, in a voice of painful surprise.
               "Yes, sir. It is even so." The landlord made no other remark on the subject. But he had thoughts that were by no means pleasant.
               After that, he tried to forget Phillips. The thing was done, and couldn't be helped, he said to himself. He was sorry for it, if that would do any good. But he found it no easy matter to forget. Something or other was always occurring to remind him of the wrong he had done.
               It was perhaps a year from the time Lee bad broken up his tenant, that one of his daughters, who knew nothing, of her father's agency in reducing the family of Phillips, said, as they sat at the tea-table one evening——
               "I don't know when I felt so bad as I did to-day. I really can't get over it."
               "Why so, Clara?" asked the mother. "I don't think you could guess in a week who I saw behind the counter of a dry-goods store, on Second street, where I bought my silk dress."
               "Well, who was it?"
               "Mary Phillips."
               "Who?"
               "Mary Phillips."
               "It can't be possible," said her sister.
               "It is too true. I was aware that her father's circumstances were reduced, but I had no idea they were so low. Poor girl! It made my very heart ache to see her forcing herself to smile to customers, when it was plain that there was a heavy weight upon her bosom."
               "Did you speak to her?" asked the mother.
               "I did—though she seemed shy of me and cool at first. But I bought my dress of her, although I had seen a piece of silk I liked better, in another store, just to have the satisfaction of saying a few words to her, and making her feel that I, at least, did not despise her in her humbler condition, but rather felt a deep sympathy for her in her misfortune. She told me that Ella had also been under the necessity of going into a store, as their father had met with an accident which deprived him of the use of his right hand, and threw him out of employment."
               "Poor man!" said Mrs. Lee, "how I pity him!"
               "What a change for Mary and Ellen!" added the daughter. "I didn't like to think of it. I do not believe I shall ever forget the peculiar expression of Mary's face. It was not the expression of a murmurer murer, but of one who suffered in silence, and strove to bear patiently her lot."
               Mr. Lee uttered not a word.
               It was too true what his daughter had said. An accident had so far deprived Mr. Phillips of the use of his right hand that he could no longer perform the duties of a clerk, and he had, in consequence, to give up his situation. Since then, no kind of employment, for which he had any ability, offered, and his family were reduced to great extremity. In this emergency, his daughters applied for and obtained situations, at four dollars each a week, in dry-goods stores, and thus absolute want was kept at bay.
               On the afternoon of the day following that on which the daughter of Mr. Lee had seen Mary Phillips in a dry-goods store, filling the situation of saleswoman, old Mr. Phillips was sitting in a desponding attitude at home, when some one knocks at the door of his humble dwelling. The person whom he admitted was a stranger.
               "Is Mr. Phillips at home?" he asked. "That is my name," was replied. "I want an agent in this city," said the visitor, "for the sale of goods manufactured at the east, and have been recommended to you as a fitting person. Are you free to engage in the matter, if the business and terms suit you?"
               "I am, perfectly."
               "So I understood."
               The nature of the business was then explained.
               "All expense of store and clerk hire we will bear," said the man. "What we want of you is to take charge of the whole business, to make sales, and push the interests of the company in this city. Your salary, if we agree, will be twelve hundred dollars, and a commission on all sales above a specified amount per annum. I shall be disappointed," added the man, smiling, "if your income during the first year does not reach two thousand dollars."
               "To whom am I indebted for a recommendation to so important a trust as that you are about to confide to me, a perfect stranger?" asked Mr. Phillips, after it was pretty well arranged that he should become the agent of the company, and enter upon bis duties immediately.
               The man thought a moment, and then replied:
               "A Mr. Lee first introduced your name. I saw him this morning, and inquired if he could recommend me a good man for this business and he promptly named you, and urged your merits with great warmth; and not only so—was at the pains to procure me the most ample and satisfactory testimony in regard to your integrity and ability."
               Mr. Phillips let his eyes fall to the floor to prevent their expression of surprise from being observed. Early on the next morning, and before Mr. Phillips lips had gone out, Lee called upon him. No direct allusion to the past was ventured upon by either, and nothing said of the matter that occurred only the day before.
               "Phillips," said his visitor, looking around him after he was seated in the small parlour, "I have a very comfortable house that I have been renting for three hundred and fifty dollars. The tenant has moved out, and this morning I received the key. If you will take it, the rent shall be only three hundred dollars."
               "You forget that I owe you now a bal"—
               "Nothing of that, if you please, Phillips. You owe me nothing."
               "But I do."
               "I will never receive a single cent; so let that rest where it is. But will you not take the house I now have vacant? Here is the key. It is at No.— Race street. Let me leave it with you."
               There was something in the way this was done, and in the voice and manner of Lee, that made Phillips feel reluctant to refuse the offer. He understood, as well as if Lee had said so, that his old landlord had repented of what he had done, and was sincerely desirous of making some amends for the distress and wrong he had occasioned. Still, he felt as if he would rather not take his house, although his first resolution, on accepting the manufacturing agency, was to move his family into a larger and pleasanter dwelling than the one they occupied. But such was the nature of Mr. Lee's importunities that he at last accepted the offer, although he did not wish to pay quite so high a rent. He could not but mark the sincere pleasure that was expressed in the landlord's face when he finally received the keys.
               The income of Mr. Phillips during the first year reached the sum of two thousand dollars; and the prospect for succeeding years was much better. His daughters did not go back to Second street for a single day after he had accepted the offer of business made to him at the instance of Mr. Lee. He would not permit that.
               At the expiration of his first quarter, Phillips went with seventy-five dollars to his landlord.
               "Here is your rent," he said.
               But Lee shook his head, and replied—
               "You don't owe me any thing for rent."
               "Don't I live in your house?" inquired Phillips.
               "I believe you do, but you paid the rent in advance."
               "I did!"
               "So I understand. What was the value of the goods I sacrificed in collecting less than five hundred dollars from you by extreme measures?"
               Phillips did not reply, but looked earnestly into his landlord's face.
               "Say, how much was it? Two thousand dollars?"
               
               "No, not that much?"
               "Fifteen hundred?"
               "At least."
               "Then I am your debtor a thousand dollars, and mean to pay it. So pass this quarter's rent to my credit."
               "I have forgiven all that, Mr. Lee," said Phillips, with visible emotion. "To you I am indebted for my present comfortable income."
               "As well as for being broken up in business, and for the privation and suffering to yourself and family that followed. Mr. Phillips, I did you a great wrong, and all because I was foolish enough to make a hasty threat, and mad enough to keep an evil promise. You must not deny me—you cannot, in justice to all, deny me the privilege of repairing the injury I have done. I have said, in my heart, that I would repair the wrong, and I will do it. If an evil promise has been so firmly kept, shall not a good one be inviolate? It shall, Mr. Phillips. Here is a receipt for three years' rent from this day."
               Phillips still objected, but his landlord would take no denial. How the matter was adjusted, we do not exactly know; but it is certain that the two men were warm friends ever after, and that the affairs of Mr. Phillips went on steadily improving, year after year, until he was a great deal better off than before the period of his misfortunes.
               "I've said it, and I'll do it," had always been a favourite mode of expression with Lee. But these words were rarely heard now to fall from his lips. And even, when he did hastily make a rash promise, he remembered the case of Phillips, and felt justified in breaking it, rather than do a greater wrong.
            
            
               THE MINISTER AND THE MERCHANT.
               WAYLAND, a wealthy merchant of B——, like most other men, had his hobby, though few rode oftener or faster than he. His hobby was to carp at ministers, who were all, in his estimation, a set of idle fellows, not worth their salt. He belonged to the church because it was respectable, and paid his pew-rent when the collector called for it. This last act, however, was never performed with a very good grace. To him, it seemed so much like throwing money away, that it always made him feel cross when the bill was presented. Still Mr. Wayland was a clever sort of a man. This was only his hobby.
               The minister of the church to which he belonged, a Mr. Sefton, received one thousand dollars salary. Mr. Wayland's income was over five thousand a year, and he was still accumulating property with great rapidity. One day two of his personal friends, leading men in the church, called upon him.
               "Mr. Wayland," said one of them, after all were seated in a snug little private office back of the merchant's principal counting-room, "some of us, who think Mr. Sefton's salary too small for a man with five children to support and educate, have determined to make a direct effort to raise it to fifteen hundred dollars. It will only require ten individuals to subscribe fifty dollars each, and the whole matter is at once and quietly settled. You will make one of the ten, of course."
               "Indeed, then, I will not," was the prompt reply, made with some warmth. "Mr. Sefton gets enough for what he does. No man should receive more than a thousand dollars for preaching. If Mr. Sefton wants more, let him go to work like other people, not idle away the whole week, and then get up for a couple of hours on Sunday, and talk a little. No, no, gentlemen! I've no notion of paying a premium on laziness. We've far too many ministers as it is. Every fellow with a little tongue, and too lazy to work, sets up for a preacher, and there are always enough pious ones to be found who are ready to saddle him upon the people. Let them go to work, I say!"
               "But, Mr. Wayland," interposed one of his visitors, "I know Mr. Sefton intimately, and can testify that few men in any employment labour as long and as hard as he does."
               "Nonsense! Don't tell me about the labour one of your black coats performs. Look at their sleek faces and delicate hands. Labour! Not they!"
               "They may not labour with their hands, Mr. Wayland, as some men have to labour, and yet have very hard duties to perform."
               "Hard duties! Oh, dear! What kind of hard duty, I wonder, has Mr. Sefton to perform?"
               "The labour of mind is hard when compared with bodily labour."
               "So your authors, and lawyers, and doctors, and preachers will tell you. But I never believed a word of it. It's only one of their pretences to cozen the public out of fat incomes, on which to pamper their laziness. Hard duty! Oh, no! That story won't go down with me. I've seen too much of your preachers in my time. Talk of hard duty, when a man has a whole week to prepare two discourses in. I wish I could get off as easily!"
               As Mr. Wayland was now fairly mounted with spurs to his boots, his visitors felt that it would only be wasting time to oppose any kind of argument to his prejudices, and so, after giving him another chance to accept or refuse to make one of the ten who were to pay fifty dollars each towards Mr. Sefton's advance of salary, they bade him good morning, and went their way, to meet with better success in other quarters.
               The congregation over which Mr. Sefton had been called to minister was a large one, and numbered a goodly proportion of who were what is called very well to do in the world. There were six men alone, whose aggregate annual income was over eighty thousand dollars, Indeed, the congregation was known as a wealthy one. The building in which they worshipped was a splendid edifice, that cost over seventy-five thousand dollars, though, as is too often the case, burdened with a debt of about one-half the price of erection. Internally, every thing was rich and elegant. The organ was a most magnificent one. As a set-off to this splendour was a fair proportion of poor, who were by far too little thought of and cared for, except by the pastor and a few benevolent females, whose quiet charities softened many a hard pillow, and dried many a tearful eye.
               As has been seen, a salary of one thousand dollars was considered amply sufficient for the minister of this congregation, who, in the ideas of many like Mr. Wayland, had nothing at all to do but to write two sermons a week, and preach them on Sunday, a work in itself, by the way, which, if well done, these same carpers would have found not quite so trifling a matter as they supposed.
               But let us look in upon Mr. Sefton himself, and see how he spends his time. It is Sunday morning. From causes not requisite here to be mentioned, at least one-third of his sermon for the morning service was written after twelve o'clock on Saturday night The consequence is, a very uncomfortable headache for Sunday morning, with little or no appetite for breakfast. A cup of tea and a small piece of dry toast make up his morning meal, and then he is obliged to leave his family, and retire to his study to prepare for the services of the morning. He has been thus engaged about half an hour, and has just begun to write a fuller elucidation of some point in his discourse that des not seem to him clear enough, when a domestic taps at his door. He learns that there is below a woman very desirous of seeing him. On going down, he finds the wife of a poor parishioner in much distress of mind. Her husband has been taken suddenly ill with pleurisy, and the doctor despairs of his recovery. He is anxious to see his minister.
               "I will come immediately after the morning service," he replies, to the woman's request. "I am much engaged now, and will be until eleven o'clock."
               "But my husband is very ill, and is so anxious to see you. I'm afraid it will be too late." The tearful eyes and trembling voice of his parishioner added to the solemnly spoken sentence, "I'm afraid it will be too late," prevailed.
               "In half an hour I will be there," said Mr. Sefton, and then returned to his study. After hurriedly glancing at the morning service, he placed his sermon, in its rough state, into his pocket, and then started on his visit to the sick man. The walk was a long one, and in a direction from his house opposite to that where the church stood. When he arrived at the humble abode he sought, he found that death had been there, and marked for his own another victim. The man was near his end, but fully conscious of his state. He did not exhibit any fears of death, but his wife and three little ones who were gathered around his bed affected him to tears whenever his thoughts rested upon them.
               "I am not afraid to die, but who will take care of these for me?" he said, looking his minister in the face eagerly.
               "He that feedeth the young ravens when they cry," was the comforting assurance of the minister. "He who has thus far sustained these, your household treasures, through you as an instrument, will provide for them still. He will, in taking you away, send them their bread in due season through some other channel. Trust in God. They that fear him he will in no wise cast off. His promises are sure. Give up all anxiety. Their Father in heaven loves them with a tenderer love than you have ever felt for them."
               Thus did Mr. Sefton go on to encourage the dying man, all the while that his wife and children hung around his bed in tears. Yet, in the midst of such trying scene, with the images of his own little ones coming up constantly in his mind, he could not rise above the natural sympathies of our nature. Even while he strove to pour in the oil and wine of consolation, his own heart was aching for the afflictions of those to whom he uttered words of comfort. At the bedside of the dying man he remained for nearly two hours, and then closed his eyes in the deep sleep that knows no waking.
               Tearing himself now away from the heartstricken wife, who needed his strengthening words more than ever, he started for the church in which it was his duty to preach. Looking at his watch, he found that it lacked only five minutes to eleven o'clock, and it would require rapid walking to reach the place of worship in fifteen minutes.
               Mr. Wayland, after spending the hours from the time he rose from the breakfast-table until church time in reading a pleasant book, went with his family, as was his custom, to attend worship. He entered his pew just five minutes before the hour of service. At one minute past eleven o'clock, he became uneasy at the prolonged absence of Mr. Sefton from the pulpit. At the second minute he whispered to his wife a complaint at the minister's want of punctuality. Five minutes passed, and he became restless and impatient, and leaned over to his neighbour's pew, and uttered half aloud a word of censure. Before the expiration of ten minutes he had disturbed the occupants of twenty pews around him by his restlessness, frequent looking at his watch, and whispered words of complaint to all within his reach. At last Mr. Sefton made his appearance, but Mr. Wayland was only prepared to find fault with, instead of profiting by his sermon.
               "Good-day, Mr. Wayland!" said a neighbour, as they walked home from church. "How were you pleased this morning?"
               "Not at all," was the reply. "In the first place, Mr. Sefton was ten minutes behind his time. Such want of punctuality is unpardonable. Suppose I were to be ten minutes behind my time in paying my note to-morrow. Would I get off as easily as he has done? No, indeed! And then, some portions of his discourse were very crude. One part in particular was not at all clear, and was worded with gross inelegance."
               It was that very part of the discourse on which the minister was engaged, in the effort to improve it, when he was called to attend the death-bed of the poor parishioner.
               Mr. Wayland went home, and partook freely of a luxurious dinner, and then lay down, and slept until it was time to attend the afternoon service. Mr. Sefton, on the contrary, ate sparingly, and then went into his study. Pastoral duties, during the preceding week, had drawn more largely than usual upon his time, and he had only been able to write a portion of his afternoon discourse. Only about an hour and a half remained in which to conclude it, and, although exhausted by the services of the morning, and his feelings excited by the death-scene he had witnessed, he was compelled to bend his unwilling mind to the elucidation of a subject that required much concentration of thought. He was just beginning to feel the spirit of his subject, and his ideas just beginning to flow freely, when he was sent for to baptize the sick child of a wealthy member of his church, represented to be at the point of death. The carriage of his parishioner was at the door, and he could not refuse to go. The unfinished sermon had to be laid aside. It was an hour before he could get back, and then it was too late to complete the discourse. His only resource was to select from the many sermons already preached, one that seemed best suited to the present state of his congregation. To do this, and to make a few alterations, occupied all the time remaining before the hour to begin service.
               "Well, Mr. Wayland, how were you pleased with that sermon?" asked the neighbour to whom he had expressed his dissatisfaction in the morning.
               "The sermon was well enough. But then I heard him preach it, word by word, about two years ago."
               "Oh, no! I should think not."
               "Yes, but I did, though. I remember it perfectly. Now, that is what I call a fraud upon his congregation. He is paid for preaching, and pretty liberally too, I should think, for two paltry sermons a week. And surely, as little as he could do would be to come up to his implied contract. But your gentlemen with black coats love their ease. If they can foist off, now and then, one of their old sermons, there is so much gained—so many more hours of idleness superadded to their almost useless lives. Ministers, let me tell you, are drones in the social hive; and what is more, we are getting too many of them. They will one day become as thick as the locusts of Egypt, and absolutely eat up the land!"
               Happily ignorant of these unkind allusions, Mr. Sefton, from those thoughts it was hard to expel the painful scene he had witnessed in the morning, felt it to be his duty to call upon the poor, bereaved widow, before returning home after the close of the afternoon service. Taking with him two benevolent ladies of his congregation, to whom he stated briefly the death he had witnessed in the morning, he proceeded again to the house of mourning. His presence was needed. To the bereaved wife the affliction seemed more than could possibly be borne. But he had words of comfort and kind assurances for her. Her doubting, desponding heart he encouraged; pointing her eye of faith upward, he urged her to trust in Him who has promised to be a husband to the widow, and a father to the fatherless. Thus strengthening her weak faith, and bearing up her sinking heart, he was the means of pouring oil upon the troubled waters of her spirit. He then left her with the ladies of his congregation who had accompanied him. They, in turn, ministered to her natural, as he had done to her spiritual wants.
               After tea, Mr. Sefton proposed to spend an hour with his family. They had all assembled in their little parlour; and he had just opened with them a free conversation, when two of his vestrymen came in, and sat for a couple of hours. On their retiring he found himself so much fatigued, from the arduous duties of the day, as to be obliged to go to bed.
               During the next week, he visited pastorally twenty families belonging to his congregation, attended two funerals, and afterwards visited three times at each of the houses where the deaths had occurred, to offer consolation to the bereaved. Four times he was called to persons in great affliction of mind from evil courses long persevered in. Once he had to visit the city prison, and offer what spiritual support he could to a dying convict. At two different times he was engaged for three hours in endeavouring to satisfy a doubtful member in regard to some fundamental doctrine of the church. Besides these duties, he attended the meeting of a bible society, and addressed it at some length, for which considerable preparation had been necessary, visited several sick parishioners, and spent two entire afternoons among the poor of his congregation. And, added to all these duties, studied three hours each day, and prepared two sermons for the next Sabbath.
               This week was a tolerable average of his regular duties. Severe enough, one would think, if only quiet mental labour, without bodily fatigue, were involved. But who would be willing, for any money consideration that could be offered, to encounter the painful shocks of feeling to which a minister's calling subjects him. He must stand beside the bed of the sick and dying, and listen to the widow's lamentations, and look upon the orphan's tears. He must go to the prison, and sit down in his narrow cell with the man of crime, and be witness to the agonies of a guilty conscience aroused by the fear of impending death; nay, more, must stand beside the doomed felon upon the scaffold! When sudden calamity falls upon any member of his flock, he has to be a witness of the spirit's anguish. In a word, he has to bear a portion of every sorrow that touches the hearts of his people, to weep with those who weep, though too rarely granted the blessed privilege of rejoicing with those who rejoice.
               Amid these arduous duties, through which he had to pass, Mr. Sefton would have felt all that calmness of mind that results from the consciousness of duty performed from right ends, had not the insufficiency of his income to meet all the increasing wants of his large family led to constant disquietude. The dread of debt haunted him like a frightful spectre. And yet, economize as he would, he found that, when his quarter's salary was paid to him, it was insufficient to meet his grocery, meat, and dry-goods bills. The effort to increase his salary, notwithstanding Mr. Wayland's refusal to do any thing, was successful. Nothing had been said to the minister relative to this increase. It had been made at the instance of two or three friends, who thought about him much more than did the other members of his well-served congregation. He had collected in all his bills, as usual, at the expiration of the current quarter, and found that they amounted to three hundred and twenty five dollars, there having been balances against him, at both of the preceding quarterly periods tending to swell the amount of his indebtedness. With these bills spread out before him he sat in some perplexity of mind, when one of his vestrymen waited upon him to pay him his salary.
               "There is a mistake said Mr. Sefton, after he had counted over the money. "Here are three hundred and seventy-five dollars."
               "No, it is all right. Your salary has been raised to fifteen hundred dollars," was the pleased reply.
               The minister said nothing, but if Mr. Wayland had been present, he might have wished that himself were one of the ten who had contributed to make the so much needed increase of compensation. There is a language that reaches the heart quicker than words. It was about three months from this period that an only daughter of Mr. Wayland's, a lovely girl, just sixteen, who was idolized by her father, was taken sick. Her constitution had always been delicate, and now, symptoms of a very grave nature began to exhibit themselves, such as to give her physician a good deal of concern. These continued gradually to increase, until her family began to be much alarmed, and in particular her father. Never having looked above and beyond the mere natural good things of life, the visible and tangible things of the senses, he had no hopes beyond this world, no desire to possess other than earthly blessings. Of course, he clung with warm affection to every thing he called his own. Of all his treasures, this only daughter was the dearest. She was the apple of his eye. From the hour of her birth up to the present moment, his love for her had grown stronger and deeper; and now, when the first fear of losing her startled his mind, it produced an anguish of spirit that was intolerable.
               "What do you think of Laura now, doctor?" was asked at every visit of the physician, and in a more anxious tone on each recurring day.
               But the doctor could not give any well grounded assurance that Laura was even no worse than before. His practised eye could not be deceived; the maiden was gradually declining, in spite of all the aids of medicine, and this fact he felt it to be his duty not to conceal. As for Laura, she seemed conscious that her days were numbered, but she had no fears. To her innocent mind, there were no terrors in the dark avenue that leads from this to a brighter world. From early childhood she had been interested in a peculiar manner in whatever had relation to worship. The Bible had ever been her favourite book. Hour after hour, even when but a little girl, would she sit with the sacred volume in her lap, reading over its absorbing histories. As she grew up, she evinced an unusual sweetness of temper. All who knew her loved her. Of course, she filled a large place in her father's heart, even though he sympathized not with the heavenward aspirations of her innocent heart.
               After Laura had been confined to her room for few weeks, Mr. Sefton called to see her. This was before Mr. Wayland had felt any alarm. He was received with courtesy, but it was the courtesy of a man of the world. There was no life in it. Mr Wayland was willing that he should visit his daughter, if it gave her any pleasure. Further than that, he felt altogether indifferent. To Laura the visit was one of comfort. She loved and confided in the minister. He had always been to her the medium of just such truths as she needed in her efforts to lead a life of real charity. Now, weary with days and nights of pain and confinement she needed more than ever his words of encouragement and his timely precepts. These were afforded her and from this cause her pastor's visit proved peculiarly delightful. From this time Mr. Sefton came regularly, although though her father studiously avoided being present in her chamber while he was with her. Religion, he thought was well enough for women, but for men it was rather a childish affair and he did not care about mixing himself up with it. Time passed, and as has been said, Laura's disease assumed a threatening aspect. The doctor looked grave, and answered all questions in very few words, and with evident reluctance. Mr. Wayland became alarmed, and finally had two other physicians called in. These held long consultations, and tried various new remedies, but all to no purpose. The invalid gradually but surely declined.
               Six months from the time Laura Wayland took to her chamber, she was considered by all, even her own agonized parents, to be past hope. The father no longer turned from the minister, whose daily visits seemed to afford his child so much comfort. He even began to look to him, and to hang upon his words. The affliction was from above. The hand that held the rod was no human and visible hand, but the hand of an invisible but everpresent God. When life went on smoothly as a quiet stream, he neither thought of, nor cared for the just and wise Being, whose providence is intimate in all the regulations of life, and who loves his erring creatures too well to permit them to rest satisfied with the natural good things of this life, when he has in store for them infinite and eternal things in the life which is to come. That this terrible affliction was from His hand, Mr. Wayland felt, and when, in the agony of a crushed and despairing heart, he turned to Mr. Sefton with a feeling similar to that of the drowning man who reaches out to clutch the straw that floats beside him upon the surface of the water, that individual's words fell upon his ear with a new and deeper meaning than he had ever perceived them to contain. He had heard him preach sermons consolatory of the afflicted, but there was no power in them for his heart. But now, the strong hand was upon him, he was in the pit, dark, and damp, and cheerless, and the feeblest ray was looked to as a glimmer of hope.
               Finally, the end came. The lamp of life had been gradually sinking lower and lower, and at last only glimmered feebly in the socket. All through a pleasant day in October, Laura had been in a kind of half-waking sleep. Mr. Sefton had called in as usual, but she did not seem conscious of his presence. Night came, but there was no change. About ten o'clock the minister again called in, but she did not notice him, or, indeed, any one. During all his visits to the sick girl, he had evinced a tender interest in her, that touched more and more the feelings of the father each time the minister came into his child's sick-chamber. He saw that there must be, and was, a motive for this constant attendance upon, interest in, and ministration to the spiritual wants of Laura, that could not have any merely worldly consideration as an end. Such fruits, he knew, grew not upon trees of man's planting. He understood human nature, perverted human nature, well enough for that. He had only to question his own heart.
               "If there is any marked change in her before morning, send for me," Mr. Sefton said, in a husky whisper, as he grasped the father's hand on turning towards the door. There were tears in the eyes of the minister, and Mr. Wayland saw them.
               Deeply touched by the scene he had witnessed, especially so by the despairing grief of the parents at the loss they were about to sustain, Mr. Sefton returned home, and, instead of retiring for the night, went up to his study. His mind was too much excited to permit him to sleep, and, therefore, he preferred a solitary hour for tranquillizing meditations. He had, too, a foreshadowing consciousness that Laura would not see the light of another natural morning, and he wished to keep his mind prepared for the last scene. He had remained alone in his study until near twelve o'clock, when his front-door bell was rung loudly, causing his heart to bound with a quicker motion.
               "And now comes the last trial!" he murmured, as he arose, and descended to answer the midnight summons. Instead, however, of finding Mr. Wayland, or a messenger from him at the door, he was met by a poor woman of his parish, the unfortunate wife of a drunken husband.
               "Oh, Mr. Sefton!" she said in a tremulous voice, as her eye fell upon the minister, "I wish you would come home with me. John is in such a dreadful way!"
               "What is the matter with your husband, Mrs. Lyon?" asked the minister.
               "Indeed, sir, I don't know. But he is in an awful way! He came home to-day sober for the first time he has been so for a long, long while. He looked pale and serious. I said nothing, but I felt concerned. He drank a cup of tea but didn't taste a mouthful of any thing to eat at supper time. Then he went wandering about the house, as if in search of something, for he only stayed a little while in one place. I felt troubled, but said nothing. Some times he would come and sit down beside me, where I sat sewing, and draw his chair close up to mine, looking slowly and somewhat fearfully around the room as he did so. After sitting in this way for a little while, he would arise quickly, as if from a sudden resolution, take up a light, and walk firmly upstairs. He did not stay long, however.
               "John, what is the matter?" I asked several times. "Oh, nothing! nothing!" he would answer, affecting a look of unconcern. At last, he came lose up to me, and whispered, with a blanching cheek, as he turned his eyes fearfully to a dark corner of the room—
               "'See there, Jane!'
               "'See what?' I asked.
               "'Don't you see, that snake coiling himself up there, just ready to spring upon me?' I started to my feet in alarm, glancing towards the corner of the room as I did so. But I saw nothing. 'It has been after me all the evening and will be on me yet!' continued my husband, shrinking away. 'There!' he suddenly screamed in agony of terror, and darted from the room. I followed him up stairs, and tried my best to convince him that there was no snake in the house—that I had seen nothing. I wanted to get him to bed, and at last persuaded him to lie down. But he soon jumped up in terror, saying that the snake was in the bed. And so it has been ever since, Mr. Sefton, and he is getting a great deal worse. He says now, that the devil is after him, and he wants to see you. Won't you come and see him?"
               "Certainly, I will, Mrs. Lyon," was the unhesitating reply. "But he needs a doctor more than a minister, I am thinking, and must have one."
               Mr. Sefton, after leaving word where he was going, put on his hat and cloak, and went with the woman. He found the poor broken down inebriate in even a worse condition than his wife had described him.
               "You must go for a doctor immediately. I will remain with your husband until you come back," he said to Mrs. Lyon. The wife departed, and the minister was alone with the poor wretch labouring under that frightful disorder, the drunkard's mania.
               About twenty minutes after Mr. Sefton left his home, the carriage of Mr. Wayland drove up, and the rich merchant stepped from it, and stood at the door of the minister, a suppliant for a favour that no other man on earth could give him, a favour that all his money could not purchase. His child had aroused up, and asked for her kind spiritual guide. She was conscious that her end had come, and, in the last mournful season of parting with father, mother, and friends, desired his presence who in health had pointed out to her the right path in life. And no less anxious were the heart-stricken parents for the minister's sustaining words in that last, sad hour of their daughter's earthly life.
               "Mr. Sefton is not at home," was the answer he received from the half-dressed domestic who answered the bell.
               "Mr. Sefton not at home at this hour!" he said in surprise.
               "No sir. He was called out a little while ago to a sick man."
               Even in that anxious moment, a thought of how he had wronged by unjust imputations the minister whose duties were thus discharged in the midnight watches while he slept peacefully upon his downy pillow, forced itself upon his mind. Learning the place to which he had gone, he directed his coachman to drive him there. It was a low hovel, in a mean and distant portion of the city, before which his carriage stopped.
               "This is the house," said the servant, as he opened the carriage-door.
               Mr. Wayland knocked, but no one answered. He listened. His ear caught a distant groan. Then a cry of terror, loud and distinct.
               "Are you sure this is the house?" he asked.
               "Oh, yes, sir. This is it. John Lyon lives here. He is my countryman, and I know him well enough." Lifting the latch, Mr. Wayland entered, his coachman by his side. A wild cry of terror came from an upper room as the door was thrown open. Springing up the stairs, he was alarmed to find a strong man, with a countenance of the most abandoned terror, struggling in the arms of the minister, who was exerting all his strength to prevent him from getting to the window and throwing himself out. The entrance of the two men quieted in some degree the poor wretch. He knew the coachman, and shrank instantly to his side.
               In a few moments it was arranged that the coachman should remain with John until the doctor came, and Mr. Wayland ascend the box, and drive the minister to his house. This was accordingly done, and the merchant, as he guided the swiftly pacing horses, could not help thinking of the minister, of whom he had so often spoken lightly and contemptuously, with a feeling akin to reverence.
               We need not linger with the reader about the dying pillow of one who ere the morning broke was the guest of angels. The end of our story is fully apparent. Mr. Wayland looked ever after upon the minister's calling with different eyes. In that deeply trying hour, when his heart was bleeding at every pore, how full of consolation were the words of him whom he had despised when all things were fair and bright as a summer day. He never could forget the deep earnest tenderness with which Mr. Sefton took his hand, after the last sad act of burial had been performed, and he had returned with him to his desolate home, and said—
               "You have not left your sweet child in that cheerless spot. She is not there, but has risen, and is now with the blessed angels. You have therefore a rich treasure in heaven, and where our treasure is, there will our hearts be also. Henceforth there exists a link between your heart and heaven. An electric chain, to thrill your soul with holy aspirations. Look up, then, and see, even in this painful bereavement, a dispensation of infinite mercy. Look up, and your child shall again be restored to you."
               For weeks and months afterwards the minister and the merchant often met. The latter saw with different eyes, and estimated by a different standard. He saw that the office which Mr. Sefton held was one of great trial and unremitting toil. That it involved constant self-sacrifice and constant shocks of feeling. He had not only to bear his own burdens, but when any of his members was tried in the furnace of affliction, he had to stand by them, and share their griefs, and take off a portion of their sorrows. And for all this, a ministration that no mere temporal reward could in any way compensate, his earthly remuneration was a closely calculated pittance, too often grudgingly bestowed, while a large portion of his congregation had with him not the remotest sympathy. As months and years passed away, and the keenness of his sorrow wore off, the society of the minister became less and less attractive to Mr. Wayland. Natural ends were strong with him, and he pursued after natural goods with eagerness. But he was liberal in his contributions to the support of public worship, and never would permit a minister to be alluded to lightly without a reproof.
            
            
               LOSS AND GAIN.
               ANDREW Marvel was a merchant to whom his neighbours applied the word "thrifty." He had been in business for only a few years; yet in that time, he had made a good deal of money. Mainly, the thrift of Andrew Marvel was the result of great shrewdness, industry, and a knowledge of trade. It was also dependent, in part, on his habit of driving close bargains, and getting, whenever it was possible to do so, some advantage in every transaction. So that he gained, he too rarely stopped to consider who lost—that is, he did not stop to consider while in the warmth and eagerness of business. Then, his love of gain ruled his actions.
               But, in earlier years, Marvel had received instruction from the lips of one who taught him to repeat the Golden Rule, and thus fixed that heavenly precept in his memory. It was, therefore, impossible for him to act with dishonesty, and not, in some after moment, when his cupidities were at rest, feel a sense of disquietude therefore. He could not gain a worldly advantage of this kind, without losing some portion of self-respect, and that peace of conscience, without which no one can be happy.
               In the gains of Mr. Marvel, there was, therefore a loss, and that a serious one—a loss of which he was too often conscious—a loss that troubled him.
               Strong in the love of money, and eager for its accumulation, as a means of happiness, our merchant, in acquiring earthly treasure, was like a man who builds a house, and uses, in its erection, a portion of bad materials, thus making the whole structure defective, and destroying all his pleasure in the use of the building. He was getting rich fast. He was investing money year after year. And yet accompanying his possessions was a feeling of disquietude, a want of self-approval and self-satisfaction And there were times, when thinking over some of his business deeds, that he felt positively unhappy.
               Andrew Marvel, at the time we have introduced him to the reader, was worth over eighty thousand dollars. Forty thousand of this sum was invested in six per cent. paying bonds and mortgages, and the remainder was in his business. His family consisted of only himself and wife; and their whole expense of living did not exceed two thousand dollars per annum.
               Now the whole amount of this property, acquired by over-reaching in business, did not exceed, if every little item of fraudulent gain had been fairly counted, ten thousand dollars. Had Marvel been strictly honest, man with man, in all his dealings, he would have been worth seventy thousand dollars. But his selfish desire to have more than his own share, led him, for an additional ten thousand, to mar all real enjoyment of the seventy thousand.
               Could he have obliterated from his mind the true precepts he had learned as a child—could he have hushed the whispers of conscience, heard in the silence of his heart after he had turned away from the busy world, he might have better enjoyed his wealth. But that was impossible.
               One day, a gentleman called upon Mr. Marvel, and said to him:
               "A widow, a friend of mine, has ten shares of stock that she wishes to sell. The income from this stock is too small to be of any value to her, and she is forced to part with it, in order to meet the present and pressing wants of her family. Do you wish to buy?"
               "What stock is it?" asked the merchant.
               The name of the company was mentioned.
               "What does she ask for it?"
               "She will sell at the market price."
               "What is that?"
               "I saw a broker just now, and he said that it was worth eighty dollars."
               Eighty was the quotation of the previous day. But Marvel knew that an advance had taken place, and the true value of the shares was eighty-five dollars.
               
               "Very well," said he, with a pleasant feeling at the thought of making fifty dollars by the transaction in consequence of the gentleman's ignorance of the real value of the stock. "I'll take the scrip. When do you want the money?"
               "As soon as the transfer can be made."
               "I'll give you a check at any moment," said Marvel.
               So the transfer was made without delay, and the stock became the merchant's.
               "That much gained," said he to himself, as he placed the certificates carefully in his fire-proof. "I should like to enter a transaction like this every day. The stock is worth eighty-five. So there are fifty dollars clear. Howard was not so wide awake as usual. But the stock was none of his. It is the poor widow who has to suffer. A nice man, truly, to have the widow's interest in charge!"
               There was a sudden depression in the thermometer of Andrew Marvel's feelings, at this last mental exclamation. A poor widow had been wronged—in plain words, cheated—out of fifty dollars. Who had done this? Who was guilty of so mean an act of dishonesty? Why, Andrew Marvel! The transaction was a mirror, in which the merchant saw himself reflected, and, with a feeling of shame at his heart, he tried to turn his eyes away from the likeness, so little flattering to the good opinion of himself he so fondly cherished.
               "It was a fair business transaction, he said to himself, in the struggle for self-approval.
               But, that would not do.
               "The stock was offered at eighty dollars, and I bought it. Was there any thing wrong in that? It was a good bargain for me, I own; but every man is entitled to the best bargain he can make."
               Still, the merchant felt uncomfortable. He had wronged a widow, whose slender income was insufficient for the support of her family, out of fifty dollars. That was the plain truth; and gloss it over as he would, he could not make it look any better.
               Thus stood the account of loss and gain in that matter.
               The sleep of Andrew Marvel was not always sound. It too frequently happened, that, ere his senses were locked in sweet forgetfulness, there would intrude upon his mind the thought of something that he had done through the day, while absorbed in the sphere of gain, that produced a sense of uneasiness; and, oppressed with this feeling, he would turn upon his uneasy pillow sometimes for hours.
               It was so on the night that followed his purchase of the widow's stock. He had lost far more than he had gained, and the trouble of this would no let him rest. At length, after many unhappy hours, nature gave way, and he sank into a troubled slumber. But, the current of his thoughts went on, uncontrolled now by reason and the real things around him. To a certain extent he lived over very many scenes in his life, and some of the actors in them were face to face with him again. By this one he was charged with overreaching in a certain transaction; by that one convicted of falsehood in some business operation, that he might acquire an advantage; and by another pointed at as a specious villain. At length his crowd of accusers passed away, and he was left alone with his own unhappy reflections. Not long alone, however, for the door of the room in which he seemed to be sitting, opened, and a woman, in widow's weeds, came slowly in. Though he had never seen the person from whom he had bought the stock on the previous day, he knew this to be her. By the hand she held two little children, poorly clad. They were weeping. The woman approached and stood before him. For a little while, she looked at him with a fixed expression. Then she said, in a severe tone—
               "There were fifty dollars gained, Mr. Marvel—fifty dollars gained from the small remnant left to the widow and orphans. But how much was lost? Have you taken that into the account? Loss of honesty; loss of self-respect; loss of peace, and, worse than all, so much lost to heaven. With whom do you expect to live hereafter, Mr. Marvel? With the loving, unselfish, true-minded angels; or, with the overreaching, dishonest, cruel-hearted spirits who cannot enter heaven? It must come to this at last. There were, fifty dollars gained, Mr. Marvel, but how much lost? Can you estimate that?"
               The merchant heard no more in his dream. Shuddering, he awoke with beads of clammy perspiration on his forehead.
               On the day, Marvel enclosed the widow fifty dollars, saying to her, in the note accompanying the sum, that he found, on inquiry, that her stock was worth just that more than he paid her for it. To screen himself from being thought by her what he really was—dishonest at heart—he evaded the truth in his act of restitution But, so far as the act went, it was good. The merchant felt better, therefore; and enjoyed the property he had purchased far more than if his right to it had been vitiated by the right of another therein.
               Andrew Marvel could not forget his dream; nor help recurring now and again to the profit and loss account that was posted up in the Book of Memory. And, whenever he looked at this account, he was positively unhappy. For the future, he was wiser, and endeavoured to limit his gains within the bounds of strict honesty between man and his fellow-man. But, whatever is written in the Book of Memory is a permanent record. He could not forget the past, nor obliterate from his mind the consciousness that a portion of the worldly wealth he possessed was at the expense of dishonesty and wrong to others. In several cases he made secret restitution, thus lightening ening the pressure that was on him. But a portion of the weight could not be removed; and thus the abundance of this world's good things that were gathered around him were but half enjoyed, because a portion was not justly his own.
               So much for loss and gain.
            
            
               THE UNHAPPY WIFE.
               "YOU don't seem happy, Margaret," said Mr. Jones to his wife in a kind voice, seating himself, as he spoke, beside his dejected-looking partner, whom he found upon the sofa in the parlour. He had just returned from his store, in the evening, after a day of more than usual business anxiety.
               Tears came into the eyes of Mrs. Jones. But she made no reply.
               "Has any thing happened to give you pain?" asked the husband, in the same kind voice.
               But there was no answer. The fact was, Mrs. Jones could not answer the question, for, although she felt very unhappy, she did not know from whence her unhappiness proceeded. Her silence, while it convinced Mr. Jones that nothing more than usual had occurred to distress his wife, had the effect to oppress his own feelings with a heavy weight. He understood that she had fallen into one of her melancholy states, the cause of which he had been unable to determine, and for which he had not,of course, found any remedy.
               A shadow fell gloomily over the feelings of Mr. Jones. He, in turn, became silent and depressed. During the whole day his mind had been more than usually anxious in regard to his business. Heavy payments were maturing fast, while the funds meeting his obligations came in with unusual tardyness. This had disturbed his thoughts a good deal. But when he left his store in the evening, like a wise man, he left his cares behind him, and looked toward home with the pleasing expectation of there finding that sweet repose of mind which he so much needed. As has been seen, in this he was doomed to be disappointed. Mrs. Jones had fallen into of her periodical fits of melancholy, for which cause was apparent to his mind, and which, for very reason, distressed him the more. Ten years' experience had satisfied him that, when in this unhappy state, it was useless to make any effort to lift her out of it. Heretofore, every such effort had been perfectly futile. Like an attack of measles, it had its incipient stage, its climax, and its decline. Medicines seemed rather to exacerbate than palliate symptoms, and, therefore, like a wise physician, he chose rather to keep away, as far as possible, all exciting causes, and let the disease run its course
               
               The evening meal was passed in perfect silence. After it was over, Mr. Jones thought of asking his wife to go with him to hear a celebrated singer who gave a concert that night. But, satisfied from former experience that "no" would be answered to his proposition, he wisely forbore doing so.
               On the next morning, as Mr. Jones had expected, his wife did not rise. He asked, as in duty bound, how she felt?—if she were sick?—what he should get for her? &c., but received, as usual in such cases, no reply. He sat down to breakfast with his children, poured out the coffee for them, and attended to their wants at the table. He ate but a few mouthfuls himself. After giving directions to the cook about dinner, he went to his store with a heavy heart. Mr. Jones loved his wife. To see her unhappy, always oppressed his feelings. But, to see her unhappy without any knowledge of the cause, made him wretched.
               Throughout that day it seemed as if every event was of a nature calculated to disturb the mind of Mr. Jones. At dinner-time, his wife, in accordance with his expectations, was in bed. He spoke to her kindly, but received no answer. This did not surprise him. He had looked for nothing else. The evening brought no change. Mrs. Jones was still in bed. The small portion of her face that could be seen above the pillow in which it was buried, did not make the husband very desirous of seeing more. That sample was enough to give him a very fair idea of the character of her whole countenance. After tea, every thing being so still and gloomy at home, Mr. Jones went to a public house, where he drank a glass of ale, smoked a cigar, and talked politics for a couple of hours. He then came home and retired for the night.
               Not until the afternoon of the next day did Mrs. Jones leave her bed. When her husband came home to tea, he found her, much to his satisfaction, in the dining-room. But he said nothing. The disease had reached its highest point, and was now on the decline. He was content to let it go off in due course, because he knew very well, that any attempt on his part to hasten its departure would only retard that anxiously looked-for event.
               A day or two more, and all was again sunshine in Mr. Jones's dwelling. His wife went singing about as gayly as a bird.
               "If it were only always so," sighed Mr. Jones to himself, "I would be the happiest man in existence. But where can lie the cause of these unhappy periods? Something is wrong. What can it be?"
               To determine this question was, however, beyond the power of Mr. Jones. He could imagine no adequate cause.
               "I think, dear," said his wife to him, one day, "that we should be a great deal happier in the country. I know it would be better for the children. Poor little things! They are so confined here. There we should have pure air and freedom. Instead of hot brick walls and filthy streets, we should have open fields, with trees, and flowers, and the sweet breath of heaven. Oh, it would be delightful! I am sure I should be the happiest creature in the world."
               The idea of making his wife happy was sufficient to give almost any proposition a favourable aspect in the eyes of Mr. Jones. He was not himself fond of the country. Raised in a city from boyhood, his habits were formed for city life. His business, too, required him to be every day in town. Still, if it would make Margaret happy, that was sufficient to gain his approval. A pleasant house, with a garden and several acres of good land surrounding it, was rented, and his family removed to the country.
               "Oh, this is delightful!" exclaimed Mrs. Jones, on alighting from the carriage that had conveyed her husband, herself, and children to their new home, to which all the furniture had been removed and arranged by a competent person, while Mrs. Jones and her little ones remained for a couple of days at the house of a friend in the city. "I shall be as happy here as the day is long. How sweet the odour of that new hay! How rich these beds of flowers! How spirit-stirring the song of birds! How soothing the low hum of bees! This is indeed life! Who would be content to live in a pent-up city?"
               "It's pleasant certainly," returned Mr. Jones, in a more quiet way. And it was pleasant to him. He perceived and enjoyed all the things to which wife had alluded. They soothed his care-worn spirit, and refreshed his senses.
               For a few days Mrs. Jones was really happy. But she was the same woman as before. The causes of disquiet were internal, and not external. In leaving the city, she could not get away from herself. Change of scene did not change the causes of unrest that hidden in her own bosom. After a while she ceased to perceive the sweet odours that were borne upon the air. The warblings of merry songsters were unheard. The flowers, Spring's lovely children, were unseen. She grew lonely, and sighed for companionship.
               With a sad heart, the husband soon saw that country life was not the specific for his wife's malady. All doubts on this head were removed at the end of a month, when she had an attack of melancholy, and kept her bed for a week. Her wish to return to the city in the fall was not opposed by Jones. He preferred a town to a country-life, though he had not said so.
               As before, every few weeks Mrs. Jones would into a gloomy state, and remain so for several days; and, as before, the cause was altogether hidden from her husband. He was careful that she should burdened as little as possible. He employed a waiter about the house, and permitted her to keep a nurse, a chambermaid, a seamstress, and a cook. Every want she expressed was gratified, and much anticipated. But, instead of improving, Mrs. Jones grew worse and worse. It seemed as if the more of external good she possessed, the less she enjoyed.
               In the hope of diverting her mind, Mr. Jones took her during the winter to many places of fashionable resort and amusement, such as assemblies, concerts, the theatre, etc. He also encouraged her to give a large party, which led her under a kind of obligation to attend such as were given by any who had been her own guests. In this way the season passed, amid a gay round of festivity and amusement, into which Mrs. Jones entered with a keen zest. Her husband had never seen her so full of life before. Two months had passed, and not once during that time had she felt depressed in spirits. Mr. Jones was much encouraged. It was evident, to his mind, that it was plenty of society that his wife wanted; and this he meant to see was provided for her.
               Towards spring, as fashionable assemblies became less and less frequent, Mr. Jones could see that old visitations were returning upon his wife. He would often find her, on returning home, sitting by herself, with a dreamy, absent look in her eyes. How to meet such states in their incipiency and throw them off, he did not certainly know. Sometimes he would propose going out to see a friend, or a visit to the theatre. But these propositions were rarely accepted. Occasionally he could get her interested in the future prospects of their children; especially of Helen their oldest girl, now between eight and nine years of age. But his resources were small, and even they not skilfully brought into action.
               The fact was, Mr. Jones was a merchant in feeling as well as by profession. In other words, Mr Jones took but little interest in any thing that did not pertain to business. A poor boy, with few opportunities for the improvement of his mind, he was placed at an early age in a store. Intelligent and industrious, and, withal, ambitious to rise, he soon made himself of value to his employers. Little beyond the sphere of trade approached his mind near enough to affect it with any permanent interest. Books were resorted to but rarely. His reading was confined mainly to the newspapers, and the topics that took hold upon his mind were those connected with politics, and the passing events of the day. For a year or two after having attained his majority, he remained in the store where he had served his time. Then he commenced business in connection with a young man who had a good cash capital, and credit to a large amount whenever it was needed. The young man was the son of a wealthy merchant, who had become such by his own vigorous exertions. But, like too many similarly situated, he was content to have his children educated entirely at schools, seminaries, and colleges. He did not bring them occasionally in contact with real life, early, and let them feel its peculiar strong tendencies, standing beside them as he did so, and guarding and guiding their young minds into the truth made indelible by feeling experience. The consequence was, that, when they did enter upon life, at the ages of moral responsibility, the whole world was new to them. When they did take the rudder into their own hands, they knew nothing of the stream down which they were gliding. All was yet to be learned.
               The partner of Mr. Jones had a sister named Margaret, a girl of fine taste and good education. She had remained at school until her eighteenth year. During the last year of her school-girl days, she contracted an intimate friendship with a young lady of her own age, with whom nearly all her time not occupied in study was spent. Both were fond of reading, and, as might be expected, works of imagination. They not only read these together, but talked together of their contents, and of their own bright future, made brighter by their fond fancies. To them, the world into which they were entering was full of all their hearts could wish. In the most perfect sympathy with each other did that last year of girlhood pass. Purely and fervently did they love each other, and their love made them happy.
               Margaret left school and returned home about the period at which her brother entered into business with Mr. Jones. The first time she met that individual, she thought him the dullest creature she had ever seen, and did not hesitate to laugh outright as soon as he had departed. Her brother mildly chid her, but this only provoked greater merriment, and caused her to launch against him sundry keen shafts of ridicule. Her estimation of Mr. Jones did not change much during the first year. In that time she met him occasionally, and as she knew him better, could perceive his good qualities. Still, her beau ideal of a young man was so different from Thomas Jones, that the mental contrast always produced a merry peal of laughter.
               For Mr. Jones to meet Margaret frequently was to love her. Before a year rolled round, he felt that his happiness depended upon his being able to secure both the heart and hand of the lovely girl. He had observed enough to satisfy him that Margaret did not look upon him with a very favourable eye and that, sometimes, it was hard work for her to treat him with civility. But "faint heart never won fair lady," was his motto. He determined to lay a siege, trusting to patient perseverance for the accomplishment of his end.
               He was successful; but the siege was a long one and vigorously prosecuted. When the fair one a length yielded, it was not with a joyous impulse, but was rather a compromise with her objections. She would not have chosen Mr. Jones, but she did not see how she could longer refuse him. And so they were married. He made her a kind, devoted husband, for he loved her fervently. But there was little in his mind that she could love, and hers became not, therefore, a mirror in which his thoughts were reflected. There did not take place that interior conjunction of mind and heart, from which, and from which alone, comes happiness in marriage. As far as he was concerned, the lack of this was made up by the abstraction of his thoughts in business. He had a defined pursuit in life, and this absorbed the larger portion of his time. Not so his wife. She had nothing upon which to fix steadily her mind. In her household she had little care; every thing was delegated to others. There was a domestic to fill every department. She had, therefore, plenty of leisure, in which thought, instead of going out in pursuit of the means for the attainment of ends, could turn back and corrode like a canker her own bosom. The daily return of her husband was not looked for with the interest that return would have excited, had he been a man of cultivated taste, and with habits of mind at all congenial with her own. The genuine warmth of his manner always made, however, his return pleasant—always awakened a glow of pleasure in her heart.
               From this brief history, the reader will be able, for himself, to determine, to some extent, the cause of Mrs. Jones's periodical fits of despondency. They showed themselves, at first, only in states of pensive abstraction of mind, that remained for a few days, and then passed off. Gradually, they became more and more defined, until they arrived at the stage already described.
               And now we will resume the broken thread of our narrative. As spring advanced, Mrs. Jones relapsed into her old states of melancholy. Her husband became really discouraged. It seemed to him that his wife could have no real love for either himself or her children. If so, why indulge such wretched feelings while she had them to minister to and make happy? Five years before, he had dissolved his connection with her brother, and was now acting alone. Her father had been dead three years. He left her a fortune of forty thousand dollars. Most of this was in her husband's business. This business, in spite of Mr. Jones's most devoted efforts, had been falling into embarrassment for some time, in consequence of over-trading and heavy losses. He had, therefore, anxious care through the day, and often the most wretched feelings when he came home at night, and found his wife in one of her gloomy conditions.
               Spring passed away, and summer came.
               "Mr. and Mrs Lorman are going to make the tour of the Lakes this summer," Mrs. Jones said to her husband one evening. "I should dearly love to be of the party, if you could leave your business."
               
               Mr. Jones could not well be absent. But nothing of this was intimated. He was so much concerned on his wife's account, that he was willing to submit to any sacrifice to meet an expressed desire. Making hasty, and consequently, imperfect arrangements, to leave his business, Mr. Jones declared himself ready to accompany his wife in the proposed tour. They started, in company with Mr. and Mrs. Lorman, taking with them their oldest child. After spending a week at Saratoga, the party went to the Falls of Niagara. From Buffalo, after another week they embarked for Chicago. Thence they passed over to St. Louis, and down the river to the mouth of the Ohio. Louisville, Cincinnati, Wheeling, and Pittsburgh came next in their route, as they turned their faces homeward. Three days' journey in stage, railroad, and steamboat, brought them to the place from which they had started, all glad to get back, but none more so than Mrs. Jones. She had felt miserable for a week. For three days she had not spoken to any one, not even so much as replying to her husband's oft-repeated question, if there was nothing that he could get or do for her. At Saratoga, Mrs. Jones had enjoyed herself wonderfully. The visit to Niagara was also delightful. But the first day's sail on the lake made her sick, and she was not able to hold up her head until their arrival at Chicago. The journey from thence to St. Louis had no attractions. For the first day, on leaving St. Louis, the river scenery interested her, but she tired of its sameness after that. From the mouth of the Ohio to Pittsburgh, but little had a charm for her eye, that, for a greater portion of the time, although it looked abroad, took intelligent observation of nothing. The retina was impressed, but the mind perceived it not. From the time of leaving Pittsburgh till their arrival at home, her spirits were down to the lowest ebb.
               Poor Mr. Jones was in despair. If this state of things continued, he did not know how soon his wife's malady would take a permanent form in a confirmed mental derangement. But an inspection of his business, on arriving at home, gave him other and more absorbing causes of concern. His paper had been dishonoured, and his credit, in consequence, so severely shocked, that he found himself in imminent danger of ruin. Business had been suspended until his return, which would have taken place weeks before, had not his letters failed to reach him. A few days of anxious investigation revealed to the trembling merchant the dreaded truth that he was a ruined man. A meeting of creditors was called, and an assignment made of all his effects. During the progress of these distressing events, Mr. Jones had not been able to summon sufficient courage to disclose the truth to his wife. For days after their return, she had been too much depressed in feeling—too really wretched—to notice the dark shadow that rested upon her husband's face. Her attention was first directed to him by noticing one night that he walked the floor of their chamber in evident agitation of mind, for more than an hour after his usual time for retiring. Her thoughts once fixed upon an object out of herself, and that object her husband in apparent distress, her own undefined and undefinable state of dreamy wretchedness began to subside.
               In the morning her first thoughts were of her husband. He had already arisen, when she awoke, and left the chamber. For three days she had not met the family at table. The thought of this, connected with the remembrance of her husband's agitation, too plainly exhibited on the night before, quickened her conscience as by a painful sting. She had never before seen him so moved; for he had always carefully striven to conceal from her whatever trouble and anxiety he might feel.
               Arising quickly and dressing herself, Mrs. Jones went to the nursery to look at the children, her first visit to them for three days. The little things crowded around her, climbing up into her lap, twining their arms around her neck, and kissing, with childish fondness, her cheeks, lips, and forehead. Her bosom throbbed with a warm impulse of delight. She remained with them until the breakfast bell was rung, and then joined her husband at the table. He lifted his eyes to her face as she entered, and smiled faintly. Her heart bounded with a quick throb the moment she saw the expression of his countenance. To her a dreadful change had passed over it. His brow, ever so smooth and calm, was heavy and corrugated, as by intense, anxious thought; his lips were compressed to half their ordinary volume; and his eyes had a strange, fixed, troubled expression. He ate only a few mouthfuls, and then left the table and retired from the house, seeming to be altogether unconscious of the presence of any one.
               "Mercy! What can have happened?" ejaculated Mrs. Jones, rising involuntarily and leaving breakfast room with two of the children seated the table. Until dinner-time, she had no thought but for her husband. He was evidently in deep trouble, and that awakened all her sympathies. He was nothing changed in appearance when he came home at dinner-time. She spoke to him in a kind voice, and he looked up in evident surprise.
               "What is the matter, husband?" she asked, laying her hand tenderly upon his arm, and looking him with anxious interest in the face.
               There was something so affectionate and earn in his wife's manner, that Mr. Jones was taken surprise. He replied, without time for reflection:
               "I am a ruined man, Margaret! But, were it not for you and the children, I would not care."
               "Ruined! ruined!" murmured Mrs. Jones, in bewildered manner, "How? What?"
               
               "During our Northern and Western tour, my business became embarrassed, and some of my paper was dishonoured. It was too late, when I returned, to repair the injury. There was nothing left me but to call a meeting of my creditors, and assign all my effects into the hands of trustees. This latter is now about being done. I shall come out a ruined man. But still, with a firm character, unbroken spirits, and a knowledge of business that will, I trust, put me on my feet again in a few years."
               "Then why despond?" asked Mrs. Jones, in a tone of confidence.
               Her husband started, and looked her in the face for a moment, doubting if he had heard aright.
               "I only despond for your sake," he replied, after a short pause.
               "And why for my sake?"
               "You will not be able to bear the change. All this elegance, and luxury, and ease will pass away, Margaret." His voice trembled. "Ah, my poor wife! I fear that you will not be able to bear it."
               "All we have possessed has, at least, not made me happy," the wife returned. Her voice trembled likewise, and was low and somewhat plaintive. Her feelings shrank instinctively at the change her husband had predicted. But she felt a new love for and a new confidence in him, blended with something of that heroic spirit which sustains a wife amid the severest trials.
               "Margaret!" said the husband at length, in a firm voice, "can you stand up bravely by my side in this trial? Will your love for me keep you up? Can you forsake all for the sake of your husband and children?"
               "Try me!" was the firm reply.
               "I will!"
               "And you shall not be disappointed," she returned, leaning her head against his bosom.
               From that moment Mr. Jones had a cheerful, confident spirit. He passed through the trying ordeal of giving up every thing into the hands of his creditors, without once flinching. He had feared for his wife, when she should be called upon to abandon the luxury and elegance to which she had always been used. But he did not know what was in her. Ease had suffered the rust to accumulate upon her real internal character. But the stroke of misfortune's hammer had shivered off the dimming scales, and now she stood forth in the brightness of a woman's true nature.
               They had three children, the youngest but two years old at the time the event occurred.
               "We shall have to give up our waiter," Mr. Jones said, when they were prepared to move into a small house; far away from the fashionable neighbourhood in which they had for years lived.
               "Of course," was promptly replied. "And the nurse also. I must now take the entire charge of my children."
               "But I am afraid it will be too much for you."
               "Do you think you can afford to keep three servants?"
               "I do not," Mr. Jones said. "I shall enter again into my business. But it will be in a small way, and without capital. Our income will be limited."
               "That settles the matter at once, I must be my own nurse. I have been thinking seriously over this matter for some time, and it seems to me clearly wrong for any woman to delegate her duties so fully as I have done. Perhaps," and her voice faltered, "all this trouble has been sent upon us that I might be made to see and do my duty as a woman and mother. You are called upon to suffer for my supineness."
               In a few weeks they were settled down quietly in their new home. Mrs. Jones found enough to do for her husband and children to keep head and hands both in constant occupation. She had no time for lowness of spirits—and, in fact, no cause. Her malady had arisen from a want of active interest in others. This she now had. Her body was often wearied, but duties well done left behind them a cheerful spirit. Mr. Jones found that it was as much as he could do to meet the expenses of his family. His children were growing up, and it cost no small sum to educate them. His wife was, in consequence, not suffered to relax in her efforts. And this was well for her. Constant occupation and her portion of this world's cares and anxieties were the medicaments her case required. When freely administered, they proved fully efficacious.
            
            
               THE BUSHEL OF CORN.
               FARMER GRAY had a neighbour who was not the best-tempered man in the world, though mainly kind and obliging. He was a shoemaker. His name was Barton. One day in harvest-time, when every man on the farm was busy as a bee, this man came over to Farmer Gray's, and said, in rather a petulant tone of voice—
               "Mr. Gray, I wish you would send over and drive your geese home."
               "Why so, Mr. Barton? what have my geese been doing?" the farmer asked, in a mild, quiet tone.
               "They pick my pig's ears when they are eating, and go into my garden, and I will not have it!" the neighbour replied, in a still more petulant voice.
               "I am really sorry for it, neighbour Barton; but what can I do?"
               "Why, yoke them, and thus keep them on your own premises. It's no kind of a way to let your geese run all over every farm and garden in the neighbourhood."
               "But I cannot see to it now. It is harvest time, friend Barton, and every man, woman, and child on the farm have as much as they can do. Try and bear it for a week or so, and then I will see if I can possibly remedy the evil."
               "I can't bear it, and I won't bear it any longer!" the shoemaker said. "So, if you do not take care of them, friend Gray, I shall have to take care of them for you."
               "Well, neighbour Barton, you can do as you please," farmer Gray replied, in his usual quiet tone. "I am sorry that they trouble you, but I cannot attend to them now."
               "I'll attend to them for you, see if I don't," the shoemaker said, still more angrily than when he first called upon farmer Gray, and then turned upon his heel and strode off hastily toward his own house, which was quite near to the old farmer's.
               "What upon earth can be the matter with the geese?" Mrs. Gray said, about fifteen minutes afterwards.
               "I really cannot tell, unless neighbour Barton is taking care of them. He threatened to do so if I didn't yoke them right off."
               "Taking care of them! How taking care of them?"
               "As to that, I am quite in the dark. Killing them, perhaps. He said they picked at his pig's ears and drove them away when they were eating, and that he would not have it. He wanted me to yoke them right off, but that I could not do now, as all the hands are busy. So I suppose he is engaged in the neighbourly business of taking care of our geese."
               "John! William! run over and see what Mr. Barton is doing with my geese," Mrs. Gray said, in a quick and anxious tone, to two little boys who were playing near.
               The urchins scampered off, well pleased to perform any errand.
               "Oh, if he has dared to do any thing to my geese, I will never forgive him!" the good wife said angrily.
               "H-u-s-h, Sally, make no rash speeches. It is more than probable that he has killed some two or three of them. But never mind if he has. He will get over his pet, and be sorry for it."
               "Yes; but what good will his being sorry do me? Will it bring my geese to life?"
               "Ah, well, Sally, never mind. Let us wait until we learn what all this disturbance is all about."
               In about ten minutes the children came home, bearing the bodies of three geese, each without a head.
               "Oh, isn't that too much for human endurance?" exclaimed Mrs. Gray. "Where did you find them?"
               
               "We found them lying out in the road," said the oldest of the two children. "And when we picked them up, Mr. Barton said—'Tell your father that I have yoked his geese for him, to save him the trouble, as his hands are all too busy to do it.'"
               "I'd sue him for it!" said Mrs. Gray, in an indignant tone.
               "And what good would that do, Sally?"
               "Why, it would do a great deal of good. It would teach him better manners. It would punish him; and he deserves punishment."
               "And punish us into the bargain. We have lost three geese now, but we still have their good fat bodies to eat. A law-suit would cost us a good many geese, and not leave us even so much as the feathers, besides giving us a world of trouble and vexation. No, no, Sally; just let it rest, and he will be sorry for it, I know."
               "Sorry for it, indeed! And what good will his being sorry for it do us, I should like to know? Next he will kill a cow, and then we must be satisfied with his being sorry for it! Now, I can tell you that I don't believe in that doctrine. Nor do I believe any thing about his being sorry, the crabbed, ill-natured wretch."
               "Don't call hard names, Sally," farmer Gray said, in a mild, soothing tone. "Neighbour Barton was not himself when he killed the geese. Like every other angry person, he was a little insane, and did what he would not have done had he been perfectly in his right mind. When you are a little excited, you know, Sally, that even you do and say unreasonable things."
               "Me do and say unreasonable things!" exclaimed Mrs. Gray, with a look and tone of indignant astonishment; "me do and say unreasonable things when I am angry! I don't understand you, Mr. Gray."
               "May be I can help you a little. Don't you remember how angry you were when Mr. Mellon's old brindle got into our garden, and trampled over your lettuce bed, and how you struck her with the oven pole, and knocked off one of her horns?"
               "But I didn't mean to do that, though."
               "No, but then you were angry, and struck old brindle with a right good will. And if Mr. Mellon had felt disposed, he might have prosecuted for damages."
               "But she had no business there."
               "Of course not. Neither had our geese any business in neighbour Barton's yard. But, perhaps, I can help you to another instance, that will be more conclusive in regard to your doing and saying unreasonable things when you are angry. You remember the patent churn."
               "Yes, but never mind about that."
               "So you have not forgotten how unreasonable you were about the churn. It wasn't good for any thing—you knew it wasn't; and you'd never put a jar of cream into it as long as you lived—that you wouldn't. And yet, on trial, you found that churn the best you had ever used, and now wouldn't part with it on any consideration. So you see, Sally, that even you can say and do unreasonable things when you are angry, just as well as Mr. Barton can. Let us then consider him a little, and give him time to get over his angry fit. It would be much better to do so."
               Mrs. Gray saw that her husband was right, but still she felt indignant at the outrage committed on her geese. She did not, however, say any thing about sueing the shoemaker—for old brindle's head, from which the horn had been knocked off, was not yet entirely well, and one prosecution very naturally suggested the idea of another. So she took her three fat geese, and, after stripping off their feathers, had them prepared for the table.
               On the next morning, as farmer Gray was going along the road, he met the shoemaker, and as they had to pass very near to each other the farmer smiled, and bowed, and spoke kindly. Mr. Barton looked and felt very uneasy, but farmer Gray did not seem to remember the unpleasant incident of the day before.
               It was about eleven o'clock of the same day, that one of farmer Gray's little boys came running to him, and crying,
               "Oh, father! father! Mr. Barton's hogs are in our corn-field."
               "Then I must go and drive them out," said Mr. Gray, in a quiet tone.
               "Drive them out!" ejaculated Mrs. Gray, "drive 'em out, indeed! I'd shoot them, that's what I'd do! I'd serve him as he served my geese yesterday."
               "But that wouldn't bring the geese to life again, Sally."
               "I don't care if it wouldn't. It will be paying him in his own coin, and that's all he deserves."
               "You know what the Bible says, Sally, about grievous words, and they apply with stronger force to grievous actions. No, no; I will return neighbour Barton good for evil. That is the best way. He has done wrong, and I am sure is sorry for it. And as I wish him still to remain sorry for so unkind and unneighbourly an action, I intend making use of the best means for keeping him sorry."
               "Then you will be revenged on him, anyhow."
               "No, Sally—not revenged. I hope I have no such feeling. For I am not angry with neighbour Barton, who has done himself a much greater wrong that he has done me. But I wish him to see clearly how wrong he acted, that he may do so no more. And then we shall not have any cause to complain of him, nor he any to be grieved, as I am sure he is at his own hasty conduct. But while I am talking here, his hogs are destroying my corn."
               And so saying, farmer Gray hurried off towards his corn-field. When he arrived there, he found four large hogs tearing down the stalks and pulling off and eating the ripe ears of corn. They had already destroyed a good deal. But he drove them out very calmly, and put up the bars through which they had entered, and then commenced gathering up the half- eaten ears of corn, and throwing them out into the lane, for the hogs that had been so suddenly disturbed in the process of obtaining a liberal meal. As he was thus engaged, Mr. Barton, who had from his own house seen the farmer turn the hogs out of his corn-field, came hurriedly up, and said:
               "I am very sorry, Mr. Gray, indeed I am, that my hogs have done this! I will most cheerfully pay you for what they have destroyed."
               "Oh, never mind, friend Barton—never mind. Such things will happen occasionally. My geese, you know, annoy you very much sometimes."
               "Don't speak of it, Mr. Gray. They didn't annoy me half as much as I imagined they did. But how much corn do you think my hogs have destroyed? One bushel, or two bushels? Or how much? Let it be estimated, and I will pay you for it most cheerfully."
               "Oh, no. Not for the world, friend Barton. Such things will happen sometimes. And, besides, some of my men must have left the bars down, or your hogs could never have got in. So don't think anymore about it. It would be dreadful if one neighbour could not bear a little with another."
               All this cut poor Mr. Barton to the heart. His own ill-natured language and conduct, at a much smaller trespass on his rights, presented itself to his mind, and deeply mortified him. After a few moments silence, he said:
               "The fact is, Mr. Gray, I shall feel better if you will let me pay for this corn. My hogs should not be fattened at your expense, and I will not consent to its being done. So I shall insist on paying you for at least one bushel of corn, for I am sure they have destroyed that much, if not more."
               But Mr. Gray shook his head and smiled pleasantly, as he replied:
               "Don't think any thing more about it, neighbour Barton. It is a matter deserving no consideration. No doubt my cattle have often trespassed on you, and will trespass on you again. Let us then bear and forbear."
               All this cut the shoemaker still deeper, and he felt still less at ease in mind after he parted from the farmer than he did before. But on one thing he resolved, and that was to pay Mr. Gray for the corn which his hogs had eaten.
               "You told him your mind pretty plainly, I hope," Mrs. Gray said, as her husband came in.
               "I certainly did," was the quiet reply.
               "And I am glad you had spirit enough to do it! I reckon he will think twice before he kills any more of my geese."
               
               "I expect you are right, Sally. I don't think we shall be troubled again."
               "And what did you say to him? And what did he say for himself?"
               "Why, he wanted very much to pay me for the corn his pigs had eaten, but I wouldn't hear to it. I told him that it made no difference in the world; that such accidents would happen sometimes."
               "You did?"
               "Certainly, I did."
               "And that's the way you spoke your mind to him?"
               "Precisely. And it had the desired effect. It made him feel ten times worse than if I had spoken angrily to him. He is exceedingly pained at what he has done, and says he will never rest until he has paid for that corn. But I am resolved never to take a cent for it. It will be the best possible guarantee I can have for his kind and neighbourly conduct hereafter."
               "Well, perhaps you are right," Mrs. Gray said, after a few moments of thoughtful silence. "I like Mrs. Barton very much; and now I come to think of it, I should not wish to have any difference between our families."
               "And so do I like Mr. Barton. He has read a good deal, and I find it very pleasant to sit with him, occasionally, during the long winter evenings. His only fault is his quick temper; but I am sure it is much better for us to bear with and soothe that, than to oppose and excite it, and thus keep both his family and our own in hot water."
               "You are certainly right," Mrs. Gray said, "and I only wish that I could always think and feel as you do. But I am a little quick, as they say."
               "And so is Mr. Barton. Now just the same consideration that you would desire others to have for you, should you exercise towards Mr. Barton, or any one else whose hasty temper leads him into words or actions that in calmer and more thoughtful moments are subjects of regret."
               On the next day, while Mr. Gray stood in his own door, from which he could see over the two or three acres of ground that the shoemaker cultivated, he observed two of his own cows in his neighbour's corn-field, browsing away in quite a contented manner. As he was going to call one of the farm hands to go over and drive them out, he perceived that Mr. Barton had become aware of the mischief that was going on, and had already started for the field of corn.
               "Now we shall see the effect of yesterday's lesson," the farmer said to himself, and then paused to observe the manner of the shoemaker towards his cattle in driving them out of the field. In a few minutes Mr. Barton came up to the cows; but instead of throwing stones at them, or striking them with a stick, he merely drove them out in a quiet way, and put up the bars through which they had entered.
               
               "Admirable!" ejaculated farmer Gray.
               "What is admirable?" asked his wife, who came within hearing distance at the moment.
               "Why, the lesson I gave our friend Barton yesterday works admirably."
               "How so?"
               "Why, two of our cows were in his corn-field a few minutes ago, destroying the corn at a rapid rate."
               "Well! what did he do to them?" in a quick, anxious, tone.
               "He drove them out."
               "Did he stone them, or beat them?"
               "Oh, no. He was gentle as a child toward them."
               "You are certainly jesting."
               "Not I. Friend Barton has not forgotten that his pigs were in my corn-field yesterday, and that I turned them out without hurting a hair of one of them. Now, suppose I had got angry and beaten his hogs, what do you think the result would have been? Why, it is much more than probable, that one or both of our fine cows would have been at this moment in the condition of Mr. Mellon's old brindle."
               "I wish you wouldn't say any thing more about old brindle," Mrs. Gray said, trying to laugh, while her face grew red, in spite of her efforts to keep down her feelings.
               "Well, I won't, Sally, if it worries you. But it is such a good illustration, that I cannot help using it sometimes."
               "I am glad he didn't hurt the cows," Mrs. Gray said, after a pause.
               "And so am I, Sally. Glad on more than one account. It shows that he has made an effort to keep down his hasty, irritable temper; and if he can do that, it will be a favour conferred on the whole neighbourhood, for almost every one complains, at times, of this fault in his character."
               "It is certainly the best policy, to keep fair weather with him," Mrs. Gray remarked, "for a man of his temper could annoy us a great deal."
               "That word policy, Sally, is not a good word," her husband replied. "It conveys a thoroughly selfish idea. Now we ought to look for some higher motive of action than merely policy—motives grounded in correct and unselfish principles."
               "But what other motive but policy could we possibly have for putting up with Mr. Barton's outrageous conduct?"
               "Other and far higher motives, it seems to me. We should reflect that Mr. Barton has naturally a hasty temper, and that, when excited, he does things for which he is sorry afterwards; and that, in nine cases out of ten, he is a greater sufferer from those outbreaks than any one else. In our actions towards him, then, it is a much higher and better motive for us to be governed by a desire to aid him in the correction rection of this evil, than to look merely to the protection of ourselves from its effects. Do you not think so?"
               "Yes. It does seem so."
               "When thus moved to action, we are in a degree regarding the whole neighbourhood, for the evil of which we speak affects all. And, in thus suffering ourselves to be governed by such elevated and unselfish motives, we gain all that we possibly could have gained under the mere instigation of policy—and a great deal more. But to bring the matter into a still narrower compass,—in all our actions towards him and every one else, we should be governed by the simple consideration—Is it right? If a spirit of retaliation be not right, then it cannot be indulged without a mutual injury. Of course, then, it should never prompt us to action. If cows or hogs get into my field or garden, and destroy my property, who is to blame most? Of course myself. I should have kept my fences in better repair, or my gate closed. The animals certainly are not to blame, for they follow only the promptings of nature; and their owners should not be censured, for they know nothing about it. It would then be very wrong for me to injure both the animals and their owners for my own neglect—would it not?"
               "Yes, I suppose it would."
               "So at least it seems to me. Then, of course, I ought not to injure neighbour Barton's cows or hogs, even if they do break into my corn-field or garden, simply because it would be wrong to do so. This is the principle upon which we should act, and not from any selfish policy."
               After this, there was no more trouble about farmer Gray's geese or cattle. Sometimes the geese would get among Mr, Barton's hogs, and annoy them while eating, but it did not worry him as it did formerly. If they became too troublesome, he would drive them away, but not by throwing sticks and stones at them, as he once did.
               Late in the fall the shoemaker brought in his bill for work. It was a pretty large bill, with sundry credits.
               "Pay-day has come at last," farmer Gray said, good-humouredly, as the shoemaker presented his account. "Well, let us see;" and he took the bill to examine it item after item.
               "What is this?" he asked, reading aloud. "Cr. By one bushel of corn, fifty cents."
               "It's some corn I had from you."
               "I reckon you must be mistaken; you never got any corn from me."
               "Oh, yes, I did; I remember it perfectly. It is all right."
               "But when did you get it, friend Barton? I am sure that I haven't the most distant recollection of it."
               
               "My hogs got it," the shoemaker said, in rather a low and hesitating tone.
               "Your hogs?"
               "Yes. Don't you remember when my hogs broke into your field, and destroyed your corn?"
               "Oh, dear! is that it? Oh, no, no, friend Barton, I cannot allow that item in the bill."
               "Yes, but you must; it is perfectly just, and I shall never rest until it is paid."
               "I can't, indeed. You couldn't help your hogs getting into my field; and then you know, friend Barton," (lowering his tone,) "my geese were very troublesome."
               The shoemaker blushed and looked confused; but farmer Gray slapped him familiarly on the shoulder, and said, in a lively cheerful way, "Don't think any thing more about it, friend Barton; and hereafter, let us endeavour to do as we would be done by, and then every thing would go on as smooth as clock-work."
               "But you will allow that item in the bill?" the shoemaker urged, perseveringly. "Oh, no, I couldn't do that. I should think it wrong to make you pay for my own or some of my men's negligence in leaving the bars down."
               "But, then," (hesitatingly,) "those geese—I killed three; let it go for them!"
               "If you did kill them, we ate them; so that is even. No, no, let the past be forgotten, and if it makes better neighbours and friends of us, we never need regret what has happened."
               Farmer Gray remained firm, and the bill was settled, omitting the item of "corn." From that time forth he never had a better neighbour than the shoe-maker. The cows, and hogs, and geese of both would occasionally trespass, but the trespassers were always kindly removed. The lesson was not lost on either of them—for even farmer Gray used to feel, sometimes, a little annoyed when his neighbour's cattle broke into his field; but in teaching the shoemaker a lesson, he had taken a little of it to himself.
            
            
               
               SALLY LYON'S FIRST AND LAST VISIT TO THE ALE-HOUSE.
               WHEN Sally Lester gave her hand in marriage to Ralph Lyon, she was a delicate, timid girl of eighteen, who had passed the spring-time of life happily beneath her father's roof. To her, care, anxiety, and trouble were yet strangers. The first few years of her married life passed happily—for Ralph was one of the kindest of husbands, and suffered his wife to lean upon him so steadily, that the native strength of her own character remained undeveloped.
               Ralph Lyon was an industrious mechanic who always had steady work and good wages. Still he did not seem to get ahead as some others did, not-withstanding Sally was a frugal wife, and did all her own work, instead of putting him to the expense of help in the family. Of course, this being the case, it was evident that there was a leak somewhere, but where it was neither Ralph nor his wife could tell.
               "Thomas Jones has bought the piece of ground next to his cottage," said Ralph one day to Sally, "and says that next year he hopes to be able to put up a small frame-house, big enough for them to live in. He paid sixty dollars for the lot, and it is at least a quarter of an acre. He is going to put it all in garden this spring, and says he will raise enough to give him potatoes and other vegetables for a year to come. It puzzles me to know how he saves money. He doesn't get any better wages than I do, and his family is quite as large."
               "I am sure," returned Sally, who felt that there was something like a reflection upon her in what her husband said, "that Nancy Jones doesn't spend her husband's earnings more frugally than I do mine. Every week she has a woman to help her wash, and I do it all myself."
               "I am sure it isn't your fault—at least I don't think it is," replied Ralph; "but something is wrong somewhere. I don't spend any thing at all, except for a glass or two every day, and a little tobacco; and this, of course, couldn't make the difference."
               Sally said nothing. A few glasses a day and tobacco, she knew, must cost something, though, like her husband, she did not believe it would make the difference of buying a quarter of an acre of ground, and building a snug cottage in the course of a few years.
               
               Let us see how this is. Perhaps we can find out the leak that wasted the substance of Ralph Lyon. He never drank less than three glasses a day and sometimes four; and his tobacco cost, for smoking and chewing, just twelve and a half cents a week. Now, how much would all this amount to? Why, to just sixty-five dollars a year, provided but three glasses a day were taken, and nothing was spent in treating a friend. But the limit was not always observed, and the consequence was, that, take the year through, at least eighty dollars were spent in drinking, smoking, and chewing. Understanding this, the thing is very plain. In four years, eighty dollars saved in each year would give the handsome sum of three hundred and twenty dollars. Thomas Jones neither drank, smoked, nor chewed, and, consequently, not only saved money enough in a few years to build himself a snug little house, but could afford, during the time, to let his wife have a washer-woman to help her every week, and to dress much more comfortably than Sally Lyon had been able to do.
               The difference in the condition of the two families set Mrs. Lyon to thinking very seriously about the matter, and thinking and calculating soon made the cause quite plain to her. It was the drinking and the smoking. But with a discovery of the evil did not come a cheering consciousness of its easy removal. How could she ask Ralph to give up his glass and his tobacco, to both of which he seemed so strongly wedded? He worked hard for his money, and if he chose to enjoy it in that way, she had no heart to interfere with him. But from the time that Ralph discovered how well his neighbour Jones was getting along, while he, like a horse in a mill, had been toiling and sweating for years, and yet stood in the same place, he became dissatisfied, and often expressed this dissatisfaction to Sally, at the same time declaring his inability to tell where all the money he earned went to.
               At length Sally ventured to hint at the truth. But Ralph met it with—
               "Pooh! nonsense! Don't tell me that a glass of liquor now and then, and a bit of tobacco, are able. Besides, I work very hard, and I ought to have a little comfort with it. When I'm tired, a glass warms me up, and makes me bright again; and I am sure I couldn't do without my pipe."
               "I don't ask you to do so, Ralph," replied Sally. "I only said what I did, that you might see why we couldn't save money like our neighbour Jones. I am sure I am very careful in our expenses, and haven't bought myself new gown for a long time, although I am very bare of clothes."
               The way in which Ralph replied to his wife's suggestion of the cause of the evil complained of, determined her to say no more; and as he felt some convictions on the subject, which he was not willing to admit, he was ever afterward silent about the unaccountable way in which his money went.
               In about the same ratio that the external condition of Thomas Jones improved, did that of Ralph Lyon grow worse and worse. From not being able to save any thing, he gradually began to fall in debt. When quarter-day came round, there were generally several dollars wanting to make up the rent; and their landlord, with much grumbling on his part, was compelled to wait for the balance some two or three weeks beyond the due-day. At length the quarter-day found Ralph with nothing laid by for his rent. Somehow or other, he was not able to earn as much, from sickness and days lost from other causes; and what he did earn appeared to melt away like snow in the sunshine.
               Poor Mrs. Lyon felt very miserable at the aspect of things; more especially, as in addition to the money squandered at the ale-house by her husband, he often came home intoxicated. The grief to her was more severe, from the fact that she loved Ralph tenderly, notwithstanding his errors. When he came home in liquor, she did not chide him, nor did she say any thing to him about it when he was sober; for then he appeared so ashamed and cut down, that she could not find it in her heart to utter a single word. One day she was alarmed by a message from Ralph that he had been arrested, while at his work, for debt, by his landlord, who was going to throw him in jail. They now owed him over twenty dollars. The idea of her husband being thrown into a jail was terrible to poor Mrs. Lyon. She asked a kind neighbour to take care of her children for her, and then, putting on her bonnet, she almost flew to the magistrate's office. There was Ralph, with an officer by his side ready to remove him to prison. "You sha'n't take my husband to jail," she said, wildly, when she saw the real shape of things, clinging fast hold of Ralph. "Nobody shall take him to jail."
               "I am sorry, my good woman," said the magistrate, "to do so, but it can't be helped. The debt must be paid, or your husband will have to go to jail. I have no discretion in the matter. Can you find means to pay the debt? If not, perhaps you had better go and see your landlord; you may prevail on him to wait a little longer for his money and not send your husband to jail."
               "Yes, Sally, do go and see him," said Ralph; "I am sure he will relent when he sees you."
               Mrs. Lyon let go the arm of her husband, and, darting from the office, ran at full speed to the house of their landlord.
               "Oh, sir!" she exclaimed, "you cannot, you will not send my husband to jail."
               "I both can and will," was the gruff reply. "A man who drinks up his earnings as he does, and then, when quarter-day comes, can't pay his rent, deserves to go to jail."
               "But, sir, consider"—
               "Don't talk to me, woman! If you have the money for the rent, I will take it, and let your husband go free; if not, the quicker you leave here the better."
               It was in vain, she saw, to strive with the hard-hearted man, whose face was like iron. Hurriedly leaving his house, she hastened back to the office, but her husband was not there. In her absence he had been removed to prison. When Mrs Lyon fully understood this, she made no remark, but turned from the magistrate and walked home with a firm step. The weakness of the woman was giving way to the quickening, energies of the wife, whose husband was in prison, and could not be released except by her efforts. On entering her house, she went to her drawers, and took therefrom a silk dress, but little worn, a mother's present when she was married, a good shawl, that she had bought from her own earnings when a happy maiden; a few articles of jewelry, that had not been worn for years, most of them presents from Ralph before they had stood at the bridal altar, and sundry other things that could be dispensed with. These she took to a pawnbroker's, and obtained an advance of fifteen dollars. She had two dollars in the house, which made seventeen; the balance of the required sum she borrowed from two or three of her neighbours, and then hurried off to obtain her husband's release.
               For a time, the rigid proceedings of the landlord proved a useful lesson to Ralph Lyon. He worked more steadily, and was rather more careful of his earnings. But this did not last a great while. Appetite, long indulged, was strong; and he soon returned to his old habits.
               The shock the imprisonment of her husband produced awoke Mrs. Lyon to the necessity of doing something to increase their income. All that he brought home each week was scarcely sufficient to buy food; and it was clear that there would be nothing with which to pay rent when next quarter-day came round, unless it should be the product of her own exertions. Plain sewing was obtained by Mrs. Lyon, and an additional labour of three or four hours in the twenty-four added to her already overtasked body. Instead of feeling rebuked at this, the besotted husband only perceived in it a license for him to use his own earnings more freely, thus making his poor wife's condition really worse than it was before.
               Things, instead of getting better, grew worse, year after year. The rent Mrs. Lyon managed always to pay; for the fear of seeing her husband carried off jail was ever before her eyes, stimulating her to constant exertion; but down, down, down they went steadily and surely, and the light of hope faded daily, and grew dimmer and dimmer before the eyes of the much-enduring wife and mother. Amid all, her patience was wonderful. She never spoke angrily to Ralph, but strove, rather, always to appear cheerful before him. If he was disposed to talk, she would talk with him, and humour his mood of mind; if he was gloomy and silent, she would intrude nothing upon him calculated to fret his temper; if he complained, she tried to soothe him. But it availed nothing. The man was in a charmed circle, and every impulse tended to throw him into the centre where ruin awaited him.
               At last even the few dollars she had received every week from her husband's earnings ceased to come into her hands. The wretched man worked little over half his time, and drank up all that he made. Even the amount of food that the entire product of Mrs. Lyon's labour would procure was barely sufficient to satisfy the hunger of her family. The clothes of her children soon began to hang in tatters about them; her own garments were faded, worn, and patched; and every thing about the house that had not been sold to pay rent was in a dilapidated condition. Still there had been no unkind word, not even a remonstrance from the much enduring wife.
               Matters at last reached a climax. Poor Mrs. Lyon had not been able to get any thing to do for a week, and all supplies of food, except a little meal were exhausted. An anxious day had closed, and at nightfall the at nightfall the mother made some hasty-pudding for the children, which was eaten with a little milk. This consumed her entire store. She had four children; the two oldest she put to bed, but kept the two youngest, one five years old, and the other three, up with her. She moved about with a firmer step than usual, and her lips were tightly closed, as if she had made up her mind to do something from which under ordinary circumstances she would have shrunk.
               After the older children had been put to bed she made the two younger ones draw near to the hearth, upon which a few brands were burning, and warm themselves as well as the feeble heat emitted by the almost exhausted fire would permit. Then she wrapped each around with a piece of an old shawl, and after putting on her bonnet, took them by the hands and left the house. It was a chilly night in winter. The wind swept coldly along the streets, piercing through these thin garments of the desperate mother, who was leading forth her tender little ones on some strange, unnatural errand. But she shrank not in the blast, but walked rapidly along, almost dragging the children after her. At length she stopped before the window of an ale-house, and standing on tiptoe, looked over the red curtain hat shaded half the window, and concealed the inmates from the view of passers-by. Within she saw her husband sitting comfortably by a table, a glass by his side and a pipe in his mouth. Half a dozen pot-companions, were sitting around, and all seemed enjoying themselves well.
               Mrs. Lyon remained without only a few moments; then taking hold of the door she walked firmly in, and without appearing to notice her husband, went up to the bar and called for three glasses of brandy. After doing this, she seated herself at a table near by her husband. Great, of course, was the surprise of Lyon at this apparition. He jumped from his chair and stood before his wife, just as she had taken her seat at the table, saying, in an under-tone, as he did so—
               "For heaven's sake, Sally what brings you here?"
               "It is very lonesome at home, Ralph," she replied, in a calm but sad voice. "Our wood is all gone and it is cold there. I am your wife, and there is no company for me like yours. I will go anywhere to be with you. I am willing to come even here."
               "But, Sally, to think of your coming to such a place as this!"
               "If it is pleasant to you, it shall be so to me. Anywhere that my husband goes, surely I can go. God hath joined us together as one, nothing should divide us."
               By this time the three glasses of brandy that Mrs. Lyon had called for were placed before her on the table.
               "Bring another glass," said Mrs. Lyon, calmly, my husband will drink with us."
               "Sally, are you mad?" ejaculated Ralph.
               "Mad, to go with my husband? Why should you say that, Ralph? Drink, children," she added, turning to her two little ones, and placing a glass of unadulterated brandy before them. "It will do you good." As Sally said this, she lifted her own glass to her lips.
               "Surely, you are not going to drink that?" said Ralph.
               "Why not? You drink to forget sorrow; and if brandy have that effect, I am sure no living creature needs it more than I do. Besides, I have eaten nothing to-day, and need something to strengthen me."
               Saying this, she sipped the burning liquid, and, smacking her lips, looked up into her husband's face and smiled.
               "It warms to the very heart, Ralph!" she said. "I feel better already." Then turning to the children, whose glasses remained untouched before them, she said to the astonished little ones—
               "Drink, my children! It is very good."
               "Woman! are you mad? My children shall not touch it;" and he lifted the glasses from the table and handed them to one of the company that had crowded around to witness this strange scene.
               "Why not?" said his wife, in the calm tone with which she had first spoken. "If it is good for you, it is good for your wife and children. It will put these dear ones to sleep, and they will forget that they are cold and hungry. To you it is fire and food, bed and clothing; all these we need, and you surely will not withhold them from us?"
               By this time Ralph was less under the influence of liquor than he had been for weeks, although he had drunk as freely as ever through the day. Taking hold of his wife's arm, he said, in a kind voice, for he began to think that her mind was really wandering—
               "Come, Sally, let us go home."
               "Why should we go, Ralph?" she replied, keeping her seat. "There is no fire at home, but it is warm and comfortable here. There is no food there, but here is plenty to eat and to drink. I don't wonder that you liked this place better than home, and I am sure I would rather stay here."
               The drunken husband was confounded. He knew not what to do or to say. The words of his wife smote him to the heart; for she uttered a stunning rebuke that could not be gainsaid. He felt a choking sensation, and his trembling knees bore heavily against each other.
               "Sally" he said, after a pause, in an altered and very earnest tone, "I know it is more comfortable here than it is at home, but I am going home, and I intend staying there. Won't you go with me, and try to make it as comfortable as it used to be? The change is all my fault, I know; but it shall be my fault no longer. Here, once and for ever, I solemnly pledge myself before God, never again to drink the poison that has made me more than half a brute, and beggared my poor family. Come, Sally! Let us hurry away from here; the very air oppresses me. Come, in heaven's name! come!"
               Quickly, as if an electric shock had startled her, did Mrs. Lyon spring from her seat, as her husband uttered the last word, and lay hold of his arm with an eager grasp.
               "The Lord in heaven be praised!" she said, solemnly, "For it is his work. Yes, come! Let us go quickly. There will again be light and fire and food in our dwelling. Our last days may yet be our best days."
               Lifting each a child from the floor, the husband and wife left that den of misery with as hasty steps as Christian's when he fled from the City of Destruction.
               The hopeful declaration of Mrs. Lyon proved indeed true. There was soon light and fire and food again in that cheerful dwelling; and the last days of Ralph and his family have proved to be their best days. He has never since tasted the tempting cup, and finds that it is a very easy matter to save one or two dollars a week, and yet live very comfortably.
               The scene in the ale-house is never alluded to by either the husband or wife. They take no pleasure in looking back—preferring, rather, to look forward with hope. When it is thought of by either, it is something as a man who has endured a painful operation to save his life, thinks of the intense sufferings he then endured.
            
            
               KEEPING UP APPEARANCES.
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  HIGHLAND MORTON died, and left a widow and one daughter, the latter at the interesting age of twenty. As it often happens in this country with men engaged in mercantile and other transactions, the settlement of Mr. Morton's affairs revealed the unexpected fact that he had died insolvent. Intelligence of this was, in due time, conveyed to the afflicted widow, adding greatly to her distress of mind. Usually, among creditors, there are some less eager for the pound of flesh than others. To these, Mrs. Morton was indebted for the kind consideration that spared her furniture and plate. These constituted all the worldly wealth that remained to her.
                  One evening, about two months after the death of Mr. Morton, Clara, who, with her mother, still occupied the old homestead, was seated alone near a window musing sadly on their changed condition. A few days before, her mother had been fully apprized of the exact state of affairs, and of the necessity there was for her to retire from the elegant mansion she had long occupied to some humble abode. The spirits of the daughter, as well as those of the mother, were deeply depressed.
                  "Mr. Archer is in the parlour," said a domestic, entering the room where Clara sat.
                  The young girl rose up quickly at this announcement, saying, as she did so—"Tell Mr. Archer that I will be down in a few moments."
                  The domestic left the room. An entire change passed over the drooping girl; her eye grew brighter, her cheek flushed, and her hand trembled. The visitor was, evidently, one in whom her heart took more than an ordinary interest. A consultation of her mirror showed sundry little defects in the arrangement of her hair and dress; these were remedied, and she descended to the parlor. The visitor was a young man, whose finely-formed head, and open, generous countenance, showed him to be the possessor of good sense, and warm, true feelings. He met Clara Morton with a gentle courtesy that was frank, while it was respectful; kindly asked after her mother, and then introduced, with the tact of a true gentleman, subjects of conversation neither too gay to shock her feelings, nor too grave to depress them. He sat with her for an hour, and then retired.
                  "Who was that, dear?" asked Mrs. Morton, as her daughter came up to her room, after the visitor had departed.
                  "Mr. Archer."
                  "Was it?" The tone in which this half interrogation, half abstract exclamation was made, showed that the mother felt a peculiar interest in the individual who had just left the house. She mused for some time after she had spoken, and then asked, in a hesitating voice, as if doubtful how her question would be received—
                  "Has Mr. Archer ever given you cause to believe that he meant seriously to address you?" The colour mounted instantly to the neck, cheeks, and forehead of Clara. She cast her eyes to the floor in confusion, and remained silent.
                  "Do not feel any delicacy about opening your whole mind to me, Clara," Mrs. Morton said. "Now, more than ever, are we called upon to be unreserved in our intercourse; we are alone, and dependent alone upon ourselves. Stripped of fortune tune and many friends, there lies in prospect a doubtful and gloomy future. How we are to struggle through the world, I know not."
                  Mrs. Morton's voice trembled a little as she uttered the last sentence; but she soon resumed "Mr. Archer is well off in the world; his family is wealthy. He has now been visiting you for some months. If you were to become his wife, it would be well again, so far as our position in society is concerned. It was in view of this that I asked the question. What answer can you now make?"
                  "He has never alluded to the subject," Clara said, in a low, reluctant voice, the blood still reddening her cheeks and forehead.
                  "I wonder if he knows that we have lost every thing?"
                  "I am sure I cannot tell."
                  "Has there been any marked change in his conduct of late?"
                  "None, that I have observed."
                  "None which I can speak of," would have more nearly expressed the truth: for Clara had noticed that the manner of Mr. Archer was tenderer than before her father's death; but she could not say this.
                  "I wonder what can be his intentions?" Mrs. Morton mused in an under-tone. "He cannot know that we are stripped of every thing. If he did, I am sure he would not continue his visits."
                  
                  Then speaking aloud, she said, "For the present, Clara, we must endeavour to keep up appearances. If we sink down at once into indigence and obscurity, all hope of your becoming the wife of Mr. Archer is at an end; deplorable, indeed, will be our situation. What can we do? I shudder at the thought!"
                  "What do you mean by keeping up appearances?' Clara asked, lifting her still glowing face; the desponding tone used by her mother, and her ominous words, startling her mind into action.
                  "To lay aside all reserve with each other is now our best course, my daughter," Mrs. Morton said in a low earnest voice. "Our interests are inseparably united. We stand alone, and, if we fall, must fall together. That fall is inevitable, unless you become the wife of Henry Archer."
                  "What I fear will never take place," murmured Clara, dropping her eyes to the floor.
                  "He loves you, Clara."
                  The maiden was silent.
                  "I know he loves you, and desires to make you his wife; but I do not know how this sudden and terrible reverse may affect him. I fear he will not think the daughter of a penniless widow of half the consideration he did the child of Highland Morton. Men cannot but regard external circumstances when they are choosing companions for life, and who can blame them? Thus far, it is evident that Mr. Archer cher does not suspect the truth; he still thinks us rich. Oh, if he will but offer for your hand and secure it before the dreadful news reaches his ears, how happy I shall be!"
                  "I see no way of preventing the consequences you dread," Clara said, already beginning to enter into her mother's views, though with an inward, instinctive shrinking from their entertainment; she had not grown up to the years of womanhood in an atmosphere that was perfectly pure.
                  Mrs. Morton was not a simple lover of truth for truth's sake; she had, under her mother's guidance, secured her husband, as she thought, by tact and management. It was, indeed, in her opinion, the only way in which a maiden could secure the man of her choice. Since Clara had passed the age of eighteen, she had been looking about her with a careful eye, in order to select the man she would like to become her husband. No one had pleased her so well as Archer. She had discrimination enough to perceive that he possessed those moral endowments, the existence of which, in a husband, always secures to a good wife a high degree of happiness. Not second to these, in her estimation, were his family connections and his wealth. Just at the time when she looked daily for a declaration, death visited her peaceful home, and carried off her husband. Ere from this affliction she had lifted her head—ere the gush of tears had dried upon her cheek—came the astounding intelligence that Mr. Morton had died insolvent. The knowledge of this fact aroused her from that lethargic state into which so deep an affliction often plunges the mind, and caused her to look about, in alarm, for some means whereby to save herself and child from the consequences that must inevitably follow. The only one that presented itself was the marriage of Clara with Mr. Archer. She did not believe that, with a full knowledge of her real condition, he would be willing to make Clara his wife. There existed, therefore, a necessity for the strictest concealment—for an assumption of false appearances.
                  It did not require much argument on the part of Mrs. Morton to induce Clara to enter into her views, and to become a party in carrying them out. The more she conversed with her mother on the subject, and the more she thought of the condition into which they would sink unless this marriage were brought about, the more did she feel inclined to do almost any thing for the attainment of the end proposed. When, therefore, her mother suggested the propriety of removing into a house scarcely less beautiful than the one they were compelled to leave, she made only a feeble objection.
                  "But the rent," she said; "how are we to pay that?"
                  "Appearances must be kept up, Clara, that is settled," returned Mrs. Morton. "Our only hope lies there. In a few weeks Mr. Archer will certainly propose, and the naming of the wedding-day will be left to you. You can arrange it to fall anterior to the first quarter-day. Of course, your husband will want to furnish a home for himself. I can then break up, sell off, and have enough from this sale to pay the quarter's rent. Of our real destitution, he need know nothing."
                  "But suppose he should not offer himself in that time?"
                  "I will sell plate enough to pay the first quarter's rent. In six months, a consummation of our hopes must take place."
                  "Still in the end he will discover that we have misled him."
                  "That is nothing. You will be his wife."
                  "True," thought Clara, "but will he love me so well? Will not the knowledge by him that a fraud had been practised, cause him to love me less?"
                  But even this was not a consequence to be so much dreaded as the losing of him altogether. Prompt to carry out her plan, Mrs. Morton rented, at an early day, a handsome house, at eight hundred dollars a year. Into this she removed her elegant furniture. In order to keep up appearances, a waiter to attend the door and parlour had to be retained. Other domestics, except the cook, were dismissed, the mother and daughter proposing to themselves to do all the chamber work, besides various etceteras, heretofore confided to no less than two or three servants. The eager desire we have to attain any end gives us delight in the use of the means, no matter how irksome they might be under other circumstances. Such was the case with Mrs. Morton and her daughter. The making of beds, the care of chambers, and other household duties, were performed with a species of pleasure altogether new to them.
                  At the new residence, Mr. Archer was as regular a visitant as at the old. But week after week went by, and no declaration of love came. In his intercourse with Clara, his manner was kind and gentle even to tenderness. In all that interested her, he seemed to feel an unusual interest. But no word was said about love or marriage. Thus, time passed on for one, two, and three months, bringing around to Mrs. Morton the long-dreaded quarter-day when two hundred dollars had to be paid. The sale, through the waiter, a white man, in whom confidence could be placed, of plate and jewelry, met this demand, besides other bills for expenses which had been accumulating. After the passage of this crisis, things began to assume a more disheartening aspect. Limit themselves as they would, demands for money were constant, to meet the wants of the family. Piece after piece of plate that remained had to go, and article after article of jewelry, until absolute want stared them in the face.
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  "DIDN'T I see you at the Opera, last night, with Clara Morton?" asked a friend of Archer, some three or four months after Mrs. Morton had entered upon the plan of keeping up appearances.
                  "Yes," was the reply.
                  "And if I am not mistaken, I have seen you in her company a good many times of late?"
                  "I shouldn't wonder if you had."
                  "You have serious intentions in that quarter, eh?"
                  "Perhaps so."
                  "But you are aware that her father died insolvent?"
                  "Perfectly so."
                  "And you are willing to take the daughter even under these circumstances?"
                  "I am not prepared to say that I am perfectly willing to take the daughter, though I must say, that the particular circumstances to which you allude would have no weight in the scale of objections."
                  "But how is it they can afford to live in the style they do? The creditors, I am told, left them nothing but their furniture and plate."
                  "That is just the question for which I am seeking an answer. And until I obtain a satisfactory solution, I shall defer making any proposition for the hand of Clara."
                  
                  "I certainly would. The marriage relation is one of too much importance to be entered into without full knowledge of all the circumstances that may affect it. Can it be possible that property has been made over to the wife and daughter in a quiet way, in anticipation of a failure that must have soon taken place, even if Mr. Morton had lived?"
                  "Not in the form of real estate; for I have, in order to satisfy my mind on this head, had a search made of the records in the Clerk's office. How much personal property, in the form of stocks, or hoarded gold, Mrs. Morton may have, I have not been able to ascertain. I am more inclined to the belief that it is all an effort keep up appearances."
                  "In order to secure you."
                  "I have never permitted that thought to assume in my mind a distinct form; and I regret that you should have permitted yourself so far to forget what was proper as to utter it," said Archer, gravely.
                  "A thousand pardons, my dear friend," quickly rejoined the young man, in an earnest voice, "I did not really think what I was saying."
                  After that, Archer became silent and thoughtful. In a little while he parted from his friend. He was walking slowly down a certain street, not long after wards, when some article in the window of a store met his eye. He stepped in and asked to see it that he might examine it more closely. While standing at the counter, he heard the owner of the store say, in rather an indifferent tone, to a young woman, whom he had not particularly noticed— "Three dollars is all I can give you for it. If that will not suit you, there is, of course, no bargain between us."
                  "But see," returned the person addressed, "how beautiful the work is! It is well worth eight dollars. I have paid ten and twelve for an article not near so good, many and many a time. It is the work of a poor, sick young woman, who is not able to go out with it. Consider this, and offer a fairer price."
                  "I have said my best," was the firm answer.
                  "I am sorry," replied the young woman, in a sad tone, tossing toward the man with whom she was bargaining the article offered for sale. He took it, and handing her the price agreed upon, turned away from her with an indifferent air.
                  Archer started in surprise the instant his ear caught the sound of the young woman's voice, and he listened with interest to the interview that passed between her and the store-keeper. As she turned from the counter, he looked into her face, and saw that its expression was that of painful disappointment. For a moment or two he hesitated—a suspicion flashed over his mind—but, quickly dispelling this, he stepped forward as she was approaching the door, and said—
                  "Miss Morton!"
                  Clara, for it was she, stopped quickly. For an instant only did her lip quiver, and the expression of her face betray her real feelings. A single, strong effort sufficed to suppress every up-swelling and struggling emotion. Her eye then brightened, a smile wreathed about her lips, and her whole face became lit up with a glow of pleasure.
                  "I am out this morning on rather an unusual errand," she remarked, in a half careless tone. "A poor young woman, who used to sew for us, is sinking into a rapid decline. She has not been able to leave her room for some months. During that time she has worked some beautiful capes, and I have been selling them for her this morning. But I have not been able to get for them even half their real value. I just sold one for three dollars, that is worth more than double that price. I cannot, however, think of disappointing the poor creature by this result. I shall add something, in order to swell the amount to a more reasonable sum."
                  "In such a good work let me be a participant," said Archer, a glow of admiration warming his bosom. As he spoke, he drew from his pocket half an eagle, and slipped it into the hand of Clara. That hand close upon the coin instinctively. In the next instant her face was suffused with crimson, to hide which from the eye of her lover, her head was turned for some time so much away from him, that he could not see its expression. At the door of her mother's house he parted from Clara, with a new feeling of admiration for her. Goodness of heart charms every one.
                  The moment the door closed between her and Archer, Clara sprang along the passage and up the stairs to her mother's room, with the fleetness of a deer. There she found her parent anxiously awaiting her.
                  "Did you sell them?" asked Mrs. Morton, eagerly.
                  "I did." As Clara made this answer, she sank into a chair, panting with excitement.
                  "What ails you, child? What has happened?" said Mrs. Morton, in an alarmed tone.
                  "Oh, mother! He came in while I was selling one of the capes!"
                  "Who? Mr. Archer?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Clara!"
                  And Mrs. Morton's face grew pale, as she pronounced her daughter's name.
                  "It's true. But I am almost sure he does not suspect the truth. I did just as you said. I told wherever I went, that I was selling them for a poor sick young woman. If Mr. Archer heard any thing that passed between me and the shop-keeper to whom I sold the last one, he heard that statement. Just as I was going out, disheartened at the poor price I had received—only two and three dollars for these beautifully worked capes—he turned from one of the counters and called my name. I must have betrayed something of my real feelings, when I turned my face towards him. But as quick as in my power, I rallied, and met him with a look of pleasure. As he walked along with me, I told him that I had been out selling some articles made by a sick young woman who had once sewed for you, and that I had been sadly disappointed in the price. And, further, that I meant to add something to the sum obtained, before handing it over to the young woman. 'In such a good work let me be a participant,' he instantly said, passing into my hand this half eagle, which I could not, under the circumstances, return to him."
                  Mrs. Morton breathed more freely after Clara had made this statement.
                  "It is well," she said, "that you followed strictly my advice in stating that you were selling the capes for another. This has prevented a discovery of the truth that would have ruined us. But how much money have you obtained in all?"
                  "For four capes I got two dollars and a half each, and for one three dollars. That is thirteen dollars. Besides, here is a half eagle from Mr. Archer. What shall we do with that?"
                  "Use it as we do the rest, of course. It cannot be returned. He will never be the wiser. But, even with that, we shall not have enough. We owe Thomas forty dollars, and he wants half of it to-morrow. The baker handed in his bill to-day. That is ten dollars. And since you have been gone, Mary sent word up to me by Thomas, that she wants some money. What is to be done?"
                  "Sell my watch and chain," replied Clara.
                  "No—no. It will not do. You must keep that for the sake of appearances."
                  "Let my diamond breast-pin go. It will bring at least one hundred dollars."
                  "No. That must be retained for the same reason. All will be lost if appearances are not kept up."
                  Clara sighed and remained silent. "Only thirteen dollars for five capes, over which you have worked early and late for more than as many weeks!" broke in Mrs. Morton, after a gloomy pause. "Little is to be hoped from the labour of your poor hands, if such is to be the invariable result. But something must be done. I am sure that Mr. Archer will offer himself now very soon. We must struggle on a little longer. Here is an elegant wardrobe that we can do without. Let us send it to auction. It can be taken out the back way. Thomas will manage it all for us. He is discreet and unsuspicious."
                  Clara has no objections to make. The wardrobe was sent to auction, and thirty dollars obtained for it. But this sum was insufficient to meet their wants. Other articles of furniture had to be sold, and much against Mrs. Morton's will, at length, the watch and chain and diamond breast-pin belonging to Clara.
                  Notwithstanding the meagre sum obtained for her work, Clara at once resumed her embroidery, conscious that every dollar, no matter how hardly earned, was of importance. But the direct falsehood she had felt compelled to utter weighed heavily upon her heart. Were Mr. Archer to find that out, instead of being beloved by him she would become at once the object of his contempt. Whenever she thought of the half eagle she had taken, a glow of shame would burn upon her cheek. He had been moved with a generous feeling, enkindled by a false picture, and had given for the relief of wretchedness that did not exist. Oh, how unhappy such thoughts made her feel.
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  ON leaving Clara at the door, as has been seen, Mr. Archer walked slowly and thoughtfully away. There was something about the little incident he had witnessed, that kept quickening into life a latent suspicion, no matter how resolutely he struggled against it. But he chid himself, at length, warmly, for his ungenerous thoughts, and looking steadily at the noble conduct of Clara in thus subjecting herself to an unpleasant exposure of feelings in order to aid a helpless fellow creature, permitted his mind to rise into a warm admiration of her conduct and character. Thus far he had remained entirely at fault in regard to the appearance of wealth that was kept up, when it was a well-known fact that Mr. Morton had died insolvent. It argued something wrong. And he was such a lover of truth and honour, that he still hesitated to offer his hand to Clara, in the hope of obtaining some clue to the mystery. Had appearances corresponded with their supposed condition, he would long before have offered his hand. Eagerly would he have stepped forward to prevent one he so fondly loved from sinking into indigence and obscurity. Tenderly would he have clasped her to his bosom and called her his wife. But now he knew not how to act.
                  Time still wore on. The second quarter-day came round. The landlord's bill was presented to Mrs. Morton, but she had not the means of settling it. Mr. Archer still came to see Clara, but as yet no offer of marriage had been made. Both mother and daughter had become nervously anxious; the latter was pale, and her countenance, in spite of all her efforts to assume a cheerful look when in company, was care-worn.
                  "You ought to marry Clara Morton, or else give up your close attention to her," said a female friend whose age and position gave her a right to speak thus freely to Archer. "I am just of your opinion," replied the young man. "But which to do, I am thus far unable to decide."
                  
                  "Do you love her?"
                  "Yes; tenderly."
                  "Then why not marry her at once? Your attention to her cannot but have excited in her mind a reciprocal interest. But while she remains in ignorance of your feelings and intentions, her position must be an embarrassing and really painful one. Think of the suspense she must endure. For ten or twelve months you have been visiting her, and yet she remains in ignorance of your feelings or intentions. How would you feel under such circumstances? Be just, my young friend. At once decide the question, and give her a certainty to rest upon.
                  "But I cannot decide it."
                  "Why?"
                  "Because I am unable to understand her mother's and her own position in regard to external matters.
                  "What is the difficulty?"
                  "Mr. Morton died insolvent. And yet his widow lives in handsome style. How is this?"
                  "I can explain it to you easily. Mrs. Morton is a proud woman, and is struggling to keep up appearances. I have it from the best authority that she has sacrificed already nearly all the plate and jewelry spared to her by the creditors of her husband, and that both she and Clara toil early and late; she in household affairs, and Clara in embroidery.
                  "What do they expect to gain by a concealment of all this?" Archer asked, in a changed voice.
                  "Dear knows! A woman like Mrs. Morton acts sometimes, in trying positions, like an insane person. I do not pity her so much as I do her daughter, who is compelled to enter into her mother's false notions, and to suffer all the consequences thereof. If you really love her, step forward and lift her out of this deeply trying situation."
                  "I will think about it," Archer said in an abstracted voice.
                  "You have already thought long enough. It is time to act."
                  "Very well, I will act, then, and that very soon."
                  The lady looked with surprise into the young man's face as he uttered these words. His voice was altogether changed. It sounded harsh, and, to her ear, angry. The expression of his face surprised her no less.
                  "What is the matter? I have said nothing at all derogatory to Clara Morton. I think her a lovely girl, and one worthy of your hand."
                  "The woman who can utter a deliberate falsehood is altogether unworthy," was Archer's stern reply.
                  "I hardly think the false position into which a weak mother has forced Clara can warrant the charge against her of falsehood."
                  "I did not mean that, bad as it is. But something far worse."
                  The young man then mentioned briefly, what the reader already knows, about the embroidery which had been sold by Clara, and how she had stated that she was disposing of it for a poor sick girl. After he had concluded the relation, he remarked:
                  "This incident uncovers two radical defects in the character of Clara Morton—two defects, the existence of which, with my previous knowledge, shall never be found in the woman who holds to me the sacred relation of wife. A willingness to appear what she is not, in order to deceive, and a disregard of truth. In other words, she can be false both in act and word. Now that I can see the subject in a clearer light than I could a few moments ago, it seems to me that to marry Clara would be an act of madness. Without respect for her moral principles, how could I truly love her? But are you satisfied that Clara has really been engaged in working articles similar to those I saw her sell?"
                  "There can be no question of that. My knowledge is derived from a very intimate friend of Mrs. Morton— one who visits her frequently. I have myself seen Clara engaged upon a fine lace cape, which she was working very handsomely indeed. But sorry am that she had not the honesty to declare the real truth, and the noble independence to appear as she really was, no matter what might be the consequence."
                  "To me it is a source of painful regret," replied Mr. Archer, in a softened voice; "I was deeply attached to her, and am still so. But this I must struggle against, and shake off. What weakness; what folly, was it for her to dream for an instant that I could love her for any thing meaner than herself! That mere wealth and external show could weigh with me, even as a feather, against the intrinsic excellences of a pure heart, guarded on all sides by independence and strict integrity!" The friend did not seek to influence Archer. She saw and felt that he was right.
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  ON the evening of the day on which Mr. Archer had made a discovery of Clara Morton's duplicity and falsehood, the latter sat awaiting his accustomed visit. She had been bending over her work, steadily, from morning until night closed in, notwithstanding such unaccustomed toil produced excessive wearisomeness. Now, as she reclined upon a sofa, she felt an unusual lassitude, accompanied by a pain in her side and breast; her feelings were, likewise, depressed.
                  Mr. Archer had been coming for more than six months since the death of her father, and still, although his manner was kind and tender, the long wished-for offer of his hand had not been made. Appearances, assumed to deceive him, could not long be kept up. Already debts of over three hundred dollars had accumulated. A few more months, and all would be exposed.
                  With such thoughts crowding in upon her mind, and pressing it down as if by a heavy weight, did Clara sit through the whole evening, anxiously expecting her lover. But he did not come. Sad, even to tears, did she at last retire to her chamber; where, half unrobing herself, she lay down upon her bed; but not to sleep sweetly. Doubt, fear, and anxiety kept her awake hour after hour; or, if over-wearied nature claimed a moment's respite, he would, stealing in upon her dreaming thoughts, startle her from troubled slumber.
                  On the next day she resumed her work. During the morning a note of invitation to a large party was handed in. It was to take place in a week. "I have nothing fit to wear at a large party," Clara said, laying the note aside with a desponding air.
                  "Mr. Archer will be there," remarked Mrs. Morton, significantly.
                  "No doubt."
                  "You will have to go, of course."
                  "But I have nothing fit to wear."
                  "Something must be obtained, then. How much work have you ready?"
                  "Sufficient to bring about six dollars."
                  "The party will take place in a week."
                  "Yes."
                  "It will take two days, at least, to get a dress made! So you have only four days longer at most to work in. How much can you earn in that time?"
                  "By working early and late, and all day on next Sunday, I think I might earn six dollars more. But twelve dollars will not buy half what I ought to have. Fifty would be little enough. This will be nearly my last chance. Very soon, if Mr. Archer does not offer himself, we shall sink to rise no more."
                  As Clara said this, her feelings overcame her. She turned her head away, to conceal the tears that flowed in spite of her efforts to restrain them. After thinking for a long time, Mrs. Morton suggested another sacrifice of articles of furniture that could be spared. The suggestion was not opposed. In the course of a few days forty dollars were realized in this way, nearly all of which was expended in articles to be worn by Clara at the coming party. Meantime, the mistaken girl was working all day long, and for more than half the night, suffering both mental and bodily pain, in order to procure a few dollars more with which to deck her person. She even invaded the sanctity of the Sabbath-day by continuing her labours throughout its peaceful hours.
                  But all her toil was uncheered by even a single visit from Archer. This unusual and prolonged absence filled her heart with alarm. What could it mean? Had he discovered their real condition? The thought drove her almost to madness.
                  Sick at heart, and worn down in body, Clara at length completed her proposed tasks, and presented her work for sale. Ten dollars were the amount realized for what she had expected would yield her twelve or fourteen. With this sum she completed her purchases, and spent the intervening time in preparing herself to make as imposing an appearance as possible on the approaching festive occasion.
                  Time soon brought the expected evening. Clara went with a trembling heart. It was more than a week since she had seen Archer. How would he meet her? As before; or with coldness and reserve? The last glance she had taken at her mirror showed her that, though richly attired, her face wore an unattractive appearance. The brightness of her cheek had been partially restored, but not the brightness of her eyes. Through them the troubled mind spoke too plainly.
                  It was early when she arrived. Guest after guest came, until the rooms were full; but, as yet, her anxious eyes had not been blest with the presence of Archer. Late in the evening, as she was forcing herself to converse with a young man who sat by her side, she saw him coming down: the room with a plainly attired but lovely girl upon his arm, the daughter of a widow, whose husband, like her father, had died, leaving his family destitute. This family had at once fallen back into their true position; they assumed nothing in the exterior that was not a representative of their real condition. But the truth, purity, and unselfishness of their characters made each member a favourite; the change had not lost them a single friend whom they valued.
                  As Archer approached Clara, his eye rested suddenly upon her. The struggle with his feelings, aroused at the sight of one so long beloved, was but brief. A cold, formal bow was all the acknowledgment he made of her presence, and then passed on, resuming, with the maiden on his arm, the conversation that had been momentarily interrupted.
                  Shocked, almost stupified, by the manner of Archer, Clara left the rooms in a few moments. Complaining of illness as a reason for retiring, she asked that a carriage might be sent for. In this she returned home—heart-sick and hopeless. For many weeks she was too ill to leave her room, remaining during the time in a pitiable state of nervous depression and excitement. Her lover never came back to her. Three months afterwards, on a landlord's warrant, all their household goods were seized and sold for rent. On that very day, Archer was married to the sweet girl Clara head seen on his arm—her only dowry the riches of her mind and heart. She was elevated to her old position in society, while Clara sank down to one hopelessly low; but not until she had been made fully aware that her irretrievable loss was the result of an unwarrantable effort to KEEP UP APPEARANCES.
               
            
            
               THE WIDOW.
               "I HOPE to be spared that trial," said Bertha, turning her head from the light, in order that it might not fall so clearly upon her face, and evincing, at the same time, more disturbance in her voice than she wished to betray.
               "In times like these," returned Margaret, "there is no guarantee for exemption. A single day may produce changes the most unexpected. We are involved in a war that promises to continue for years. An unjust war, in which every one of us must feel an interest and an ardent hope for success."
               "Give us peace, I say, at any sacrifice," spoke up Mrs. Algeron, warmly. "Nothing can compensate for the horrors of war."
               "Not even liberty?" inquired Bertha, turning her large, steady eyes upon the last speaker.
               "Have you more liberty now than before the rebellion commenced?"
               "Rebellion!" The eyes of Bertha flashed, and an indignant reply trembled on her tongue; but she restrained her feelings, and remained silent.
               "Yes, rebellion! By what other name can you characterize the act of these revolting colonies?" said Mrs. Algeron.
               "By the name of revolution!" returned Bertha, in a calm, dignified voice.
               "Your softer name does not change the quality of the act, nor will it atone for the murderous loss of life and destruction of property that have flowed therefrom, It's all very well for a young thing like you to talk, but wait until you feel the iron plough-share of this war as I have felt it, and your blood will grow warm with a different feeling from that which now sets it flowing so rapidly through your veins."
               "The effects upon you, aunt Ellen, have certainly been very painful," returned Bertha, in a gentle voice. "But it has so happened that in both the instances where you suffered so severely, we were but defenders. The burning of Norfolk was the work of your friend, Lord Dunmore; and the attack at Great Bridge, where poor Herbert was so severely wounded, was made upon the provincials who gallantly maintained their position."
               "But it all flowed from rebellion," said Mrs. Algeron, much excited. "Lord Dunmore only performed his duty to his sovereign."
               
               "In wantonly destroying the most populous and flourishing town in Virginia, in a mere spirit of revenge at receiving a few shots from an old house on the shore, fired by some over-zealous provincials? Had your property there offended the British king so deeply that nothing less than its reduction to ashes could atone for the offence? How your blood can help being fired at such wanton outrage and wrong is more than I can comprehend."
               "You talk like a silly girl whose head has been turned," replied Mrs. Algeron, much fretted by the interrogatory of her niece. "You will think and feel more soberly before a year passes, take my word for it. While others have been under the cloud, your sky has been bright with sunshine. This war is not to be much longer confined to the North. We shall have it among us ere long with all its horrors. I am well assured that Sir Henry Clinton contemplates active operations against the Southern States, and that his first point of attack will be Charleston. General Lincoln cannot defend this place. His force is altogether inadequate."
               "Why do you say this, aunt?" asked Bertha, evincing a good deal of concern. "The rigours of a northern winter are unfavourable to active operations. While the North has rest, our sunny clime will be ploughed with fire and sword."
               "Let them come," said Margaret, speaking with enthusiasm, "there are brave hearts in this sunny region."
               "Yes, brave and true hearts," said Bertha. But even while she spoke, her cheeks grew paler, for she thought of Henry's ardent espousal of the continental side, and the certainty of his being engaged in the war should it again unhappily extend to the South.
               "I hardly think you will be spared the trial of which you spoke," remarked Mrs. Algeron, who saw what was in Bertha's mind.
               "If not," replied Bertha, rallying herself, and speaking with firmness, "God will give me strength to bear it."
               "I trust so," responded the aunt, coldly. She had expected that her words would have made a more marked impression upon the mind of her niece.
               "Here comes Henry now," said Margaret. "Let us see if his anticipations for the South are of as gloomy a character as aunt Ellen's."
               Captain Lee entered a moment after, and, greeting the circle of ladies present, sat down by the side of Bertha.
               "Am I not right, Henry," said Mrs. Algeron, in my inference that Sir Henry Clinton will visit upon us some of the blessings of war this winter?"
               "That, I believe, is no longer a matter of inference," returned Lee. "A fleet, under the command of Admiral Arbuthnot, has actually sailed from New York, and its destination is believed to be Charleston. But if General Washington can reinforce General Lincoln in time, as he is endeavouring to do, Sir Henry will not find the taking of Charleston a thing of such easy accomplishment."
               All present noticed that Bertha's face grew suddenly pale, and that it then, gradually, though by slow degrees, recovered its calm expression. Much was said about the consequences and results of a campaign in the Southern country, and it was pretty generally agreed, that a most vigorous resistance would be made.
               "I suppose that you will come into active service, captain?" said one of the ladies.
               "It is highly probable that I shall." The wife of Henry Lee felt a cold, shivering sensation, and her eyes turned involuntarily towards a little boy, who was playing in one corner of the room with a pet kitten.
               "I rather think, Bertha, that you will be of my opinion, before long," said Mrs. Algeron.
               "What is that?" asked Lee.
               "Why, that peace, purchased at any price, will be cheap."
               "Never!" said Bertha, speaking quickly and firmly, "never!"
               "No, never!" responded her husband, turning upon his wife a look of admiring approval.
               "The day that calls Henry to the scene of strife will correct this false enthusiasm," said Mrs. Algeron.
               The eyes of Lee remained fixed upon the countenance of his wife. Bertha did not hesitate, but replied—
               "I hope, aunt, that the love of my country may never be extinguished in the love of myself."
               "Well spoken, Bertha!" said Lee, a look of admiration settling upon his face. "There is but one right path for any of us to walk in, and that is the path of duty. We are not to ask by what flowery stream it winds, through what rugged defile, or amid what dangers, before deciding to take it. I thought I had not mistaken the heart of Bertha, aunt Ellen."
               "Time will show how much all this is worth," retorted the stanch old royalist.
               "Yes, time proves all things," said Lee, pleasantly, "and time will, therefore, prove exactly how much this is worth."
               It will be thought no matter of wonder that Mrs. Lee made the most minute and eager inquiries of her husband, as soon as they were alone, as to the probable transference of hostilities to the South, nor that she felt greatly disturbed at the prospect of Captain Lee's being called into active service. Still the wish to have him shrink from the post of duty and danger did not find a place in her mind.
               No very long time elapsed before certainty took the place of rumour. The arrival of Admiral Arbuthnot at Savannah gave the first certain intelligence of Clinton's design to attack Charleston. With almost breathless interest did every true patriot in the South await the result. Alas! it was fatal to their hopes. The means of defence possessed by General Lincoln were utterly inadequate, and the city fell into the hands of the British forces. For a time every thing looked dark in the South. Then there was a revival of hope in the hearts of those who still loved and aspired after liberty, and good deeds were done for the patriot cause by Sumpter and Marion. But the total rout of the army under General Gates, and the death of the veteran De Kalb at Camden, again threw doubt and gloom over the minds of the most confident and hopeful.
               All these events were noted in their passage by Captain Lee, who felt more and more impatient every day to step forth from his secluded and inactive position, far away from the points where the strife was most severe. At length he succeeded in establishing a rallying-point for the few around him, whose love of country was strong enough to inspire them with a wish to do something for her defence. A company of sixty brave men was formed, and made ready for active service. Out of his own private means, Lee furnished the necessary equipments, and, placing himself at their head, started for the encampment of General Greene.
               At every step of this movement Captain Lee made his true-hearted wife acquainted with his acts and intentions.
               "Bertha," he would say, when her woman's fears at times overcame her, "unless every man who loves his country comes forward to her aid in this great crisis, her liberties are gone. I have held back long enough, too long; and it has been for your sake, I must confess it. But I can stand still and look on no longer. It would be a crime against my country were I to do so."
               "I do not say to you stand still and look on with indifference," Bertha would reply, "although my heart trembles at the thoughts of your going. Rather let me say, join with the brave men, who are fighting for our homes and our firesides, and may God give our country a happy deliverance."
               "And he will, Bertha. He will, if there be many such spirits as yours to animate her defenders."
               Notwithstanding her true brave heart, Mrs. Lee found the trial of parting with her husband, when the time came for him to take his place at the head of his company, and march against the enemy, most severe. She clung to him, and wept long and passionately upon his bosom.
               "Oh! this cruel, cruel war!" she murmured, while the tears fell over her pale face. "It is terrible to think of what it may cost us."
               "Bertha," said Lee, in a firm voice, and with a calm expression of countenance, "up to this hour I have felt the inspiration of your brave spirit; let it go with me still. Let the memory of our parting hour be such as to fill me with courage to press on and do my duty: not palsy me in the time when my country most needs my aid. Dear Bertha, let not our parting be in tears."
               "And it shall not be," said the heroic wife, lifting herself from the bosom of her husband; I am no longer a weak woman, but the wife of a brave soldier, who goes forth in the service of his country."
               The face of Mrs. Lee had an expression of heroic firmness.
               "Go!" she said, speaking with a sudden inspiration of feeling. "Go! Your country has need of you, Henry. I will not ask you to shun danger; it would be rather your duty to seek it. I will only say, think not of yourself nor me, when the fierce times of conflict come, but think of the wrongs of those whom the enemy seeks to oppress."
               And that parting, which was terrible to the heart of Bertha, was borne without another tear, or the betrayal by a faltering word or quivering lip of the wild fears that so deeply agitated her bosom.
               With thrilling fife and rattling drum, the little band of right-spirited men marched forth from their homes, and took their slow and weary way towards the head-quarters of General Greene, and joined the army, when just on the eve of its long retreat before Cornwallis, and a short time previous to the battle of Guilford.
               Scarcely had the stirring sound of fife and drum died on the ears of Mrs. Lee ere her spirit sank under a presentiment of evil that forced itself upon her mind. Much blood had already been spilt at King's Mountain, Camden, and the Cowpens; and the bitterness of death had passed into many of the best families in the states. It was a war of great extremity and great suffering, and the fear that she would never see her husband alive again appalled her. Her aunt and sister were both away, and there was neither affection from Margaret, nor pride aroused by her aunt, to sustain her. She stood alone. And how many, both among the high-born and the humble, of whose trial no history has been written nor any record kept, thus stood alone in those fearful times.
               Three weeks after Captain Lee had marched to join the continental forces, Mrs. Lee, whose mind had come into a state of great anxiety, dreamed, one night, that her husband came to her bedside, and stood for some moments gazing upon her; his face was very pale, and had a look of great exhaustion. After standing thus for a few moments, he drew aside a scarf that lay across his breast, and showed a deep wound in his side. Mrs. Lee awoke with a wild scream. She slept no more that night. By morning her resolution was taken. She had not the least doubt of her husband's being wounded, perhaps mortally; and her determination was to join him with the least possible delay. With the execution of this design her friends attempted to interfere, but their opposition had not the smallest weight with her. Under the escort of a relative, she started, on horseback, to travel a distance of nearly three hundred miles for the purpose of joining her husband. Arduously, day after day, was this long and fatiguing journey prosecuted; but when she at last arrived nearly at the point where she had hoped to find her husband, she learned to her dismay that General Greene's army had retired through North Carolina towards Virginia, hotly pursued by Cornwallis, and with scarcely the hope of escape.
               By forced marches, Captain Lee had succeeded in joining that portion of General Greene's army encamped on the Pedee, just as it was on the eve of retreating towards the Yadkin. Severely did it chafe his spirit to be compelled to retire precipitately before the enemy, that he had come full of patriotism to encounter; but he did fair service with his brave little company under the command of Colonel Lee in diverting and harassing the British troops, while the army under Greene made good its retreat.
               At Guilford, where a decisive battle was fought between the American army under General Greene and the British army under Cornwallis, Captain Lee received a severe wound in his side, and was borne insensible from the field, after having distinguished himself for great bravery. Half of his men were killed. Three days after the fierce conflict, in which both armies retired from the field with great loss, the surgeon who was in attendance upon Lee informed him that there was little hope of his recovery. His wound had shown a strong tendency to inflammation from the first, and mortification had, in spite of all the doctor's efforts, supervened.
               Lee was a brave man, but he shrank from the thought of death as he lay under the inspiration of no excitement, and with the image of his wife before him. It was not the fear of dying as an event personal to himself, but the thought of his bereaved wife and orphaned child that made him shrink from the last sad agony. But neither mortal fear nor reluctance stays the approach of death. Steadily progressed the fatal disease occasioned by the wound until all pain ceased, and then came a deep physical quiet, the precursor of speedy dissolution.
               In the brief pause, if it might so be called, the mind of Lee became perfectly calm and clear; He reviewed the circumstances through which he had just passed with much haste and fervour; and reflected deeply upon the act, which had resulted in fearful consequences to himself and young wife.
               
               "It was right," he murmured to himself, satisfied with the conclusions of his own mind. "I have fallen at the post of duty, like hundreds of my fellow-citizens."
               A gentle sleep stole over his senses, in which there came sweet dreams. Bertha stood like an angel of love bending over him, and he heard her voice, saying, "Even unto death, Henry, suffer and be strong."
               The sensation produced by this vision awoke him. It was not all a vision! for, indeed, bending over him, though in tears, was his faithful Bertha; but, warned by the physician, she controlled herself, and, with her finger on her lips, enjoined calmness and silence.
               "My heart dreaded this, Henry," she said. "Even before it took place, I had a foreshadowing of the dreadful event, and hastened away to join you and minister to you in pain. The surgeon has told me the worst, and I trust that I am prepared for it. Severe as is the trial, God will give me strength to bear it."
               Thus, in the greatest of all afflictions that a woman could be called upon to suffer, did this heroic wife lay her hand upon her throbbing heart to keep it still, and seek to throw around the last hours of her husband's life a halo of comfort. Thus did she seek to remove the bitterness of death. To have given way to a wild burst of anguish, such as required quired her every effort to repress, would only have put thorns in her husband's dying pillow, and her love was too deep, too unselfish to allow any weakness of character to betray itself, and thus plant a thorn where she would lay a flower.
               Speedily ran out the few remaining sands of life, and the hour of final parting came. The mind of Lee was bright, and his wife remained calm to the last. Forgetful that this sleep was to be his final sleep, the dying man closed his eyes as his head lay upon the breast of his wife, and breathed away the closing moments of existence in time. It was some minutes after his heart had ceased to beat, before Bertha was aware that all was over. Then how instantly did the tensely-strung nerves give way, and the brave heart melt! When the attendants came in, both were insensible. Many days elapsed before the widowed Bertha could rally her weakened powers of mind; and then self-control came back but slowly.
               A week from the time of her husband's death, Mrs. Lee, after having given directions for the removal of his body, turned her face homeward. The presence of old and familiar things caused the wounds in her heart to bleed anew. But even while she stood looking with tearful face upon the pictured representation of one who had been so dear to her while living, and drew tenderly to her side the gentle boy who bore his name, she felt an elevation of spirit that sustained her in her affliction. This was her sacrifice for the good of the whole; this her burden, the bearing of which was to make lighter the heavy weight that was pressing upon her country with paralyzing force.
               Yes, this it was that sustained the patient, high-souled sufferer in her night of affliction. The consciousness that a duty had been done, a stern and painful duty, kept her head above the rushing waters. And all this passed; all this was suffered and patiently borne, and not a breath of fame heralded to the nation the gallant deed of her husband. He had fought for his country, and shed for her his best blood, but a brief notice of his death in the list of the killed was all that was ever said of him in the dispatches of the day, and his name never found its way to the studied page of history.
               How little accustomed are we to think of how much the precious freedom we enjoy has cost! Thus hundreds of brave men perished in those times that indeed tried men's souls; and thus did many a noble-minded wife, parting with her husband, for all she knew, for the last time, nerve her heart against its native weakness, and speak words of encouragement to the performance of a stern duty, even while the blanching cheek and quivering lip betrayed too much of what really lay beneath.
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            CATALOGUE OF VALUABLE BOOKS,
            PUBLISHED BY LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO & CO.,
            (SUCCESSORS TO GRIGG, ELLIOT & CO.)
            NO. 14, NORTH FOURTH STREET, PHILADA.
            CONSISTING OF A LARGE ASSORTMENT OF BIBLES, PRAYER-BOOKS, COMMENTARIES, STANDARD POETS, MEDICAL, THEOLOGICAL, AND MISCELLANEOUS WORKS, ETC., PARTICULARLY SUITABLE FOR PUBLIC AND PRIVATE LIBRARIES; For Sale by Booksellers and Country Merchants generally throughout the United States.
            
               THE BEST AND MOST COMPLETE FAMILY COMMENTARY.
               The Comprehensive Commentary on the Holy Bible;
               CONTAINING THE TEXT ACCORDING TO THE AUTHORIZED VERSION, SCOTT'S MARGINAL REFERENCES; MATTHEW HENRY'S COMMENTARY, CONDENSED, BUT CONTAINING EVERY USEFUL THOUGHT; THE PRACTICAL OBSERVATIONS OF REV. THOMAS SCOTT, D D. WITH EXTENSIVE EXPLANATORY, CRITICAL, AND PHILOLOGICAL NOTES, Selected from Scott, Doddridge, Gill, Adam Clarke, Patrick, Poole, Lowth, Burder, Harmer, Calmet, Rosenmueller, Bloomfield, Stuart, Bush, Dwight, and many other writers on the Scriptures. The whole designed to be a digest and combination of the advantages of the best Bible Commentaries, and embracing nearly all that is valuable in HENRY, SCOTT, AND DODDRIGE.
               EDITED BY REV. WILLIAM JENKS, D D., PASTOR OF GREEN STREET CHURCH, BOSTON. Embellished with five portraits, and other elegant engravings, from steel plates; with several maps and many wood-cuts, illustrative of Scripture Manners, Customs, Antiquities, &c. In 6 vols. super-royal 8vo.
               Including Supplement, bound in cloth, sheep, calf, &c., varying in Price from $10 to $15.
               The whole forming the most valuable as well as the cheapest Commentary in the world.
            
            
               
               The Companion To The Bible.
               In one super-royal volume.
               DESIGNED TO ACCOMPANY THE FAMILY BIBLE; OR, HENRY'S, SCOTT'S, CLARKE'S, GILL'S, OR OTHER COMMENTARIES.
            
            
               ILLUSTRATIONS OF THE HOLY SCRIPTURES,
               In one super-royal volume.
               DERIVED PRINCIPALLY FROM THE MANNERS, CUSTOMS, ANTIQUITIES TRADITIONS AND FORMS OF SPEECH, RITES, CLIMATE WORKS OF ART, AND LITERATURE OF THE EASTERN NATIONS: EMBODYING ALL THAT IS VALUABLE IN THE WORKS OF ROBERTS, HARMER, BURDER, PAXTON, CHANDLER, And the most celebrated Oriental travellers. Embracing also the subject of the Fulfilment of Prophecy, as exhibited by Keith and others; with descriptions of the present state of countries and places mentioned in the Sacred Writings.
               ILLUSTRATED BY NUMEROUS LANDSCAPE ENGRAVINGS, FROM SKETCHES TAKEN ON THE SPOT. EDITED BY REV. GEORGE BUSH, Prof. of Hebrew and Oriental Literature in the N Y. City University.
            
            
               THE ILLUSTRATED CONCORDANCE,
               In one volume, royal 8vo.
               A new, full, and complete Concordance; illustrated with monumental, traditional, and oriental engravings, founded on Butterworth's, with Cruden's definitions; forming, it is believed, on many accounts, a more valuable work than either Butterworth, Cruden, or any other similar book in the language.
            
            
               LIPPINCOTT'S STANDARD EDITIONS OF THE BOOK OF COMMON PRAYER,
               IN SIX DIFFERENT SIZES.
               ILLUSTRATED WITH A NUMBER OF STEEL PLATES AND ILLUMINATIONS. COMPREHENDING THE MOST VARIED AND SPLENDID ASSORTMENT IN THE UNITED STATES.
            
            
               LIPPINCOTT'S EDITIONS OF THE HOLY BIBLE,
               SIX DIFFERENT SIZES.
               Printed in the best manner, with beautiful type, on the finest sized paper, and bound in the most splendid and substantial styles. Warranted to be correct, and equal to the best English editions, at a much lower price. To be had with or without plates; the publishers having supplied themselves with over fifty steel engravings, by the first artists.
               
                  Baxter's Comprehensive Bible,
                  Royal quarto, containing the various readings and marginal notes; disquisitions on the genuineness, authenticity, and inspiration of the Holy Scriptures; introductory and concluding remarks to each book; philological and explanatory notes; tables of contents, arranged in historical order; a chronological index, and various other matter; forming a suitable book for the study of clergymen, Sabbath-school teachers and students.
               
               
                  The Oxford Quarto Bible;
                  Without note or comment, universally admitted to be the most beautiful family Bible extant.
               
               
                  Crown Octavo Bible,
                  Printed with large clear type, making a most convenient Bible for family use.
               
               
                  Polyglot Bible.
                  The Sunday-School Teacher's Polyglot Bible, with Maps, &c.
               
               
                  The Oxford 18mo. Bible.
                  This is an extremely handsome and convenient Pew Bible.
               
               
                  Agate 32mo. Bible,
                  Printed with larger type than any other small pocket edition extant.
               
               
                  32mo. Diamond Pocket Bible,
                  The neatest, smallest, and cheapest edition of the Bible published.
               
               
                  CONSTANTLY ON HAND,
                  A large assortment of BIBLES, bound in the most splendid and costly styles, with gold and silver ornaments, suitable for presentation; ranging in price from $10 00 to $100 00.
                  A liberal discount made to Booksellers and Agents by the Publishers.
               
            
            
               ENCYCLOPÆDIA OF RELIGIOUS KNOWLEDGE;
               OR, DICTIONARY OF THE BIBLE THEOLOGY, RELIGIOUS BIOGRAPHY, ALL RELIGIONS, ECCLESIASTICAL HISTORY, AND MISSIONS.
               In one volume, royal 8vo.
            
            
               
               JOSEPHUS'S (FLAVIUS) WORKS,
               FAMILY EDITION.
               BY THE LATE WM. WHISTON, A.M. FROM THE LAST LONDON EDITION, COMPLETE.
               One volume, beautifully illustrated with Steel Plates, and the only readable edition published in this country.
            
            
               FAMILY PRAYERS AND HYMNS,
               ADAPTED TO FAMILY WORSHIP, AND TABLES FOR THE REGULAR READING OF THE SCRIPTURES. BY REV. S. O. WINCHESTER, A. M. Late Pastor of the Sixth Presbyterian Church, Philadelphia; and the Presbyterian Church at Natchez, Miss. One volume, 12mo.
            
            
               The Clergy of America:
               CONSISTING OF ANECDOTES ILLUSTRATIVE OF THE CHARACTER OF MINISTERS OF RELIGION IN THE UNITED STATES.
               BY JOSEPH BELCHER, D. D., Editor of "The Complete Works of Andrew Fuller," "Robert Hall," &c. One volume, 12mo.
            
            
               THE ERRORS OF MODERN INFIDELITY ILLUSTRATED AND REFUTED.
               BY S. M. SCHMUCKER. A. M. In one volume, 12mo.; cloth. Just published.
            
            
               Burder's Village Sermons,
               101 Plain and Short Discourses on the Principal Doctrines of the Gospel.
               INTENDED FOR THE USE OF FAMILIES, SUNDAY-SCHOOLS, OR COMPANIES ASSEMBLED FOR RELIGIOUS INSTRUCTION IN COUNTRY VILLAGES. BY GEORGE BURDER. To which is added to each Sermon, a Short Prayer, with some General Prayers for Families, Schools, &c., at the end of the work. COMPLETE, IN ONE VOLUME, OCTAVO.
            
         
      
   
