
    ----CITATION----
        Baer, B. F. (Benjamin F.), Mrs.. Irene, or, Beach-broken Billows .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5693
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               IRENE: OR, BEACH-BROKEN BILLOWS. 
               A STORY. 
             
            BY MRS. B. F. BAER.
             
            
                
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               AUTHORS' PUBLISHING COMPANY.
             
            1875. 
             
            Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1874, by THE AUTHORS' PUBLISHING CO. In the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington. 
            
               JOHN KENT, STEREOTYPER, 
               13 Frankfort Street, New York.
             
          
          
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               CHAP. I. IN WHICH SOME ONE IS HURT. 5
                
               CHAP. II. IN WHICH THE SURGEON'S KNIFE CUTS. 13
                
               CHAP. III. WE BECOME HEIRS PROSPECTIVE. 19
                
               CHAP. IV. DELUSION'S SHADOW. 30
                
               CHAP. V. IN WHICH THE SHADOW TAKES FORM AND SHAPE. 37
                
               CHAP. VI. AN EXPLOSION, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. 47
                
               CHAP. VII. MY GREAT EXPECTATIONS. 59
                
               CHAP. VIII. A STARTLING DECLARATION. 69
                
               CHAP. IX. IN WHICH MUCH HAPPENS. 78
                
                
               CHAP. X. NEW ASPIRATIONS ARE AROUSED. 88
                
               CHAP. XI. DROWNED. 99
                
               CHAP. XII. IN WHICH I MEET MY IDEAL HOME. 104
                
               CHAP. XIII. MY NEW FRIEND. 114
                
               CHAP. XIV. AN UNEXPECTED FEAR FALLS ON ME. 124
                
               CHAP. XV. THE FEAR IS LIFTED. 134
                
               CHAP. XVI. OSCAR'S MARRIAGE. 144
                
               CHAP. XVII. IMPLACABLE. 153
                
               CHAP. XVIII. AN UNEXPECTED DISCLOSURE. 156
                
               CHAP. XIX. RESTING ON THE PROMISE. 162
                
               CHAP. XX. MY TASK RENDERED EASY. 166
                
               CHAP. XXI. HIS RETURN. 172
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Irene, or, Beach-broken billows 
             
            IRENE; 
            OR, BEACH-BROKEN BILLOWS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               IN WHICH SOME ONE IS HURT. 
               
                  MY earliest recollections are those of a well-fed, well-to-do farmer's daughter, one of a half-dozen boys and girls, neither occupying the position of superiority as the eldest, nor the more enviable one of pet as the youngest. 
               I was the plainest of them, with my straight, brown hair, long face, and bony figure; sickly, too, with it all. 
               My mother, whose beautiful face-beautiful to me, if to no one else-mingles with all of my earliest impressions, had been an invalid since my younger brother's birth and death, so I had been told, and it was my special delight to sit by her chair and watch the swift needle course through the sewing, or see her sweet, mobile lips move in smiles as she read. 
               Oh, those bright, golden days of my childhood hood, gone forever into the misty past, laden with so many chords that go to make up the sum of my happiness-gone, never to return! 
               I am sure now that the best impressions, those that went farthest in molding whatever was good in my character, were received into my heart by my mother's chair. Her face was fair and delicate, with dark-brown hair, combed away from a not-over-high brow, and large, dark eyes, holding a misty light in their depths, shedding grace and love on all around her. 
               I was twelve years old when they told me she was dead. For weeks she had been missing from her chair, and I had wandered about the old farm-house like one demented. 
               They would not let me in her room-she was too ill; and the feeling of bitter woe that overwhelmed me, when told that she was dead, was the most acute pain I have ever known. I was mad, utterly insane; and in my foolish, childish rage, I questioned the right of the Father to take her to himself. 
               My father looked up in sad sternness as sob after sob broke from my little bosom, and his ever-stern face relaxed not a muscle as he said: 
               "Be still, child, be still; such wild grief can not bring your mother back to life. It is useless, worse than useless;" and I turned to go out of the room, my young heart almost bursting with its pent-up sorrow, when he commanded; 
                
               "Stay where you are, Irene; it is not proper for you to be running about the house at such a time." 
               I came back to my seat with a moan, and did not move from it for four mortal hours-which were the longest four hours I ever spent, or ever shall spend. 
               I can not help thinking now, that had my father, been kinder; had he unbent from his usual sternness, and showed some little kindness for his motherless children in this hour and bestowed a little sympathy on us, the sequel of our history might have been different; that we might have clung closer to him in the future, and rendered him a readier obedience. 
               But he didn't, and so it was. 
               About the dinner hour they told us to come into the room where my mother lay, and we went, filing in with precision, and gathering around the bed where she lay so cold, so white, so lovely even in death. She had gone from us without a word of farewell, and, though I never heard why we were denied this privilege, I was not sorry. I have since seen friends die, much further removed than my mother, with a torture I can not describe. 
               Two days later we were robed in mourning, and followed her to the grave. 
               I listened attentively to the young minister-whom I had never seen before, he being a stranger, just come to take charge of his pastorate,-and my heart wickedly rebelled against every word of soothing consolation that he uttered. I had not a doubt of my mother's eternal happiness; but I did doubt the wisdom of God in calling her away from us, who needed her so much, and asserted as much when we returned to our desolate home. 
               "Hush, Irene; mamma is better off now than she was here," said Annie, my elder and only sister. 
               "I don't care," I retorted; "I didn't want my mother to die, for she was my greatest friend on earth." 
               "You forget that papa is left to us, Irene." 
               "Yes," I replied wickedly, no doubt "I know he is left; but what does he care for us? He hasn't noticed us at all in these dreadful days. Oh, Annie! I thought my heart would break when the clods fell on her coffin," and I sank down at my beautiful sister's feet in a fit of weary weeping. 
               Then she knelt beside me, her long curls mingling with my brown hair, and falling on my cheeks as she put her little hand to my brow. 
               "Poor little Mamie"-a pet name of my younger brothers,-"poor little, sickly girl, I will try to do what I can to make up for your loss-will strive to be a mother to you." 
                
               I raised myself to catch her about the neck, and in that moment a bond of love and sympathy was formed between us that death alone could separate. 
               But my sister's fondness only silenced the rebellion in my heart; it did not crush it, for hers was not the hand to sweep the waters of my soul, and say, "Peace, be still." 
               I don't know why I was selected, instead of my older brother, to drive the cattle to and from pasture; but I was, and papa gave us to understand, as soon as the funeral was over, that the old life must begin just where it had been left off. 
               About three weeks later, as I went down to the meadow, in the rich glow of the sunset, my heart still rebelling against the, to me, cruel decree that had taken our mother from us, I met Mr. Earnest, our new pastor, face to face. 
               He held out his hand to me, glancing down at my black dress with a look that brought tears to my eyes as I reluctantly took it. But that clasp I shall never forget, it was so full of hearty, outgushing sympathy; and there was a sorrowful pathos in his voice as he said: 
               "I am glad to have met you, my child-nothing could have pleased me better;" then, seeing that I made no answer, he went on to say, "Your mother is a bright angel now, which must be very encouraging to you." 
                
               "But it isn't," I cried, impetuously. "My mother was needed here more than she is in heaven, and I can't see why she had to go." 
               "Child, child, are you mad?" he cried, indignation and sorrow struggling for the mastery. 
               Then he added, "Come here and sit down beside me on this grass while I talk to you a little," gently drawing me down on the velvet carpet that nature had spread over the sloping hill. 
               "Now tell me your name, your given name, I mean, the other I know." 
               "It is Irene," I replied; and I am afraid that I appeared very sullen, for in a furtive glance I saw that his brow was clouded as he asked: 
               "Do you think, Irene, that your mother would like this rebellion, on your part, to His decrees? My child, she is watching you constantly, waiting on you, it may be, and, if sorrow can come to an inhabitant of that happy world beyond, I have no doubt she weeps for you. God has surrounded you with beauty and peaceful gladness"-sweeping his hand with a curved gesture over the smiling land-scape at our feet,-"and it is your duty to conquer your distress, and go forth to meet the future bravely." 
               "But our loss is so great. You can not know what our mother was to us, Mr. Earnest." 
                
               "I think I can have a faint conception," said he, "seeing that I have buried a noble mother myself. You are young, Irene, and this storm will pass quickly. The future holds golden sheaves of knowledge for you; see that you bind them as they go by." 
               I can not tell what made me feel my sin the most: the soft tone of his musical voice, the gentle pressure of his hand on mine, or the deep earnestness of his words; but I began to feel that I had been very selfish in my grief. 
               "I must go now to drive the cows home," I said as I rose; "I thank you very much for your kindness, sir." 
               "All right, little maid," he said, "I am going on to the farm for tea;" and, waving me an adieu, he went slowly up the hill, as if in deep thought. On the top he turned, and, looking back, saw me standing just where he had left me. A smile of encouragement curved his lips, and, blushing deeply, I went on my way. 
               I knew then, as I know now, that he had chosen his profession wisely. 
               I don't think either of us had an idea, not even a vague presentiment, of what was so soon to happen, for I went forward with a lighter heart than I had known since my bereavement, determined to throw off the sadness that was weighing me down. 
               I had turned the herd out of the pasture and was driving them homeward, when a young bullock, becoming enraged, came toward me. Seeing my danger, I tried to escape; but the furious animal caught me near the yard fence, throwing me over into it at my father's feet. 
               I have been told that father carried me tenderly into the house, with a face almost as white as my own. 
               "Oscar would have been the most suitable for such work," said Mr. Earnest, trying to restore me to consciousness. 
               "I know it now," said my father, standing near. "You don't think she will die, Earnest?" 
               "I hope not," he replied, chafing my cold hands; "but we can tell nothing till the doctor arrives." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               IN WHICH THE SURGEON'S KNIFE CUTS. 
               
                  WHEN I awoke to consciousness, it was with a feeling of acute pain, as if needles were pricking my flesh, particularly my left limb, and, opening my eyes, I saw the doctor-the same that had attended my mother for years-carefully examining my left foot. 
               With lightning speed memory returned, and, with an appealing glance, I looked up into the minister's face. 
               He understood me, and said, soothingly, "Be patient, little maid; you shall soon know the worst." Then he put his soft hand on my brow, and all through the setting of my broken foot scarcely a groan escaped my lips. 
               "Well done, my heroine," said the doctor, as he turned to my father, and continued in a low tone: "She must have good care, or she will lose that member." 
               This had not been meant for my ear, but I had heard it all; and seeing my father's lips quiver, I closed my eyes to keep back the tears. 
               After awhile they went out, believing me to be asleep, and I was alone, with the dread of losing my foot crushing me down with an iron hand. 
               Great tears gathered in my eyes, and, forcing their way to my cheeks, lay there like diamonds. Wicked thoughts came and went through my feverish brain, till I wished that I was dead. 
               The door opened softly, and Oscar came in. He was a fine-looking boy, just turning seventeen, and his face was softened with a pity for me that I had never seen there before. 
               "How do you feel now, Mamie?" he asked, very gently. 
               "Not very well. Oh, Oscar! I would sooner die than lose my foot." 
               "I believe you; but it is not certain that it will have to be taken off. All this comes of father's obstinacy, for I have asked him more than once to let me drive the cattle, and the last time he told me to mind my own business, that he could manage his own affairs; but I think he will regret this to his dying day, if you are crippled for life. Serves him right, too," he added, with a hard ring in his voice. 
               "Our life," he continued, "was bad enough before mother died, now it is scarcely endurable, there is so little real pleasure in it. We are well fed, well clothed; but beyond our bodily wants, I don't think father ever spends a thought on us. It is all work, with little or no play, and we have no books and papers, like farmer Willard's lard's children, to make our evenings pleasant. Mother used to talk to us, but we haven't her now. Oh, Mamie! if you are lamed, I think I shall hate him." 
               I put out my hand to stop him, while something like a sob rattled in my throat. 
               "Don't, Mamie; I must speak now. There will be trouble between me and father before I am twenty-one, I am afraid. As I grow older I can hardly bear his harsh commands. We are not educated like others; you have never been to school a day; and I begin to feel the difference. Even when mother died he did not give us one word of sympathy; and I could have struck him when he ordered you to stop crying. I guess, Mamie, that I have not always treated you kindly, but I loved you all the while, my dear sister;" and he bent his handsome, boyish head to kiss my tear-stained face. 
               Then I saw depths of love in my brother's heart that I had never occasion to doubt in the vicissitudes of after years. He was always true to me, true to his manhood through all trials; and I loved and honored him for it. 
               "I must go now, Mamie, for I have a great deal to do; but if you ever want any one to carry you around, you may reckon on me. I shall always find some time to be with you;" and he kissed me again before he went away. 
               I had read a good deal for my age, and a I lay there thinking, I knew that Oscar was right, that there was little real pleasure in our home lives. 
               And lying there in my weary pain I began to wonder what I could do to relieve my brothers and Annie from this tiresome monotony. 
               Over and over I turned ways and means in my mind, forgetting my pending misfortune in this important study; and when Mr. Earnest came in to say good-night, I was quite cheerful. 
               "I know the worst," I said, calmly, "and am prepared for it. I am glad that it is me instead of Oscar." 
               He smiled a little, at my bad grammar, perhaps, pressed my hand, and went out. 
               Then the family came in, and papa said: 
               "I feel sorry for you, Irene; but it is better that you should be laid up than Annie or Oscar. It is harvest, and we could hardly spare either of them." 
               "Yes, sir; it is better that I should be a cripple than one of them," I answered, though I could not help feeling that there was little real sympathy in his heart for me. 
               "Who says you will be a cripple?" he asked, quickly. 
               "I heard what the doctor said to you; and I am satisfied if the worst comes." 
               He turned a shade paler, I thought, but said nothing; and in the silence I fell asleep. 
                
               Ten days later I was told-what I had expected all through those dreary days and nights of pain-that my foot must be amputated. 
               Mr. Earnest had been my daily visitor, pointing me upward, striving to lift my thoughts above; and, when he told me the worst, showing me in glowing words how love in Christ could beautify the most hopeless life, and make it bright with the glory of His grace, I adored him-not as a man, but as an angel of mercy, going about seeking to do good. 
               And now the hour had come. I saw the long table brought in on which I was to be bound, felt a delicious languor steal over me as the doctor held his handkerchief to my nose, observed that my eyes were growing heavy, and, after vainly striving to keep them open, I sunk into unconsciousness. 
               When I awoke the deed was done, the table was gone, and I was a cripple for life. 
               My bandaged limb lay limp and useless by its twin, never to be more than a worthless appendage to my body. 
               My childish thoughts were not clothed in such language, for I was rude and uncouth then, but the strain was the same; and I wondered what had been done with my foot. 
               I afterward came across it in a jar of alcohol. 
               All through my tedious convalescence Annie was constantly with me, doing all she could to make me happy; and it was in my sick room that I first noticed her blushes when Mr. Earnest came in.  
               She was just fifteen, but with a face and form beyond her years, and, I suppose, with thoughts and dreams beyond them too. 
               There was little in our home to tempt us to linger in the gay, rollicking spring-time of life; and it was with pain and alarm that I saw the blushes on my sister's face. But I dared not ask why they were there, for I was afraid of the flash in her large, black eyes. 
               Oscar was with me every moment that he could spare; and in that three months of painful confinement I learned how I was loved and pitied by that little band. As every cloud has its silver lining, so that tedious sickness taught me to appreciate the loves of those about me, and, most of all, taught me to know myself. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               WE BECOME HEIRS PROSPECTIVE. 
               
                  OUT at last! Out just as the birds were singing their farewell songs, just as the autumn leaves, with their brilliant tints, were scattering in wild profusion; and I walked very awkwardly, at first, with my new crutches, gaining expertness and strength by daily use till I could almost run on them. 
               Then, as the long winter evenings drew on, the plans I had conned so often in my confinement began to find practical shape. 
               I had my younger brothers with me as much as possible, and taught them how to read. 
               Annie was kept very busy, assisting Mrs. Hoyt with the work, and Oscar had few idle moments, so, in spite of my endeavors to the contrary, our evenings-how it pains me to write it-were ever shadowed by my father's presence. 
               There he would sit, reading his inevitable daily, never noticing us except to reprimand some unfortunate member, who had chanced to make an unwonted noise, or to waive us off to bed. 
                
               After an unusually dull evening of this description, I determined to speak to Mr. Earnest, who had become my confidential friend and adviser, about it. 
               He came next day, and, seeing him at a distance, I went out to meet him. His face lighted genially, but noticing my soberness, he asked: 
               "What is it, little maid, what is it?" 
               "I don't know how to explain what I want to say, Mr. Earnest," I replied confusedly; "but we-us children, I mean-are so lonely now, and our evenings are so dull and tiresome, that I wish something could be done. Oscar is growing very restless under the constant restraint put on him, and I feel afraid for the result. Robbie and Jamie have little playtime-for they must work already, and my sister, oh, my beautiful sister!" and I broke down, unable to say another word. 
               His face clouded, as he replied: "It is a hard problem to solve, Irene, but we will walk down to the field, where I see they are husking corn, and we will talk as we go. In the first place, little maid, why are your evenings so dull?" 
               I hesitated, fearful of condemning my father, then said: "I think the little ones, in fact all of us, are afraid of papa, and it makes us feel so strange and awkward." 
               "Just so," he answered encouragingly; "now why do you fear for Oscar?" 
                
               "Because he has so little to bind him to us and home. We have few books, no interesting papers, and Oscar loves to read. In short, Mr. Earnest, I am afraid that he will run away from us." 
               "Which would be very wrong, indeed," said Mr. Earnest gravely, "and we must try to prevent a catastrophe that is almost sure to end in shame and disgrace. Little maid, can't you do something toward banishing this dullness?" he asked, turning to me a face full of the milk of human kindness; a face that has always been first in the gallery of my memory, set in a frame of golden deeds, making it shine with exceeding brightness, ever excepting that of my mother, who has ever, and always will be, first in my heart. 
               "Me! Mr. Earnest, what can I do? I am just as much afraid of papa as the rest." 
               "Perfect love casteth out fear, my child; and you dare not shrink from what is your duty. You evidently have more leisure than the others in which to study and improve your mind. I will give you lessons myself; will devote an hour each day to you, and the knowledge so gained you can impart to the rest, thus making it a pleasure and a profit. In this way, Irene, you can do a great deal toward rendering your home happier; and I will lend Oscar such books as he can find time to read, from my library. You must come to my study at nine every day, and we will see how this plan will work. I will speak to your father about it myself. How, now, not crying, surely?" and he drew my hand away from my eyes with the playfulness of a boy. 
               I was crying from over-joy, and, as we were at the field, he left me to myself, going over to the men, and, sitting down in their midst, began to husk, talking merrily all the time. 
               For more than an hour I watched his shapely hands, busily at work, watched his lips moving in his easy, rapid, style, then I saw him take my father aside and talk very earnestly. 
               The perfect ease with which he could adapt himself to one and all, is as much a marvel to me to-day as it was then. Presently he came back to where I was sitting, his eyes all aglow with his success, as I knew in a moment, and, reaching down for my crutches, lifted me gently with one arm. 
               I was reconciled to my misfortune now. It was a hard, bitter struggle, at first, but I had conquered. How much the daily example of Mr. Earnest's life had to do with this resignation, I leave you to judge. 
               "It is all right, little maid; your father says he shall not attempt to interfere with your pursuits. You are free to come and go as you please. Seriously, Irene, you have every opportunity portunity to make a very useful woman of yourself." 
               Unconsciously, I glanced down at my crutches, and, seeing it, he went on to say: 
               "It is not always the most favored of fortune that prove the most faithful; on the contrary, the greatest men and women of our day-of all generations, perhaps-have sprung from the lowly, working themselves to the top of the ladder by an untiring energy and perseverance. Some of these, Irene, have been as helpless as yourself; and you should never cease to be thankful for your active, working mind." 
               These words seemed to my untutored mind the very embodiment of inspiration, and, leaving him at the gate, I, with a flushed and eager face, went to the house, happier than I had been for months. 
               Shall I ever forget the lovely picture that brought me back so quickly to the present and to myself? Standing in the door was my sister, ten times lovelier than I had ever seen her, with a light in her black eyes and a flush on her velvet cheeks that transfigured her. 
               Her long curls were floating on the wind that played through them, and her small, delicate hands were clasped in front of her. 
               When she saw me she bounded down the steps to meet me. 
               "Oh, Mamie, Mamie! you don't know what has happened!" and she caught me around the waist in her eager delight. 
               "What is it, Annie? do tell me and ease my curiosity," I entreated. 
               "We are going to be rich, absolutely rich. The lawyer is down here from the city to make arrangements by which we are to come into our possessions. Glorious, isn't it?" 
               "Where is this fortune to come from?" I asked. 
               "From Europe, so Mr. Quimboy says. Our mother was English by birth, a remote relative of an English lord, whose fortune descends to us as nearest heirs. Singular, isn't it?" 
               "Very," said I, incredulously "too singular to contain one word of truth in it;" and I never, from the first, could credit one item of the wild scheme. 
               In the face of all the sophistry with which Mr. Quimboy explained the minutest particulars; in the face of all the expectations raised in the bosoms of those about me, I remained incredulous to the end-some said, obstinately so. 
               My father met the lawyer with his usual haughty reserve, which melted before the other's volubility like frost before the sun, and I had never, in all my short life, seen such a transformation. 
               He called us together-my father I mean-and told us that we were to be rich very soon; that our mother had been related to the nobility of England, which accounted for her delicate face and figure; and, lastly, that Mr. Quimboy was to go over, with all necessary documents, to secure the prize, at our expense, of course. 
               I glanced around the little group, noted the expression of each, the wonder and astonishment of the younger ones, the shade of ill-concealed impatience on Oscar's face; and I was struck, for the first time, by the marked resemblance between Annie and our father. 
               She was sitting by his side, looking into his face with an eagerness I have never seen equaled for intensity and interest; and when he added, "There shall be no more work then, children," the expression of relief almost glorified her marvelous beauty. 
               I think there was some pride in my father's heart for his oldest daughter, as he laid his hand on her proudly-poised head saying, "Only two years yet, Annie, and then you shall rustle in silks and satins." 
               I went away quietly to the garden, and was soon joined by Oscar. He came to me with a distressed look in his eyes. 
               "You don't believe a word of this story, Mamie; I know you don't. I declare it is enough to make a fellow wild to know that this New York fop of a lawyer can spend the savings ings of a lifetime, when we are denied education." 
               "I believe papa is crazy on this subject," I cried, not knowing what to say. 
               "Yes; and I had given him credit for more sense. Here this fellow can travel all over Europe at our expense, come back polished by contact with the world, and simply say that we are the wrong family, etc. Pshaw! it is more than human nature can bear;" and he turned away in disgust. 
               I could not say a word, and he continued, "I am getting weary of this life, it is so full of pain; and to think that what we have been laboring for so long is to be spent in this manner, almost drives me mad." 
               "Oscar," I said, with a great pity in my heart for my manly brother, "I wouldn't be discouraged by this; it isn't noble or brave. I suppose papa has a right to use his money as he pleases, and will most undoubtedly do so; therefore it is of no use for us to fret. Come with me to yonder seat, while I tell you a plan which I, or rather Mr. Earnest, has formed for our improvement." 
               He followed me, and in a few moments I had told him of our conversation; how Mr. Earnest had entered into our trouble, and found a way out. 
               "You are a dear little sister," he said, "worth ten times your weight in gold;" and he stooped to kiss me again and again. 
               "I don't care for the money, only so far as it buys knowledge; and if I can get that without it, let it go. But, Mamie, did you see Annie's face before you came out?" 
               "Yes, and I shall never forget it?" I replied. 
               "Poor Annie! she was always proud, and this prospect of immense wealth completely bewilders her. I dare say these will be two long years to her;" and he sighed wearily. 
               I, too, was weeping, weeping for my beautiful, infatuated sister, whose musical voice came floating to my ear in the gay notes of a happy song. 
               The deepening shadows lengthened, the crisp, frosty air grew frostier, and, chilled with cold, Oscar and I went into the house, feeling sadly out of place in the midst of the subdued gladness around us. 
               Mr. Quimboy's eloquence was certainly remarkable, and, if he was to be believed, there was not a doubt existing as to the fact that we were the heirs-at-law. 
               I eyed him from head to foot, as did Oscar, who at once turned his back on him, picking up my father's neglected daily. 
               An unfavorable impression of the man took possession of me, which I could not shake off; but Annie sat drinking in every word with a feverish flush of excitement on her cheeks. 
               This Quimboy, as I remember him, was faultless in dress, manner, and deportment, possessing wonderful magnetic power, that seemed to be given off with every graceful gesture of his hands. Luxuriant side-whiskers gave a gentlemanly finish to his face, which would have been handsome but for his small, gray eyes, that glittered like diamonds in their restless brightness. When I came into the room he had turned toward me, saying, in his most patronizing voice to my father: 
               "Sad misfortune this, sir; how did it happen?" 
               I suppose I was a little sensitive; I believe most lame or deformed people are, and I blushed deeply, while papa explained very minutely how it happened, adding: 
               "I shall be glad for her sake to come into this inheritance." 
               "Just so, sir, just so; it will be a great relief to her, for it is scarcely likely that she will ever marry. Sad misfortune, sir; very sad indeed." 
               How Oscar's eyes did flash! and in my anxiety lest his anger should find vent in words, I forgot self, and the conversation fell into another channel. 
               The next morning Mr. Quimboy departed by an early train, leaving, like some deadly serpent pent, his baneful trail behind him to poison the air of our home forever. 
               Oh, those human vampires! how they creep into our homes, fasten themselves upon us, and, in a short season, suck the peace and happiness of our domestic lives! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               DELUSION'S SHADOW. 
               
                  I WENT to Mr. Earnest's study that morning, per arrangement, and told him what had happened. 
               A sorrowful expression clouded his face, and it was clear to me that he was of the same mind as Oscar and myself. 
               He spoke at last- 
               "These fabulous fortunes left by foreign relations are seldom ever realized; and it has long been a question with me whether they do not originate in the brains of unprincipled lawyers to accomplish their own ends. Say, for instance, this Quimboy has fostered a love for travel, but hasn't the means to gratify it. So, with a diabolical ingenuity, he seeks out some farmer with a little money, goes to him with his clever story, manages to get himself appointed as the attorney to investigate the affair, and starts to Europe immediately." 
               I was crying now, the tears falling thick and fast, for my hope had been that he might put a brighter construction on the unfortunate affair than my judgment had permitted. 
               He came over to where I sat by his study table, and laying his hand tenderly on my brown hair, said, "Cheer up, little maid; this may not be the case here, and if it is, useless repining can do no good. We must live in the present-the past is gone, and the future is not ours; therefore it is our imperative duty to work while the hours fly;" and he took down the books which he wished me to study. 
               Very patiently he explained how he would have me begin at the very foundation, building my intellectual structure on a sure rock, that would stand the test of years. 
               "For," said he, "I would not give the snap of my finger for the accomplishments of the young lady who can talk a little French, dance a few quadrilles, and sing any amount of operatic airs. 
               "It takes patient, hard study, and years of it, to acquire an education that is really valuable. But remember, Irene, when you have it, friends may desert you, fortune may prove fickle, but that will always be with you, a comforter in every trial, a resource, perhaps, when all else has failed." 
               He was thoroughly in earnest, and his face was glowing with enthusiasm. 
               When the hour was up he took a book from the table, saying, 
               "This is Dickens' 'Copperfield,' You and Oscar can read it together. It is a master effort, and will reward you well for its perusal. Good-by;" and I went out into the cold, frosty air, walking rapidly homeward. 
               And now my life began to be real and earnest. 
               Oscar and I read together, studied, and-I had almost said-thought together. If that were possible, I suppose we did. 
               How shall I describe the atmosphere that pervaded our home at this time? It seemed that the family, excepting Oscar and myself, lived in a constant fever of expectation; and, as the winter wore away, bringing occasional letters from Quimboy, detailing what gigantic efforts he was using to establish our claims, always ending with assurances of final success, the excitement would increase to jubilation. Even old Mrs. Hoyt seemed to partake of the general spirit, and it was all that I could do to keep my younger brothers at their studies. 
               It was painful to me to see how Oscar's proud spirit chafed under this unfortunate element in our social economy, and, looking back with the light of experience, I firmly believe that our joint studies were his salvation. 
               As spring opened I began to notice a feverish glow on my beautiful sister's cheek, too bright to be the glow of health. 
               How I remonstrated with her in those days; how I exhorted her to forget the rascally lawyer, who had cheated her into belief of his ingenious genious story; but with always the same result, almost the same answer-"You are too suspicious, Irene. Everything goes to prove that mamma was descended from English gentility; and I don't see anything impossible about it at all." 
               "Nothing impossible, Annie; but it is very improbable," I would reply, sadly. 
               As the summer work began, Oscar became a very hero in his endeavors to keep the farm up to its former state of cultivation; for papa only made a show of work, all of his energy seeming to have left him. 
               My brother studied very hard, but worked all day, taking the management of the entire farm on his shoulders. Then I began to grow proud of him, who, at the early age of eighteen took upon himself the dignity of man's estate, wearing it with a quiet grace peculiarly his own, growing independent and self-reliant as the days wore on. 
               Really, in that year Oscar made rapid strides in intellectual development, while I was content to plod along less swiftly, but no less surely. 
               One thing pleased me, and it was this: I saw that Annie no longer cared for Mr. Earnest's comings and goings. The interest she had felt for him was either swallowed up for the time in her great expectations, or crushed out altogether. 
                
               Not that I would have been sorry to see my sister so happily settled, for I could have trusted her with him to the ends of the earth; but I did not believe that he loved her, and was glad that she had outgrown her girlish fancy for him. 
               Winter was on us again, and my darling was failing fast, kept up from day to day by the artificial excitement that was sapping her life. 
               How I loved her I had never known till I found that she was going from us. She went about her work mechanically, watching impatiently for those foreign letters, the sight of which I had learned to hate. 
               Seeing these things, with a dread foreboding of the end, I determined to make one more effort to rouse her from this idle dream. We were about to retire, and picking up her belt I adroitly asked, "Annie, do you know that you are growing thinner?" 
               "Perhaps I am," was her unconcerned reply. "I shall be more refined, more elegant in form and figure when I enter society." 
               "Oh, my darling sister, do give up this foolish notion! I firmly believe that, at the end of the two years, we will be poorer than ever we were in our lives." 
               She looked at me as if she doubted the soundness of my mind, asking, "Have you really no plans founded on expectations of this fortune?" 
                
               "Expectations! Heaven save me from such folly!" I held up both hands in undisguised disgust. 
               "Folly, Irene? do you call it folly?" and she laughed hysterically, as she continued- 
               "If it is, then I am indeed lost; for I tell you, Irene, I have not a hope or plan for the future that is not based upon the expectation of some day realizing that fortune. But I have a piece of news for you; I don't think you know that papa is soon to be married." 
               "What did you say?" I asked, in a dazed kind of a way. 
               "Why, that papa is going to be married to Hetty Smith, who is scarcely eight years older than myself;" and she laughed again. 
               "My father going to be married!" and it had never entered my stupid little head before. 
               Then the lovely vision of my sainted mother rose to my memory; the mother, delicate, fair, and pure, whose place was soon to be filled by another one whose proud, haughty face had ever reminded me of snow-clifted mountains. I could not bring my undisciplined mind to view the arrangement as at all favorable, or conducive to the general good of the family, but, turning away from it, I resumed the broken thread of our conversation saying- 
               "This is, indeed, news to me. But about this fortune, Annie; do you really think Quimboy boy knows any more about it now than he did when he first went to Europe, over a year ago?" 
               "He writes that he is most sure of it," she replied, evasively. 
               "True, but have we any proof that his word can be relied on? Papa is sending him money very frequently, money that his children need." 
               She turned angrily toward me, as she asked, scornfully- 
               "Do you begrudge the money thus spent? are you so miserly, Irene?" 
               I was hurt beyond measure, but I calmly answered, "I do. I begrudge it for my brothers' sakes, who need it so much. That it is wasted I am almost as sure as if the end had come. Great heavens! will it ever come?" and I ground my teeth in my wretched suspense. 
               "And if it ends," she said, emphasizing each word and sentence, "as you expect, I sincerely pray that another moon may never rise and set on me alive." 
               I went to my bed, wetting the pillow with tears of bitter disappointment and dread. 
               I felt how useless it was to waste words with Annie, felt that her infatuation was hurrying her to the tomb, and knew that nothing I or any one could do would avail one iota. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               IN WHICH THE SHADOW TAKES FORM AND SHAPE. 
               
                  THE next morning at breakfast we were formally notified that a new mother was coming to preside over our home; and the deep red glow on Oscar's cheeks did not escape papa's notice. He tuned to him, and said, significantly, "I wish it understood that my wife is to be treated with every mark of respect that her position demands." 
               Oscar replied very calmly: "If you mean that for me, sir, I will simply say that I shall treat her with marked deference as your wife; as a mother, there can never be any sympathy between us, for she is a woman I can never admire;" and he left the table, with his breakfast almost untasted. 
               It was all that I could do to keep the tears back; and I think a vague, shadowy presentiment of the cruel future that was about to envelope us did fall on my prophetic heart just then. 
               When I went out I found Oscar standing moodily by the garden gate, and a bitter smile showed me very plainly what his thoughts were. 
                
               "Well, Mamie, this seems to be the climax of our troubles. Did ever human beings work under such trials as we do? To think of Hetty Smith taking our gentle mother's place! I can't stay here and see it." 
               "Oh, Oscar!" I cried, in wild alarm, "you surely would not think of leaving us?" 
               "How can I bear it, Mamie? how can I stand the airs and pride of that detestable woman? I see through it; she is only marrying him for the sake of his expected fortune; and I think he will pay dearly for his folly." 
               "Try it one year, Oscar-just one year; and if you are dissatisfied then, I will not persuade you to stay any longer." 
               "For your sake, little sister, I will stay, my counselor and comforter in time of trouble. My dear, darling little one, I sometimes think you are an angel." 
               "Oh, no, Oscar, only a poor crippled girl, striving to do her duty, nothing more." 
               But his flattery was very sweet, and I went on to say- 
               "I don't know how could live without you now, you have become so identified with me in all of my plans and aspirations. Do you know, Oscar, that Mr. Earnest thinks I can teach in a year and a half, if I learn as fast as I have in the past year?" 
               "I know that you are improving rapidly, but I hope you will never be reduced to the drudgery of the school-room." 
               "Why, Oscar, are you sane?" I inquired. "This has been the inspiration of my soul ever since I began to study; and I don't see why you should call it drudgery." 
               "My dear sister, you have never been inside a public school-room, I believe, and consequently know nothing of the fifty or sixty children, of all ages and sizes, huddled together in a small room to be drilled into discipline, and classified in their various studies. It is very different, I do assure you, from the pleasant hour you spend with Mr. Earnest; and it's drudgery of the hardest kind. But I have not had your opinion of this pleasant marriage." 
               "I can't say that I like it, Oscar; but what does it avail us if we don't? After all, we older ones have much less to fear than Robbie and Jamie. Poor, little boys, I could wish them dead!" and my tears flowed rapidly now. 
               "Truly; Mamie, I have been very selfish in my sorrow, but I can't be like you. You are always thinking of others instead of yourself." 
               "Not if I know myself. But seriously, Oscar, we may as well reconcile ourselves to this new order of events, for we can't prevent it. I like this marriage as little as yourself, but we must live with her; and, I am sure, it would be very selfish for us to leave our brothers to her tender mercies. I am off now to Mr. Earnest's, and hope time will help us to think less hardly of it." 
               Yet as I walked, or rather floated, along on my crutches, I could not help remarking to myself how little Annie seemed affected by this impending event; nor could I help accepting it as additional evidence of her hopeless infatuation. 
               "What's the matter, little maid?" asked my teacher, smilingly, after he had observed my abstraction for some moments. 
               "Papa is going to be married again," I replied, hardly able to keep back the sobs. 
               "What I have been expecting for some time," he answered. "But what is there so terrible about it, Irene?" 
               "I can't bear the idea of any one's taking poor mamma's place, most of all Miss Smith," I cried, the bitterness which I had crushed down in Oscar's presence, and for his sake, bursting out now. 
               "Irene," said my teacher, very solemnly, "your father most assuredly has the right to marry when he pleases, and whoever suits his taste; and, as his child, it is your duty to render him and his wife your filial obedience. I don't say it will be a pleasant task, for the Crown, my dear child, is not worn by a constant round of joyous duties; but, if we wish to wear it, we must bear the Cross first." 
                
               I was deeply impressed by his words, and saw my way clearly; saw that it was my duty to do what I could to soften the bitterness of the others. I resolved not to falter in my duty; and I think I can say without egotism, when my father brought his wife home a month later, that we were prepared to greet her kindly, almost cordially. 
               Had she only met us half way then, had she given us but a morsel of the kindness that we craved, the sequel would have been different. 
               But she came to us with no love in her heart for the orphan children, to whom she had promised to be a mother. She gave the tips of her fingers to each of us in turn, then went back to her husband, completely ignoring our presence. 
               The next morning at the table Mrs. Dacre said: "I am surprised, James, that you keep Mrs. Hoyt when you have two grown-up daughters." 
               I thought papa turned a trifle red as he replied, "Annie is not very strong, and Irene has done very little housework since the accident which caused her to be a cripple." 
               "Well, I am here now to superintend, so I think we can dispense with her services." 
               "But I do not like to turn her away, for she has been a very faithful housekeeper." 
               "Well, she can not stay here now," said my step-mother, decisively. "It would be useless to pay for help that we do not need; and our views would certainly be antagonistic, therefore it would be better that she should go." 
               And go she did, receiving notice that very morning. 
               I had watched papa keenly during this short interview, and knew then, as well as years afterward, that she held the mastery over his will. She lost no time in arranging the domestic affairs to suit her taste, assigning to each one his or her task. Oscar was too old to be subject to her petty commands, and she seemed to dislike him especially. 
               One day, about a week after she had come among us, on entering the sitting-room in the evening, Oscar suddenly asked- 
               "Where is mother's picture?" and, looking over the mantle, I saw that it was gone. 
               Papa looked at his wife, and she quietly said, "I had it removed." 
               "And for what, may I venture to inquire?" asked my brother. 
               "Because I chose to have it done, sir," was her taunting reply. "I think I may safely say that I am mistress of my own house." 
               "A pretty mistress, truly," was his indignant retort; "when you hate your predecessor's face so, that you must deny her children the consolation of seeing it;" and he walked contemptuously out of the room. 
                
               She turned furiously to my father, asking-"Am I to be treated thus in my own house? have I no right, no privilege here?" 
               "Yes, Hetty, my dear, all that you want; but Oscar is hot-headed, and you must overlook this outbreak," said he, in a soothing tone. 
               "Well, if this happens again, son or no son, he or I will leave this house. I will not be insulted by him." The 
                     palor
                     pallor
                   of her face, the uncompromising ring of her voice, told plainly that she meant it. 
               This was only the beginning. One by one every little token of our mother's love and skill was removed to a distant lumber room, none daring to raise a voice in their behalf. 
               I saw that she had no real love for my father, and noted how eagerly she, too, looked for those foreign letters, which came rarely enough now. 
               I think my father began to see that all was not right with this European business for I could notice lines of trouble settling around his mouth, and gray hairs sprinkling through his brown locks. 
               Annie was growing very thin; and, worked as she was, her spirits drooped visibly. I think that she, too, was losing hope, though she never said as much, and it was telling on her health fearfully. 
                
               I strove to amuse her in every possible way, but her evident ennui was not to be dispelled. 
               I was kept very busy with my studies and my sewing, together with such little tasks as I could perform, for we had few idle moments in those days. 
               Robbie and Jamie were growing finely; but it pained me to see the look of constraint and fear that was almost constantly on their faces. 
               Spring was on us again, and I come to the most trying episode in my life. 
               One morning, after papa left the table, Jamie accidentally upset a cup of coffee on the clean cloth, which so exasperated my step-mother that she took him by the arm, and dealt him blow after blow. 
               Never can I forget the rage on Oscar's face as he chanced to enter the room while she was chastising the boy. 
               He strode up to her, took him from her grasp, and, with a giant power, hurled her from him, reeling against the wall. White with passion, she exclaimed: "You shall pay dearly for this." 
               "If you mean that I am to be driven from my father's house, I shall only say it is well, since you disgrace it. And now, as the climax has come, let me tell you what I have to say. If you had come into this home with the love and respect you should have felt for your husband's band's children, each of us would have honored you. But you came with cold selfishness in your heart, turning all our pleasure to pain. Not content with this, you have assigned tasks to the younger ones that they were not able to perform, and beat this boy because he happened to upset a cup accidentally. If there is one pleasant thought about this Quimboy speculation, it is the knowledge that you will be disappointed." 
               Annie was standing near him, every vestige of color gone out of her face, and, when he turned to go, she fell forward, a crimson spot dying her lip. 
               With a slight scream I went to her, as Oscar lifted her gently in his arms, carrying her up to her room. 
               Was I to lose brother and sister with one blow? Was I to be left alone? All that long night, as my sister lay so cold and white, I prayed-as I had never prayed before-that God would spare her to me yet a little while. 
               As morning dawned the pulse seemed to flutter back, and, opening her eyes, she feebly asked, "Is it you, Mamie? Where is Oscar?" 
               "Hush! don't talk," I said; "he is here in the house," and she slept. 
               An hour later the doctor awoke from his hasty nap, said she would live, and went away. 
               Oscar came in early, his face very pale and haggard in the dim light, and, when he bent to kiss her bloodless lips, I thought my heart would break. 
               Mr. Earnest had been with us all night, and he came in now to send me away to rest. I did not want to go, but he was firm; and, stealing across to my little room on the opposite side of the house, I wept away some of my speechless grief. 
               The Cross was growing heavier every day, the path of duty fuller of thorns, that lacerated me at every step, and only judicious counsel, and a firm, wise hand kept me true to myself and my God. 
               Oh, my faithful pastor! I am sure that the early religious impressions received into my infantile heart by my mother's chair were-like the potter's clay-molded by you into beautiful and abiding vessels of truth, faith, and fidelity. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               AN EXPLOSION, AND ITS CONSEQUENCES. 
               
                  THAT same morning Oscar called my father aside, and told him that he was going to leave home, that he couldn't live under the same roof with his step-mother any longer. 
               "Oscar, my son, if you had only curbed your unruly temper, it might have been different," said papa, reproachfully. 
               "I think you do me injustice," replied my brother. "But be that true or not, I am going. I will not stay here to see my sisters overworked and my brothers abused. And, father, once for all time, I will say that I never thought, when my mother died, you would have suffered her children to be treated in this manner. She was a faithful wife to you, and you should have been faithful to the trust that she gave into your keeping. Mother, oh, mother, do you indeed see us as we are? and, knowing what we suffer, can you be happy even in that bright world?" 
               "Well, well, Oscar, I will change this when that fortune comes." 
               "A curse on the fortune, and its instigator, too! Our lives have been poisoned by its unwholesome influence, and we have it to thank for this precious step-mother." 
               "Oscar!" and papa was stern and haughty now, "what do you mean? Speak out, sir, speak out." 
               "I mean that if this odious scheme had never been heard of, Henrietta Smith would not have married you, a man twice her own age." 
               "You are very insulting to your father, sir, and after using such language, you can go any moment. I would not keep you an hour longer if I could. Go; and never darken my door again, till you can humble your pride enough to ask pardon of my wife for your officiousness yesterday, and of me for your insult to-day." 
               "Then, sir, I shall never darken it again. If your wife had shown one atom of loving interest in us, none would have respected her more than I. But we have been treated as worms, to be crushed beneath the heel of her power; and I simply choose not to be crushed. Good-by, sir." 
               And thus father and son parted, each going his separate way, with a heart full of angry bitterness for the other. 
               A few minutes later my brother came into my room, where I had fallen asleep, and, waking me gently, said, "I am going now, dear little Mamie; I have come to bid you good-by. I am forbidden to come here even on a visit," and he told me what had passed between papa and himself, adding, "I hate to go and leave Annie in this condition; but you will tell her how it is, that I love her dearly, and shall think of her always. I am not going very far, Mamie, for I think Deacon Jones will hire me on his farm this summer, and in the winter I shall go to school." 
               "Oh, Oscar, this is breaking my heart!" I cried. "I can't bear to have you go; and in anger, too." 
               "Mamie," he said, very gently, "this is not like your brave, little self. Your own good sense must show you that it can't be helped; so don't make the parting any harder to bear than it is now." 
               Feeling the truth of his remarks, I quickly dried my tears, while we formed plans for the future. In less than an hour, after stealing a look at Annie, he went away; and as I watched his manly figure disappear from my strained gaze, I felt as if one of the lights of my existence had suddenly gone out. 
               We had been together so much, our hopes, our interests, and our aspirations had become so identified, that this sudden rending of those precious ties affected me very much; and I began to fear that I was growing morbid. 
               How I missed my brother in the lonely days that followed his departure, none can ever know, no words can ever describe. 
               Annie convalesced very slowly. The hemorrhage had not returned since that memorable morning, but her strength seemed to have left her, and it was midsummer before she could walk about the yard and garden. 
               "Another such attack will kill her," said the doctor; and I began to think of the end of that English business with a nameless dread and horror that scarcely ever left me. 
               Mr. Earnest was my friend and counselor in these dark days of trouble and dread; and through him I was enabled to see Oscar much oftener than I could have done otherwise. I was glad to know that he had a pleasant home, received good wages, and was comparatively happy. Sometimes he would walk almost home with me, and, when we neared the gate, would bid me a hasty good-night, as he quickly retraced his steps. My father had taken up his old stern, haughty manner ever since that morning when he had bidden his eldest son never to darken his door; and Robbie and Jamie had to supply the place of the absent one. Gradually I saw the old discontented look coming into their faces that I had so often seen on Oscar's, and it troubled me greatly. I had given them every instruction that our limited time would permit, and really they had acquitted themselves selves nobly. Annie became very restless as the summer wore away, and I knew that she was looking for the finale of the Quimboy affair. 
               And it came-just as I had expected-in the shape of a long letter, carefully worded, to the effect that, at the last moment, nearer relatives had stepped in and secured the prize. He, Mr. Quimboy, hoped that Mr. Dacre would appreciate his generosity in not demanding a fee for his lost time, etc., etc. 
               Such horror and disappointment as came into my father's face, too plainly told the truth; and looking toward Annie, I saw the color slowly dying out of her cheeks. Before I could reach her she had sunk down, a helpless mass on the floor. Papa carried her away to her room, where I watched by her side, wiping away the crimson stains from her lips, knowing all the while that I was wiping away her life. 
               The doctor came quickly, and, after a slight examination, said that she could not live till morning. 
               Oh, heartless, unprincipled lawyer! I forgave you the money you spent, freely and fully; but the death of my beautiful sister I have never quite ceased to lay at your door. 
               We had sent for Mr. Earnest, and he came just as she opened her eyes and said, "I am almost gone, darling-almost gone." 
                
               Our pastor came nearer, and we giving way to him, he took her hands in his, pointing her to the Lamb slain for her redemption. 
               She looked up with a troubled, wistful gaze, as she feebly inquired, "Do you think there is any hope for me, who have spent my short life with scarcely an aim or hope that was not centered in self?" 
               "I believe that the goodness and mercy of the Lord endureth forever; and His arm is ever outstretched ready to save whoever needs His tender care." 
               His words seemed to reassure her, for she closed her eyes peacefully, and her lips moved as if in prayer. 
               Thus the hours wore on; now and then the red jet bubbling from her nose and mouth; and as the sun began to sink, she failed, too, till the sunset hour, when, shuddering slightly, she said, "The waters are very cold, oh, so chilling!" and passed in spirit to the Father who gave it, in the very flush of her young and beautiful womanhood. 
               Then and there I fainted dead away, unable to stand the shock; and when I came to myself, Mr. Earnest was bending over me. 
               "Little maid," said he, "this is not like you to give up so." 
               "I can't part with my sister, indeed I can't." 
               "This is folly, Irene; you must give her up. You know that; and the living has claims on you that you dare not neglect. Can't you have Oscar sent for? It is a shame that his sister died within two miles of him and he know nothing of it." 
               "I am afraid that papa will not allow him to come here; his name is a forbidden word in the household." 
               "Yes, I know it, but I don't think Mr. Dacre will be so hard and unjust to him as that. Will you go and see him now, little maid?" 
               "Yes, sir; but I am sure it is useless," said I, as I went out. 
               I found my father and his wife-I never could bring myself to call her mother, a foolish feeling, no doubt-sitting together, and I went timidly up to him, saying, "Papa, don't you think Oscar should be sent for?" 
               "Wherefore?" asked he, incredulously. 
               "Wherefore! because our sister is dead, and he has as much right to be with her in death as we." 
               Mrs. Dacre spoke up angrily, "If that boy comes into the house, I leave it. Isn't it enough to know that we are penniless, without your trying to insult us by the presence of that odious fellow?" 
               I was roused beyond control, and, turning on her, said, "I suppose your prejudices must be consulted before the rights of the dead; and I dare say, if you did leave the house, we could manage to exist without you. Papa, you will not allow that old quarrel to prevent you doing your duty now?" 
               "Child, you are not my judge; and I tell you that boy shall never enter this house on other terms than I have said." 
               I went back to my teacher, feeling ashamed of the anger I had shown in the interview, with hot, scalding tears rolling over my cheeks. He gently smoothed my rumpled hair away from my brow, saying, "Let this be a lesson to you, Irene. Curb the restless passion of the human heart, that is ever striving for the master. Behold to what they can reduce one, when they have the power, that not even death can disperse them! But Oscar must see his sister; it would never do for her to be buried without his taking a farewell look at her. I will bring him here at eleven o'clock to-night, and if the family have retired, you will be at the garden gate; if they have not, we will wait till you come." 
               I caught both of his hands in mine, kissing them in sheer gratitude, as I exclaimed- 
               "What do I not owe to you, my more than teacher, the best and only friend I have on earth! How shall I ever repay you for your counsels, your advice, and, most of all, your noble example!" 
               "Never mind them, little maid. May be some day I shall demand my pay and it will be refused." 
               "Oh, Mr. Earnest, how can you think me so ungrateful?" I asked, reproachfully. 
               "Never mind, never mind," he answered, as he went away, with a curious expression, and I went back to where my dead sister lay, feeling very miserable indeed. 
               Our step-mother made no show of grief, going round the house with the same business air about her; but I could detect the bitter disappointment caused by the Quimboy letter in the increased wrinkles on her brow, and the unusual sharpness of her tongue. 
               That night Oscar came, and I was at the gate to meet him. 
               We stole into the house, the watchers giving way, and with a moan Oscar sank on his knees beside his dead sister. 
               Very beautiful looked our darling in death, the simple white robe being no whiter than her face; and as I looked down on her, in her virgin purity and youthfulness, her last words, "The waters are very cold, oh, so chilling!" rang in my ears with a fearful significance. 
               Mr. Earnest led my brother away at the end of an hour, and I, following them to the gate, heard Oscar say, "This is the hardest trial of all. To think that I must steal in, like a thief, to take a last look at my dead sister is more than I can bear," and he groaned aloud in his anguish. 
               "Well, Oscar, said Mr. Earnest, "there are harder things to bear than this in the world; and suffer as we may, if we look about us, we will see others whose trials are just as burdensome. Let us hope that she is at rest. 
               "Oh, Mr. Earnest, do you really believe that she is?" I asked, impulsively. 
               He turned his grave face to me as he replied, "She did not die as the Christian usually does, but we may hope, for all things are possible with God. After all, dear friends, such doubts and fears only harrass us, do not avail anything, and are unprofitable;" and, bidding me good-night, he slipped Oscar's arm through his, and together they went down the road. 
               To whom in all the world could I have trusted. my brother, in his wild sorrow, with the assurance that he would be comforted, as to the friend and guide of my youthful steps? 
               Two days after our darling was buried beside, my mother, whose grave I had tenderly cared for, and I went home more desolate and lonely, than ever before. 
               The twilight shadows were gathering thick and fast around me, and, as I gazed drearily out of my room window, a quiet sob caused me to look up quickly. 
               There stood Robert, crying bitterly. 
                
               "Come here, I said; and, putting my arms about his neck, asked him what was wrong. 
               "Oh, Mamie, it is so dreary here, so unlike other people's houses, that I wish I was dead like Annie." 
               "That is wicked, Robbie, very wicked." 
               "I don't see why, for our lives are a continual round of work. Annie is dead, and Oscar dare not come to see us even; and Jamie and I are in constant dread of punishment, so I can't see why it is wicked to wish myself dead and at rest. I tell you, Mamie, I won't stand it much longer," and sinking his voice to a whisper, "I will run away from home." 
               "What do you mean, Robert? are you taking leave of your senses?" 
               "No, said he, quietly, "I am not crazy; but this battering and scolding won't last always. I don't know how Oscar stood it so long, for I intend to go somewhere to escape it;" and the old discontented look disfigured his fine face. 
               I had not the strength to dissuade him from this step; felt that it would be wrong to do so, for their daily bondage was not light, and, I feared, would be severer now. Quimboy had spent all of my father's money, and I knew that the farm was our only support. This, with rigid economy, would buy the necessaries of life, but few luxuries; and I foresaw that my brothers would fare badly in this new system that would have to be inaugurated. 
               I drew Robbie closer to my bosom, and, pointing up to the sky, blazing with its wealth of jewels, said- 
               "Robbie, I want you to promise me that, wherever you go, you will never think lightly of Him, who rules us from there, or forget that our mother is an angel in His courts." 
               "Never, Mamie, shall I forget your teachings, never will I forget the God who made me, or the mother who bore me." 
               He kissed me and went to his bed, where I found him, an hour later, fast asleep, with his arm around Jamie's neck. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               MY GREAT EXPECTATIONS. 
               
                  WINTER passed, spring came and went again, and in midsummer, one beautiful morning in July, I asked: 
               "Mr. Earnest, do you think I could teach this winter?" 
               He looked up at me as he replied: 
               "You are very young to teach, Irene." 
               "I know it, but I think I could succeed, nevertheless. I don't think I was ever a child as other children are, Mr. Earnest; never took any interest in the play that most little girls delight so in. I believe I could govern a school, if I am only sixteen. Besides, I want to do something to help my brothers, something to tone down the harshness of their lives." 
               Then he came over to my side, and laying his hand tenderly on my hair, said: 
               "I will try to get you the village school; and while I shall miss your daily presence very much, I can truly say that I feel proud of my pupil. Little maid, you are bearing your cross nobly, bravely; and as the days flit by the crown is drawing nearer and growing brighter. Strive on, and you will eventually wear it. Did you know, Irene, that Oscar is studying medicine?" 
               "Not a word of it," I exclaimed, delighted by the news. "Do you think he can get through college?" 
               "If he tries earnestly, and uses economy, I think he will." 
               "That he will do, I know," I said. 
               "Yes; Oscar is very persevering indeed, and old Dr. Martin, who has taken a fancy to him, has persuaded him to this step. I knew it would please you," he added, as I laughed in my joy. 
               How glad I was to know that my brother was going to be a useful, professional man; that he was striving to rise above the common level, and in a manner that opened up to him a wide field for doing good. 
               "Mr. Earnest, you are very kind to take such an interest in us," I said; "and I sometimes shudder to think what our lives would have been without you." 
               "It is a selfish interest, Irene, purely selfish," said he, deprecatingly; "so please don't speak of it again," and he spoke almost sadly. 
               I turned away to my books, filled with an admiration for his exalted character that I had never felt for any one before. 
               "You said just now," he resumed, "something about your brothers; do you think they are not happy?" 
                
               "I know they are very miserable," I replied. "They are worked shamefully, and I don't believe Robert will stay with us long. I can't blame him, Mr. Earnest, indeed I can't. I am not afraid to trust him in the world alone, not so much as I am to have him stay here. Oh, Mr. Earnest, I sometimes wonder if mamma can see us, and, knowing our trials, if she can be happy!" 
               "Irene, I don't think God allows our earthly ties to come between us and our immortal bliss, for then our happiness would be imperfect; but I do believe that our happy dead are nearer to us than most of us imagine. I believe that we are always surrounded by an innumerable host a cloud of witnesses, that will bear record as to the fruit which the tree produces. Now, little maid, I leave it to your judgment whether you shall 
                     endeaver
                     endeavor
                   to keep Robert at home or not. It may be the best for him to go." 
               "I am sure of it," I said. 
               "Well, all I can do is to pray for you and him, and that I shall always do. I must be off now; you can stay and study as long as you like," he said, taking up his hat to go out. 
               I lingered awhile in this favorite haunt, and then went home. 
               "Well, I do hope you have loitered long enough," was Mrs. Dacre's sharp exclamation, as I entered the house. "Here, it is almost eleven o'clock, and the potatoes not pared, or the tomatoes scalded for dinner, and you gadding around." 
               "I was studying with Mr. Earnest," I replied. 
               "Yes; and I think you should have sense enough to stay away from there-you a girl of sixteen, and he a single man." 
               How the hot, angry blood surged up into my face as I furiously exclaimed: "I think there are some things we should not touch with sullied lips, and one is character. Don't mention my name again, as connected with our pastor's, in such a manner, for I fully understand the vulgar insinuation. I am striving for an education, which will render me independent, and until that is gained I shall continue my present course." 
               "We will see. If you have no shame, perhaps your father has for you. Go, and get the things ready for dinner." 
               I went away, asking myself if my pursuits were really to be interfered with? if I was actually doing anything immodest or unmaidenly in my intercourse with my teacher? To the last I could give an indignant denial; to the first I could answer nothing. 
               I was not surprised, however, when papa called me into his presence next morning, and said: "I think, Irene, you had better quit going to Mr. Earnest's room now. You are getting older, and should try to make yourself more useful to your mother." 
               "Will you send me away to school?" I asked, boldly. 
               "Away, Irene! Do you mean it?" he asked, in astonishment. 
               "Yes, sir, I mean it," I replied. "I am a cripple, I shall never marry, and have a home of my own, as other girls do. Don't you think I deserve it, papa?" 
               "I can't afford it, Irene; I am too poor." 
               "Then let me alone as I am. I can't do much housework; it is hard for me to sew, but I can teach, and I want to prepare myself for it." 
               "But people will talk about you, Irene," he expostulated. 
               "I don't believe a thought of us ever entered any one's brain save Mrs. Dacre's," I said, very sharply. 
               "I am afraid you do her a great wrong," he said, sadly. 
               "If I do, may Heaven forgive me. But, papa, I want to speak about Jamie. He is overworked, and his constitution is breaking down. Can't you see mother's look in his eyes? Papa, can't you give him a little rest?" 
               "Child, child, what are you talking about? Jamie is strong enough; his hoe never lags, his row is kept side by side with Robert's all day." 
               "Yet he is dying; and this hard work is hastening him on. Oh, papa, for the sake of our sainted mother, send him somewhere for a few weeks, and let us see the advantage. He is growing ill, and I can not bear to see it." 
               I was pleading almost wildly for my brother, the darling pet of my angel mother, the child whom she had loved more than us all. 
               My father's face relaxed a little, as he said, "I would, Irene, if I could; but we are too poor to hire help, and while the crop pushes I must have both of the boys at home." 
               "If it does cost Jamie his life?" I inquired. 
               "We did not come here to talk of this," he said, sternly, "and it must be stopped. It is necessary that you stay away from Earnest's study in the future." 
               "Am I to understand this as a command?" 
               "Yes. See that you obey it." 
               "Papa," I cried, "I never disobeyed you; "why should you be so stern with me, your helpless, crippled child? It seems so hard, so cruel." 
               "Child, I don't want to be hard with you; but your mother thinks it is improper for you to go there any longer. Women understand these things, and it is because I would not have a breath of scandal breathed against your name that I have forbidden this intercourse with your teacher." 
               "Papa, I believe you," I said, impulsively. 
                
               "And if it will be any pleasure to you hereafter, child, I will say that, of all my children, you have given me the most willing obedience. For your sake I wish that fortune had not proved a failure." 
               Just here I will state that Mr. Earnest, being called to New York soon after Annie's death, had sought out the firm which Quimboy had mentioned, and found that no such individual had ever been employed by them. 
               I did not tell my father this now, but said that I had not expected it, and was not disappointed. 
               "They tell me that Oscar is reading medicine," he said, turning sharply toward me. 
               "I hear so, sir." 
               "Where in the deuce does he expect to get money from to take him through college? Old Dr. Martin needn't try his skill on me." 
               "I don't think Oscar would allow it. He is too proud to ask help from one who hasn't it to give," I said, a little tartly. 
               "He is working for Deacon Jones, I hear." 
               "Yes, sir. I suppose he will save something this year." 
               "We will see how he gets along without his father's advice," he replied, scornfully, as he took down his hat and trudged off to the field. I went to my work; but at dinner I couldn't help noticing how swollen and red Jamie's face looked, and though he ate voraciously, he appeared to be suffering. 
               I went out to the pump after dinner with a large cloth, and wetting it, besought him to work with it on his head. He thanked me very kindly, as he said, "It is no use, Mamie; it won't make the sun less hot." 
               "But it will cool your head if you keep wetting it," I said. "For my sake, you know, Jamie." 
               "For your sake I could do much more than that," he said laughingly, as he put the dripping cloth on his bonnie hair, and pulled his straw hat over it. "But, Mamie, I don't believe I shall live long; I feel so strange; feel as if I should not." 
               "Oh, Jamie, what nonsense is this?" 
               "No nonsense at all, only the truth; and I am thinking of mamma all the time. I must go now, the horses are ready;" and I went back to my work with another thorn in my side. 
               All that summer afternoon I thought of my brother's words, and of my own life, so full of sorrow and care. One of my greatest pleasures had been the daily hour spent with my teacher, and now this was to be broken up. 
               Mr. Earnest came over in the evening, as he often did, and when he went away I walked with him to the gate. I did not know how to tell him that I could not come to his study any more but I think my face told on me, for he asked: "What is it, little maid?" 
               "They say I must not come to you for instruction," I replied, struggling to keep back the tears. 
               "Why not?" he asked. 
               "Because I am growing older, and Mrs. Dacre says it is improper." 
               His face flushed as I had never seen it in all my life, and his voice sounded strange as he replied, "Perhaps it is as well, but I shall miss you very much. I was in the village to-day, and heard that the school board meets on Monday to consider applications. Shall I put in your name?" 
               "If you will, I shall be very thankful. I should like to make the attempt at least." 
               "I think you will get it, if you don't become confused at the examination. Our daily intercourse, Irene, had become very dear to us-too dear for one of us, I am afraid. Good-by;" and he walked away in the gathering gloom, leaving me to wonder at his words. He had been moved in this interview as I had never seen him moved before, but my young heart did not guess the truth then. 
               The next morning's post brought a letter from my uncle, Robert Dacre, saying that he and his family were coming to spend a few weeks with us. 
                
               Of this uncle we children had heard but little, save that he was a wealthy New York merchant. 
               My step-mother turned up her nose in disgust when the letter was read, saying, wrathfully- 
               "As if we hadn't enough work without visitors." 
               "Hetty," spoke up papa, "this is my only brother, whom I have not seen for twenty years; and I do think you might be glad to receive them for my sake." 
               "I am too busy between pickling, preserving, and housework to think of company now; but I suppose they will come anyhow, and we may as well make the best of it," she said, in a dissatisfied manner. 
               And to do her justice the old house was thoroughly cleaned, and looked sweet and inviting when they came. So the time passed quickly enough, for I found plenty to do in the unwonted bustle. 
               When Mr. Earnest told me that the school board would have me examined with the rest of the candidates, I felt rewarded for my arduous toil. I had no doubt of my ability, and felt no fear for the result. 
               All that I had gained was accomplished by thorough, systematic study, for I possessed none of that genius that can grasp knowledge and retain it with a single reading. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               A STARTLING DECLARATION. 
               
                  THEY came, my uncle and his family, one quiet August day, just as the sun was going out of sight; and as its last rays fell on the silvered head of my uncle, I thought I had never seen a nobler countenance. 
               He and my father resembled each other; but the harsh obstinacy of the one was toned down in the other by active benevolence, and a deep and abiding veneration for the sacred and holy. His eyes were full of tears when he shook my father's hand; and his voice was husky as he turned to introduce the family. 
               Aunt Emma was a perfect lady, in every sense of the word; and her twin daughters were very much like her. One son, about Robert's age, completed the family; and I thought them very handsome as we ushered them into our prim little parlor. 
               In a few moments my step-mother came in, and I do think she tried to be as agreeable as she could. I saw that my uncle and aunt watched her closely, and I fancied that they were disappointed. 
                
               "Is this all of your family, James?" asked Uncle Robert. "I thought you had an older son." 
               "I had," replied my father. "But he took umbrage at my second marriage, and left home." 
               "Ah! that is what's the matter, is it?" 
               "Yes; and, as it is an unpleasant subject, we will drop it." 
               Here supper was announced, and we went out-Dora and Emma watching me, flitting about on my crutches, with a curious kind of pity. 
               They were very pretty-these twin sisters-with their golden curls, soft blue eyes, and blonde complexions; and I fell to wondering, as I lingered about the table, what Mr. Earnest would think of my lady cousins. 
               The conversation was very pleasant-my uncle taking papa back to the days when they had played and worked together with boyish freedom. And as they talked, I could not help contrasting their happy days with our dwarfed and constrained childhood; nor could I help the reproachful accusations that arose against my father-the only one that could have prevented it and didn't. 
               After supper, our pastor came in with his usual graceful ease; and, after some minutes of general conversation, passed over to where Dora sat, and commenced a lively discourse. 
                
               "Dora's very lovely," said I to myself; "very lovely, indeed! Why shouldn't he fall in love with her? Why not?" I kept repeating, my heart bounding with an indignant denial of anything of the kind. 
               Robert and Jamie had taken Willie away; and, seeing my uncle out in the yard, I went to him, with a strange, miserable feeling clutching at my heart-strings. 
               "Uncle," I said, "I hope you will not think so badly of Oscar. It is not his fault that he was not here to welcome you. Papa does not allow him to come home." 
               "Will not let him come home! And, pray, what is the reason?" 
               "Because he does not like our step-mother, who used him badly," I replied. "We have led a very lonely life since mamma died." 
               "I believe it, child; I believe it. But what is Oscar doing now?" 
               "He is hired on Deacon Jones' farm; and reads medicine, when he has time, with Doctor Martin. I don't know how he will get through college, for he has nothing but what he works for." 
               "Never you mind, Irene. For the sake of your mother, whom I knew as a very sweet, good girl, I will help her boy. My child, it is very painful to me to see you maimed for life in this manner." 
                
               "I am used to it now," I replied, "and do not mind it. But, uncle, if you will help Oscar to gain his diploma, I will love you as long as I live. Mr. Earnest will take you to see him any time." 
               "What is the matter with Jamie? He looks so feeble!" asked my uncle, turning the conversation. 
               "He is dying," I replied, a little bitterly; "dying by inches, of a feeble, overworked constitution. He was never very strong, and he is failing daily." 
               "How does it come, Irene, that your father seems so poor? Everything indicates that he has very little in the world." 
               Of course I had to tell him of the trick that Quimboy had so successfully played on my father, and the sad consequences that followed. I said: "It killed my sister, as surely as if a bullet had struck her; and I shall never hesitate to lay her death at that villain's door." 
               "I thought my brother had more judgment than to be duped in this manner," said my uncle. 
               "And this marriage," I went on, "is another result of this miserable infatuation. If Hetty Smith had not heard of the expected fortune, she would never have married my father." 
               "I see, I see how it was; and this disappointment only soured an already disagreeable temper per. I am sorry for you, Irene-more sorry than you know." 
               "Not for me, uncle; not for me," I cried, with a burst of unusual bitterness, "but for my brothers, whose youthful days are one ceaseless round of drudgery, with few pleasures to lighten the irksome hours. I have tried faithfully to teach them; but they have so little time for study!" 
               "Irene, I think you have found the 'pearl of great price;' yes, I am sure you have," he said, as he drew his handkerchief across his eyes, and went into the room. 
               Papa was talking to my aunt, and Mr. Earnest was still conversing with Dora, so I drew near enough to hear what they said. 
               "So, you prefer city life to the country?" asked Mr. Earnest. 
               "I do; but every one isn't like me. I am fond of the amusements of the city; and a few weeks in the country is quite enough for me," was the gay reply of my brilliant cousin. 
               My teacher turned to me, asking: "What do you think of this opinion? How would you like the great city?" 
               I dare say I was very foolish; but tears came into my eyes, and my voice sounded strangely, as I replied, very coolly: 
               "I have no desire to make the exchange; no wish to contrast the two modes." 
                
               I saw the look of surprise that came into his eyes as he resumed the conversation; and, feeling awkward and miserable, I went over to Emma. Sitting down beside her I slipped my hand in hers, and began to talk with her. 
               She was a quiet girl, neither so brilliant nor attractive as her more handsome sister; but there was a gentle dignity, a native refinement about her, that was peculiarly winning. 
               About nine o'clock Mr. Earnest rose to go; and, gliding out, I met him at the gate. 
               "Didn't forget my usual good-night, little maid!" he remarked, playfully. 
               "I wanted to see you about Oscar," I replied, stiffly. "My uncle would like to see him very much." 
               "Send Mr. Dacre over at nine in the morning, and we will walk to the farm where Oscar works. By-the-by, the examination of teachers takes place on Monday." 
               "Does it? Then I shall be there." 
               He stopped short, caught both of my hands suddenly in his, and, looking down into my face, asked: "You are not going to let these people come between us, Irene? Our intercourse of years is not to be broken by strangers? Oh, my darling, I couldn't bear that!" 
               "What do you mean, Mr. Earnest?" I cried. 
               "I mean," said he, very gravely and tenderly, "that I love you very fondly, and want you to love me in return;-how much, I did not know, till these two weeks that you have been away from me." 
               I was thoroughly frightened; and, not knowing what to say, I remained silent. 
               "Have you nothing to say, Irene? Don't you love me just a little?" 
               I pulled away my hands to hold my crutches, for I felt as if I should faint. I could not speak; and he went on to say: 
               "It has been an idea of mine, for years, that I would make you my wife, should you grow into the woman that I thought you would. That you have more than fulfilled my fondest hopes, I need not say; and I now lay at your feet my heart, with its rich love and its highest aspirations. Little maid! will you be my wife or not?" 
               "Your wife, Mr. Earnest! You take me, a helpless cripple, to be your wife!" 
               In that moment my mind seemed to view the subject in its true light. All the disadvantages of my helplessness flashed over me; and I resolved that he should never sacrifice his young manhood in such a manner. 
               "Yes, Irene; crippled as you are, I would rather wed you than any woman I ever saw!" 
               "While I should consider it the crowning glory of my life to accept your love," I said, "and think myself blessed among women, I can't accept the sacrifice. No, Mr. Earnest, I can never be your wife. Matrimony is not for such as I." 
               He put his hand on my head so tenderly, so lovingly-toying with the loose strands as he said, coaxingly: 
               "You will think better of this on reflection, Irene. I do not ask you to fetter yourself with an engagement; you are too young for that; but if you will give me the least hope, I will wait years for you." 
               "I can not think differently on reflection, Mr. Earnest," I replied. "My answer must always be the same; and it is useless to hope for anything else. I know that I owe you everything that I am, or ever shall be. You have been teacher, adviser, all, in these years; and it pains me deeply to say this to you. But I know, Mr. Earnest, in the future, when you have taken some one fairer and lovelier than I to your heart and home, you will thank me for it." 
               "Irene, none can be fairer or lovelier than you to me. If you are firm in this refusal, I shall never marry. I hope this will cause no formality between us." 
               "The honor you have conferred on me can make no difference in the high esteem I feel for you. I shall ever remember it gratefully. The cross is very heavy, dear teacher-heavier than you imagine it to be." 
                
               "Let me kiss you just once, Irene, before I go," he pleaded. 
               "Just once!" I replied, as he bent his head and imprinted a lingering, passionate kiss on my burning brow. 
               Then he went away in the silvery moonlight, and I walked into the house, with a new, strange feeling in my heart-a sweeter emotion than I had ever known; a blissful peace-sweet and blissful because I honored him above all men; and inexpressibly sad because its fondest hopes could never be realized. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               IN WHICH MUCH HAPPENS. 
               "JAMES, have you consulted a physician in regard to your youngest boy's health?" asked my uncle, after he had been with us a few days. 
               "He has never complained of being sick," said papa. 
               "He doesn't need to complain; for any one can see that he is not well. He is too sick to work, at any rate." 
               "I shall give him a long rest after this month," replied papa, with an air of relief. "I think he is more cheerful since Willie has been here. What wonderful spirits that boy has! none of mine was ever half so wild." 
               "Just so," said my uncle. "'All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy.' But, James, you have one child that a king might envy." 
               "Yes; Irene is a noble girl-" 
               "I wasn't thinking of Irene at all," put in my uncle impatiently. "I mean Oscar, your oldest son." 
               "Oscar! that headstrong, disobedient boy, who has caused me more trouble than all of my children?" 
                
               "Yes, I mean Oscar," repeated uncle doggedly; "and, with all of his waywardness, he is one of nature's noblemen. He is educating himself in the hours which most boys spend in sleep or play; and, with an indomitable perseverance, that knows no bounds, is determined to gain a profession. He should be commended and assisted." 
               My father was very pale as he replied: "He will gain it without assistance from me. Until he can humble his cursed pride, I will never aid him a cent's worth." 
               "Then I will. Is your son a dog that you deny him your aid and the shelter of your roof?" 
               "Robert, as I have said once before, this is no pleasant subject; and, as your visit is to be a short one, I suggest that nothing more be said about it. If you choose to help him, it is all right, so far as I am concerned-you manage your own affairs;" and they walked away from the window of the room in which I was dusting, and I heard no more. 
               It was Monday; and after doing up my morning work I quietly left the house, and went to the village. I had met Mr. Earnest frequently since that ever-to-be-remembered evening, and had schooled myself to see him daily, without any outward trepidation. I am sure none guessed the truth. 
                
               I was rather late, all of the applicants being present when I entered the school-room; and I thought some of them smiled contemptuously when I came in, but it might have been a morbid fancy of mine. 
               The examination was long and trying, but I knew that my teacher's eyes were upon me; that his kindest wishes were in my behalf, and the knowledge nerved me to do my very best. 
               I was not confused in the least; and, while others stammered from sheer bashfulness, I was perfectly bright and collected. After it was over, the county superintendent turned to me with a bow as he said: 
               "Miss Dacre, I must say that, for your age, you are one of the best informed young ladies it has ever been my pleasure to examine. I will suggest that a year or so in one of our Normal schools would give you a polish that would prove invaluable to you in the future. The Board of Directors will meet on Friday evening, and on Saturday you will know their decision." 
               I bowed my thanks, and was leaving the school-room when Mr. Earnest came to me. 
               "You did nobly, Irene," he said. "I am proud of my pupil." 
               I was too full of joy to speak, and together we walked back to the farm, I little dreaming of the blow that was so soon to fall on us. 
               As we came in about twelve o'clock, I saw papa walking rapidly to the house, bearing some kind of a burden; and just then Robert bursted into the kitchen exclaiming, "Jamie's dead! Jamie's dead!" 
               "Not dead, Robert!" I cried, shaking him by the arm. "Not dead!" 
               "He fell in the field just like some one dead, and papa is bringing him home." 
               They brought him in, my pet, and laid him on the lounge, his face flushed to a purple hue, while his lips 
                     twiched
                     twitched
                   convulsively. In a few moments the spasms broke out, and he raved in wild 
                     delirum
                     delirium
                  . 
               Dr. Martin came with his usual promptness and did what he could; but human skill was powerless now, for outraged nature would not be still. 
               Uncle Robert looked on in angry silence as my father held the child down in his wild ravings, and his lips were compressed with a terrible indignation that he could scarcely control. 
               My brother had fallen a victim to sunstroke, and the hot September sun had done its work faithfully. 
               I followed the old doctor out to the gate, and asked him if there was a shadow of a hope. 
               "None, Irene; death is inevitable, I believe; at best, he may be paralyzed for life-and I think you have judgment enough to accept the first as the lesser of two evils." 
                
               I turned back with a sob to meet Dora and Emma, whose gentle sympathy was very soothing in this time of distress. I went in where Jamie lay, his limbs jerking in horrible convulsions, and I felt very bitter toward the father, who had caused him such a fate. My thoughts reverted to the conversation that I had overheard that morning, and I was glad that his eternal rest had almost begun-that rest which has no end and from which there is no appeal. 
               The child raved piteously of his hard life; of his over-worked childish days; and as he talked on I saw hard lines settling around my uncle's mouth, lines of contemptuous scorn for the man who had made beasts of burden of his children. 
               As midnight drew on it was apparent to all that he was going, for his limbs ceased to move, into his eyes the light of reason returned, and looking heavenward, with an angelic smile, he murmured, "Mamma; don't you see mamma? She has come for me. Good-by, good-" and, with the last word trembling unspoken on his lips, his spirit passed from its mortal tenement to its immortality beyond the skies. 
               I was not unprepared for this; for all that summer I had noted time and again the purple hue on Jamie's face; but I felt none the less lonely and sad as I kissed his dead lips and went away to my room. 
               I was, in a measure, looking for the blow that had fallen on us; but my uncle and his family were horrified, and in the morning he said to papa, "When are you going to send for Oscar?" 
               "Not at all," was the laconic answer. 
               "And would you have this child buried without sending for his brother?" sharply demanded my uncle. 
               "Oscar knows on what terms he can enter this house," said papa. 
               "James," replied my uncle, growing very red, "your infernal obstinacy has killed this child. Had you listened to me yesterday, and not sent the boy to the field, he would not be a corpse to-day. Not content with this, you bring your foolish prejudices into action, and forbid your son from seeing his brother buried. It is heathenish, and unbecoming a gentleman." 
               "Robert, I tell you, once for all, that I can manage my own affairs; when I need your assistance, I will inform you." 
               "Fiddlesticks!" was the other's impatient exclamation. "If Oscar isn't sent for, I will leave with my family to-day." 
               And so papa had to yield; but, when Oscar came, he kept away from him as much as possible. 
               How proud I was of my noble brother when he came and was introduced to my aunt and cousins! Constant intercourse with Mr. Earnest est had given him considerable polish, which made him at ease in society; and I could see that Uncle Robert felt very kindly disposed toward him. 
               The evening before the funeral, Oscar asked me to come to my room for a quiet chat with him. And I went, glad to know that my 
                     sociciety
                     society
                   was still prized by him. 
               "The same quiet little nook," said he, glancing around the room; "and the same little sister, too. Oh, Mamie, I miss you so much, and so often!" 
               "But your new life is much pleasanter than the old one, isn't it?" I asked. 
               "Because it has an aim, a purpose; not because new friends are dearer than old ones, for none can ever be so dear to me as you. But, Mamie, why won't you be happy, too?" 
               The red blood was in my face in an instant, as I replied- 
               "It would never do, Oscar. Surely you can see that it would never do for me to marry. Some day, dear brother, you will find a corner in your heart and home for your sister." 
               "But Earnest loves you so, Mamie; loves you better than his life; and I do think you are foolish to throw away such an opportunity." 
               "Oscar! Oscar!" I cried, "don't tempt me beyond my strength. I love Mr. Earnest as I can never love another; but I can see far enough into the future to know that a man of his talents will not remain long in a place like this. After awhile wealthy churches will seek him out, and I would only be a burden to him then. Others would pity him for making such a sacrifice of himself. I have thought it all over, and I know that I have acted wisely." 
               "Earnest does not think so, nor do I; and I am sorry to see you lose such a chance for life-long happiness. Not that you could ever be anything but a comfort and pleasure, little sister, in any home that I may ever have; but I would like to see you happy at your own fireside. I know that he will not remain here long, but I can not think you would ever be a burden to him." 
               "Well, Oscar, I know; and though he might never think so, I should constantly see it in those about me; and I am too sensitive to bear pity. I am right, I know I am, so don't say another word about it. Tell me how you are getting along at the deacon's?" 
               "Very well, indeed," he replied. "Every one is very kind to me. Do you know that Uncle Robert has offered to pay my way through college?" 
               "He told me he would help you," I said. "He feels very sore about Jamie's death." 
               "No wonder. Any one could have seen that he was unfit for labor. When I look at Cousin Willie, and think of our childhood, I feel sore, too." 
               "It avails you nothing," I said, soothingly, "and only creates angry feelings. Will you return with uncle?" 
               "That is the arrangement, and I am to board in his family. I hope to be able to do something for Robert after a few years. Poor, little fellow! he will be very lonely now." 
               "Yes, very. I don't believe he will stay here long, now that Jamie's dead." 
               "How can he?" asked Oscar. 
               "I shall not try to keep him. But it will seem very lonely when all are gone." 
               "I know it will; and I shall think of you often, and write, too. If you obtain the school, you will not be quite so lonely." 
               "I shall not have time in that case," I replied. "But we may be wanted down stairs;" and we parted for the night. 
               The next day Jamie was buried beside Annie, over whose grave the green grass had grown in wild profusion; and we went back to the house, which seemed very dreary. Oscar did not go home with us-papa did not ask him-but returned to Deacon Jones' to make preparation for his departure. 
               Papa seemed sterner than I had ever seen him, and uncle strove to be pleasant, but it was only a spasmodic effort, and we relapsed into an uncomfortable silence. 
               After tea Mr. Earnest came in with his usual genial smile, and restored cheerfulness to the somber group. Even papa unbent before his rare conversational powers; and a smile would sometimes creep over my step-mother's sour visage. 
               "I forgot to mention," said he, in a pause, "that Irene has received the appointment as teacher in the village school. Here is your certificate," handing it to me; and for the first time I thought of its being Saturday. 
               I took the paper in a bewildered manner, but was brought back to the present by my step-mother's saying, "What in the world put that into the girl's head? How am I to get along without any help?" 
               "I will assist you all that I can; but I am going to teach, if papa will allow me. It has been my hope for a long time." 
               "Let the child do as she pleases," said my father; and Mr. Earnest, seeing my confusion, began to talk of something else. 
               So I had succeeded, contrary to my expectations, for I had thought my youth would prove a serious obstacle. 
               Strange to say, I felt no fear of the responsibility, for I knew I should succeed as a teacher. I know now, after long years of experience, that I was peculiarly adapted for the vocation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               NEW ASPIRATIONS ARE AROUSED. 
               
                  SO they were gone-my uncle, and his pleasant family, and my brother Oscar; and the gathering gloom of Robert's face grew darker as the dreary monotony of our lives settled over us again-the old discontent growing more palpable and plain to every one. 
               My father had grown colder since Jamie's death, and our step-mother's tongue seemed sharper, as she issued her commands. 
               It was the last day of September, and on the next day my school was to begin. 
               At the dinner-table, my step-mother said: "I am surprised, James, that you allow Irene to teach school. Can't you see that she is needed at home?" 
               "I will do all I can to lighten your work," I said, apologetically. 
               "I can't get along that way," she replied. "I shall have to hire a girl; and you must help to pay her wages." 
               How Robert's eyes flashed with indignation! and I hastened to say: "I am willing to pay anything in reason, if I be allowed to teach." 
                
               "There, Hetty! that will do. The child shall do as she pleases. If she chooses to pay a girl to help do the work, I am sure you will have to be satisfied." 
               "But they are such a wasteful, thriftless set! and Irene was rather trusty"-the only approach to a compliment she had ever paid me-"and I hate to give her up." 
               Robert went away from the table to hide his anger; and papa's brows met in a heavy frown. 
               "Robert," said I, when I next saw him alone, "you must try to be more contented and respectful. Papa is beginning to notice it, and does not like it." 
               "I know," he answered; "for he told me in the field, this afternoon, that if I did not quit looking so sullen, he would beat me. Just think of it, Irene!-beat me, who has slaved and toiled for him, because I can not look pleasant! What has he done to make my life happy? It is a terrible feeling; but I think, sometimes, that I hate my father-the MURDERER of my brother!" he hissed, through his set teeth. 
               I recoiled from his passion-wrought face with horror, as I exclaimed: "Robert! Robert! are you going mad?" 
               "I believe I am. I know I shall, if this life continues long. Irene, I hope that he will never lift his hand to strike me; for then I should be mad indeed." 
               "Robbie, it is best that you leave this place as soon as possible. It would never do for you to strike papa-never, never!" 
               "If I leave here, I shall go to sea. I will ask help from no one; but will work myself up the best way that I can. You need have no fears for me, Mamie; I shall never forget that I am my mother's son, and your brother." 
               "But, Robert, the sea is such a wild, reckless life, full of dangerous novelty, and you are so young!" 
               "I am; but, Mamie, if I ever forget myself so far as to do anything that would make you blush, may the good Lord forget me! Since you are willing, I will go to-night; and, by to-morrow morning, I shall be far on my way to New York." 
               "You will go to see Uncle Robert?" I asked; but he shook his head. 
               "He might think I wanted help. I shall find the wharf, and ship at once, if I can." 
               I gave him ten dollars that I had been saving together for as many years; and with that sum I saw my fourteen-year-old brother go out in the world, with his bundle slung across his shoulder, to seek his fortune. 
               As the pale, silvery starlight fell on his retreating figure, and I realized that all but me were gone from our band, I sank down helpless on my bed, almost ready to cast my burden of care behind me, and accept the happiness so freely offered. 
               Only for an instant did I waver; then, drawing myself up, I said: "Am I not crazy to do this, and insure my life-long misery? I could not be happy as Mr. Earnest's wife; for then I should be constantly reproaching myself for having burdened him with such a care. No, little maid! You and I must travel the path marked out, if it is wearisome and very lonely." 
               All that night I laid awake, thinking of my brother trudging his way to the great city; and my heart went out in prayer for the poor, motherless boy. 
               "What makes Robert so late, this morning?" asked papa, coming in from the barn. Receiving no reply, he went to the steps and shouted: "Robert! Robert! Get up, this instant." 
               I began to tremble, as the silence became oppressive; and the dish in my hand fell to the floor with a crash, as he bounded up the stairs. 
               His face was as pitiless as a wintry storm when he came back, and, walking up to me, said: 
               "Irene, you know all about this! Where has the boy gone?" 
                
               I didn't flinch then; but answered, as sternly as he would have done: 
               "He has gone to make or mar his fortune in the great world to which he has been driven." 
               "You, too, Irene! Are you conspiring against me?" 
               "No sir. I have simply advised my brother to the best of my knowledge. Papa, if your children have not been so obedient as you could wish, who have you to blame for it? Have you ever tried to win our love since mother died? Have you tried to bind us to you by any sympathetic ties? On the contrary, you have been harsh and cold and stern; and your sons could not bear it." 
               I don't know why I said so much; but I could not help it, and my father looked down on me in cool surprise. 
               "So you have set yourself in judgment on my course-my system of management? Really, your impudence passes my belief." 
               I grew angry at this; and, when he repeated: "Irene, where has Robert gone?" I replied: "He has gone to find himself a home. Where, I do not know; and, if I did, I would not tell you." 
               "Beware, girl! Don't try me too hard, for you know my temper!" and he hurried out, as if afraid of himself. 
               He had the neighborhood searched, but to no purpose, for before night Robert would be in the city. He had taken the train about fifteen miles from home, at least that had been his intention; and I went to my school with no fears for the result of the vigorous search that was going on. 
               The classification of the forty or more scholars was very difficult, and occupied nearly the whole of the first week; but I kept at it, and; on Friday afternoon, dismissed my school with the consolation of knowing that it was in good running order. 
               I had not seen Mr. Earnest for more than a week, and was not surprised to see him coming down the street as I turned the key in my school-room door. 
               He smiled as he came up to me, and taking the books out of my hands, said- 
               "I am going home with you, Irene; I have something to tell you. But how do you like teaching by this time?" 
               "I shall like it better after this week. It has taken me all this while to get the school in running order." 
               "You have done very well if you have it thus far," he replied. 
               "Is it anything about Robert that you have to tell me?" I asked. 
               "No; I have heard nothing from him," he answered, gravely. "I wish I had, for I feel uneasy about him." 
                
               "I don't, Mr. Earnest. I have given him into the hands of Him who has promised to be with the orphan, and I am sure it will be well." 
               "My pupil is turning teacher indeed," said he, as he proceeded: "You remember when I went to the city last fall? Well, I was invited to preach in the - Street Presbyterian Church, and very reluctantly consented, for their pastor was a very talented man. Yesterday I received a call to the pastorate of that church, to my extreme surprise. Little maid, it rests with you whether I go or stay. Have you reconsidered my offer, Irene?" 
               We were in a small, green wood now, tinged with autumnal colors; and he drew me to a fallen tree, gently seating me on its moss-covered trunk. 
               "Can't you bring yourself to love me just a little?" 
               "Mr. Earnest," I cried, "I thought you understood me before. I love you well enough to be your wife; and out of this very love, which is unselfish, grows my firm resolve never to take your name. I am a hopeless cripple, that you know, and can never walk save with these crutches, while you are a young man just in the beginning of a splendid career of usefulness and honor. I will not fetter you with one like myself. Forget this first love; forget-if it must be-that I ever existed, and take a bride more like yourself, perfect in mind and body." 
               "Darling, you are perfect to me. I have watched your mind budding into new beauty all these years with a peculiar interest, which has deepened into love. I firmly believe, Irene, that God intended us for each other." 
               "And I don't," I replied. "Mr. Earnest, if you have any regard for me, don't make my duty harder to perform than it is now. I love you above all others, and, were I not as I am, would think it an honor to be called your wife; but it can not be." 
               He rose up stern, cold, and, I thought, angry, as he said- 
               "You will forgive this impetuous wooing, since I shall not trouble you with my suit again. I will resign at once, and go to the city next month. Irene, I heartily wish I had never come here." 
               "Oh, Mr. Earnest!" I exclaimed, "do not be angry with me; don't say that you wish you had never come here, that would be so cruel-so unlike yourself. You are unjust to me now; but in the years to come, you will render me my deserts." 
               He did not answer, and we walked on in silence, parting that evening as formal acquaintances. 
                
               I saw nothing more of him-for I kept away from church-till the month was nearly up; but I had no time for vain repinings, and was glad that I was busy. 
               As the days went by, even to the last, I did wonder if he was going without a last word or a clasp of the hand. 
               It was nearly dark when I saw him coming through the gate; and the blood rushed to my face as he walked into the room, where I was alone, and drew a chair near to mine. 
               "I have come to say good-by, little maid. I am going to-morrow." 
               "I know it," I replied, "and wondered if you were going without a farewell word." 
               "I had thought so, Irene. I believe it would have been the best." 
               "It would have been rather cruel, would it not?" 
               "Why so?" 
               "Because you have no firmer friend than I, Mr. Earnest." 
               "I believe it, Irene; and hope that you will forgive my hasty words spoken when last we met; and, while I do not agree with you in your opinion, I honor you for the firmness with which you cling to what you believe to be your duty." 
               "Thank you," I said. "The other will come in time; and I wish to say something just here. In our first interview on this subject, you spoke of never marrying; and what I want to say is this: if you should ever meet a young lady whom you can love well enough to marry, don't consider yourself bound to me by anything you may have said on that occasion." 
               "I can promise that very readily, for it seems as if such a thing could not be possible." 
               "Very well, I am satisfied. I am going to the Normal School, at Troy, the first quarter of next term." 
               A smile came over his face; and holding out his hand to clasp mine, he said: 
               "You are a noble girl, Irene, and deserve all the success you may ever win." 
               "And one more request, Mr. Earnest, is this: you will go to the wharf and find out the name of Robert's vessel, if you can?" 
               "Certainly, I will. God bless you, and keep you, Irene, my dearest love;" and pressing my hand in a warm clasp, touching it lightly with his lips, he departed; and the old life was ended. The old ties that had bound us together were loosened. He had gone out to meet success, honor, and fame in a busy life; and I was left to tread the old path alone, to live over the past daily, hourly, and know that the most sacred passion that had ever woven sweet garlands of fancy around my life was null and void. 
                
               Oh, woman! ever the most intense sufferer in life's battles, why can we not fly from the scenes which remind us of our crushed and broken hopes, and seek forgetfulness in other lands and among other faces? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               DROWNED. 
               
                  MR. EARNEST went; and in my ceaseless round of duties I drowned the rebellious upbraidings of my undisciplined heart. Not that I could say that my conscience ever whispered that I had done wrong; no, not for an instant. For my reward-the silver lining to this dark cloud that hung so pall-like over those dark days-was the still, small voice that ever answered that I was right. 
               I went back to my school-room after his departure, resolved to work out my peace, with a firm determination not to let my private cares interfere with my duties as a teacher. 
               I did not, and think that was one element of my success. I never allowed myself to be worried or vexed in the school-room by outside influences. 
               When I entered its domains, I always tried to leave self behind, and never forgot that I was the public's servant for the six hours of the day, and to it I owed my highest obligations. 
               And I did find pleasure in this busy life; found peace, as it were; for I began to think less of the past, with its morbid fancies, and commenced to form plans for a higher intellectual standard. 
               I saved all that I earned, using the most rigid economy, so that I might educate myself more thoroughly. 
               Mr. Earnest had been gone three weeks when his first letter came. I knew the handwriting, and tore it open eagerly. It ran thus: 
                      
                         
                            
                              LITTLE MAID-I hope you are well, cheerful, and happy. 
                              I attended to your request as soon as I came to the city, but only learned yesterday that a lad calling himself Robert Dacre shipped about six or eight weeks ago in the schooner "Baltic," plying between here and Liverpool. I could find out nothing more, but am confident that it was your brother. 
                              I am much pleased with my new charge, and see a great deal of your uncle's family, who are members of my church. I find Emma to be a very intelligent young lady, on closer acquaintance; not so brilliant as Dora, but more affectionate. 
                              How I know you are longing to hear something of Oscar! Well, Irene, he is doing nobly, studying with an energy that can never fail short of the goal for which it strives. He goes out very little, and is wedded to his profession. He grows more manly with every succeeding day, and is developing into an earnest, intellectual thinker. Can I say more? If I could, he would deserve it all; less, I can not, truthfully. 
                              How lonely you must be without brother, sister, or friend! I fully appreciate your situation, and admire you for your uncomplaining, brave little spirit. 
                              How do you like teaching by this time? I am afraid you find it wearisome and fretting. Teaching forty or fifty children is no idle dream, and the responsibility resting on a teacher is very great. 
                              Hoping to receive a speedy reply, I am, 
                              
                                 Yours, as ever, 
                                 CHARLES L. EARNEST.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               I read and re-read his delicate praise of my brother, the worshiped one of my heart; and though I knew he wrote it to please me, I also knew that if he had not believed it, it would never have been written. 
               My school grew in interest daily. I began to feel the responsibility of which Mr. Earnest had spoken in his letter; but it only nerved me to greater exertion, did not discourage me. 
               Three weeks passed, and again I received a package from New York, this time a paper; and glancing over its contents, I noticed a paragraph marked with a pencil. 
                
               I read it, and my heart grew sick with horror, for it was an account of the burning of the "Baltic," which had taken fire in mid-ocean, two only escaping from it. 
               The details were heart-rending; and taking the paper, I went to my father. 
               "Here is an account," said I, "of your son's death. Robert shipped on that vessel from New York." 
               I placed the paragraph before him, and, watching him while he read, saw his lips tremble a little. 
               Dropping on my knees beside him, I cried out, in the agony of my soul: "Oh, papa! Oscar and I are all that you have left of six children; do, I pray you, be a father to my struggling brother. Don't let him feel that he is an alien in his father's house any longer; don't let him feel that strangers are kinder than you." 
               "Child, what do you mean?" and his stern voice fell on my heart like bolts of ice. "Oscar can return at any moment, but he must come on my terms. Your uncle will make a fool of him in the end." 
               "Papa," I entreated, "I ask nothing for myself, but I do want you to treat my brother as he deserves. He doesn't want to come back here to live; but I know how it would please him to know that you had forgiven him, and felt some interest in his pursuits." 
                
               "Which I don't," he responded; quickly. "Robert has paid the penalty of his disobedience rather sooner than I had expected; Oscar's time will come next." 
               "Papa, have you no pity? do you feel no sorrow for the bright boy lying beneath the cruel waves, that you speak of him thus?" 
               "Irene, go away! Leave me to myself, before you drive me mad with your foolish questions." 
               I rose up from my knees and went away to my room, feeling wretched and miserable. 
               I realized then how utterly useless it was to expect any yielding on the part of the cold stern man whom we called father. 
               And all that night I laid awake, thinking of my little brother lying at the bottom of the sea, with masses of sea-weed for his winding sheet. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               IN WHICH I MEET MY IDEAL HOME. 
               
                  THE next day I received a long, mournful letter from Oscar; full of love for me and grief for the dead. 
               "And," said he, "this binds us closer together, Mamie. We are all to each other now, and nothing can come between us. I am striving to master my profession as much for your sake, dear sister, as my own. I long to take you from that life of drudgery; long to place you where stern poverty does not demand rigid economy; where your esthetic taste can be gratified." 
               I smiled as I read those words, smiled because I felt that such a life as he desired for me would be my ruin; its inactivity would spoil me. 
               I paid for hired help in my father's house, as I had agreed to do in the beginning, thus procuring more time to myself for study. 
               In this way the winter passed, and in a week my school term would expire. I went to my father one evening, and sitting down by his side, said, "Papa, I would like to go to Troy next month." 
                
               "For what?" he asked. 
               "To attend the Normal school," I replied. 
               "Well, really, Irene, I thought you had learning enough. You are the smartest girl about here now." 
               "But I am not satisfied," I said; "I have money enough to take me through three months at Troy, and I want to go. Will you take me, papa?" 
               "Irene, I don't like to see you go away from home. This is a very foolish notion. What ever put such restless ideas into my children's heads?" he asked, mournfully. 
               "It is no petty desire to roam," I answered, "that leads me to this step. It is a desire to fit myself for usefulness, to lift myself above the mass." 
               "Are you any better than your forefathers were?" he asked, petulantly. 
               "No, sir; not better, but just as good; and if they did not see fit to cultivate their intellects, it is no reason why I should not. But, papa, I don't want to act in opposition to you, and shall be glad to have your consent." 
               "Child, give this up; don't think about it any more." 
               "Papa, I can't. In a few years I may be left alone; what then? If you can not accompany me, I will try it alone. I have full instructions where to go, when I arrive, from Mr. Lindsay, our superintendent. Of course Oscar will see me through New York." 
               He put his hand to his face as he replied- 
               "You have my consent; Irene; though I must confess that I don't see what good is to come of it. I can't go with you, for I couldn't spare the time or the money." 
               "Well, papa, just as you think best. I would like to ask you something before I go from home." 
               "What is it?" 
               "When are you going to put tombstones over Annie's and Jamie's graves?" 
               "Just as soon as I can afford it," was his reply; and I knew from his tone that nothing more was to be said, so I went to my room to write a letter to Oscar. 
               My school closed the last week in March, and the little faces, as they crowded about me to say good-by, were very sad, some even bathed in tears. 
               "You will come to teach us again next winter?" was asked, eagerly; and as I gave them a provisional promise, I had little thought but that I should fulfill it. 
               I parted with my pupils very reluctantly, for I had learned to love them; and their unaffected, artless expressions of sorrow and love was the sweetest flattery I had ever known. 
               That I had done my duty I was fully persuaded suaded; but it was very pleasant to me when the Board of Directors voted me their thanks for the efficiency with which I had conducted the school; pleasant to know that my labors were appreciated by others. 
               I think my father felt a little pride in me then, for he patted my cheek that evening, as he said, "They tell me you are the best teacher that has been about here for years." 
               "I have tried to do what I could, and am satisfied with the result." 
               "You are a good girl, Irene," he said, as he walked away; words of music to my ears-words that sank deep into my heart as the only real commendation that my father had ever voluntarily given me. 
               My step-mother went her way, never seeming to care about my progress or success till she learned that I was going to Troy, a step that she bitterly opposed. 
               It was no use, however; and the first week in April I left my home; left it with scarcely a regret, there was so much pain and trouble connected with its associations, even though I should never return in the same capacity. 
               Oscar was to meet me in New York, and I was to spend the night with my uncle's family before leaving for Troy. 
               As we neared the great city I became excited; and it was with intense relief that I welcomed Oscar as he came into the cars when we stopped at the dpt. 
               "Mamie" and "Little maid" sounded in my ears at the same time, and I saw Mr. Earnest close by Oscar, bending forward to welcome me. 
               I trembled very much till they had me seated in a cab, and jumping in closed the door on some of the mighty confusion. They laughed at my flushed face, and Mr. Earnest said- 
               "This is a model Babel, Mamie, is it not?" 
               "To me it is dreadful," I replied; "the noise bewilders me. I should not have known what to have done if you had failed to meet me." 
               "Never mind," said Oscar, soothingly, "we will soon be at uncle's now; and they are making great preparations for you, they are so glad to have you visit them." 
               I did not doubt it a half hour later, when my uncle kissed me so gently, and the girls embraced me so heartily, and Willie so boisterously, while Aunt Emma simply welcomed me in the lady-like manner so very peculiar to herself. 
               There was so much warmth, such a delicate refinement, such a cultured elegance hanging over this household, pervading the most insignificant acts of its inmates, that I felt the influence as soon as I entered the door. It was such a home as I had dreamed of in my imagination; such a one as I had never come across in actual life before. 
               Dora and Emma took me to my room, and sending the servant away, the one poured out water for my use, while the other brushed the car-dust from my black dress. 
               As she shook out the fold of my dress Emma said, "We were very sorry for you when the Baltic was burned; it seemed so hard, for Robert was a handsome boy." 
               "It was a hard blow," I answered; "but God's hand is in these events, and we have no right to murmur. I certainly felt very lonely after you left us, and this did not improve the loneliness." 
               They left me then, and an hour later came back for me. 
               I went down with them to tea, to such a table as I had never seen before, glittering with silver and costly plate. But I felt no embarrassment in the midst of such company. Mr. Earnest had remained, and looking up from the other side of the table as I took my seat, said, "I hope you feel better since you are rested." 
               Then Oscar, sitting next to me, related how confused I had become in the bustle and noise of the dpt. 
               There was no restraint here, but a merry, lively conversation going on all the time; and in the midst of it I fell to wondering what such a home, such an influence, would have been to us. I saw Oscar in his natural element, unconstrained in his deportment and unfettered by discontent; and I was glad that his lines had fallen in such pleasant places. 
               After supper Mr. Earnest came to my side, and began to talk in his old way. 
               "So you are really going to school, little maid?" 
               "Yes, I am; there is nothing I could like so well as teaching, and I want to prepare myself thoroughly for the work before me." 
               "It is a noble vocation," he said; "and few teachers really appreciate the great responsibility of their positions. You are the educator, the molder of the coming generation, sending out your thoughts, influence, and principles in a thousand different ways, to reap honor or dishonor in the future." 
               "I did my duty to the best of my ability," I said, "and I don't believe the Lord will require more at my hands. But I am glad to hear you talk of it to me. Your counsels have always been the best I have ever received, and any suggestion or advice is heard gratefully." 
               "My interest in you can never abate, Irene. Let me know how you progress in your studies, and how you like your teachers. You are going into new scenes, and will be surrounded by new acquaintances. Little maid, don't let them draw you from your first faith in the Giver of all good." 
               I looked at him in astonishment, and he went on: "What I mean is this: in a large school, such as you are about to enter, you will find persons of all shades of belief, and some of none at all; and, knowing your inexperience, I want to warn you in time, for the dissensions, the bitter altercations, will no doubt bewilder you. Avoid them, Irene; they never lead to any good. Choose your friends wisely, and not too many." 
               I thanked him heartily; and we went back to where my cousins were sitting. Emma was playing a soft melody on the piano, and I saw with a jealous throb of the heart that my teacher's glance wandered to her face often and admiringly. 
               What right had I to be jealous of my sweet cousin? I, who had refused his heart and hand twice, with a firm resolution never to accept it? 
               None at all, I could but answer; and I determined to quench this emotion of my passionate heart. 
               I am sure that my loves and my attachments, my likes and dislikes, were as strong as any one's; but I know that my will was stronger, and was master of my untutored heart. 
               The evening passed quickly, and when morning ing came I felt glad that I had had a glimpse of this domestic eden. 
               My uncle came to me just before I went, and said, "Irene, if ever you need any assistance, let me know, for it will always be a pleasure for me to serve you in any way." 
               "Dear uncle, your generosity toward Oscar has made me love you so much that I can not feel nearer to you for this; but I do thank you very much. I have sufficient for my simple wants at present." 
               "Oscar is a fine young man, and will be eminent in his profession," he said, as he pressed my hand in parting. 
               The last words were finally spoken, and I was alone with my brother in the cab. 
               Oh, my handsome brother! shall I ever forget his look of loving tenderness as he said-"Irene, I am proud of your talents and your perseverance. Not one girl in a thousand, placed as you have been, would have the education that you possess." 
               "Don't flatter me, Oscar," I said, deprecatingly. 
               "God forbid that I should, little sister; I love you too well for that. Emma and Dora praised you very much when they heard that you were going to Troy." 
               "Mr. Earnest admires Emma very much," I said, somewhat abruptly. 
                
               "No, Irene, you are mistaken," said Oscar, his face turning crimson. "Charles Earnest is not the man to so soon forget his first love." 
               "You forget, Oscar, that there is not a link that could bind him to this first love; not a hope that it will ever be realized. Why should he not turn to a fairer object for consolation? I do not wish him to remain true to me; on the contrary, am glad to see the interest he manifests in Emma." 
               "Irene, have you no heart?" asked my brother. 
               "Oscar,"I cried, "don't do me such injustice as to suppose that I have no feeling on this subject. It was the hardest battle of my life; but I have conquered." 
               "And I honor and respect you more than ever," he said, kindly. 
               "Here we are at the dpt;" and a half hour later I was on my way to Troy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               MY NEW FRIEND. 
               
                  DURING the journey my sensitive nature had shrunk from the notice that my lameness drew upon me; but it was actual pain for me to meet the curious eyes of the school-girls when I arrived at my destination. 
               I had no difficulty in finding the school; and Dr. Maddox was very kind in his greeting to me; but when I saw from my window the girls flitting here and there, and knew that I would have to meet them at supper, my heart sank within me. 
               I did not hear the door open, or the soft footsteps, but a musical voice, the sweetest I had ever heard, called me to myself. 
               "Miss Dacre, I presume? Dr. Maddox told me you had come, and was in my room. There now; don't cry. I know just how you feel." 
               But the tears came very fast; and after a good cry, I said, "I suppose you will think me very foolish, but my misfortune makes me very sensitive. I am dreading the supper-hour." 
               "Yes," she answered, "Dr. Maddox told me that you walked on crutches, I am very sorry for you; and I don't think there is a girl here who will not feel the same. My name is Rosa Montane." 
               I looked up at her standing near me; and such a face! Her eyes were jet black, large and full, shaded with long lashes; her hair, falling in a mass of purplish black curls below her waist, was looped back from a regal brow by a scarlet ribbon that fairly glowed in its dusky depths; her complexion was dark, with a healthy glow on her olive cheeks; while her chin, mouth, and nose betokened firmness, strength of character, and a passionate nature. 
               Hers was a striking face; and looking at her small, delicate hands, sparkling with jewels, I knew that she was one of fortune's favored children. There was a mesmeric power in the depths of her eyes that drew me to her, and her protecting manner completed the conquest. 
               "You will go down to supper with me," she said, with a smile; "and I think the meeting will be less painful than you imagine." 
               "What is your name? Irene? That is a pretty name, just suits you, you quaint, little dear;" and she took my face between her dimpled hands, as she softly touched my brow with her red lips. 
               She took me under her care, when the gong sounded, and her face looked proud and cold when we entered the saloon. With a queenly step, full of haughty pride, she kept on to the bottom of the table, and pulling out a chair, waved me to it. She took the next, and fell into an easy conversation, completely drawing my attention from myself. 
               "How shall I ever thank you for this kindness?" I asked, when we were back in our room. 
               "By forgetting it," she said, throwing a cashmere dressing-robe about her form, and settling herself comfortably. "Now tell me something of yourself." 
               I drew back frigidly, I suppose, for she hastened to say: 
               "Never mind; I am a stranger; you need not trouble yourself." 
               But her brows met in a heavy frown, and I said, "Rosa, I have very little to tell. I am a simple country girl, whose life has not been as pleasant as it might have been, and it pains me to recall it. It could not possibly be of any interest to you." 
               "My earliest recollections," she pursued, without noticing my remarks, "are dim and vague, of a home of beauty, elegance, and refinement in the Isle of Cuba. My mother was a creole lady of rare beauty, and my father was a Spanish gentleman of birth and fortune. As I remember him now, he was the handsomest man I ever saw. At an early age I was sent over to this country to be educated, my bachelor uncle taking charge of me. I had not been here long before my father fell a victim to the unhappy war that is devastating our unfortunate island; and shortly after mother died of a broken heart. I am very wealthy, but I feel very lonely sometimes;" and she laid her head back on the chair with a sorrowful expression on her face. 
               What a magnificent creature she was! her moods shifting like April sunshine and showers. 
               "What makes me like you so, Irene? I rarely take to strangers-to any one, in fact; but your dear face won me instantly. You are not pious, I hope." 
               Every vestige of color had gone out of my face when I falteringly asked, "What do you mean, Rosa?" 
               "Why, just this," she replied, petulantly; "Bible-readings, secret prayings, and pious lectures to reprobate schoolmates. There, you needn't trouble yourself to answer, for it is written on your horrified face. I never saw a pious man or woman that wouldn't speak ill of his neighbor behind his back, or spread a slanderous report about a brother's character, if he got the chance." 
               "Then I must say your observation has been limited," I replied, hotly. 
               She laughed, her musical voice falling on my ears in low rippling waves of melody. 
                
               "Seriously, Irene, your Bible won't stand the test of philosophy. Just think of its proclaiming God as Omnipotent, and in another portion declaring that He can not save fallen man but by the blood of Christ; now, why not, if He be Omnipotent? We are taught that we are free moral agents, and in another passage read that one vessel is made to honor, another to dishonor; how are we to reconcile such contradictions?" 
               "I am not theologian enough to discuss these hidden mysteries, Rosa; but I do know that there is enough plain truth in the Bible to guide my feet." 
               "Do you live up to the precepts taught in this book?" she asked, laying her hand on a copy of the Scriptures. 
               "As near as I can," I replied; and I thought her lips curled with scorn. 
               It was well that Mr. Earnest had prepared me for this, or I should have been shocked far worse. After undressing I took up my Bible, read and prayed as usual, resolved that another's sneers should not come between me and my Maker. 
               I was a little surprised to see no smile of derision on her calm face when I arose. After a short silence she came up to me and laid her hand on my head caressingly. 
               "I am willing to be convinced, Irene," she said; "and if I can see one life that bears the impress of the Holy Seal, and is consistent in the little things that go to make up our lives, I will renounce forever the skepticism that darkens my soul." 
               "I am too weak, too sinful," I exclaimed, as the fearful responsibility fell on my shoulders. "Oh, Rosa, don't make me the test by which your soul is to be saved or lost!" 
               "Too weak to stand for the Christ who died to save you?" she asked, impatiently. 
               "No; not too weak," I replied, calmly. "By the grace of God, I will do what I can to uphold His banner." 
               She came back to me with a pleased expression, and kissed me again. 
               "There can be nothing on earth so beautiful as the life of the true Christian, as set forth in that Book. It is a beauty that I long to see." 
               "Does your skepticism fill the wants of your soul?" I asked. 
               "I don't know what I want-what I believe," she replied, wistfully. "I have read those books till all my thoughts are tinged with their teachings; but memory often takes me back to the hours when I knelt by my mother's knee and lisped my baby prayer. Go to sleep, dear; I have been very thoughtless to keep you up so long." 
               I went to bed; and she threw a large shawl around her shoulders as she sat down, with an earnest, tender glance in her large eyes, as if she was groping after truth. 
               Time passed very quickly, and the conversation was not renewed; but she watched me constantly, scrutinized every action of my daily life. It was distressing to me at first, but I grew accustomed to it as the days wore on, and, in my studies, almost forgot it. 
               I never grew tired of the fitful moods of my room-mate, and would talk to her for hours of her Cuban home, to see the varying expression of her remarkable face. 
               We were in the same classes, consequently were much together; and I did not pause to ask myself whether I had chosen my bosom friend wisely or not. There was an attraction between us which I could not control. 
               I had learned more in these three months than I had expected; and the day before I was to leave, I sat down in my room for a last, long chat with Rosa. 
               "Irene, I am sorry to have you go," she said. "You have done more toward unsettling my doubts than I had any idea you could do. Yours is the purest life I have ever known." 
               "Mine, Rosa? Oh, don't say that, for I am one of His weakest servants!" I cried, in dismay. 
               "It is that very weakness that charms me so," she replied, with a troubled brow. "Your faith is beautiful in its simplicity, and its earnestness touches me deeply; but I am afraid that I shall never see through the mystery of the plan of salvation, and accept its provisions." 
               "Rosa, my dear friend, these mysteries angels desired to look into, and were forbidden; why should we peril our salvation by such speculation? The story of the cross is full of love and mercy, and we dare not throw it aside or neglect it without danger to ourselves. I can not urge you too strongly to renounce your skepticism, for it is a rock on which you will surely founder." 
               She was wild with agitation; her black eyes flashing, her lips and chin quivering, and her cheeks burning. Presently she stopped in front of me, and said: "I appreciate your interest in me, and I can listen to you with patience, for I have watched your daily life for three months, and have seen no inconsistencies therein. Irene, if ever I am brought to see Christ as the Father-the Father as God, invested with Omnipotence and Omniscience-it will be through this intercourse with you. You have grown very dear to me; so dear that I can not bring myself to think of this parting, my friend; how I wish you were my sister!" 
               She was kneeling now beside me, her queenly head pillowed on my lap, as she wept bitterly. "You forget, Rosa, that we shall both be in New York some part of each year, that we can visit each other there." 
               "I am very foolish to give up in such a manner; but I am sure you don't know how this parting rends my heart." 
               "I think I do," I said, quietly. "If I am not so demonstrative, I feel this none the less keenly, I fancy." 
               "Dr. Maddox wishes to see you in his library, Irene," said a teacher, opening the door. 
               "I will go down immediately," I answered, as I raised Rosa's head from my lap. 
               My friend's conversation had been very encouraging to me. 
               Letters from Oscar, Mr. Earnest, and my cousins had been my chief pleasures in these months of toil, and I had endeavored to give them a faithful record of my life in return. Their interest in all my little plans was very pleasant; and in this new life the old one seemed to fade away in the dim past, never to be resurrected. 
               I went down to the library, feeling curious to know what the good doctor could want with me, and blushed when I entered his presence. 
               He began in his kindly manner to say, "Irene, you are about to leave us; at least that is your intention, I believe?" 
               I said that it was to the best of my knowledge; that my means would not permit a longer stay. 
                
               "Just so," he nodded; "and that is the reason I sent for you. You have a fine mind and a remarkable perseverance; and in view of this, together with your misfortune-pardon the allusion"-with his stateliest bow, "I have determined to make you an offer. If you will teach two hours of the day in the primary department, I shall be glad to have you remain under our instructions. In another year you can graduate, if you apply yourself; and that you will do, I know." 
               I was unable to utter a word in my joy; such a chance had never entered my thoughts as this, and it was some minutes before I could speak. "Your generous kindness shall not be lost, I assure you, for I will try to render myself worthy of it." 
               "I am certain you will," he replied, gravely; and gathering up my crutches, he handed them to me. "I always like to help those who try to help themselves," and he turned to his books. 
               I went back to Rosa to tell her that I was not going away. How we laughed and cried together, embracing and kissing each other in our exceeding gladness. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               AN UNEXPECTED FEAR FALLS ON ME. 
               
                  THE year sped rapidly; the summer vacations came and went; the winter passed so quickly that I could scarcely gather knowledge as fast as I liked. 
               Rosa Montane had none of my ambition; but she was quick to grasp whatever she read, while I had to delve after, and strive to retain, whatever I wished to know. 
               Now, the Commencement was on us, and kind friends-my brother with them-were here to congratulate me in my triumph. 
               "Where is your friend, Irene?" asked Emma, when the first greetings were over; "we must see her, for we feel as if we knew her already." 
               I went away to call her, with a feeling of pride; proud of her beauty, her exquisite grace of person, her dignity of carriage, and her superb taste in the little details of toilet and dress. 
               I am sure none of the little group were prepared to see such a queenly girl, for I detected a surprised admiration in their looks as I introduced her to them. 
                
               Shall I ever forget that first meeting between Rosa and my brother? Oscar looked up half indifferently as we came in, but flushed to the temples as she bowed with stately grace. 
               She strove to throw off the hauteur that ever embarrassed her in the presence of strangers; and in all of our intimacy I had never seen her so brilliant. 
               All were pleased with her, I could see; but a chill crept over my heart as I noticed the effect of her dazzling beauty on my brother. 
               She, an heiress, the acknowledged beauty of the whole school, could hardly feel any interest in one who was far beneath her socially. I trembled for the result. 
               When I had Oscar once more to myself, I cautioned him. 
               "My dear brother, I said please don't fall in love with Rosa Montane." 
               "Why not?" he asked, laughingly; "am I not worthy of her?" 
               "Oscar, you are worthy of any woman's love; but Rosa is very wealthy, and will be a belle in the circle to which she will be introduced. Of course you can see the wide barrier that separates you." 
               "Well, Irene, you are very good to warn me so soon; but it would have been much wiser to have kept us apart altogether." 
               "Oscar, don't tell me that, I am too late-that you love this girl already!" I exclaimed, in dismay. 
               "Irene, I loved your friend the first moment that I saw her; and if she consents, I will make her my wife as soon as I gain a lucrative practice. My prospects are bright; I have gained my diploma with some honor, I believe, and I can see no reason why I am not Miss Montane's equal, if not so wealthy as she." 
               I grew deadly pale; and laying my hand on his shoulder in the old caressing way, I said, "I don't wish to expose the confidence of a friend, but to save you I must. Oscar, Rosa is a skeptic. All her thoughts are tinted with the pernicious influences of infidel writers. Knowing this, you surely would not seek to make her your wife?" 
               "No, Irene; I shall never marry a skeptical woman, if I know it; but I do wish that I had never seen this girl." 
               "And so do I," was echoed from my soul, as he turned abruptly away; and I went to my room to dress for the Commencement. 
               "You are late, Irene," said Rosa, who was combing out her long, black hair before the mirror, and twining it in shining curls about her shapely head, "You will be late, if you don't hurry a little." 
               "It won't take me long to dress," I said; "I am not so particular as you." 
                
               She laughed, and went to her work again, lingering over her toilet to see that every ribbon was in its place; and, when she was done, turned to me with a smile. 
               "Your brother is very handsome, Irene." 
               "I have always thought so," I replied. 
               "You must feel proud of him?" 
               "I do," was my laconic reply, for I had no desire to make him the subject of conversation. 
               "Humph!" she ejaculated, in an offended tone, sweeping, by me on her way to the parlor. 
               I finished dressing, and went down; but Rosa avoided me, and I had no chance to speak to her till after we had graduated. 
               She kept herself aloof from my friends, and went to her room as soon as she had received her diploma. 
               One I missed sadly in that hour; and I felt his absence none the less keenly because he had sent his regrets that he could not be there. I had believed that my love for him was dead; that my heart was sufficiently disciplined to forget this first and only love; but I was awakened to the reality by his unexpected absence. 
               I graduated with creditable honor; the testimony of it was in my hands, and, after my friends went to their hotel for the night, I went to my room. 
               Rosa was sitting by the grate, gazing drearily into the fire. She did not look up when I entered, and I went over to her, and, putting my arm about her neck, asked, "Why are you angry with me, Rosa?" 
               "I am not angry, only hurt by your coldness," she replied. 
               "I was not cold to you, but I did not wish to talk of my brother just then." 
               "Why not? is he not all that you could wish?" 
               "Yes, he is; but I did not wish to converse about him then, nor do I now." 
               "I can't understand you. If I had such a brother-my perfect ideal of a manly man-I should never tire of sounding his praise." 
               "Well, Rosa," I said, almost sick of the disadvantage under which I was laboring, "you will not suffer this to come between us. I love you very dearly, and should be sorry to have any difficulty mar our friendship." 
               "Irene, it is not so bad as that! A little vexation on either's part could hardly lead to such a result. Irene, I feel wretched to-night. Can it be that we must part?" 
               "It looks much like it, dear Rosa; and our paths will diverge very greatly. You go to queen it in society, where you will be courted and admired; while I shall return, after a few weeks' absence, to take charge of my department." 
               "And I envy you, indeed I do, Irene; for I have no desire to enter society. I would sooner have your simple earnestness of purpose than. everything that wealth can buy. I go from here without an aim in life-unless it is to get married-and that I feel little interest in." 
               She spoke drearily; so much so that I said, encouragingly- 
               "Why, Rosa! you will have everything that you can desire. What more can you want?" 
               "I desire mental rest," she answered, wearily; "to be at rest with myself; to have no dark doubts, no vague misgivings of the future immortality of the soul. Oh, Irene! a rest like that would be worth the Indies to me. This unbelief has clouded my soul for years; it has made me distrustful of human nature, cynical and cold to all the world; its influence poisons my whole life; but it was contracted much easier than it can be thrown off." 
               I felt such a yearning pity for my friend that I laid my head on the table and wept, because she could not see the Arm outstretched to save her. 
               "Rosa," I said, at length, "you will promise me one thing: you will go to hear Mr. Earnest preach in New York? I think his sermons will do you more good than anything I can say." 
               "Is he consistent?" 
               "I believe him to be thoroughly imbued with the spirit of the Master. I have known him for years, and never had cause to doubt his integrity as a Christian or his honor as a man. It pains me, Rosa, to see one so young as you constantly looking for flaws in others." 
               "I know it is wicked, but I can't help it now. When I was a child I had free access to my uncle's library, and I am afraid that I chose my books with execrable taste." 
               "I am sure of it," I remarked. 
               "Through them I became moody and suspicious; and now these early impressions govern all my actions. Had my mother lived, I don't think it would have been so. If it will be any comfort to you, I will promise to hear Mr. Earnest preach, though I have little hope that it will do me any good." 
               "I shall see you there when I am in the city," I said, trying to dispel the heavy frown that knit her brows together; "but that will not be often, for I shall have to spend some part of my vacation at home." 
               "Well, I suppose we may as well take it pleasantly as otherwise; but it tries me sorely to part with you, my friend. Good-night," she added, turning abruptly away; "I am off to bed." 
               I could not sleep, so I sat down in an easy chair to think. What a confused mass of ideas crowded through my brain! How the image of him, who I had fondly trusted was erased from my heart, arose to mock me in that hour; of him who had offered me the adoration of his heart, and, in loving language, laid it at my feet. 
               Why should I retain that image? Why recall that episode with such a peculiar thrill? I asked myself those stern questions, and as sternly resolved that I would conquer this love, and pluck from my heart the lover I could never accept. 
               The next day I parted with Rosa, and, in company with my friends, left for New York, which we reached in time for dinner. 
               Mr. Earnest was there to welcome us; and in his first greeting I knew that his love for me was naught-that another held the place I had once occupied. Beyond a slight pang of regret I felt no sorrow, and was glad to know that it was so. 
               After dinner he led me to a distant window, and, bending his kindly glance on me, said- 
               "So you have graduated, little maid; and with honor, too. I did not expect this when I first began to teach you." 
               "Nor I. I am almost as much surprised as my friends," I replied. 
               "Irene, I would like to tell you something that I would not have you learn from other lips." 
               He hesitated, more embarrassed than I could have supposed him ever to be. 
                
               "Speak on, Mr. Earnest. Nothing you can say will pain me, I do assure you." 
               "Well, Irene, when I made you an offer of my hand I did not think it possible that I could learn to love another;" and he paused in confusion. 
               "But you have," I said, "and it does not surprise me. I had thought you would love Emma from the first. I have no claim on you, Mr. Earnest." 
               "And you are quite certain that this gives you no pain?" 
               "None," I replied, calmly. "It is my wish that you should marry, and not let your unfortunate love for me cut you off from domestic happiness." 
               "This happiness might have been yours, Irene; for I do think you might have been happy as my wife." 
               "This retrospection is worse than useless," I said; "and in justice to myself, I will say that none can wish you more joy than I when you lead your bride to the altar." 
               "I can never love another with the deep reverence I gave to you; but I shall cherish her fondly and truly if I can win her." 
               "No fear but that you can win her," I replied. "Now that you know my wishes on this subject, I want your attention." 
               Then I told him of Rosa; how she had imbibed bibed skeptical views, and with what lamentable results. I told him of her promise to visit his church, and he said, gravely: 
               "These early impressions are hard to eradicate. I will do what I can to bring the Gospel before her mind's eye in its true light. We must pray and hope, little maid;" and we went back to the others, grouped around the piano. 
               My brother looked moody, and was silent; but I trusted to time to wear away this early disappointment. 
               I bade adieu to them the next morning, promising to return in time to spend a week in the city before going to Troy. 
               A tear stood in Oscar's eyes as he held my hand in the cars. 
               "Freshen up the graves, dear Mamie," he said, falteringly. "Plant flowers on them, and think how I would like to be with you in your loving work. Good-by!" and he jumped off, just as the train began to move slowly out of the dpt. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
               THE FEAR IS LIFTED. 
               
                  HOME again! with the pure country air about me, the melody of the birds sounding on every hand, and the green grass and the wild flowers growing in such wild luxuriance. 
               Papa came to meet me, with the same cold sternness in every line of his face, but his voice trembled a little as he said, "I am glad to see you, Irene." 
               I caught him about the neck with one arm, kissed him fondly, and laughed in my impulsive joy. 
               "There, there, that will do!" he said, kindly, leading me to the buggy, which was waiting on us. I think my affectionate greeting pleased him, for he talked very pleasantly as we drove home through the green woods. 
               My step-mother seemed profoundly indifferent to my return, treating me in precisely the same apathetic manner she had ever observed toward us all. 
               I had been home two or three days when my father began to talk of my future plans. 
                
               "I suppose you have come to remain with us, Irene?" he asked. 
               "No, sir; I am going back to teach in the Normal school. I have five weeks' vacation." 
               "Are you so tired of the old home that you must seek a new one among strangers?" 
               "Papa, it isn't that. I want to be useful, and lay by something for old age. Dr. Maddox offered me a good salary, and I accepted it." 
               "My children have been ungrateful; but I did think you would remain with me to the last." 
               "Papa," I hastened to say, "if you desire me to remain with you, I will write to Dr. Maddox and resign my situation. I owe you my first duty." 
               "No," he said; "I shall not force you to do anything of the kind. Go, if you like it, and stay as long as you please. I suppose I might have been kinder to you, and made your life more pleasant, but I didn't, and this is my reward." 
               "Papa, I am sure Oscar and I are ready to do anything for you; and I think you know why we are away from home so much. Mrs. Dacre makes us feel as if we were in the way." 
               "Don't mention that stiff-necked boy to me again," he cried, his face hardening instantly; "I want nothing to do with him." 
               "Oscar will never force himself on your notice tice without your permission," I replied, in a tone as cold as his own; "but allow me to say, sir, that you may be proud of such a son." 
               "I care nothing for him; feel no interest in him. He has forfeited all claim to any regard from me." 
               "That doesn't alter his worth," I said, as my step-mother came in. Taking advantage of her presence, I went away, and wandered over to the graveyard where our dead lay. 
               The grass had grown rank about the three graves, and I set myself to work, clearing away the luxuriant weeds that were choking the flowers which I had planted long ago. 
               My self-communings by these graves were anything but pleasant; they brought the past too vividly to my mind. 
               The dull monotony of the farm wearied me, and I could hardly stay the four weeks out. I missed the bustle of the city, the noisy, romping school-girls, and, most of all, I missed the companionship of my sweet girl-friend. I missed her in the morning, at noon, and in the evening when I went to retire; I missed her fitful moods, her gay snatches of brilliant song, and her rippling laugh; I missed her in a thousand ways, and knew then, as ever since, that none could ever take her, place in my heart. 
               I went back to the city at the end of four weeks, glad to leave the sad memories of the past behind me; and the hearty greetings of my uncle's family were a charming relief to my drooping spirits. 
               Oscar was in excellent spirits, and his face wore an expression of happiness that puzzled me. At the earliest possible moment I drew him aside. 
               "What makes you so happy, Oscar?" I asked. "You look so changed." 
               "Do I? Then I must tell you what I have been doing during your absence. Miss Montane-" 
               "Oscar, Oscar!" I cried, "you surely have not been so imprudent!" 
               "Hear me out," he said, slightly annoyed. 
               "Miss Montane promised you, I believe, to attend Mr. Earnest' s church, where I met her very unexpectedly on the first Sabbath after you left. I couldn't resist the temptation to walk with her home, and I have been a regular visitor ever since." 
               "Oh, my darling brother! why do you rush into such a temptation?" I exclaimed, not a little dismayed by his recital. 
               "Mamie," he said; "the only consideration that ever induced me to give up the chance of winning her is removed. She will join the church next Sabbath." 
               Tears of joy forced their way to my eyes, and fell on my hands. 
                
               "Then, Oscar, I wish you success. In all the world I could not choose you a sweeter, lovelier bride." 
               "Thank you, little sister," he said, bending to kiss my forehead. 
               "But, Oscar, you will be called a fortune-hunter; she is very wealthy, you know." 
               "Irene, I don't think my wife will ever have cause to make such an accusation; and what the world says can not harm us, should I win her." 
               "You are a good boy," I said, patting his cheek, "and deserve a good wife;" and laughing together, we went over to our cousins, mingling in the general conversation. 
               That evening Oscar came to me, hat in hand. 
               "I am going to see Rosa this evening," he said "and I shall ask her to be my wife." 
               "Won't it be a little premature?" 
               "I don't know," he answered; "but if it is, I can't help it. I must know the worst." 
               "I can give you no advice; you must act for yourself. Shall I sit up till you come?" 
               "If you please," he replied, as he shut the door behind him. 
               Shortly after, Mr. Earnest came in, looking rather sad, I thought; and before Dora and Emma came down, we had quite a little chat together. 
               "You are not well," I said, after a few moments had passed. 
                
               "Yes, I am," he answered "but I feel a little discouraged. You know that I spoke to you of my regard for your cousin when we met last. Afterward I made an open declaration of the same to her, but received no positive reply. Seriously, Irene, I am growing weary of the suspense;" and he did look very weary as he drew his hand over his face with an impatient gesture. 
               "It is not like Emma to trifle thus," I replied. 
               "She does not mean to trifle with me. I know her too well for that. She has good reasons for the delay, whatever they may be." 
               Ever kind, ever mindful of the feelings of others-the same thoughtful friend as ever! 
               "If you desire it," I said, "I will speak to Emma myself, and see if we can not come to an understanding on this subject." 
               "If you will," he said, in a delighted tone, "I shall be under many obligations to you. Oscar is perfectly infatuated with your friend, Miss Montane." 
               "She is a lovely girl," I replied; "and I could desire him no greater happiness than to win her for his own." 
               "She is superb; one of the most queenly women I have ever met; but she has changed considerably in the last three weeks." 
               Dora and Emma came in just here; and in their company I passed a genial, pleasant evening. 
               It was eleven o'clock when I found myself alone, awaiting Oscar's return; and it was an hour later when his footsteps sounded in the hall. 
               I trembled as I arose and opened the door. He came in with a sweet, happy expression on his handsome face; and looking up into his laughing eyes, I said, "I congratulate you sincerely, my brother, for you have won a treasure. If you are not as happy as you should be in your domestic relations, I shall be inclined to blame you. Rosa is high-strung, Oscar-deal gently with her." 
               "Any advice you can give me, Mamie, will be welcome, though the marriage will not take place for a year at least." 
               "All that I shall ever give must be given before that time," I replied. "After that event you two must work out your own peace, or misery; for a third party always ruffles, instead of calming, the waters of marital life." 
               "I shall work hard to build up my practice this year," he resumed, "for on that depends the length of our engagement. Her uncle-like a sensible man-makes no objection to me. Rosa will call on you in the morning." 
               After a little more talk about their prospects, we parted for the night, just as the clock struck one. 
               My friend came the next morning, looking lovelier than I had ever seen her. There was a subdued light in her eyes, and a modest blush on her cheeks that deepened when I kissed her, and called her sister. After the usual greetings, I said, with a smile, "I hear that you are joining the church on next Sabbath." 
               "Yes," she replied; "my old doubts are dispelled, and I feel like a new creature." 
               "You have stolen my brother from me," I said, banteringly, "by way of showing your love for me, I suppose." 
               The red tide mounted to her face, and her eyes drooped. 
               "I have not taken him from you; none can ever do that." 
               "But, Rosa, you might have made a more brilliant match than this," I said. 
               "So far as wealth and worldly honor goes, perhaps I might; but in point of manliness and goodness, I know Oscar to be superior to any of my acquaintances. You will come to us then?" she asked, blushing rosy red; "come and be my teacher?" 
               "No, Rosa, I can not. It will be a great pleasure for me to visit you; but I must work while I have energy and strength. Besides, it will be far wiser for you to learn each other's faults without the presence of a third person." 
               "But I have thought so much this morning about having you with us," she said, coaxingly. 
               "Well, dear friend, it can not be. I shall teach as long as Dr. Maddox wants me. Perhaps when I grow old I may find a quiet corner at your fireside." 
               "And be welcome, too," she answered, with genuine sincerity, as my cousins came in, with eager faces, to see her-Oscar had been telling them of his engagement. 
               After awhile she went away, leaving the incense of her presence behind her to gladden our hearts. 
               That evening I went into Emma's room, and settling myself comfortably, began to talk with my gentle cousin. 
               "Emma," I said, "Mr. Earnest tells me that he has made you an offer of his heart and hand." 
               She did not speak, so I went on- 
               "His love is a glory to any woman, and should not be trifled with." 
               "Surely, Irene, you could not think me so mean as that. I only put him off till I could see you." 
               "Why so?" I asked. 
               "Because I had thought this long time that you two were lovers. Irene, I could not come between you and happiness." 
               "Dear Emma, this testimonial of regard does you credit, and pleases me; but my happiness is not at stake. If you love him, marry him, and no one will wish you more joy than I. You need have no fears, for he is a noble man and a sincere Christian. To whom could you trust yourself so confidingly as to him?" 
               "To no one," she replied, "for I love him very dearly." 
               "Then don't keep him in suspense any longer," I said, as I kissed her good-night, and went to my chamber. 
               To be sure, my heart had beat a little faster during this interview; but what if it did? 
               I had disciplined myself to betray no emotion, and she did not have an idea of the sacrifice that I had made. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               OSCAR'S MARRIAGE. 
               
                  ANOTHER year had passed, fraught with sorrow, trial, and pleasure, too; and I found myself once more a visitor in my uncle's family. 
               Oscar was about to be married, and I was here to attend the wedding. 
               I had just returned from the bride's home, where ribbons and laces and flowers were scattered in reckless confusion, when a servant came up saying that a gentleman desired to see me in the parlor. 
               I went down very indifferent, wondering who could want me, and stopped in surprise for an instant as a sunburnt youth held out his arms. 
               "Robert," I gasped, "can it be you?" and I was clasped in the embrace of the brother whom I had mourned as dead so long. 
               Then he told me how be had escaped from the burning vessel at the last moment, clinging to a floating plank; how he had suffered untold misery from hunger, thirst, and cold, and how he had been picked up at last by a vessel bound for China. 
                
               "For two years," he said, "I have been trying to work myself homeward, knowing that you believed me dead. But for all that I love the grand old sea, and feel at home when cradled on her bosom. I am second mate on the 'Snow Bird' now, and am in the line of promotion." 
               He had changed a great deal, and when Oscar came in, it was some moments before he recognized him. Then he gave a cry of joy, and gathered the lost one in his arms. 
               Oh, my brothers, how I loved them in that precious hour of reunion! and from the inmost recesses of my heart a strain of thanks went up to the Most High, who had rescued the beloved one from a watery grave. 
               "Robert," I said, "I suppose that you have always remembered your promise to me in these changes." 
               "If I had not, Mamie, I should never have returned to you. It has cost me many a struggle, but the thought of your self-sacrificing goodness for our sakes has always saved me from gross vice and immorality. It would have been impossible for me to have returned to you uncontaminated by the vicious influences of the world; but I don't think I am utterly wicked, or steeped in sin." 
               "Irene has been our guardian angel," said Oscar. "She has sacrificed everything for us." 
                
               "Not everything," I responded, quickly, "for the joy of having two such brothers is greater than I can express. But another has stolen Oscar away from me," I added, playfully. "To-morrow he takes unto himself a wife." 
               "So soon, Oscar? It seems to me that you are in a hurry to give up your freedom." 
               "I am twenty-one," replied he, with the air of a man of fifty. "I don't propose to give up my freedom, by any means. It is a mistaken idea that marriage cuts a man off from his former privileges." 
               "Take care, Oscar, take care!" I exclaimed; "there are ties in the married life that necessarily cuts a man off from his bachelor freedom. Now, you have only yourself to consider; tomorrow, the happiness of another will be confided to your keeping-a precious charge, that you should guard well. See to it, my brother, that you do not neglect your wife for the club or lodge-room; for these little slights, that go so far in a woman's life, often turn love to indifference, if nothing worse." 
               "There! that is enough, Mamie," he remonstrated. "I will try not to neglect my wife"-how he emphasized the little word wife-"if it should involve some slight sacrifice on my part; though I can not imagine how anything done for Rosa's sake could be a sacrifice," he added, with all the fondness of the lover. 
                
               Then we called in the family to rejoice with us over the return of our lost brother; and that evening still remains on the annals of my memory as one of the pleasantest of my existence. 
               The next day dawned clear and bright, without a speck of cloud to mar the golden sunlight that flooded heaven and earth. 
               I went to our darling Rosa soon after breakfast, and found her in the midst of the bridal finery, nervous and excited. 
               "I am so glad you are here at last," she cried, when I entered. "If any one can, you surely will bring some order out of this confusion," glancing around at the various piles of clothing that loaded every available place. 
               "I will try," I replied. "I came at the earliest moment possible, thinking that you might need me. Now, dear, tell me what to pack and what not to pack. How you are ever going to wear all these clothes, I can not conceive." 
               "They are all to go into the trunks," she said. "But come here a moment," and she led me to another room. "This is my bridal dress," pointing to a snowy pile that lay on the bed. 
               My mind had never conceived anything so lovely in the art of dress as this robe of shining white satin, softly shaded with cloudy puffs of rare lace, caught here and there with a spray of pearls, holding a tiny orange blossom in its grasp. Billowy, foamy waves of tulle formed the bertha about the neck, and lay in easy gracefulness over the arms and wrists. 
               "This is hardly a fit dress for a poor man's wife," I said, with a sigh. 
               "Irene," she said, almost angry with me, "what I have is as truly Oscar's as my own. After we are married, there will be no mine or thine, but it will all be ours. Besides, my husband"-how she blushed-"has a profession that is worth far more than the dowry I shall bring him. Now let us drop this subject forever, since you know my views on it. Will you see to the packing a little? I am so nervous." 
               "Certainly I will," giving her a kiss. "Just you lie down, and get all the rest you can; our bride must be as fresh as a rose;" and I went away to my work, leaving her on a lounge trying to sleep. 
               At last we were done. All of the necessary and unnecessary clothing were stowed away in the four ponderous trunks, and the last buckle was strapped as the clock struck twelve. 
               After a light lunch, I went back to Rosa to say that it was time for her to dress. I was growing nervous myself now, as the hour-three o'clock-drew on; and giving her into the hands of her maid, I went home to dress for the ceremony. 
                
               They were to be married in church, take dinner at her uncle's, and start immediately for a short tour West. 
               After dressing myself, I went down to the drawing-room, thinking to be alone; but Oscar was there, in an elegant suit of black cloth, a white silk vest, and white gloves. 
               He was very handsome; and I suppose my face expressed my admiration, for he said, with a smiling manner- 
               "If every one thought as you do, Mamie, I should be considered quite good-looking." 
               "Vain fellow! I dare say Rosa will spoil you with flattery." 
               "How is my darling?" he asked, tenderly. 
               "I shan't tell you a word. You will see for yourself within an hour," I answered. 
               "Here comes Dora," he said, as the gay bridesmaid tripped into the room. 
               "Will I do to wait on your royal highness?" she asked, with mock gravity, displaying one point of her satin slipper. 
               "Yes; if you do not eclipse my bride; that would be an offense I could never forgive," was my brother's laughing reply. 
               "Here are the carriages," said uncle, in the hall, with my aunt on his arm; and we went down the steps and were driven away. 
               Robert and Willie were to go later to the church, Dora and I were shown up to the bride's chamber, where we found her in the midst of her maids, a very picture of loveliness. She was not nervous now, but greeted us with a dignity that was very charming. 
               "The groom is coming," sounded through the room; the door was thrown open, and Oscar entered, radiant with love and admiration for his beautiful betrothed. 
               Then we went to church, where Mr. Earnest performed the ceremony, and they were married. Then we were back at the table spread for the marriage feast, and I found myself beside Mr. Earnest and his wife. 
               His wife! Yes, his wife for months past. Why have I been so reticent on this subject? why, indeed, I can not tell. I only know that it pained me to think of that event; and even now, its memories are not pleasant. 
               We pride ourselves that our loves are dead; crushed by a master-will, it may be; but the flames spring up from the ashes of our buried hopes to mock us in the very hour of our expected triumph. 
               It was my first meeting with them since their marriage, and it cost me quite an effort to appear calm. The old battle had to be fought again; but there was no choice between love and duty now, and I knew that I dared not think of him with any feeling but that of friendship. 
                
               The same thoughtful kindness that had ever characterized his intercourse with me was still mine, and his gentle wife strove to entertain me with all the powers of her refined mind. 
               It was over at last, the gay dinner, and I was alone with my new sister a few moments, while she changed her dress for a traveling suit. 
               "Irene," said she, "it seems so like a dream that I can not realize it. That I am Oscar's wife appears so funny." 
               "It is real, Rosa, and you are my sister in deed and truth now." 
               "I know it, and yet it seems so strange. How I wish you were going with us!" 
               "You and Oscar will be quite company enough," I replied. "You and he must work out your happiness together, without other aid; and you should aim to begin aright. I warn you, Rosa, that you will probably find him very firm-obstinate, it may be, at times; but remember, dear, that it is an inherited fault, one that is hard for him to overcome. Home is the Eden of earth, my sister, if we make it so; and uncongenial, unhappy firesides have driven more men to ruin, than any one cause on earth." 
               There was a mist in her eyes, a reverential awe in her tone, as, looking upward, she whispered- 
               "God of Heaven, help me to begin aright!" 
                
               Ten minutes later they were gone, leaving a blank chill feeling in the hearts of those who had loved them best and fondest; gone to begin a new life, under the brightest auspices; gone from us who had occupied the first place in their hearts; gone never to return and fill the vacancy made by their absence. Henceforth they were to be all in all to each other, bound by a mystic tie, a link which death alone could sever, and to which other affections must be subservient. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               IMPLACABLE. 
               
                  I HAD written to my father concerning Oscar's marriage, but received no reply-in fact had expected none. So I sat down on the evening of the wedding day and wrote a detailed account of the ceremony, as well as of Robert's unexpected return. "If anything on earth will soften his heart toward them, it will be this resurrection, as it were, of his lost son," I said to myself; and I wrote with all the pathetic tenderness that I could command, hoping and trusting that it might accomplish the purpose for which it was sent. 
               I mailed it the next morning, and anxiously awaited the result. 
               Two days after an answer came, and eagerly tearing open the envelope, I read the following: 
                      
                         
                            
                              MY DAUGHTER: Yours is to hand, and in the impulse of the moment I answer. Though I dislike letter-writing exceedingly, I depart from my usual rule to inform you that any communication you see fit to send to me in the future, will be more welcome if you forbear all reference erence to those graceless boys I once called sons. 
                              How often must I tell you, Irene, that all interest in their movements has died out of my heart, and they are as truly dead to me as if they were buried? 
                              I am always glad to hear from you, my only obedient child, and wish to see you as often as possible. 
                              
                                 Your father, 
                                 JAMES DACRE.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               I dried my tears, and went slowly down stairs to find my brother. He was standing near a window, humming a nautical song, when I silently handed him the letter. 
               He read it through, his face whitening slowly;  then tossing it indignantly to the floor, he exclaimed, "And this is the welcome a fellow gets from his father when he comes back from the dead, as it were. It almost makes me swear." 
               "Robert, Robert, don't forget that your manhood is the first consideration of your life." 
               "You are a dear, good sister," he said, very tenderly; "and if I should find cause to doubt all the world, I could scarcely mistrust you. There is a simple grandeur in your character that pleases me exceedingly, and wins my warmest admiration." 
               "You are very lavish of your compliments," I replied, as Mr. Earnest came in, and I went to the piano. 
                
               I ran my hands lightly over the keys with an aching heart, knowing, as I did, that the struggle between love and duty was constantly raging in my bosom. "Verily, every heart knoweth its own bitterness." 
               A week later Robert went on board his ship, and I went back to school, feeling glad to escape from the scenes so laden with sweet-bitter memories. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               AN UNEXPECTED DISCLOSURE. 
               
                  TWO years had passed, and I was paying a short visit to my brother's family. 
               Robert had just returned from his second voyage, and was spending a few weeks with us. There was something on his mind, making him very uneasy and restless. After watching him closely for a few days, I determined to try to find out what troubled him. 
               "Robert," I asked, "what makes you so silent and abstracted? It seems as if you were trying to hide something from me." 
               "Now, Mamie, don't give me a lecture. You women can not understand the fierce natures that burn in the bosoms of some men." 
               "Robert, I have always tried to avoid any approach to a lecture in my intercourse with you; and if women suppress and hold in checks their likes and dislikes, as becometh a modest and retiring sex, it is no sign that their temptations are less, or their feelings weaker." 
               "Well, Mamie, in the beginning I must say that this trouble was not of my seeking; in fact, I tried to avoid it in every possible manner consistent with my honor as a man." 
               "Robert, Robert!" I cried, in great anxiety, "you have not done some rash and imprudent deed, for which you will be sorry the rest of your life?" 
               "I will leave you to judge," he replied. "During my last voyage, our vessel touched at a French port, intending to lie there a few days. One of our officers proposed a dinner on land, and the proposition was eagerly accepted. Several strangers were invited to join us, and, to my amazement and indignation, Quimboy was one of the number. The blood boiled in my veins, and I could hardly control my temper. Dinner was nearly over, when I looked across at him-he sat opposite to me-and asked, 'What brings you to Europe, Mr. Quimboy? Looking up foreign estates for New York farmers?'" 
               "He colored deeply, as he replied, 'If you are addressing me, I will inform you that my name is Mortimer.' 
               "'Indeed! since when, may I venture to inquire?' 
               "'Since my birth, I believe,' he replied, growing red with anger. 
               "'And you have never known any other?'. I inquired, my temper rising steadily. 
                
               "'If you mean to insult me,' he said, rising from the table with a furious face, 'you have my answer in that,' tossing me his glove. 
               "'As if you were worthy of a true man's steel!' I replied, with scorn. 'Think you I would sully myself to fight with you, a mere adventurer?' 
               "This exasperated him, and coming close to me, he drew a pistol from his pocket, exclaiming, 'If you are not too cowardly, draw and defend yourself.' 
               "Captain Lavert handed me his revolver, and, ten paces being marked off, we took our positions. The word cowardly had aroused all the fury of my nature, and my wine-heated blood was ready for the duel. Just as the command to fire was given, Quimboy turned very pale, his craven nerves flinched, making his aim uncertain, and giving me the advantage. The last that I saw of him he was lying on the floor, pale and bleeding, with the surgeon bending over him. My friends hurried me away, and the vessel was put under sailing orders at once." 
               "Robert, Robert! this distresses me beyond measure. Revenge belongs to the Lord, and not to you." 
               "I can't help it now," he answered, almost sadly. "What was I to do? Could I stand idly by and have him brand me as a coward in the presence of my brother officers? Would you have had me pass him without chastising him for the everlasting shadow which he had cast on our family? Nay, Irene, don't tell me that it was wrong; the very sight of his face set the blood to tingling in my veins." 
               "Yet it would have been braver to have passed him in silent contempt." 
               "Perhaps it would; but moral courage is not one of my good qualities, that I know of; but be that as it may, it does not alter the stubborn fact that we fought, and he fell. Whether he died from his wound I do not know; but the surgeon thought that he was fatally injured." He came close to my side, wound his arm gently about my waist, and in a low tone of entreaty continued, "I should be very unhappy if this should create a difference between you and me. Mamie, you know that I love you very dearly, and the thought of the pain that this would give you has been a thorn in my side ever since the deed was committed. Don't shrink from me, dear sister; don't think of the act, but of the cruel wrongs that led to it. Think of our blighted home, of Jamie's and Annie's deaths, both caused indirectly by this man's perfidy, and ask yourself if his death was not a just retribution. I could wish, as well as yourself, that we had not met; but meeting as we did, the result was inevitable. Say, Irene, that you do not love me less-that you do not condemn me for this rash deed." 
               "Robert, there is a higher tribunal than my poor, weak judgment, to which you should apply for pardon." 
               "True; but only say that your affection for me is the same; that you do not spurn me from your heart as a red-handed murderer." 
               Tears were in his eyes as he plead his cause with all the fervor of an impassioned lover; and laying my arm on his shoulder, I replied, "Robert, nothing under heaven could make me love you less. This unlooked-for encounter does pain me very much, but can not detract one iota from my affection for you." 
               "Thank you!" he cried, catching my hands and covering them with kisses. "You are ever generous and devoted to those whom you love." 
               "Robert," I exclaimed, "don't call me generous, for I am weak and selfish, vainly longing for what I can not have, and desiring that which duty forbids. Oh, there are moments in my life, when I hate myself for the one weakness that so mars my happiness. I have tried to tear it from my heart, and have thought I had succeeded, till some word-a little gesture, it may be-would bring it back to haunt me like a specter of the past, and make me despise myself for my guilty weakness." 
               Tears were flowing now; tears of bitter self-reproach reproach-tears wrung from the depths of my soul because of my inability to crush this one passion of my heart, and be strong in the course which I had chosen for myself. 
               Robert kissed my forehead almost reverentially, and went away, leaving me to myself, with my passionate heart wrung by the bitter struggle raging so fiercely in my bosom. 
               All the little flatteries bestowed on me by kind friends rose, up in that hour to mock me with satirical bitterness. I felt humbled to the dust because I could not rise superior to this human weakness; and yet I was nothing more than human, nothing less. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               RESTING ON THE PROMISE. 
               
                  SEVERAL days after Robert's startling disclosure, before I had fairly recovered from the shock, Oscar came into dinner pale and excited. 
               Drawing me aside, he said, "A terrible accident has just occurred, and I fear Emma Earnest is fatally Injured." 
               "Oh, Oscar! how did it happen? Surely she will not die." 
               "I fear she will," he replied. "All that human skill can do has been done for her. They had been driving; in Central Park, and were returning home, when the horses took fright and ran away. The carriage was upset, and she was thrown violently against some buildings stories, breaking two or three ribs, and injuring her otherwise. She is at home now, and is perfectly conscious, expressing a great desire to see you." 
               "This is dreadful!" I exclaimed. "She so young, too! I will go to her at once," and I went for my cloak and hat, feeling a great pity for my gentle cousin, cut off so early from those ties that I knew she prized so dearly. 
                
               I met Mr. Earnest in the hall, gave him a word of sympathy, and passed on to the darkened chamber. 
               A sweet smile lighted her pale face as I entered and took one of her hands. 
               "Emma, this is terrible-so unexpected," I said, bending to kiss her. 
               "I knew you would come," she said, still smiling. "I am going to die, Irene; there is no hope for me, mangled as I am." 
               "Perhaps you are mistaken." 
               "No, no," she replied, waving her attendants from the room. "Come here, Irene, sit close by my side, where I can see your face; and listen to my words. I shall soon pass over the River; I have no fears of the future and I want you to stay here and take charge of my children. I can trust them with you, knowing that you will conscientiously discharge your duty." 
               I hesitated. How could I live in the same house with him, and listen to his voice daily, hourly? How could I promise to take this great responsibility on myself, knowing of the struggle going on so constantly in my heart? 
               "You hesitate," she said, watching me keenly. "Certainly, Irene, you will not deny me this one request, and let me go into eternity burdened with anxiety on my children's account?" 
                
               "Emma," I faltered, "I am not worthy of this confidence. I am a sinful woman, too weak for such a trust. Before I knew you, I had learned to love Mr. Earnest. He was my best friend, my teacher, weaving himself into my life by delicate acts of kindness and valuable lessons of knowledge. How I loved him no words can describe, for it ran almost into worship. Then he asked me to be his wife, but I could not find it in my heart to burden him with myself, crippled and maimed as I was; and, though it rent my heartstrings, I persevered to the end. You may despise me, Emma, even as I hate myself; but all these years I have striven to tear his image from my heart, knowing that it was wicked to love him, the husband of another; and all to no purpose. Oh, Emma, no mortal can tell what I have suffered in this silent, secret struggle between love and duty! Knowing my weakness, dear cousin, you will not ask me to take charge of your children." 
               She put her hand on my trembling, drooping head, bowed with the shame and confusion of this mortifying confession, and, in low, sweet tones, said, "Irene, you are the noblest girl I ever knew. More than ever do I implore you to stay with my children." 
               I could scarcely believe my senses. Her words seemed like coals of fire heaped on my head, and, retreating a few steps, I asked, "Do you mock me in your suffering and my distress, or can you really be in earnest? Oh, Emma!" 
               "After all, dear, it is not such a crime to love Charles. You struggled bravely to live it down; and, if you did not succeed, none were the wiser, for you smothered it most effectually from the eyes of those about you. Poor girl, how you must have suffered! I have one more request to make, which is this: after I am dead, Irene, and time has toned down my husband's feelings, if, he should ever see fit to renew his offer for your hand, you will promise-me to-accept-it." 
               Her words came thick and gasping; a film gathered over her beautiful eyes, and, before I could answer, or call her husband, she was dead. 
               My strained nerves gave way, and, with a shriek, I fell fainting across the bed. 
               When I saw her next, she had been prepared for burial, and her face wore a calm, peaceful expression, assuring her friends that she had died resting on the Promise. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               MY TASK RENDERED EASY. 
               
                  EMMA had been laid in the tomb; and it was very painful to see what a blank her absence made in that little household. 
               Mr. Earnest struggled bravely with his grief, but sobs would come when little Charlie asked for his mother, or the feeble wail of the infant girl broke on his ear. 
               What should I do? What would he think of me should I propose to remain and take charge of his children? Yet it was clear to my mind that Emma had accepted my partial silence as acceding to her request, and my position was anything but enviable. 
               I was sitting alone, thinking over these things, when Mr. Earnest came in. 
               "You are the very one I wanted to see," he said, coming over to my side. 
               "Am I? What can you want with me?" I asked, vaguely hoping that he would extricate me in some way from my dilemma. 
               "Well, little maid," he replied, "I can't bear the thought of remaining here in this house, where every room, every article of furniture niture, reminds me so forcibly of her. I would like to travel, go to Europe, and forget this grief in new scenes and among new faces. This I can not do unless I can find some responsible person to whose care I can confide my children. Irene, you could do me a great service by accepting this trust. You will live here, have absolute care of the house, and means and servants will be placed at your command. I can then go abroad satisfied." 
               "You are very kind to repose such confidence in me," I replied, "and I am glad to serve you thus. I accept the charge, and will try to be faithful in the performance of my duty." 
               "I know you will," he answered, a faint smile of encouragement playing about his lips for an instant. 
               "How long do you propose to remain abroad?" I asked. 
               "Two years, if nothing happens to call me home," he answered. "Irene, this has been a hard blow, almost cruel in its suddenness." 
               "I wish I could give you a word of comfort in this great trial, Mr. Earnest; but indeed I, who have always looked up to you for consolation in the hour of trouble, feel powerless to say anything profitable." 
               "I will take the will for the deed," he replied, kindly. "So it is settled, Irene?" he asked, rising to go. 
                
               "It is settled," I repeated with a glad relief, for his delicate proposition had extricated me most unexpectedly from my trying position. 
               "Surely," I meditated, "in two years of continued absence, I can learn to forget this unhappy love that has made the last few years such a constant warfare." 
               In a few days Mr. Earnest had resigned his pastorship, and some weeks later he bade us an affectionate farewell before going on board the ship on which he had taken passage. 
               Just here happened one of those incidents that often mark the lives of people, and make them seem stranger than the most improbable fiction. 
               Oscar had gone down to the wharf to see his friend off, and was threading his way through the crowd on his return, when a military-looking man touched him on the shoulder and inquired in a foreign accent if he could direct him to the residence of Frederick Montane. 
               "I think I can," replied Oscar, "as I happen to know the gentleman. Come with me, and I will take you to his house." 
               "Certain?" asked the soldier, laconically. 
               "Certain," replied Oscar, leading the way to the carriage waiting for him, and feeling a great curiosity to know who this could be. 
               In a short time they were at Montane's residence, and the old gentleman came down at once. After greeting Oscar, who was a great favorite of his, he turned to the stranger. 
               Neither spoke, but gazed fixedly into each other's face. 
               "Can the grave give up its dead?" asked Montane, slowly. 
               "Not to my knowledge," replied the other, speaking rapidly; "but prisoners of war do sometimes escape from their living tombs after long years of incarceration. Brother, I did escape after much suffering, and have come to you and my child." 
               Tears stood in these strong men's eyes as they embraced each other. Then the soldier, Montane's brother, exclaimed, "My child, my child, where is she?" 
               "She is this young man's wife," said the elder brother, turning to Oscar, over whose bewildered mind the truth was slowly dawning. 
               "My Rosa married! my little pet a woman already!" he murmured, fondly. "Take me to her. I must see my child." 
               So they took him to her, this parent whom she had mourned as dead, and whose face had almost passed from her memory. 
               Father and daughter met as strangers, a wistful look coming into her eyes as his voice seemed to arouse some chord of the past in her mind. 
               After some desultory conversation, her uncle began to tell how some military men are reported ed dead, in times of war, when they are only wounded and taken prisoners; and have been known to return to their families years afterward. 
               She listened with distended eyes and flushing cheeks; and, rising, she crossed to where her uncle sat, clasping her hands tightly on his; shoulder. 
               "To what does this lead?" she demanded, hoarsely. 
               "Can't you guess?" he asked. 
               "Is that my father? has he come back from prison walls instead of the tomb?" she inquired, pointing to the stranger, who came quickly to her side. 
               "Yes, Rosa, I am your father," he cried, taking her in his arms, and covering her face with kisses. 
               Oscar and her uncle went quietly from the room; and the curtain fell on a scene very sacred and holy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
               HIS RETURN. 
               
                  THERE had been little time in those two years for vain regrets, and, when Mr. Earnest came home, two happy, healthy children were ready to welcome him. 
               How my heart bounded when he pressed my hand and thanked me so gratefully for his beautiful treasures! 
               I turned away with a sickening horror of myself. His face and pleasant voice brought back the past so vividly to my mind. 
               That past! was it never to be forgotten? were its pangs and pleasures never to be buried in oblivion? 
               The next morning I brought my housekeeping book to the library, and, after carefully explaining to Mr. Earnest the various items of the different accounts, I said, "I am now prepared to deliver my trust into other hands." 
               "Why?" he asked, looking up in surprise. "Surely you do not intend to leave us alone? We can not do without our housekeeper." 
               "I wish to resume my school duties," I replied. 
                
               "Irene, if salary is any inducement, you shall have an increase." 
               "Mr. Earnest," I exclaimed, pained beyond measure "I have felt this to be eminently a labor of love, not a question of dollars and cents. I am not so sordid as that." 
               He rose from the table and came to the window where I was standing. 
               "Irene," he said, "this is very inexplicable to me. Is there any consideration that will induce you to remain with us?" 
               "None;" I replied; "none whatever." 
               He stood for an instant looking down on me, with an irresolute expression on his face. 
               "Irene," he said, at length, "I am almost tempted to renew the offer of my hand and heart to you. It may not be welcome, little maid-I don't suppose it will be-but I do love you very fondly, more fervently than you imagine. 
               My crimsoned face had drooped, and tears of joy and pain were falling on my hands, lying idle on the window-sill. 
               I did not speak, and he continued: "Emma loved and respected you very much. I am certain that you would be her choice, of all others, to take her place." 
               "I know it," I answered. "But, Mr. Earnest, I am as much a cripple as I was when I refused you before." 
                
               "Irene," he asked, very seriously, "is it right for you to mar the happiness of us both by your exquisite sensitiveness? If you love me-and I believe you do-come and rest your weary head on my bosom, and fold your arms in calm content. Don't hesitate, dear, there must be no shadow of variableness in the one I call wife." 
               For one moment the struggle raged; but LOVE conquered, and, nestling to his bosom, he folded me in his protecting arms. 
               I looked up into his beaming face, and said, "I am happier, Mr. Earnest, than I had ever expected to be in this life. Your love is a priceless treasure, for which I can never be too thankful." 
               "You are a dear, good girl, and richly deserve all the happiness I can ever give you, or otherwise may be held in store for you," he answered, kissing me very tenderly. 
               I broke from him, and escaped to my own room, trembling with my new-born bliss. 
               The children came into the room, and I folded them to my heart with a new interest in their welfare, vowing to be true to the trust confided to me by the dead, and praying that I might be able to cast shadows from, instead of over, their pathways. 
                
               No one congratulated me more sincerely than Oscar and his beautiful wife, at whose fireside a warm place had ever been accorded to me. 
               There was a new light in Rosa's eyes since her father's coming, that greatly enhanced her brilliant beauty, and rendered her more attractive. 
               Children have grown up around my brother's hearth, and from children are budding into men and women. 
               Papa died as he had lived, going down to the grave with unforgiveness in his heart for the two whom he erroneously believed to have wronged him. 
               My step-mother still lives on the old place; and I go down twice a year to look after the graves; and, as I work among them, a prophetic feeling, a vague misgiving takes possession of me, that I shall be the next to lie down in the "City of the Dead." 
               Robert has never married, but roams the sea, captain of his vessel. My uncle and aunt have long since gone to their reward; and Willie is an officer on Robert's vessel. 
               Dora, gay, brilliant Dora, is a wife, her gayety somewhat sobered by the cares of maternity, but a cheerful little wife for all that. 
               Mr. Earnest, my husband, is not so famous as I had hoped he would be; his earnest and faithful preaching does not suit the mass. The same grand simplicity of character that marked him in his country home characterizes him in the midst of the wealth and aristocracy of this great metropolis. 
               My keen sensitiveness has gradually worn away, and the noonday of my life is rendered brilliant by the rays of the sun of my husband's love, which has never ceased to shine upon me. 
               Forty to-day! Do I realize it? Do I feel the weight of years falling on me? 
               The shadows of the evening are lengthening into night; my eyes grow dim with the waning light; my hands drop idly by my side, refusing to do my bidding, and my pen is falling-falling. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
       
          
             
             
            The Authors' International Prize Series. 
            THE AUTHORS' PUBLISHING COMPANY offered several Cash Premiums Nov. 15, 1873, for certain Manuscript Works as indicated below. The competition remained open till July 20th, 1874. A very large number of works were received; and the committees labored industriously and conscientiously to give each a fair and careful consideration. 
             
               I. 
               The Prize for the Best Manuscript Work on any subject, to be known as "THE COMPANY'S, FIRST BOOK," was awarded August 15, 1874, to MS. No 110, entitled, EVOLUTION AND PROGRESS, An Exposition and Defence, BY REV. WILLIAM I. GILL, A. M., Because of its solid force, its logical thoroughness and consistency, and its crystal clearness. The Committee have nothing to say for or against its conclusions. On this point, as on many others, its members would disagree, and as a body they express no opinion or preference. 
               Extra cloth, beveled, thick paper, 12mo. Price $1.50 
             
             
                
               II. 
               The Prize for the BEST FICTION was awarded August 15, 1874, to MS. No. 77, entitled, IRENE; OR; BEACH-BROKEN BILLOWS, BY MRS. B. F. BAER, Because of its naturalness and symmetry as a Story, purity of thought and action, and vigor of characterization; because it combines a freshness of narration which interests every reader with a delicacy of treatment which adds something to the happiness of every heart. 
               Extra cloth, thick paper, 12mo. Price $1.25. 
             
             
               III. 
               THE SCIENTIFIC PRIZE ESSAY, Decision Reserved. 
               The above named books will be sent by mail, post-paid, upon receipt of price; or they may be had in the book-stores. 
               Address, THE AUTHORS' PUBLISHING COMPANY, 30 Bond Street, New York. 
             
          
          
             
            The Authors' Publishing Company 
            Will Issue, November 1st, 1874, THE MANUSCRIPT MANUAL, Of concise and practical rules for preparing manuscripts for the press. 
            Flexible cloth 25 cts., paper 10 cts. 
            Will Issue, December 1st, 1874. THE EDUCATIONAL YEAR-BOOK, VOL. III., 1874-'5. 
            Cloth, thick paper, 16mo. $1.25. Paper cover, 50 Cents. 
            This work has grown, from year to year, into increased sale and popularity, until it is the acknowledged National standard as a Hand-Book of reference in its exclusive department of letters. 
            It is not made up of old magazines nor by accumulations of dead matter. It is fresh, concise, vital, to the point, and is edited under the supervision of the several State Superintendents. 
            Many States purchase THE EDUCATIONAL YEAR-BOOK in quantities, at each annual issue, by special Legislative appropriations, and distribute them free among their County School Officers and Boards of Education. 
            Send for Descriptive Circular. 
            Address, THE AUTHORS' PUBLISHING COMPANY, 30 Bond Street, New York. 
          
          
             
            THE LITERARY MISCELLANY 
            Published on the 15th of each Month, by The Authors' Publishing Co.  
                  Subscription, $1.00 a year. 
                  Three months on trial, 25 cents. 
               
             
            American News Company, N. Y., Agents for Supplying the Trade. 
            Contains contributions from the ablest American and Foreign writers: 
            SCIENCE, REVIEWS, CRITICISMS, STORIES, SKETCHES, LITERARY GOSSIP. 
            Is devoted especially to the interest and business of Literary Societies, Librarians, College Professors, Superintendents and Principals of Schools, Teachers, Lawyers, Physicians, Clergymen, Public Speakers, Lecturers, Authors, Writers, Students, Lyceums, Lyceum Committees and all who comprise the READERS and LITERARY WORKERS of America. 
            Address, THE AUTHORS' PUBLISHING COMPANY, 30 Bond Street, New York. 
          
       
   
