
    ----CITATION----
        Brace, John Pierce, (1793-1872). The Fawn of the Pale Faces, or, Two Centuries Ago .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5857
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
            JULIA KAVANAGH'S WORKS. 
             
               I. 
               DAISY BURNS. 
               12mo. Two Parts. Paper Cover, 75 cents; or in 1 Vol. cloth, $1. 
               "The clear conception, the forcible delineation, the style, at once elegant and powerful, of Miss Kavanagh's former works, are exhibited in this, as well as deep thought and sound moral reflection. Every thing presented to the reader, whether thought or image is elaborated with the finish of a Flemish painting without its grossness; the persons are nicely conceived and consistently sustained, and the principal narrative is relieved by very truthful pictures of every day life and character."-London Spectator.
                
               "A very delightful tale. * * * The charm of the story is in its naturalness. It is perfectly quiet, domestic, and truthful. In the calm force and homely realities of its scenes it reminds us of Miss Austen."-Times.
                
               "All her books are written with talent and a woman's true feeling."-U. S. Gazette.
                
               "It is full of deep feeling, tenderness, pure feminine sentiment and moral truth."-Albany Knickerbocker.
                
             
             
               II. 
               NATHALIE. 
               Two Parts. 12mo. Paper Covers, 75 cents; cloth, $1. 
               "A work of extraordinary merit, with a far deeper design than merely to amuse, it attempts to solve some of the subtle problems of human nature. Some of the wisest lessons in life are taught in the work, while the artistic skill with which the narrative is managed imparts a vivid interest. The author might be, with a stronger infusion of the poetic element, another Joanna Baillie; and no one will read the work without a high estimate of her dramatic powers and her deep insight."-Evangelist.
                
             
             
               III. 
               MADELEINE. 
               One Volume. 12mo. Paper Covers, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents. 
               "A charming story, gracefully told. Its intrinsic interest as a narrative, and the tenderness of its pathos will win for it many readers."-Boston Traveller.
                
               "The character of Madeleine, the heroine, is beautifully drawn and powerfully portrayed. Miss Kavanagh is most known by her excellent novel of 'Nathalie.' This book possesses no less interest, though of a very different kind."-Courier and Enq.
                
             
             
               IV. 
               WOMEN OF CHRISTIANITY. 
               One Volume. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents. 
               "The design and spirit of this volume are alike admirable. Miss Kavanagh divides her work into four periods; the first relates the deeds of holy women under the Roman empire; the second tells us of the fruits of faith in the middle ages; the third is devoted to the women of the seventeenth century; and the fourth to those of the eighteenth and present centuries. We have read many of these records of other days, as told by Miss Kavanagh, and we are sure that the influence upon every Christian-minded person cannot but be for good, if he will meditate upon what our holy religion is every day doing. The volume is well worthy a place in every Christian family."-Ban. of the Cross.
                
             
          
          
             
            CHOICE NEW WORKS FOR FAMILY READING. 
             
               I. 
               HARRY MUIR. 
               A STORY OF SCOTTISH LIFE. 
               By the author of "Mrs. Margaret Maitland," etc. One vol. 12mo. Cloth, 75 cents; paper cover, 50 cents. 
               "We prefer Harry Muir to most of the Scottish Novels that have appeared since Galt's Domestic Stories were published. This new tale by the author of Margaret Maitland, is "over true"-a real picture of the weakness of man's nature and the depth of woman's tenderness."-Athenum.
                
             
             
               II. 
               PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF MRS. MARGARET MAITLAND, OF SUNNYSIDE. 
               Written by herself. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents. 
               "This is one of those charming works in which the affections of the female heart are portrayed as they are wrought upon by the vicissitudes and trials of life. The scenes are laid chiefly in the quiet glens of Scotland, and the actors are represented as possessing all the rich and genial elements of the noblest Scottish character. It is written with a spirited and powerful pen, and cannot fail strongly to impress the reader."-Eve. Mirror.
                
             
             
               III. 
               ROSE DOUGLASS; 
               Or, THE AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A MINISTER'S DAUGHTER. 
               By S. R. M. 1 vol. 12mo. Paper covers, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents. 
               "The style of the writer is pure and pleasing, and the moral tone of the book not merely unexceptionable, but positively excellent."-Commercial Advertiser.
                
               "This is one of that class of novels to which the reader turns with delight after reading some of the trash that is put forth by the press. It abounds in soul-elevating thoughts, and no person can read it without being made wiser and better thereby. It is full of simple and nave wisdom, shrewd delineation of character in great variety, and has a Scotch canny-ness and piquancy that rivet the attention even amidst simple incidents. We like it much, and cordially commend it to our readers."-Norwich Evening Courier.
                
             
             
               IV. 
               THE USE OF SUNSHINE. 
               By S. M. 1 vol. 16mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents. 
               "This is a moral tale of exceeding beauty. It is elegantly written, full of just sentiments, and inculcates moral lessons. It is a tale for the family, encouraging social, domestic pleasures, and leaving upon the mind religious impressions. It can never be read without profit."-Boston Journal.
                
             
             
               V. 
               HOME IS HOME. 
               A Domestic Story. 12mo. Paper, 50 cents; cloth, 75 cents. 
               "We have no objection to such 'light literature' as this. It falls like the dew or the gentle rain, lightly, it is true, but it falls to cheer and gladden the heart. There are pleasant and profitable lessons in the pages of this book, and the reader cannot help loving its heroine, the gentle Kate Sinclair, and all who love her "-Lit. Gaz.
                
             
          
          
             
             
               THE FAWN OF THE PALE FACES; 
               OR, TWO CENTURIES AGO. 
             
            BY J. P. BRACE.
             
            
               NEW-YORK: 
               D. APPLETON & COMPANY,  
                     200 BROADWAY. 
                  
               
             
            M.DCCC.LIII. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1853, by D. APPLETON & COMPANY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for the Southern District of New-York. 
          
          
             
            THIS VOLUME IS DEDICATED TO HON. ISAAC W. STUART, WHO IN HIS WORK BY SCVA, HAS ACCOMPLISHED IN HISTORY WHAT THE AUTHOR HAS ATTEMPTED IN FICTION, THE Illustration of the Earliest Period of our Colonial Existence. HE WILL RECEIVE IT AS A TESTIMONIAL OF THE AUTHOR'S ADMIRATION OF HIS TALENTS AS A WRITER, AND HIS FRIENDSHIP AS A MAN. 
          
          
             
             
            PREFACE. 
            IT is usual, in writing a book, to tell, in its preface, the object for which it was written, and the great moral it is designed to convey. The author of this Tale, then, would observe to the public that his object was to please himself. That being accomplished, if it please any one else, it will be so much clear gain to the happiness of the world generally. Its moral can be better learnt from its perusal than its preface. 
            Although the author has employed the characters of history, he has not encroached upon its events. He had no desire in his attempted work, to describe what the early settlers of Hartford actually did, in their quarrels with the Dutch, or their fights with the Indians, or their negotiations for their territory. Such descriptions are the province of the historian, and though they might, with propriety, have mingled themselves with the scenes he has painted, they would have interfered with his object, which was the delineation of character alone. 
            To those who may assert that the characters are too modern for the period, the author would reply, that human nature, in its greatest phases, is alike in all ages. Usages and customs may differ-the modes of expressing passions and feelings may change-the conventionalities of life may alter-but the heart remains the same. The heroes of Homer have the same emotions with those who figure in the "Reveries," or "Thoughts" of modern authors; they only differ in the manner of exhibiting them. An author, to make his book readable, must make it understandable. It would have been, then, as absurd to have made the characters of this fiction converse in the dialect of that day, as to have printed the work in the spelling of the early records. So much for its modern aspect. 
            No apology will be set forth in this preface for its publication, for none is needed. If the public do not fancy it, they will not read it. If they do fancy it, an apology is only an insult. 
            The author trusts that the grave charge of want of "Orthodoxy," which was made by certain fastidious critics against his first work, will not be repeated against this. 
            
               HARTFORD, July, 1853.
             
          
       
      
         
            The fawn of the pale faces, or, Two centuries ago 
             
             
            THE FAWN OF THE PALE FACES. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           I've seen Connecticut's fair wave, 
                           Still, as it flow'd through rich fields, smiling; 
                           While the tall corn its bright green gave, 
                           The river's darker hue beguiling. 
                           Fair are thy fields; thy skies for ever shine; 
                           "Nor drinks the sea a lovelier wave than thine." 
                        
                      
                     -The Traveller. 
                   
                
               THERE is hardly any stream in this land of waters more beautiful in its quiet repose than the Connecticut in Hartford county. Every thing around it is in keeping with its own serenity. No mountains, except on the remote horizon, and they serving only as appropriate frames to the beautiful picture-no rocks-no bold and rugged cliffs, or steep and rough shores, hem in its loveliness; but meadows as green as the garden of Eden skirt its low banks, while an occasional grove of willows and red maples wave over the sluggish waters. Cultivation shows her power to the very edge of the placid stream, making the river smile, as it nourishes the bright corn on its very margin. Meanwhile the stream itself, lying too low to be reached by the storms, is never disturbed by dashing waves, but creeps along, slowly, quietly, silently, almost solemnly, to its ocean tomb-its waters as pure, limpid, and refreshing as a mountain brook. 
               The exceeding crookedness of the stream adds to its beauty, as it prevents any thing like tameness or insipidity marking its character-its quietness having nothing of the stagnation of the canal. The reaches of the river are short, and are terminated by the low wood, or the rich cornfield, or the green meadow, or the busy village with its spire, so that there is no monotony in its loveliness. 
               There may be, elsewhere, more to excite-more to call out the bursts of genius in description-more to elevate the mind by roughness and wild sublimity-more to interest the bustling traveller in his love of the busy or the useful; but for a mild, calm, quiet mind, sick of the bustling and the busy, tired of being always "stretched on the rack of sublimity," no stream presents greater interest than the Connecticut, whether you sail down its peaceful tide on a mild summer afternoon, or ride along its banks, through its flourishing and beautiful villages, catching occasional glimpses of its bright blue waters, amid the brown and the green around you. 
               Reader, have you ever seen the city of Hartford-its long, winding streets-its elegant public buildings-and its commodious private residences? Have your steps ever been directed over the beautiful stone bridge, rivalling, in its dimensions, many of the structures of Europe, to the southern section of the city? Has your heart ever thrilled as you passed beneath the venerable arms of the Charter Oak, and as the wind whistled through its scanty and time-worn branches, listened as if you heard the spirits of other times whispering above you? Have you ever fancied as you have gazed at the few which remain of the tenements that the early settlers erected, what strange, romantic deeds their old battered timbers might tell-what stories of public effort, or of private joys and sorrows? If so, you will with the greater readiness be prepared to follow me as I roll back the tide of time far into the remote past, and bring again those streets to view when they were but cow-paths through the wilderness. 
               It is in the year 1651 that our tale opens. The place had been settled some fifteen years, and many dwellings had sprung up, commencing from the banks of the Little River, each way, and extending up and down Main-street, with Elm, Sheldon, Coles, and Lafayette streets on the south side of that stream, and through Arch, Front, Trumbull, and Pearl streets north. We give the names by which these streets are now known; the antiquarian can consult an excellent map of Hartford at this period, lately published. 
               Some of the most distinguished leaders of the colony resided in Coles' (now Governors' street), and others in Arch-street. The residence of that family, whose adventures and character it will be our duty to delineate, was in the last-named street, not far from the stone building erected by a late respected mayor. Mr. Hooker, the minister, resided near. A low wooden bridge crossed the Little River a few rods to the east, and through Coles'-street, ran down to the neighboring colony of Wethersfield, passing by the residences of Edward Hopkins, William Whiting, John Webster, Thomas Welles, and George Wyllys, all distinguished in the early history of the place. Remains of the primitive forest were frequent the whole length of this road. Among the giant oaks that then stretched their gnarled and twisted branches across this path, was one, destined in subsequent years to remain-the glory of a rescued commonwealth. 
               Many farmers had settled all along the banks of the Little River, and had commenced cultivating the open meadows on its borders, many of which had been denuded of their timber by the fires of the Indians, long before the coming of the Pale Faces. A few, more adventurous, had crept up to the neighboring hills, and the sound of the axe had already echoed through their heavy forests. One mill had been erected on the stream, and a few workshops of absolute necessity had been established. 
               Northward, the path was continued through the forests to the more distant settlement of Windsor, and some few bold spirits had settled themselves in that direction, erecting their houses as near the bare meadow lands as possible for the greater convenience of pasturage and mowing. 
               Eastward, the river rolled in its silent and quiet stateliness: seldom was its glassy surface rippled by the passing boat, or disturbed in its dreamy solemnity, except by the numerous wild-fowl on its shores. Now and then, the slight canoe of the savage would steal along its blue and beautiful waters, stilly, as if afraid to disturb their quiet sleep. The rude, flat-bottomed boat of the settler, with its square sail, might be very rarely seen, coursing along between the infant villages; but seldom was the wave disturbed by man. The sudden splash of the sturgeon in a still evening, or the low wail of the night-heron, were almost the only sounds that broke the oppressive stillness of its waters. 
               Westward, lay the unbroken forest, in all its majesty-wild-tangled-with all its knotted brushwood untouched by man-its old oaks stretching their limbs athwart the sky, and its tall pines seeking the heavens in their altitude. A few deer-paths or Indian trails were scattered through its recesses-the wolf prowled through its upland glades-the bear growled in its leafy coverts-the panther yelled in its tangled thickets-the wild turkey stalked through its sunny openings-and the long branches of its oaks, the thick tops of its beeches, and the tall trunks of its chestnuts and its hickories were alive with squirrels. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           'Tis autumn now; and every tree 
                           Its richest splendor wears: 
                           For nature shines in gayest dress, 
                           Soon as decay appears. 
                        
                         
                           Its red, seared leaves, the maple bath'd 
                           Within the swelling stream; 
                           The birch, its yellow foliage sent, 
                           In particolor'd gleam. 
                        
                      
                     Story of the Niagara River. 
                   
                
               EVERY observer of nature has noticed the extreme splendor and even gayety of our autumnal woods. To those foreign travellers, who were but partially instructed that this splendid gayety was but the effect of decay, it has appeared more brilliantly beautiful than any European scenery; and from them it has called forth exclamations of raptured surprise. Indeed, were it not for the ideas of decay and death which such scenes create, nothing could equal their brilliancy. 
               By the first of September, the gay green of summer assumes a dark and sombre shade. That bright hue, so peculiarly characteristic of youth with all its hopes, has darkened to the tinge of sober age, and the first feeling of the approach of decay strikes upon the heart with a knell too solemn to be misunderstood, while in sad premonition, a rustling leaf, untimely torn from its stem, flutters in the blast. 
               Let but a single frost pass over this dark green wood, and how changed! From the most sombre hues of thoughtful age, how sudden the transition to the gayest green and brightest yellow, while beauty and brilliancy smile, once more, over the prospect. 
               The birch is the first tree to fade, or rather to renew its beauty, and it now shines in a yellow dress, harmonizing, with surprising exactness, to the green around. The monarch oak still reaches forth his giant arms, in all their gnarled and twisted contortions, covered with the same dark garment: many frosts are needed to decorate that robe. The varieties of maple are early in their change. On a sloping hill, covered with various forest trees, you can perceive their almost golden spots, specking the dark green mount, like some gay island on the green ocean's wave. While to harmonize the coloring, the brown seared walnut skirts the forest, blending its hues with the light green chestnut leaf, and the darksome oak. 
               In a few weeks, or, if a severe frost succeeds, a few days, the appearance of the same sloping hill will be still more splendid,-the walnut has a still darker frown,-the oak holds his crown of green,-the chestnut flings to the passing breeze its long and light brown leaves, the poplar rears its yellow head, sparsely scattered o'er the wood,-while the brightest red paints the large maple leaves, and flings an almost meteoric glare over these scenes of decay and death; and, as the morning sun shines o'er the brilliant prospect, the whole seems like some fairy land, decked with the flowers of plenty, and blazoned with undecaying beauty. 
               Could we but for one little hour forget ourselves-so lovely is the "rapture of repose that's there"-so bright the smile of lingering, slow-paced death, we should at once indulge the hope that it might be ever thus-but in vain. The work of death goes on. More and more frequent is the leaf 'borne off by the blast,' and more and more brown is the hue of the forest. 
               Sometimes, if the October is serene, and free from wind and frost, this splendid mixture of red and yellow, and green and brown, continues to deck the forest for weeks, but how often have we seen this splendid sight, gazed upon by the last rays of the setting sun, as if they sorrowed in taking leave of its brilliancy, in one night ruined by the storm that swept over it, and, the next morning, showing none of those varied and beautiful tints which glowed in the evening sky. A uniform brown gloomily frowned over the whole scene, save the light yellow spots of the poplar, and the dark red of the high oak. In a few more days, every brown leaf is prostrated on the earth, and the blast sighs as it passes through the bare boughs. 
               Through the whole of this change, so much like the pleasures of this world, one uniformity is perceivable-one tree stands untouched by the frosts and storms, and stretches far its dark green head above the destruction around it. It is the evergreen pine, directing, like the hope of eternity which it resembles, its undecaying top towards heaven, unseen amid the bright green of prosperity's summer, but well distinguished when the storms of adversity's autumn strip earthly pleasures of their foliage. 
               It was in the midst of this annual splendor that our tale commences. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           - two sons they had: 
                           Two olive branches round their table grew; 
                           Nourished in growth by mother's smiles and tears, 
                           And checked by father's frowns. 
                        
                      
                     Old Play. 
                   
                
               OUR story opens on the east brink of the small stream that runs through the city of Hartford. There is a ledge of high rocks, forming the brow of the hill over which Washington-street runs, at the foot of which the river, or the brook, as it might then be called, wound sluggishly along, until it precipitated itself over a ledge of rocks, where now stands the dam of the Flouring Mill. A heavy growth of large timber covered the ledge, and extended to the very brink of the rivulet, while in the low glades of the opposite bank, the scattered trunks left a more open prospect, and indicated that the spring floods had deadened the lower limbs and the brushwood. 
               On a jutting rock, beneath the arms of a huge oak, there reclined two youths, whose ages might be from eighteen to twenty-one, in that careless or reckless manner which showed no apprehension of danger from roving Indians, and indicated their satiety in the pursuit of game. Their fowling-pieces leaned against the oak; over the muzzles of which were flung two strings of the small game, of which they had been in search, consisting of hares, squirrels, partridges, quails, &c. A large hound lay at their feet in a lazy attitude, watching languidly the movements of his masters, who seemed to be in no hurry to leave their situation, though the sun was now verging towards the horizon, and cast a checkered light upon the brown rock and green turf around them. 
               It was early October, and the woods were beginning to lose their solemn green for the livelier color of decay. As the young men sat, they could notice the variegated hues of the scattered trees in the opposite valley and on the rocky and oak-covered slope of the neighboring hill. The air was still, and the tread of the cautious squirrel on the dry leaves sounded distinct across the intervening distance. 
               The dress of the young men was something similar lar. It consisted of a doublet, or outer, coat-like garment, open from the neck to the middle, made of coarse woollen, dyed in the dingy brown derived from the juice of the butternut or other simple pigments which the forest supplied. It had no collar, other than a mere seam, and was decorated with a row of large buttons, as far as it opened, and confined around the waist with a belt or sash. The inner vest was of the same material, as were the nether garments. Their simple equipage was completed by the hat with its steeple crown, and the flexible boots with their wide tops so constructed as to fall in a roll around the calf of the leg, but were capable of being drawn up and tied over the knee, for duty on horseback, or for the more rapid passage through the morass and tangled brushwood. 
               Though there was a great similarity in the dress of these youths, yet a careful observer might have readily traced such a difference as could have furnished some clue to their characters. The difference of their ages would of necessity give some diversity to the expression of their countenances, and in the tendencies of their moral habits. The face of the eldest youth was sedate, sober, considerate, contemplative-all of which was manifested in the calm brow, pale cheek, compressed lips, and clear, open eye. That of the younger brother-for that they were brothers the strong family resemblance indicated-was impulsive, ardent, excitable, independent, perhaps ungovernable, which was plainly taught by the flushed brow, the florid cheek, the thick lip, and the haughty gaze of the bright, restless eye. The stern sobriety of the Puritan was readily seen in the perfect simplicity of attire, and entire freedom from ornament of the eldest. But, though coarse and rough, his garments showed that a mother's hand and a mother's eye had formed the habits of neatness and order in the young man's mind, and taught him that the rigid simplicity of Puritanic clothing was no apology for dirt or disarrangement. 
               Is there not a connection between purity of mind and neatness of attire? Does not the latter become the natural, external exponent of the former? We believe so. There is an ornamental, finical particularity that is called neatness, that does not, of necessity, prove the reigning purity of the heart, but rather indicates that vanity, the love of admiration, and the desire for display are the governing traits. But no one ever comes in contact with that loveliest of all God's creations, a pure mind, without seeing, instantaneously, that purity shining out in every external appendage-simple, perhaps severe-but still in entire tire keeping with the character within. Such was Edward Dudley, the eldest of the two youths who are now before us. 
               In the dress of the youngest, there was the plainness and simplicity which the habits of the people, the poverty of the colonists, and the instructions of parents would create, but an evident leaning towards some ornamental exhibition. As he sat under the tree, he unbuckled the long rolled tops of his boots, and disposed of them in graceful folds around his well-formed limbs-an act which his brother evidently deferred to the period of night and rest. He carefully brushed his hat, to clear it of all the dust and scratches it had received in his ramble through the forest. He brought the broader or flapped part of the brim more on one side, and looped it higher to give a smarter air to his beautiful countenance, and he even, while turning it around, seemed to regret that he had left at home, for his rough hunting expedition, the English buckle which had ornamented it. 
               It was evident that the eldest brother felt that all these attentions to the ornaments of his apparel arose from some concealed motive, and gravely said, "Methinks, Henry, you have some other design after this hard day's hunting than to spend the approaching evening, and Saturday evening too, under your father's roof." 
               The younger slightly colored at the intimation, but soon raised his head haughtily, and, looking into his brother's face, replied: "If I have, why should you heed it, or interfere in that which does not concern you?" 
               "Nay, my dear brother, it does concern me. I know too well the desires of our parents, and their commands even, not to check you when erring, though I do it with a brother's love." 
               "My father's commands! True: but why doth he lay such strict commands on us at our advanced age, not to be absent after nightfall, especially on Saturday evening, and not to visit at some particular houses? Can he not trust us?" 
               "Our father never does any thing unreasonable or harsh. The Bible and the magistrates both exhort us to implicit obedience. You need not chafe at the word obedience. He, undoubtedly, has wise reasons of his own for refusing to allow you to visit at Captain Seymour's. The magistrates have the same good reasons for their requisitions, that all the inhabitants should be safely housed before the bell tolls the hour of nine. And, as for Saturday night, you well know that the Bible considers the Sabbath as commencing at sundown of the day before. The savages, too, are dangerous, and are more particularly prowling near the settlement in the dark hour. Besides, our father does not wish that any children of his should be the first to break those strict rules of ward and watch, which he himself has so loudly advocated, and, as one of the magistrates, must enforce. He would not have it said that the noble blood of Dudley would not, in the wilderness, be submissive to the very laws which he recommends for those of lower origin, or that his children should rebel against the supremacy of Law, to establish which, he came into this savage wilderness; or that his sons should resist the authority of that Religion, for the free observance of which he sought these wilds." 
               "Edward, Edward, you irritate me by these very reasons. Why must I be called upon so constantly to submit to these plebeian regulations and infringements of my liberty as the son of a gentleman? By Heaven, I will not! Besides, Edward, what right have you to suppose I intend going to Captain Seymour's? Have you been sneakingly inquiring into my affairs?" 
               The elder brother paid no attention to this question, but calmly replied: "Nay, nay, dear Henry, make use of no oath on the occasion; it is against the laws both of God and the settlements. Lay aside a spirit which will be sure to entail trouble upon you, and bring our parents' hairs in sorrow to the grave. But, let us haste. We shall be late for supper and the evening's devotions." 
               "Brother," said Henry, as he arose, "as for our father's hairs being brought in sorrow to the grave on my account, I fully believe there is not affection and feeling enough in his stern heart to allow a pang to rend it, even if I lay in my winding-sheet before him." 
               "Hush, hush, Henry, you know not our father aright. But you cannot say the same of our mother." 
               A shade of uneasiness passed over the haughty, but beautiful, face of the youth, as his brother spoke, and he pursued the rest of his way in silence, evidently with conflicting views in his thoughts. They crossed the river by the shallow ford at the bottom of the hill where High-street now runs, and were preparing to take the path which led along the north bank of the Little River, when Henry, suddenly turning, gave his game to his brother, and, with a flushed face, exclaimed: "I will not return now. I will be with you long before nine. I am ready to brave the punishment both of the magistrates and my father, rather than relinquish my object. Nay, detain me not. I am resolved." 
               So saying, he burst from his brother, notwithstanding his efforts to hinder, and took the hunter's path that had been formed along the banks of the small brook that there entered the river, the densely-timbered borders of which soon hid him from view. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           They do say, Ralph, that he is so cross a man that he never loved in his life. Do you think it is true? 
                        
                         
                           Ralph. 
                           True! no; hasn't he two children? 
                        
                      
                     Old Play. 
                   
                
               BEFORE we follow the fortunes of either brother, few words are necessary respecting their parents. 
               Colonel Thomas Dudley was one of the earliest settlers in Hartford, and enjoyed an enviable reputation in the infant colony. He was descended from a noble family in England, whose members had been prominent in English history. His early life had been like that of the Cavaliers of the day, thoughtless and dissipated. A sudden and mournful event had checked the progress of his vice, and turned his thoughts to the future interests of his soul. In due time, he became noted among the Puritan leaders by the extraordinary contrast the present austerity of his character bore to his former excesses. His religion was stern and unbending, and he exercised but little charity towards those whose youthful faults and follies were like his own. He married a woman of his own rank in life, of amiable, mild, yielding virtues-so submissive to a man that she loved, that she felt it not only a duty but a pleasure to follow him in the same religious steps. The world, who only saw the stern, outward virtues of the husband, wondered how a "tender and true" woman could love him. But she did love him, and that with an ardent devotion that seemed almost adoration. She often felt that her intense love was the only cloud between God and her soul. Sometimes she shuddered as she perceived his image rising up before her, as if it were the idol to which she prayed. Were they then ill-matched? 
               But Thomas Dudley's soul was not all granite. Like many excellent men of his stern, unyielding character, there was in his heart of hearts a never-failing fount of tenderness and true affection. It seldom welled up to the surface. It did not even show its hidden existence by the green which its moisture caused to spring forth on the surrounding soil. But it was there. He heard, himself, the voice of its clear bubblings within him, and was cheered by its refreshing power-cheered in his hard, cold, toilsome pilgrimage. She knew it, too; and as she drew close to that manly breast, felt the beatings of the heart within, and knew that its pulses were for her. But he never spoke his love or his paternal affection. No words of endearment ever passed his lips. No danger, or sickness, or unhappiness of his loved ones ever drew out one word of comfort, or encouragement, or affection. None but his God received the tribute of his lips. 
               The same sternness that appeared in his private and religious character was carried into his public relations. He knew his duty, and performed it. Commendation drew out no lines of exultation on his cold, calm face. Censure drew no furrows on his rigid brow. He was a republican to those beneath him, but still retained enough of his early aristocratical haughtiness to feel that he had no superiors. 
               The peculiar sentiment of hostility which King Charles felt to all those of noble families who had joined his enemies, was the means of Dudley's early expatriation. On the banks of the Connecticut, he had sought for that peace and security which he could not enjoy at home for the maintenance of his political rights, and the uninterrupted enjoyment of his religion. His fortune had been sufficient to enable him to collect around him as many comforts as his neighbors enjoyed. Here, for several years, had he lived, with his wife and two children, laboring hard for the common necessaries of life, and using the power of his intellect and the weight of his character to build up and perfect the growing community around him. 
               We have already given the reader, we are afraid, too plain a map of the character of our PURITAN, and must permit his other and minor traits, or the working of those we have enumerated to develope themselves as we proceed. 
               To go on with our tale: Edward stood long and anxiously watching the retreating form of his brother, and when he lost sight of him amid the clumps of the alders that covered the banks of the brook, he sighed audibly-and then, raising his eyes devoutly to heaven, exclaimed, "May God protect him, and give him a more docile disposition!" Stooping, he attached his brother's game to his own, and flinging it over his shoulders, seized his gun and commenced his walk along the north bank of the Little River. 
               He soon came up to the place on the road to the mill, where the ordinary daily sentinel was posted, who hailed him as he passed with the inquiry, "What luck?-but I see-well, that's doing pretty well. 
                     Howsever
                     Howsoever
                  , I had better luck last Saturday week. 
                
               You know my old gun, Eddy. I used to let you shoot with it when you was a boy.-Well, I started out with that, and had gone down in the path to Wethersfield, almost to the Folly, meaning to turn out there, and follow the worn brook down to the swamp-But how's this-how's this, Eddy?-your brother-where's Henry?-he went with you. I must know and report all goings out and all comings in-that's the way my commission reads, and that's the way Governor Haynes told me to do. Where's Henry?" 
               "Good Mr. Bull-" 
               "Corporal Bull, if you please. I'm no Mister." 
               "Good Corporal Bull, be not harsh. My brother left me at the Gully Brook." 
               "Where gone? where gone?" 
               "I know not, Corporal Bull, and I do not know as I should inform you if I did. You are exceeding your instructions." 
               "Heyday, Mr. Malapert, who told you to instruct your betters? But come, come, Eddy, you are a brave lad, and will be a credit to the colony when you have remained in Jericho long enough for your beard to grow. I have been with you too often not to know that there is more calm bravery, and cool, prudent action in that slow-moving body and quiet face of yours, than in any lad of the town. I love a bold brave man, and a bold brave lad. You art both, but you need rousing! You need rousing!" 
               "But I must go on, Master Corporal Bull; the sun is near setting, and I have my game to dress before the Sabbath begins." 
               "Whist, whist, youngster; why must you be always talking? Where's your brother? where's Henry? You know it is a part of my commission and orders to make all necessary inquiries concerning all who enter or leave, of all the in-comings and out-goings:' these were Governor Haynes' own words, and I must know where your brother is?" 
               "He left me, as I told you, at the Gully Brook. Where he has gone I do not certainly know, though I can conjecture. Your authority, however, does not allow you to do more than merely to collect facts, not to ask reasons." 
               "I always heard that they intended to make you a lawyer, and I see you begin already with your whys and your wherefores. But, Eddy, lad, you are a bold and brave lad, and I love you. I am correct in asking, for I saw several Indians skulking along in the direction of the Cow Pasture, and I feel troubled. But here is some one else coming. Go on, lad, go on." 
                
               Edward walked on rapidly, with not a little addition to the weight upon his mind, by the only real information he had gathered from the worthy Corporal, who, though well known for his garrulity through the whole community, was a brave and useful soldier, and made himself famous in the subsequent history of the colony. 
               A few minutes' longer walk brought him round to the little wooden bridge that then crossed the Little River on the road to Wethersfield, not far from the present termination of Prospect street. Near this bridge stood his father's small framed house, a neighbor to that of Rev. Mr. Hooker, the godly minister of the colony. Edward entered the back yard, and went round at once where he could commence the preparation of his game. He did this, partly because the sun was near the horizon on Saturday evening, and he feared lest holy time should commence before he had completed his labor; and, partly, to put off as long as possible the inquiry that he knew his father would make respecting the absence of his brother. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           What power creeps in, 
                           Like the sly serpent into Paradise, 
                           To poison all our joys? 'Tis worse than death; 
                           Worse than disease, the famine, or the plague. 
                           It leaves its withering touch o'er every plant 
                           Of human bliss that blossom'd in our bower: 
                           'Tis Sin. 
                        
                      
                     The Old Man. 
                   
                
               A MOTHER'S impulses are soon alarmed. It may be called presentiment, but we are rather inclined to attribute it to the delicate maternal instinct, which gives an intuitive warning that something is wrong. She was soon in the outhouse, where Edward sat rather pensively and slowly finishing the dressing of his game, and inquired for Henry. 
               "Mother, he left me at the mouth of the Gully Brook, and I saw him last, forcing his way through the low alders and blackberry bushes on its banks." 
                
               "You know where he has gone?" 
               "Mother, I do not know, except from conjecture." 
               "Will you not tell me that conjecture?" 
               "It is my brother's secret; I am bound, mother, in honor to keep it." 
               "I do not wish, my son, to weaken the ties of honor or what was once chivalry in your heart. You came from too noble a stock to lead me to wish to crush a single sentiment of honor in you. But, Edward dear, your father will think differently, and will demand an answer." 
               "I know my duty, mother, and I trust God will enable me to perform it. What I shall do in any given conjuncture, I leave for His decision. I never form plans beforehand. In the hour of trial, God will direct." 
               "Amen, my dear son; would that your brother was governed by the same principle, and possessed the same self-control." 
               Edward did not meet his father until the hour for supper had arrived. He took his stand by his chair at the family board. His father looked at the empty seat of his youngest son, and frowned. But not a word was spoken until the long blessing was pronounced over the food in a standing posture; and then, the chairs being taken, Colonel Dudley commenced: menced: "Where is your brother, my son? why is he absent from the family meal, and away from the town after the Sabbath has commenced?" 
               There was a calm, severe solemnity in the tones, which partook not in the least of irritability, but savored strongly of deliberate determination to enforce parental authority, coolly and resolutely. The same thing was expressed in the high white forehead, cold gray eye, large shaggy eyebrows, bloodless cheek, and firm closed lip. Edward gave the same answer that he had previously done to his mother. 
               His father looked at him, while speaking, with a penetrating glance: "I have taught my sons to speak the truth and I believe you, Edward; but it is strange that Henry should have chosen for his evening rambles such an unfrequented and dangerous route, contrary both to my regulations, and those of the magistrates of the town. His leave of absence was only for hunting, and that to expire at the going down of the sun. Where has he gone? Knowest thou, Edward?" 
               "I know nothing of his movements, for he refused to tell me." 
               "But you can conjecture. What is your opinion? Tell me at once." 
               "Father, it is a case of conscience with me. Why should I be called upon to repeat conjectures that are probably baseless? Besides, it. is my brother's secret, and honor forbids the tale." 
               "Honor!-an empty bubble, fit only to be played with by courtiers and children in Charles's court. The laws of honor are as arbitrary as they are fallacious. The only true honor cometh from God alone." So saying, the father raised his eyes fervently to heaven. "A case of conscience, ha! Conscience should teach, as the word of Jehovah does, implicit obedience to parents." 
               "Father, you know that I have always obeyed you in all things. I know and feel my duty in that holy relation." 
               The father was slightly softened by this deference of his eldest born, whose character was so much after his approbation, but not a shade of that softened feeling was written on his face. 
               "Must I command you to obey?" 
               "In obedience to that command, then, father, I can conjecture that he has taken that route, as the less observed one to the dwelling of Capt. Seymour, who resides, as you know, some distance to the west of the Cow Pasture." 
               Col. Dudley started, and, for the first time in the conversation, a shade of indignation tinged his cheek. His voice almost trembled in its rage, as he hissed out, rather than uttered, "Has not the boy forgotten his childish passion for that girl? My curse-" 
               "Hush! hush! dearest," said the mother; "remember he is your son." 
               "Woman, be quiet. I tell thee that, sooner than see him the husband of Jane Seymour, I would prefer to follow him to the grave." 
               "Oh, husband, this is dreadful!" and the mother, like most women in such a storm, took refuge in tears. 
               "But, father," modestly interrupted Edward, "you once permitted us to mingle with Capt. Seymour's family, and to be familiar with its inmates." 
               "Son, be silent! You are but adding fuel to the fire you essay to quench. Let me hear no more of this. Your brother has been guilty of a grievous fault, and great must the chastisement be." 
               Not another word was spoken during the comfortless meal. The red spot soon died away on Col. Dudley's cheek, and the stern, cold, gloomy look succeeded, rendered still more wintry and granite-like than before. 
               The time for the evening worship had arrived. The family were seated around the log fire on the great hearth, which the coldness of the evenings in the early autumn demanded. Col. Dudley selected for the evening exhortation to his family the story of the life, rebellion, and death of Absalom. Severe were the rules of parental authority that he laid down in his comments on this portion of Scripture history, and much did he expatiate on the punishment due to rebellious children. The solemn yearnings of David's heart over the death of his wayward son, where the slighted monarch forgets his rebellion, and the outraged father remembers no more the unnatural crimes of the guilty son, but pours out the grief of an afflicted soul, in the mournful exclamation, "Oh, Absalom, my son, my son! would God I had died for thee!"-all this tenderness of paternal grief had no apparent effect upon our Puritan's heart. He read it as if he were above such earthly feelings. But his son was not lying dead before him, and the smart of despised authority and disobeyed commands was still stinging his spirit. 
               The mother, however, wept silently as she shrouded her face from the light; while Edward sat with his pale, mournful brow, from which all emotion but solemnity had been banished by an effort that showed he inherited his father's self-control. 
               The prayer that succeeded was less vindictive than the exhortation, as if the intercourse commenced with God, required the banishment of those irritated feelings of the father. Still, as he approached, in the usual range of topics, the circumstances of his family, he plead for the restoration and forgiveness of his erring son, and that he might return to his home, like the prodigal of the Gospel. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Justice. 
                           The magistrates are reverend, grave, and quiet men, neighbor Sly; they will do you no harm. 
                        
                         
                           Sly. 
                           It may be so: but what business have reverend, grave, and quiet men in my house, at this time of night? 
                        
                      
                      
                   
                
               THE long services were just ended when a loud rapping was heard at the door, and three staid, dignified-looking gentlemen, entered the room. Col. Dudley arose at their entrance, and greeted them formally as Gov. Haynes, Rev. Mr. Hooker, and Deacon Nichols. Looking surprised at the rather unusual visit, considering the time of the week, he requested his visors to be seated, when Gov. Haynes, with bland but severe courtesy, requested a private interview. In accordance with the request, Madam Dudley and her son sought some other apartment. 
                
               Gov. Haynes commenced: "Colonel Dudley, we have always looked to you as a man who, by himself and his family, would constantly support the legal authorities of our rising republic. Your station as a magistrate would have warranted this expectation, as well as your character as a man. How is it then we hear from our worthy watchman on the mill road, the faithful Corporal Bull, that your youngest son did not return to-night within the settled limits at the required time?" 
               Col. Dudley was about to speak, when Rev. Mr. Hooker interrupted: "You are a beloved and faithful brother of our church, Col. Dudley; how happens it, then, that one of your sons has not been better taught than thus to set at naught both magisterial and parental authority? Methinks there must have been some defective training here." 
               "Brethren," replied the Colonel, "you judge me harshly. That my youngest son is absent, I wot. That it is against my wishes and commands, I likewise know. My evening exercise in my family has been upon the same topic. As virtuous and religious Hezekiah had a worthless and irreligious son, Manasseh, so also have I a reckless, disobedient youth, as one of the thorns in the flesh-that is, reckless and disobedient on this one point. I have been instant, in season and out of season, with him, to but little effect." 
               "We know your zeal in the right cause, and your energy in your duty," replied Mr. Hooker, "and we mean to make this topic a subject of public exhortation on the morrow, God willing; but another subject now awaits us, and our worthy brother in Christ, Deacon Nichols, has something to communicate." 
               "Do you know," said the person alluded to, "where your son has gone?" 
               "My eldest son born left him at the mouth of the Gully Brook, going up," said the Colonel, unwilling even to mention the conjecture which had given rise to so much passion. 
               "So I heard," replied the Deacon, "and I feel alarmed for his safety. Returning late from the Cow Pasture, I observed several Indians in their war-paint, attended by that deceitful Tunxis, Samoset, with whom your son has been so lately familiar." 
               Col. Dudley started, and stepped at first rather wildly to the door by which his wife and son had departed, but hesitated, and then turned with perfect external composure to his guests: "What is your advice?" 
               "In anticipation of what your decision or wish might be," said the Governor, "I have ordered Sergeant geant Wadsworth to call out a platoon of the train-bands, with their pikes and matchlocks, to go in pursuit immediately; and have ordered Capt. Mason to hold a large body at the central school-house, ready to march at a moment's warning. In the mean time, Sergeant Wadsworth, with whom the young man is a great favorite, wishes your eldest son to accompany the scouting party, as being best acquainted with the probable course which your son took, and with the intricacies of all the forest, this side of the Tunxis. It is true that he has already been enrolled in the train-bands, and his duty of watch and ward assigned to-morrow in the Wethersfield road, but I will see that his place is supplied, if he accompanies the expedition." 
               For an instant, a deeper shade of regret crossed Col. Dudley's countenance, but the feeling of old Jacob arose, "If I am bereaved of my children, I am bereaved." The only words that were audibly uttered were, "Take him, and may God be with him." He then opened the door into the next apartment. 
               When Madam Dudley and her son found themselves alone, Edward immediately accosted his mother: "Why, mother, does our father feel so strongly opposed to any connection of my brother with Capt. Seymour's niece? He once permitted our visits there, and, you well remember how, in her childhood, you took an interest in Jane's improvement, and how frequently she was here." 
               "Your father's reasons, my dear son, are many of them private. But you do know that Capt. Seymour is a man of the world, and has no part not lot in the Christian church. He has opposed your father in the town councils, and aimed at the candidate, because he was not a member of the church in good standing and he accuses your father with being the author of the rule, for the mere purpose of excluding him." 
               "Still, it seems to me that there is something yet behind that you do not mention. Such sudden outbursts of excited feeling are exceedingly rare with him. This will be a severe blow to Henry, for he loves Jane Seymour ardently, with all the strength of his untamed spirit." 
               "I thought once, my son, that you too were entangled by her bright beauty and her gentle character; and I thought her much better fitted for a calm, quiet, contemplative person like yourself." 
               The color rushed in rich effusion over Edward's cheek even to his forehead, and a shade of intense emotion crossed his face, but he replied calmly: "My friends, I fear, will never understand me. But I, certainly, my dear mother, will never be in the way of my brother's happiness. If he has gone to have an interview with her, I regret that he has taken this time, or has gone in the night: he had better have taken the day-time." 
               The father now entered the room with a quick step: "Edward," said he, "it is feared that your brother is in danger. Indians have been seen, within a few hours, lurking in the direction which he took. Governor Haynes has ordered out the train-bands, and is about dispatching Sergeant Wadsworth to find their trail, if possible; if that cannot be done in the night, to follow the brook. He wishes you to accompany him as a guide; and accordingly, Governor Haynes has detailed another man as sentinel to-morrow, near Coles's, and has authorized you to march with the party." 
               The utmost animation spread over the usually calm face of Edward, as he rapidly proceeded to equip himself for the expedition. His mother sank into a chair, without strength. "What, husband, both in one night!" 
               Mr. Hooker, who had followed, anticipating such an effect, stepped rapidly up, and commenced the words of support and comfort. Any one who had heard his tones of denunciation or of exhortation in the pulpit, would never have recognized the low rich voice, in its depth of sympathy, pouring out the balm of the Gospel's consolations into this sorrowing woman's heart, and leading her thoughts to confidence in her God. 
               During that employment of the worthy ministers the father was assisting the son to clothe himself in the panoply of war, with untrembling fingers and a firm countenance. After some brief instructions from Governor Haynes, and a short prayer, or rather blessing, from Mr. Hooker, Edward sought the rendezvous, where he was warmly received by Sergeant Wadsworth and the detachment of soldiers, with whom he was a favorite. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The Plumage lose to the vulture's heart is soft as the cygnet's down, and, over her unshell'd brood, the murmuring ring-dove not more gently."
                      
                     Kotzebue. 
                   
                
               COL. DUDLEY attended his visitors to the door with solemn courtesy, and held the candle in his hand until they had closed the front gate of his little yard. Not a hue of emotion deepened the color of his face, as he bade his son adieu, and exchanged the formal "God be with you," to his departing church brethren. He silently and deliberately closed and barred the floor which shut in himself and his wife; entirely cut off from the rest of the world. As silently and deliberately did he place the candle upon its stand, and then turned round to his wife, who sat audibly sobbing in her chair. "Anne," said he, in a tone, oh, different from the cold, stern tone of the Puritan magistrate! 
               The wife sprang up at the voice, rushed to his open arms, and flung herself, in an agony of sorrow, on his manly breast. He soothed her with the kindest words,-directed her thoughts to God, to heaven, to an overruling Providence, to the promises made to those who serve their Maker. The voice could not have been heard across the room, so low were its tones; but their low, solemn richness, entered the heart of the distressed mother, and calmed the agony of her spirit; though she still lay helpless and confiding on his bosom. 
               Folding his arms around her, he raised her, as if she had been an infant, and carried her gently into their small bed-room, which adjoined the common sitting-room, and laid her on their humble couch. Kneeling down by her side, with her hand in both of his, he prayed earnestly and confidently for her, for their children, but not one word for himself. No selfish, personal thought, then filled his heart. The pure and holy love he felt for her who had shared his brief prosperity, and borne the sorrows of his long and toilsome exile, was the governing emotion. He loved her now with a stronger, holier feeling, than he did, when, in their youthful days, they stood together before the altar. 
               What is there on earth that equals in its pure intensity the emotions of long-wedded love? 
                
               The Author of the "Velvet Cushion" observes, "that, to most people, the progress of affection in youth is alone beautiful, but that he admires not only how people grow up together, but how they wear out together." 
               What more interesting contemplation can that be, than to trace the progress of true affection at the close of a long and laborious life; when youth and beauty, the far-famed incentives to love, have expired. 
               
                  "Then, then, thy kingdom comes, Immortal Power!"
                
               The well-tried affection of a whole life, the manners and habits, which, by long use, have run into the same channel,-the remembrance of an active life of usefulness, the recollection of sons and daughters which have stood "like olive plants around their table,"-all conspire to consecrate their affection, to purify it from all dross of earth, and to elevate it to heaven. 
               To such, the evening of life can bring no discomfort, for they look forward to the bright morning of eternity, when, cleansed from every stain, and, leaving their frail and crumbling tenements behind, they shall be clothed in robes "white and clean," and walk together down the long reach of eternity. 
                
               Death to them cannot appear so dreadful as it once did. It cannot separate them long. When one leans his head on the cold pillow of the grave, the other will soon follow; and the tree which waves its summer branches over the tomb of one, shall scatter its autumn leaves over that of the other. 
               As Col. Dudley finished his prayer and rose from his knees, he printed a long, passionate kiss on her still beautiful lips, and gently said: "Rouse yourself, Anne, and prepare for rest; the Sabbath approaches, let us not desecrate it by earthly love." 
               "Surely, dear husband, God cannot be displeased with the existence of those natural and holy affections which he has given us." 
               "Natural affections, my beloved, are given to us for our happiness below, but as subaltern and subordinate to those higher and holier and purer affections we give to our Maker and Redeemer. The former become blamable when in excess, or when they obscure the latter. The Sabbath, God has devoted to himself and to heavenly affections. The week is for the world,-its duties, labors, trials, and blessings; let us not mingle the peculiar province of the two." 
               "May God forgive then, my dear husband, a weak and erring woman, whose heart swells with unutterable human affections!" 
                
               "Amen!" replied her husband, solemnly, but affectionately; and, kissing her once more, he passed into the outer room to attend to his own nightly religious duties. 
               Madam Dudley, as he left the room, arose from the bed, and commenced her arrangements for repose. he whispered, almost audibly, "Oh husband, dear husband! I sometimes fear that you are, in my heart, but another name for the Deity, and that my love to God is only a reflective love of you!" 
               As she lay upon her couch, she could occasionally catch the words of her husband's earnest prayer for the colony, for her, for each of their children, and, finally, for himself, that early personal sins might be forgiven. He appeared to wrestle hard that his youthful follies or crimes might not be visited upon his children. 
               It was late before he sought his pillow by the side of her who had wept herself to sleep. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Ah, my poor heart! thy tumults cease, 
                           And give this fluttering bosom peace: 
                           No, thou canst never be at ease, 
                           Nor ever more beat soberly 
                        
                         
                           "Ah, my poor heart! what could'st thou do, 
                           When, from an eye of liquid blue, 
                           A killing glance, like lightning, flew, 
                           And caught thee, past recovery?" 
                        
                      
                     "Sorrows of My Lord Plumcake." 
                   
                
               BUT it is now time for us to pursue the fortunes of Henry Dudley, with whom we parted at the mouth of the Gully Brook. 
               He had with him only his snap-hance, or fowling-piece, and his hunting-knife, with the usual charges of powder and ball, without which the colonists never left the settlement. He crowded his way through the alders and briers that beset his path, scaring up many a whirring partridge. He appeared particularly anxious to examine the banks of the brook, to detect, if possible, the trail of any straggler who might have passed before. 
               He, at length, reached a partially cleared spot, where two large elms stood on a little rising ground, with no underbrush beneath them. This elevation gave a slight view of the surrounding valley, but Henry could see nothing beyond the long and tangled alder swamp, through which the brook forced its sluggish way, and the rising hills that shut him from the world, their slopes covered to the very top with the dense oak forest. 
               "Samoset is not here," said the youth, as he gazed around the opening. "He promised to be here before the sun struck yon huge pine." 
               "Sam'set be here," said a voice in broken English, so near him that the youth started as he turned; "Sam'set no break word with Young Eagle." 
               "Well, it may be so," said Henry, speaking in the Indian tongue, in which language the remainder of the conversation was carried on; "it may be so, but I was impatient." 
               "That very impatience will be the ruin of Young Eagle yet; he will fly where the hunter's shaft will be sure to meet him." 
                
               "Be it so: I had rather die in the open field, as my ancestors did before me, than meet my fate among the wily stratagems of your nation, Samoset. I had rather be the eagle scorning the sun, than the fox stealing secretly after his prey, or the serpent winding his slimy folds in the grass." 
               "I understand the taunt; but when the eagle lies fluttering in death agony on the rock, perhaps, he will then envy the quieter and more secure life of the fox or the snake." 
               "There may be a kind of threat under all these figures, but you know I care not for threats, whether literal or figurative (this he spoke in English), so let us to the object of our meeting. Will Jane grant me the interview?" 
               "The Fawn of the Pale Faces will see you at the going down of the sun, though she hesitated much, and it was only granted at my request." 
               "Your request!" said Henry, with an unrepressed sneer. 
               "Yes: the Bright Eye remembered that the Rattlesnake of the Tunxis saved her from the bear's grasp." 
               "How? When was that? Tell it as we go on." 
               "It is useless to proceed until the time she designated nated. You will only be impatient, expose your person, and be seen by the people of the house." 
               "What if I am?" 
               "Only this, that you will lose the opportunity of seeing the Bright Eye." 
               "True, true, Samoset, your coolness gets the better of my impatience. But why did she place the meeting so late? She must know that I must return so as to pass the sentinel by sundown." 
               "Perhaps the Rattlesnake will bring you within the town without its being perceived. But have you brought the powder and shot as my promised reward?" 
               "I know you are cunning, Samoset, or Rattlesnake, or by what other name you may choose to be called," said Henry, speaking in English; "but I have trusted to you, perhaps rashly, though I never should have so done, had I not seen how much influence you possessed over one dearer than life to me. But as for the powder and shot, you don't have them until I have seen the Bright Eye, as you call her; you may look as grim as you please, I shall not break the strict law of the colony, unless I have had my advantage of the bargain first. So drop that subject, and go on with your tale." 
               "It is short," said Samoset, speaking evidently with some irritation at the haughty tone of the youth. "The young maidens of the English were washing their household garments on the banks of the brook, during last summer's drought. The Bright Eye had wandered from them, and was busy in collecting the flowers that spotted the brook. As she looked up, she saw a huge bear but a little distance from her, hastening towards her. In her eagerness to escape, she stumbled and fell. The enraged animal had nearly reached her, when an arrow from my bow was buried deep in his eye, and, in an instant, my knife across his throat. Ever since then, 'the old Indian,'" he added, speaking in English, "has always been welcome at her uncle's fireside, and the fire-water and the apple-water given me when I asked it. When I took your message to her, she at first refused. But I told her that I desired it, and spoke of the bear. She then said, ' Bid him come to the old oak in the rear of the garden, at sunset; I will gee him, but it must be for the last time.'" 
               Henry frowned, and looked upon the earth for several minutes. At last, he said, "Samoset, let us go on, I will not stay here in suspense any longer. Lead the way." 
               Silently and slowly, the Indian crept through the bushes, and, followed by Henry, took the direction of Capt. Seymour's dwelling, who lived considerably beyond the other settlements, having chosen the place, as more consonant with his solitary and uncompromising disposition. 
               Several times, Samoset checked Henry for his impetuosity, in not following directly in his rear, and for making the trail so broad; and as often did Henry reply with an expression of contempt for his Indian customs; and, purposely, it appeared, as a matter of contradiction, would he break out and leave broad marks of their progress. The Indian bore this petulance with apparent equanimity, but only proceeded the more cautiously himself. 
               At length, they approached the borders of a clearing. The blackened stumps took the place of the oaks, while, in some places, the newly-felled trees covered the ground. In the centre of the clearing, appeared the house of which they were in search-small, in comparison with modern tenements, but large for the time and place. 
               Around the house, a few apple trees were growing, and three large oaks and one pine had been left for shade or ornament. It was a quiet spot. The animals employed for labor, the cows, and the sheep were all collected in a strongly palisaded inclosure. The framework of a new barn arose near it. South of the house stretched a long garden, filled with necessary cessary vegetables, and considerable Indian corn. Beyond its extremity, separated from it by a worm fence, there was a cluster of oaks and pines overhanging a small, round, stagnant pond, common in those parts. A huge grape vine had twined itself so round the lower limbs of the trees, as to create a natural arbor, under which a rude seat had been constructed, where Jane Seymour often sat on a warm summer's day. The whole furnished a very romantic trysting-place for lovers. 
               To the right and left were the cleared fields belonging to Capt. Seymour, from which the summer crops had just been taken, but which were still holding their ripening burden of yellow corn. Just down the hill from the bank on which the oaks grew, rolled sluggishly along a branch of the Little River, in whose muddy waters the forest branches stooped to lave their thirsty leaves. 
               As Henry crept cautiously along the valley between him and the oak opening on the little hill, he requested Samoset to await him in the forest, as he wished this interview to pass without witnesses. His patience was sorely tried, and he cast many a reproachful glance upon the slow descending sun, before the fair maiden of his choice made her appearance. 
               But our heroine must not be introduced at the very close of a chapter. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           But it was not that beauty had moulded her face, 
                           Where the white rose and red rose had mingled their grace; 
                           'Twas not the soft glance of a mild beaming eye; 
                           'Twas something more lovely than youth's roseate dye. 
                        
                         
                           "'Twas that virtue and feeling, commingling with truth, 
                           Had added new graces to beauty and youth; 
                           And show'd how the charms of the person increase, 
                           Where virtue and truth with the heart are at peace." 
                        
                      
                     Parody on Vale of Avoca. 
                   
                
               CAPT. RICHARD SEYMOUR was an early settler of Hartford. But few knew the reasons why he migrated to a Puritan colony,-perhaps, none but himself the true reason. He was a cavalier of the roughest and most profane stamp, and held every thing connected with Puritan doctrine and discipline in the utmost contempt. He made no secret of this disdain, but manifested it on all occasions; and seemed to take delight in thwarting the plans of the founders of the new settlement, in every matter pertaining to republicanism and religion, though never in such an overt manner as to make himself amenable to their strict laws. Demagogues know, how, under the forms of law, and adhering to its strict letter, they are able to thwart its operations, or to ridicule its folly. 
               Capt. Seymour was particularly hostile to Col. Dudley,-"that canting, psalm-singing, hypocrite of a Puritan," as he always called him. It was supposed by many that some cause of quarrel had existed in their native country. At first, the colonel defied him with more than his wonted haughtiness and severity, and urged the magistrates to put a law of the colony, then just formed, in force against him,-that of punishment for not attending meeting on the Sabbath. Seymour paid his fine, and then stepped up to Dudley, with a countenance in which the demon of revenge was revelling in every line, and shaking his fist in his face, demanded a private interview. 
               When the magistrates present, fearing a resort to a duel, or some personal rencontre, forbade it, Seymour replied; "I shall not hurt the town's very upright darling! Let the cowardly Roundhead just lean his head forward, so that I can whisper in his ear what will crush the hypocrite, who is a saint, forsooth, on the Connecticut, but a sinner on the Thames." 
                
               "I am ready," calmly replied Col. Dudley, "to hear what that man has to say. I fear him not. Follow me into the anteroom." 
               So saying, he flung his sword upon the table in front of the magistrates, and walked, unarmed, into the designated apartment. Capt. Seymour followed him. They remained absent some time, and the magistrates, especially the Governor, waved back any one who sought to 
                     appoach
                     approach
                   them. 
               When they returned, a smile of the most exulting revenge lighted up Seymour's face, while Dudley was as white as the dead. He passed by the bench, and said, in almost a whisper, "I withdraw the remaining complaints," and left the Town House immediately. From that time, neither spoke to or of the other, or suffered the least greeting to take place in public or in private. 
               Capt. Seymour brought no family with him but the daughter of his brother. He was, as the times were then, a wealthy man. He had a large household of slaves and laborers, and managed the concerns of the farm he selected, with great ability. Still he was not a happy man. He knew the dislike of his neighbors, and his total unfitness for the principles and feelings that reigned around him. He was often heard to say, "if heaven was like Hartford, he had no wish to be in it." How true it is, that our own feelings make the hell or the heaven of the mind, whatever may be the outward condition. 
               In the midst of these deleterious influences, without a mother or any other female friend to guide her, with none but domestics around her, had Jane Seymour grown up. It is no wonder that she felt most keenly the occasional attentions which Madame Dudley was able to pay her, and was a frequent visitor in the family, during childhood. Capt. Seymour seemed, at first, to fancy this friendship for his niece, and encouraged it. Whatever might have been his motive, Jane profited by it, both in body and in mind. 
               She thus became familiar with both the young Dudleys, who in childhood, regarded her as a sister. But this affection, in the youngest brother, assumed, very early, the form of the most intense passion, which, from his usual impetuosity of character, had been repeatedly urged upon her, and as constantly evaded rather than rejected, on account of the difference in their ages, she being several years his senior according to the statement of her uncle. 
               In society and by strangers, Jane Seymour would have been called a showy girl. She possessed precisely that style of beauty that strikes beholders at once from its gorgeousness. It was like seeing, for the first time, the sun rise at sea. 
               Her figure was perfection, in its full, round, swelling voluptuousness. There was nothing of the little or the pretty about it. "Magnificent," would be the first impulsive expression at its sight. Her very walk had music in it, it was so measured and stately. There never was any hurry in her dignity, but a queen-like simplicity in every motion. There was the same majestic grace in all her menial employments-and, in that rude period of an early colony, they were many-she gave a dignity to even common acts. 
               Her face, like her form, was large, full, but faultless in its perfect outline, and in the relation which every feature bore to each other and to the whole frame. Her hair was of the deepest, richest black, and was braided and folded about her head, after the existing fashion, without a curl, leaving her slightly-formed ears, and, what little of her neck her ruff or stomacher did not cover, without a straggling lock to stray over their charms. 
               In accordance with the whole style of her beauty, both of person and face, her lips were large, red, and almost pouting. Her mouth was capable of assuming a variety of appearances, though its ordinary expression was that of quiet reserve, almost severity. But few ever saw her smile: when she did, it seemed like an "angel visit," it was so rare and so beautiful. It was the sun breaking away the clouds of a November storm. It was the distant light-house to the tempest-tossed mariner. 
               But her eye was the most striking feature. It is too general an expression to say that it was black. Besides several minor varieties, there are two great species of the black eye in woman-the active and the passive. The former is intensely black-keen, penetrating, sly, passionate in temper but not in body. Byron well compares its strength to "night and storm and darkness." The latter is large, of a brownish black hue, moist, contemplative, mild. It indicates sensibility, but not irritability, and is usually associated with an amiable disposition. If it fails in any thing, it is in the possession of energy and the government of the affections. The women of the first kind are better fitted for the active duties of life; the latter, for the contemplative. In the domestic relations, the former will govern their children the best; the latter, love their husbands the warmest. The former will express the most love before marriage, but the flame will burn no brighter for being relighted at the altar of Hymen. The latter will show to man, "how much dearer the wife is than the bride." The one will be attentive as a wife; the other, confiding. The one, if ambitious, will desire to govern; the happiness of the other will consist in submission. 
               Of this latter kind were our heroine's eyes, and carried all those characteristics with them. They were large, lustrous, varying in their hue from a light brown almost to a black. They never seemed to be looking at you, but simply opening themselves to be looked into. They were like two deep wells, down whose darkening depths you gazed for truth at the bottom. Wells! yes: wells of pure, intense feeling, from which none but one could ever drink, in life. 
               Does she stand before you, reader, in the quiet calmness of her trustful and truthful character-a treasure to be buried in the heart's core? Do you see her, in her distinctness, born to that highest, noblest, holiest destiny of woman-to love and be beloved? 
               But we have kept poor Henry waiting a tremendously long time for the appearance of Jane, while we have been decorating her for the reader's admiration. 
               Did he deserve her? 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           When first I attempted your pity to move, 
                           Ah, why was you deaf to my prayers? 
                           Perhaps it was right to dissemble your love, 
                           But-why did you kick me down stairs? 
                        
                      
                     Old Song. 
                   
                
               "I PERCEIVE, by that frown on your brow, that your usual impatience has been uppermost, Henry, but I am not a minute behind the time I designated to Samoset. I agreed to see you here, though, perhaps, I have done wrong in so doing, in order, if possible, that I might disabuse your mind of the folly it has conceived." 
               "Hear me swear-" 
               "I wish to hear no oaths nor protestations, Henry, the scene will be painful enough without them, for I must, at once and for ever, put an end to this insane love of yours to one so much your senior. I cannot love you. Your character is not in the least assimilated to mine. I have endeavored in all sisterly affection to amend the numerous faults of your character, but I cannot go beyond that feeling." 
               A paleness like that of death spread over the young man's countenance at these words. He fairly gasped for breath as he uttered, 
               "But can you not alter? Cannot a life-long devotion to you win one emotion of favoring affection? Cannot the whole devoted fondness of a heart, yours to its very core, win your love? I would," said he, kneeling, "dedicate life and body, and spirit and soul to your happiness. Every action of my life should be centred in you. It has been so for a long, long time. Even in my childish years, I loved you with an intenseness that led me to hate any thing on which your regards or smiles were bestowed. And now, as a youth of strong passions and concentrated purposes,-as one, nearly a man by law, and fully a man in strength and stature, in vigor of body and firmness of unbending resolution,-I love you the same, with the whole powers, energies, and capacities that I possess." 
               The maiden leaned her head against the tree near the trunk of which she sat, and the tears dropped down on the dying leaves around her. 
               "You weep-you relent." 
               "No: no: Henry, I do not relent. I weep for the pain I must give you." 
               "Have you no heart?" exclaimed the young man, starting to his feet, the red flush of anger succeeding the pallor on his cheek. "Have you no heart, that you drive me thus to desperation? Your tears fall on that flinty rock, not more frigid nor harder than your heart. You cannot love!" 
               She shook her head. 
               "What! Is it so? You love another then? Who is it? Tell me, for I will know." 
               It was Jane's turn to color now, and she did, over cheek and neck and brow. The emotion was but momentary, however. The tears dried up in their fountains. A calm dignity overspread her countenance, and she answered severely, though not with irritation for temperaments like hers feel indignation, not anger: 
               "Henry, you have no right to make the inquiry; no right to take even for granted the feeling on which you have founded it." 
               "I know who it is. It is my brother, with his smooth-faced hypocrisy. Woe be to him!" 
                
               "Henry, Henry, you do injustice to your brother and myself. I will not endure such rudeness; I have already staid too long." 
               She arose to go, but ere she had left her seat, Henry fell prostrate at her feet, levelled by a blow on the back of his head, which stretched him senseless. At the same moment, two or three Indians seized her, and threw a blanket over her head. She had only time to give one faint scream, when her mouth was stopped by a belt, and she felt herself dragged off to the forest between two of the assailants, while the remainder of the band, amounting to some ten or twelve, seized the prostrate form of young Dudley, and followed rapidly. 
               Jane fainted under the surprise. When she revived, it was nearly dark, and the predatory band were in the dense forest, wading in the middle of the brook to hide their trail. She was lying, at length, in a bark canoe, bound tightly, with the belt still passing around her mouth. She could feel by the motion that she was being carried along rapidly by the two men that bore her. Once, as she was let down from their shoulders, to enable them to creep under the projecting alders and grape vines that overhung the brook, she saw the indistinct forms of several others conveying Henry in the same manner. 
                
               The leader of the party there stopped, and exchanged a few words with his followers in a low tone of voice, and they all turned suddenly off at right angles to the brook, ascended an eminence, and then struck off into the forest at a rapid pace. 
               Their passage was extremely inconvenient to their prisoners. The limbs of the forest trees struck across their faces, as they were borne thus aloft, and the cold vapors of the autumn evening were shaken upon them. Their limbs were stiffened by being cramped into such an uneasy posture, and their jaws ached with the pressure of the belts drawn over their mouths. 
               They crossed many gentle hills, covered with the primeval forest, until, at the foot of one, their captors entered the channel of another smaller brook, and followed its tortuous course for a mile, when they arrived at the base of a high rocky ledge,-a part of the present Talcott Mountains,-from which the brook descended with velocity. Its spring floods and summer freshets had deposited a large quantity of sand and pebbles near the base of a little cliff, which rose precipitously some fifty feet. 
               In front there lay some rugged fragments of the rock, which had been precipitated from the mountain, over which the little brook dashed in a brawling current rent, amid the debris of the hill, the stunted alders, the gnarled and twisted birches, and the prostrate and distorted shrubs that grow in such rocky and sterile soils. 
               The brook itself furnished no path to the sequestered nook, that lay concealed by these rocky coverts,-a fit retreat for a Naiad or a Dryad. The entrance was through a long and narrow fissure between two of the rocks, only broad enough to admit one person at a time. 
               In the inclosure-a space of some quarter of an acre-there were huddled together eight or ten rude huts, constructed by leaning poles against the bare rock, and covering them with twigs and branches, with all their leaves. Jane had but a few moments to make even these observations by the obscure light produced by a single pitch-pine torch, projecting from a cleft in one of the rocks, when she was unceremoniously tumbled out of her rather uneasy cradle upon the pebbles, and the belt taken from her mouth. As this last act was done, one of her captors exclaimed in exceedingly broken English, shaking his tomahawk over her head, as he spoke: "No squall, white squaw-you feel this." 
               She knew from the distance they had come, that screaming would be of no avail, and sank down on the sand, being unable to move. 
                
               Henry was, likewise, very unceremoniously ejected from the canoe in which he had been carried, and left bound upon the sand. The blow he had received had been a severe one, though not intended to kill,-the object, it seemed, being simply to make prisoners. The motion of the conveyance had aroused him, but he was too tightly bound for resistance, and, as yet, too much under the influence of the stupidity produced by the blow to reflect very correctly or very accurately upon his condition, or to take any note of the route which had been taken. Even if he had been in the full enjoyment of his capacities, he would have been no match to the wily Indian. He was too impetuous-too full of the notions of chivalric honor, noble descent, and the hope of yet accomplishing in life some gallant deeds, to pay the proper regard to the innate deceitfulness of the Indian race, or be any thing more than a victim to its duplicity. He now lay, however, too much injured to take notice of passing events, but he was slowly recovering, in consequence of the cessation of the motion. 
               Jane looked in sorrow at the sad condition in which her late impassioned lover lay. She felt that it was, in part, owing to herself. She had been imprudent in permitting a meeting, though she had been anxious to place the matter of his solicitations at once at rest between them. She felt, however, that her imprudence lay in trusting Samoset, and in allowing him to exercise any influence over her in so important a matter, even if she did feel the proper gratitude to him for her preservation. 
               She strongly suspected that Samoset had been treacherous. As soon as she found herself carried along on the shoulders of the men, as we have described, and knew that the immediate danger of death was over, the natural calmness and self-control of her mind returned, and she felt it necessary to be alive to all the circumstances of the singular and trying situation in which she was placed. Though her face was partially covered, she listened with all the intensity which, in a dangerous crisis, we can so often give to a single sense when necessary to our safety. She gathered little, however, except that the language of the party was not that of the Hartford or Tunxis Indians. Several times she thought she discovered the voice of Samoset, conversing in a low tone, though in the unknown dialect of the men who carried her. But, in the feeble light which the torches spread, she could not distinguish him. Every time that she made the least effort to stir, or arise to look around, the Indian, who officiously watched her, brandished his tomahawk. 
                
               She saw, as we have said before, the desperate condition of Henry Dudley, and pitied him; for, by his passion for her, as she well knew, he had been duped by the crafty Samoset, and thus led into the extremest peril. She could have shed tears over the prostrate form, which lay helpless and exposed, though in its youthful beauty, but a short distance from her. 
               "Well: didn't she at once, of course, love him? Pity is akin to love." 
               My dear madam, or miss, you never was more mistaken in your life,-mistaken, in point both of fact and theory. Pity is not akin to love; and he, who attempts to win a female heart-by exciting pity, when other means have failed, will find himself worse mistaken than you are. The moment there is an appeal to a woman's pity, respect is weakened. A true woman never loves, unless she can look up to the object of her attachment. There must be some sense of superiority in something, or there is no love in the female mind. Pity weakens or destroys this sense of superiority, and leads, more frequently, to contempt than to love. 
               There may be exceptions to these positions, as there are exceptions to the true female character; but the true woman realizes the fragility of her frame, the dependence of her situation, the weakness of her relative position, and delights that it is so. It is the greatest source of enjoyment in her attachments to feel that she has found a firm and manly breast on which to lean,-a strong and vigorous arm for her defence,-a concentrated and governing will on which to depend. Submission to the one she loves is her happiness. To twine around his manhood, as the tendrils of the vine seek the sturdy oak, is her delight. Her comfort consists in quietly lying beneath the shadow of the rock that shelters her. 
               You may depend upon it, madam, if you do not feel as I have described, that you have never truly loved, or loved only in that way in which those coarse and vulgar sticklers for woman's rights,-the he-women of modern society,-think they love. 
               No, no, my dear madam, you are mistaken in your theory. Pity is not akin to love; it belittles the beloved object too much. If your theory is true in any sense, it only applies to the possibility that love may be thus excited in man towards woman. Man loves to compassionate, for, by so doing, he feels his own superiority. 
               Let the lover, then, be careful of appealing too frequently to the pity of his mistress; by such a course, he ruins the feeling of superiority on which alone he can build success. If he is constantly endeavoring deavoring to make himself an object of interest, by exciting her sympathy and compassion for any mental or bodily suffering, he will gradually fret away the texture of her respect, and eventually lose her love. 
               But this is a strange disquisition, while two persons, in whom we wish to interest the reader, are lying on the damp sand of a ravine, away up in the Talcott Mountains. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Men have died, and worms have eat them; 
                           But none of love." 
                        
                      
                     Shakspeare. 
                   
                
               WHEN the day dawned over the ravine, it presented a rough picture to the prisoners. The place had been selected, unquestionably, for concealment, and the rudeness of the encampment showed that it was merely a temporary residence, and arranged in haste. 
               A predatory band of Mohawks (as it was afterwards ascertained), with their squaws and pappooses, had settled here for purposes of plunder. They had crossed the Hudson and Housatonic in their bark canoes, which they had brought here on their shoulders, filled with their young children and their scanty apparatus for cooking. It was a roving expedition, conducted in a leisurely manner. The whole summer had been spent in it, and they now planned a journey to the sea-side as the autumn advanced, where they intended to winter. 
               Nor were these expeditions uncommon. Game was plenty, and the roving disposition of the Indian inspired the thought; while, by taking their families with them, they could make longer stays, and in some cases thus form permanent colonies in the places where they settled. 
               In the present case, they had been persuaded by Samoset, who had accidentally come across them, while roving through the valley of the Tunxis, to undertake a foray against the English at Hartford. The wily Samoset had two objects in view. One was to prevent their incursions from becoming troublesome to his own tribe, and the other was to revenge himself upon the whites at Hartford. He expected likewise, in his craftiness, to be able to keep his agency concealed, in bringing them upon the colony; and, if found necessary, to make some profit by their betrayal. 
               The scene was a wild one. The brook, in dashing its impetuous spring-torrents down the mountain, had worn a deep, narrow ravine, expanded only in the selected place. The twisted and crooked birches and beeches of the forest flung their limbs athwart the ravine, high in air, and screened the huts by a canopy of leaves, yellowed by the progress of autumn. The brown-leaved oak and the red-foliaged maple stood sentinels at the mouth of the gorge, and shut up the passage of the brawling brook from view. It was a well selected spot in its security. 
               The pain of his wound, and the tightness of the withes which bound him, had prevented young Dudley from sleep, and now deterred him from taking the beauty, or even the fitness of the selected encampment into his mind's eye. He thought only-and his thoughts burnt his very soul as they rose in his excited mind-of the treachery of Samoset, to whom he, in his suspicions, ascribed his present situation, and of the sad condition of the one he so madly loved. Of himself, he thought little-let us, at least, give him this credit, and, though he may have faults, exonerate him from this selfishness. He only regretted his inability to do battle for Jane. 
               But, then, the sad termination of all the long cherished hopes of his passion poured the bitter tide of its memory upon his soul, and unnerved his courage. As it occurred to his mind, it seemed as if a hand of icy-cold fingers were laid upon his heart to freeze it as it beat. 
               The destruction of hope always inflicts a keen pang on the human heart, and the more the object hoped for fills the mind, the more acute and pungent is the pain at its destruction. When a passion for a worthy object has filled up the whole channel of the heart's affections with its swelling flood, the death of the hope that fed it casts a blight over all creation. Sometimes, in its excess, it prompts to violent deeds, to insanity, and to suicide. Sometimes it becomes a deep-rooted grief,- 
                      
                        "A fatal remembrance, a sorrow, that throws 
                        Its bleak shade alike o'er our joys and our woes, 
                        To which life nothing darker or brighter can bring, 
                        For which joy has no balm, and affliction no sting. 
                     
                      
                        "Oh, that thought in the midst of enjoyment will stay, 
                        Like a dead, leafless branch, in the summer's bright ray; 
                        The beams of the warm sun play round it in vain, 
                        It may smile in its light, but it blooms not again." 
                     
                   The effect, however of disappointed love on ardent, impulsive, and impetuous minds, is strongest at first. It is the first blow that is the keenest. Each day, the smart of the wound grows less, until, at length, another object usurps the place of the last, and hardly a scar on the heart shows where the wound had been. But to the contemplative and reflecting mind, the memory of the loss is lasting as time. When such a mind loves, it is for ever,-for the love begotten in such a heart is based on the existence of qualities of the intellect and the character, and not on the animal impulses of beauty and youth, which are too apt to exclusively influence the impulsive. Love, based on passion, makes a great crackling, and a stupendous blaze for a time, and then expires in its own ashes. Love, based on the esteem of virtues and sensibilities, is a constant light, burning clearly and vividly through life, and flashing its brightness even across the darkness of the grave. 
               Disappointment, in the first, may lead to rash acts; but if not, it is soon rubbed out of the heart by other impulses. Disappointment, in the last, becomes keener, the more it is reflected upon; and, in many cases, has led the man who has experienced it to a life-long contemplation over the love entomb'd in the catacomb of his own heart. The world knows it not. Benevolence is as active as ever. Duties are performed with punctuality,-even with cheerfulness. There is no moroseness of manner. Even the smile is on the face as usual, but it is a wintry smile, for an eternal winter holds its icy reign over a heart that can never throb in love again. 
               The peculiar circumstances in which she was placed had kept Jane awake. Her position was an uneasy one, although one of the older chiefs had generously erously flung her a bear-skin, and she could partially lean against the rock near her. She felt uncertain of the intentions of her captors, or of the motives of Samoset in his treachery. She reflected, if scalps alone had been wanted, the Indians never would have brought her such a distance, or taken such pains for her transportation. She shuddered, as she contemplated the possibility of another and more fearful result than death; but Jane Seymour was not of an excitable disposition. She had been accustomed to view things calmly and deliberately. She never suffered her imagination to lead her ahead of reality, even in trifles. Her faculties were now all awake, and ready for any emergency. 
               The little encampment was soon aroused and busy about preparations for their morning's meal. Scouts had been early sent out to obliterate such impressions of their trail as they might have left in the darkness of the night before, who returned with a report that all was safe. As there might be a long day's journey before them, with less of leisure, the Indians resolved to make a hearty meal. Game was abundant, and had been supplied by the hunters of the day before, and was soon roasted before a fire, which, with ears of roasted corn, that had been stripped from some luckless farmer's field, furnished the breakfast. 
                
               The oldest chief offered some food to Jane, who ate, though with reluctance, but from the necessity of support in a trying hour. None was offered to Henry, whom the Indians seemed reserving for some torment, for he asked in the language of the Tunxis Indians for water,-such was the excess of his thirst, brought on by the fever of his wound and the agony of his mind; but no notice was taken of the request. 
               The attentions of the old chief to Jane seemed to excite the jealousy of an old hag of the party, who, stalking up to where she was leaning against the rock, addressed her in a dialect unknown to her, but evidently, from the violent gestures, and the savage expression of the blood-shot eyes, in vengeance. She drew her knife, or dagger, formed of a deer's-horn, sharpened to a keen point, and seemed threatening her with its use. A few words from the old man sent her muttering to her hut. 
               The feast was a long one, for, where leisure and opportunity occur, the Indian indulges in a gluttony as extraordinary as his capability of abstinence. When it was finished, the males of the party collected near the place where Jane was sitting, and then, for the first time, she had a full view of the wily Samoset, whose twinkling eyes were placed upon her countenance with a startling, loathsome expression. Jane shuddered as she saw the glance dwelling with keen familiarity upon her beauties, and now felt she had some key to the difficulties of her situation. 
               A long discussion ensued. There appeared by their gestures to be some difficulty in assenting to some proposition, which Samoset had made them, in the long speech with which he had opened the conference. The language was not the dialect of the tribes near the Connecticut, but occasionally the Tunxis word for liquor-fire-water-would occur. It appeared as if Samoset were describing its properties and effects, and promising some to the other Indians as a reward, or as a bargain for Jane. It appeared at once that young Dudley was to be given up to them. Some of the middle-aged of the party cast scowling glances upon Jane, as they sententiously gave their opinion, as if they doomed her at once to death. 
               One of the younger men, when it was his turn to speak, evidently made a demand for himself that irritated and alarmed Samoset, whose tones of cunning were softened into expostulation. 
               Once Samoset turned to Jane, and said in the Tunxis dialect, "The Fawn of the Pale Faces must be my squaw, and live in my wigwam for ever." 
               The discussion grew exciting, and the formality of a regular council was soon destroyed. Several spake together, and some drew their tomahawks, and, leaping high in air, brandished them about their heads; and were only prevented by the elders from hurling them at the heads of the prisoners. The opponents of Samoset appeared to have been successful, and several of the younger men were hurrying towards Jane, when an event took place, which changed the whole circumstances of her situation. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "'Come back! come back!' he cried in grief, 
                           'Across this stormy water: 
                           And I'll forgive your Highland chief: 
                           My daughter! oh, my daughter!'" 
                        
                      
                     Campbell. 
                   
                
               As soon as Edward Dudley joined Sergeant Wadsworth, they commenced a march through what is now called Mill-street, by the margin of the stream. Edward and the Sergeant, with whom Edward was a particular favorite, passed on a little in advance of the party, when the Sergeant said, in a low voice, for his military discipline would not allow him to speak evil of his superiors before the common train-band:- 
               "I wish Captain Mason had given us some more definite orders. I have hardly any idea of the object of this expedition, but to assist you in the search for your brother. The Captain said that Governor Haynes spoke something of Indians being seen, but gave no special instructions, except to commence the search for Henry Dudley at the mouth of the Gully Brook. Here is the place to turn off towards that brook." 
               "There is some misconception, assuredly," said Edward; "I parted with my brother, it is true, by the Gully Brook, but I have no intention of seeking him there. I believe that Captain Mason said that I, as guide, would direct the platoon." 
               "True, true, and a trustier guide could not be found. When you shall have once smelt gunpowder, and bloodied your pike in a real fight with these troublesome Redskins, you will be as fine a fellow of your inches to follow as any in the township. Lead on! lead on! we are ready to follow. But why do you not go to the Gully Brook?" 
               "Simply, Mr. Sergeant, because my brother went up the brook some five hours ago, and it is too dark to follow the trail now; and if we go up the brook, we shall only confuse the trail by our steps. Besides, I know pretty well where I shall either hear from him or find him. I do not anticipate trouble yet, though he promised to be home before the bell rang for eight, and some danger may have taken place. I do not like the idea of strange Indians being seen lurking around. Let us hasten." 
               "You have always a good reason for every thing, Edward. But, pray tell me, was Samoset with him? You know that they are much too familiar of late." 
               "I know it, and regret it. He spoke this afternoon about anxiously wishing to see Samoset, but he was not with him." 
               This was spoken so loudly, that one of the party stepped forward, and touching his hat to the Sergeant, said: "May it please you, Master Wadsworth, I saw Samoset as I was driving home my cows from the Cow Pasture, going towards the west." 
               "How often must I tell you, Thomas Goodwin, that when we are on parade, or on duty, you must address me as Sergeant. But your news comes in good time, and I fear much, my young friend, that your red-skinned villain has something to do with this affair." 
               "I fear it," was the sad reply, as the proofs of his brother's danger pressed upon him. He said no more, but quickened his pace in the direction that led to Capt. Seymour's house, on the Cow Pasture road. 
               On his arrival he found the house closed, and only a few lights appearing in the windows, as if the whole of his many domestics were preparing for bed. Upon knocking, the Captain himself opened the door, with a candle, and looked out in the darkness, surprised at seeing so many armed men. 
               Recognizing Edward in an instant, he began: "Thou spawn of the puritan and the rebel, what do you disturb my house for, so late on the Saturday evening? Do you not know, according to the sanctimonious customs of your accursed sect, that the sabbath has begun? What secular business, as you so piously term it, has driven you here to manifest thus openly your hypocrisy by your actions? Come, be brief and be rapid! I waste no words on the son of your father." 
               "My brother Henry started for your house an hour before sundown, and has not yet returned. We seek him here. We are anxious, for there are strange Indians around." 
               "And what, most worshipful Edward, would bring your dare-devil of a brother to my irreligious roof on Saturday night?" 
               "I fear-I suppose," said Edward, hesitating, "that he wished to see your niece." 
               "My niece!" said the old man violently, losing his sarcastic tone; "if any of your accursed race has any thing to do with my niece, I'll disinherit her-I'll confine her-I'll-" 
               "Will you be so kind," said Edward, calmly, "to inquire of Miss Seymour whether she has seen my brother?" 
               "That I will quickly, and find some means of punishing her if she his. Go, Hannah," to a domestic, who had entered the room, "and tell Jane to come here instantly. If she is in bed, tell her to rise. I suppose she thinks sleeping is the most sanctimonious mode of keeping Saturday night. She was not at supper, and may have been sleeping all the afternoon. Has any one been here, Esther," speaking to another maid, "to see Jane to-day?" 
               "Only Samoset, about an hour before sundown." 
               "I wish any one else had killed that bear besides that sneaking, two-sided Indian. He will be round the house as long as he can get any rum or cider." 
               "Where's your mistress, Hannah?-is not she coming? What do you look so pale for? Have you seen a ghost?" 
               "Miss Jane is not in her bedroom. Her bed has not been used, and her bonnet is not in the room." 
               "She has run off with that scape-grace brother of yours. She shall never darken my doors again. I'll see if I cannot have vengeance out of some of you by -. Hand me my gun, that I may shoot this brat." 
               "Captain Seymour, let there be no violence," interrupted Sergeant Wadsworth in his deliberate style; "I shall report you to the magistrates for the utterance of a profane oath, and for an attempt to break the peace. But, Edward Dudley, how pale you are!" 
               "It is nothing-don't notice it. Hannah, when did you see your mistress last?" 
               "About sundown she went through the garden to the Oak Clump, near the little pond; and I now remember I have not seen her since." 
               "Captain Seymour, my brother is incapable of doing so wicked an act as eloping with your niece. I fear much that those strange Indians have seen her. They were observed coming in this direction." 
               The old man was totally unnerved at the suggestion. "Hasten!" cried he, "every one of you to the trees. It is a favorite place of Jane's. Roger, call the whole household! Hannah, bring torches!" 
               The Oak Clump was soon reached; but as they approached, Edward pushed the eager ones back: "Look," said he, as he held the torch on the ground; "see the moccasson tracks! Let every one stand back so as not to mar the foot-prints! Here's Jane's bonnet net and her pocket-handkerchief trod into the ground! Here, too, is Henry's hat, with blood upon it! The Indians have been here, and have seized them." 
               Capt. Seymour was so much affected by these discoveries, that he seemed to have lost all the powers of his mind, and stared in almost idiocy at the tracks. 
               "What's to be done-think for me, Sergeant," said Edward; "I cannot plan." 
               "It will be of no service to attempt to pursue the trail to-night. We could not see any thing of it. Let us go back, and remain at the Town House, and then, as soon as light appears, return, and trace these marauders to their hiding-place. We shall need provision, more ammunition, and perhaps directions from Captain Mason." 
               "You are right, Sergeant; there is no other way. No one could trace these cunning Indians in the darkness of this night. Roger, see that your master has the necessary attendance, and that a watch is kept around your premises; and be ready to report any remarkable appearance to us to-morrow. Hannah, your mistress will have a sad night of it. Sergeant, let us to the Town House." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "It seems to me, neighbor Simpkins, that, in your village, you dove-tail religion and war most singularly together. There was a regiment of laughing red-coats in one gallery, and a bevy of praying damsels in the other; while the people below were so distracted between curiosity and worship, that they did not do but half of each. What's the matter?" 
                        
                         
                           Simpkins. 
                           -"It's a way we have." 
                        
                      
                     Old Play. 
                   
                
               GOVERNOR HAYNES was stirring early that Sabbath morning. He gave Capt. Mason permission to detach a party to follow the trail of the Indians, who, after a prayer by Rev. Mr. Hooker, started upon the expedition at the first dawn, with Edward to act as scout. They were all well armed and prepared with such articles as were necessary for a day's sojourn in the woods. They were directed by Mr. Hooker not to converse on any secular or trifling topics, it being the Holy Sabbath. The necessity of the duty on which they were engaged was their excuse, he said, for not attending divine worship; but stillness and quietness would consecrate the Lord's day even in the wilderness. He exhorted them, when they did converse, to do so only on the soul's concerns, and to refresh each other's spirits by holy consolations. 
               This done, he obeyed the summons of the Governor to make a prayer at a special council of the Magistrates, to be held at the Meeting-House, before the hour of breakfast. The peculiar contingencies of the case were a sufficient warrant for the meeting, and the early hour would prevent its interference with the ordinary Sabbath worship. 
               Governor Haynes was a prompt man, and he knew, from the report he had received from Edward Dudley and Sergeant Wadsworth, the night before, that immediate measures were to be taken for the recovery of the lost, besides dispatching the band under Wadsworth's command. 
               "Colonel Dudley, you are welcome to the council," said the Governor, after Mr. Hooker's prayer was over. "Under your peculiarly distressing circumstances, I hardly expected to see you in your usual seat among the Magistracy. You have heard the particulars from your eldest son, I presume." 
               "My son has had other duties to perform than even to visit his parents. Duty, with him and me, is paramount to affection or grief. But, nevertheless, I heard from private Thomas Goodwin, whom Sergeant Webster sent to my house, early this morning, the details of my son's probable capture. I am here, Governor Haynes, agreeably to your summons, to consult for the public good." 
               "How is your most excellent lady? How does she bear herself under these afflictions?" 
               "She has the support of the Most High, who has placed the arms of divine love beneath her, and is able to say, ' the Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away, and blessed be the name of the Lord.' But these are private griefs: let us to the business that has called us together on God's holy day." 
               Governor Haynes then concisely detailed the circumstances already known, and the steps he had taken for the rescue of the captives. He also advised the immediate doubling of the sentinels, and that mounted men be sent to patrol the few roads that were then cut through the forest. All this was approved of by the council; and orders were issued that every one should attend divine service armed, and that the cattle should not be driven to the two pastures, but guarded and fed at home." 
               "All these things are necessary to be done," said Governor Haynes, "and will furnish a sufficient reason for any breach of holy time." 
               "As your spiritual pastor," said Mr. Hooker, "I express my approval of these measures." 
               "As the chief civil Magistrate," said Governor Haynes, turning round calmly but firmly to the minister, "I do not require the approbation of church authority for what I do-my office is paramount to the power, which the duties of a pastor gives you, Brother Hooker." 
               Mr. Hooker shook his head, and slightly smiled, as if the remark reminded him of some old unfinished controversy. 
               "As the business-may it please your Excellency-is finished, which called us together," said Deacon Nichols, "allow me to say, publicly, that the private admonition we were under the necessity of giving Brother Dudley, last night, for the neglect of his son in not returning at the appointed hour on the Saturday evening, is now excused by the exigency of the case, and to move that the censure be rescinded." 
               "The motion is a proper one," said Governor Haynes, "and, if there are no objections, will be considered passed." Col. Dudley bowed. 
               "Methinks," said Mr. Hooker, rising, "that a church censure should be released by church authority ity only. Brother Dudley was visited as a church member only." 
               "The law made the rule," replied the Governor, "and the law only can give the censure." 
               "But it is a church ordinance, likewise." 
               "We, as the constituted authorities of this new colony, settled in the wilderness, are the church; you are but the selected pastor to guide our devotions, and instruct our minds in matters purely religious,-and, even then, we feel called upon, as part of the body of Christ, to exercise an entire control over your teachings, your doctrines, and your discipline. As a freeman, Brother Hooker," continued the Governor, "you must feel the principle, that you are but as a man among free men." 
               "Were it not," said Colonel Dudley, rather hastily-"were it not for the extreme respect and affection which I entertain towards our beloved pastor under God, I would inquire of him, by what right, or, under what authority, he speaks, at all in this board of Magistrates. The people, who elected us, have given him no such power. If he claim it as the pastor of our assembly, I would say to him," and the martial eye of the old Colonel kindled as he spoke-"I would say to him that we have opposed even unto blood the encroachments of the ecclesiastical over the civil power and the rights of the people, in our mother country. We certainly did not seek this howling wilderness to submit to the same tyranny here. We are independent men-freemen-equally opposed to oppression in church as in state. We allow no spiritual authority to rule us. Our minister is no priest. He is, as his name denotes, the servant of God only. That he should be set apart from common and secular employments, to be able to attend, the more closely, to his peculiar duties, is best; because, the relation which the church bears to the world requires men to defend religion by learning and argument and study, as well as by piety. But as to the internal relation of the pastor to the church, there is no peculiar sacredness, no necessity of consecration. He is but a man among sinful men, to set before the flock he feeds the example of humility, holiness, and a heaven directed soul. But in this relation, he is not required to be any more humble, holy, devout, devoted to God, than every member of his community. As an independent collection of the saints of God, organized and associated for mutual edification, we fully believe that it is competent, proper, and Scriptural for any member of that association to break the bread of life to the rest, if God so call him. Such is the custom of the faithful in England. Such is our right here. But the dictates of expediency, the love of order, and the necessity of learning for the edification of those without, have led us here in Connecticut to select our stated and ordained pastors. But to no usurpation of their power will I submit, while a drop of blood flows from my heart. To no spiritual tyranny will I ever succumb, so long as I have a weapon to wield, or a hand to guide it." 
               So saying, he brought down his match-lock in prodigious emphasis on the oak floor, till the very sleepers trembled. 
               "Excuse me, brethren, if I feel this subject strongly and express it warmly. But it is the very principle that governed our exile, and led us to the creation, in these desolate wilds, of a republic based on religion." 
               "No apology is needed," said Governor Haynes. "You but express the feelings and views of everyone, and, I presume, of Brother Hooker himself, when he reasons as a republican. We are all desirous that the church should lend her influence to the support of the state, but the latter must be paramount, or we once more sink under the hierarchy from which we have escaped." 
               "Will not that desire lead," said Mr. Hooker, "at some future time, to the casting off of all connection tion between church and state? The period may arrive when a majority of men in the state may not be governed by Gospel principles. If the state, then, is paramount, and cuts herself adrift from the church, will not the latter suffer, and religion be a loser?" 
               "The great difficulty," said Mr. Culick, rising and speaking in his calm and lawyer-like manner-"the great difficulty with the reverend gentleman is, that he reasons and feels as if the church were a reality-a separate, tangible existence-whereas, it is a mere abstraction. Neither the church nor the government have a real existence. Nothing exists and acts but individuals. It is idle to speak of the prosperity or declension of a church, as separated from its individual members. We are a collection of independent individuals, associated for mutual benefit in religious things, and name our association, a church. Under this mere name of organization we do not lose our individual rights, or separate independence. We have, as individuals, our right to put what construction we please on the declarations of Scripture, if we adhere to truth. We retain all the powers of private judgment, to be guided into right by the arguments of the pastor, not to be forced into his conclusions by his spiritual authority. All such tyranny we opposed in England, and will oppose it here. 
                
               "As individuals, desiring peace, security, justice and good order, we have voluntarily selected a government. This government is no abstraction, like that which is called of divine origin in Europe. It is the collected rights of individuals surrendered to the men of our choice for our own benefit. Our rulers are individuals selected from among ourselves. We believe in the divine right of government-not in the divine right of the governors. 
               "The same individuals who form our church likewise form our government, but, by our own individual authority, we make the latter paramount. We do not demand the church to submit to the government, for the church has no separate reality. We demand every individual member of the one association, to submit himself to those rules which, as an individual member of the other, he has assisted in framing." 
               "But," interrupted Mr. Hooker, "suppose the decisions of the church and the government clash, which shall be obeyed?" 
               "You are still reasoning, Brother Hooker, upon your abstraction. Is it not absurd to say that when the same individuals constitute both the church and the government, that, under one relation, they will make one decision, and, under the other, a totally opposite one? If you consider the church as having no real, separate, tangible existence, but as composed of individuals merely, and the same individuals who compose the government, you will avoid such an absurdity." 
               "Brethren," said Governor Haynes, "though this discussion is useful, the time will not admit its being pursued further. We each have our families to instruct before the hour of public worship arrives. I therefore adjourn this meeting of the Magistracy, after a prayer by Brother Hooker." 
               Mr. Hooker, though a warm controversialist, was a good man, and a Christian man. He commenced his prayer in that low, solemn tone, which, when not a matter of affectation, comes from the heart, and speaks to the heart. He was no spiritual dictator now, but the organ of depraved and sinful men to carry their desires and aspirations to the throne of eternal purity. The humble confession of sin-the deep, deep sense of abiding depravity-the awful distance of the Deity from such worms-the justice of punishment-were all dwelt upon until every heart forgot its late risings of pride and independence, and was abased before God. He then opened the gates of mercy and of Heaven, and let the light of salvation through the Mediator pour upon the sin-crushed soul. He painted the character of that Mediator, until every heart was softened-bathed in the dew of penitence, and swelling with unutterable love. He alluded then to the cause that had collected them, and prayed for the erring and suffering son, and the distressed parents, in an affectionate eloquence that vibrated on every chord of Col. Dudley's hidden affections. Not one of that body but went to their homes that morning with softened and subdued spirits, with bosoms swelling with the kindliest emotions of benevolence, prepared the better to perform the sacred duties of the Sabbath morning's instructions. A calm, holy confidence in Jehovah throbbed in every breast, prepared to submit to all that his providence required of them to do or suffer. 
               As they were leaving the meeting house, Capt. Seymour, under the most powerful excitement, rushed through the council until he reached Col. Dudley, and accosted him rudely and violently: "Give me back my niece, which your scoundrel of a son has carried off! Where have they gone? Where have you concealed them from me, that you may marry them by force, and thus demand the old man's property? Where are they? Give me back my niece, you bloody, deceitful Roundhead!" 
               "I know nothing of your niece, rude man. I may have the same reason to suspect that you have spirited away my son. But pursuit has been ordered, and will, we trust, be effectual. I have no more desire that my son should marry your niece than you have. You can spare those taunts." 
               "Captain Seymour," said Governor Haynes, "every measure that prudence and wisdom have suggested, has been taken for the pursuit and rescue of the captives. This violence, and rude, loud, boisterous speech is unbecoming both the day and the occasion. But we can excuse much to the irritation of your feelings. Brethren, let us to our family duties." 
               "What is all this I hear, neighbor Bull," said George Steele to his near neighbor, when going home from meeting on the noon of this same day, after they had left their brethren, who resided nearer than they did, and were climbing the hill that now leads to the College. "I did not understand all Parson Hooker's prayer, about the dangerous errand of some of the brethren. What has happened? You can speak low, and Deacon Nichols yonder won't hear what we are talking about." 
               "Why, you see, neighbor Steele," said the Corporal, "Ned and Hal Dudley went out a hunting yesterday, and Ned came back all alone. I was on guard, and, according to Gov. Haynes's instructions to record all the goings out and the comings in,-so my instructions read,-I had to report to his Excellency that Hal Dudley was out of the settlement on Saturday evening. Well: I went home, but late in the evening my wife went down to Deacon Nichols, to get some herbs, for Asa was sick, and she said, when she got back, that the Deacon had heard that the Indians had killed and scalped Hal, and carried off Captain Seymour's Jane, and that Sergeant Wadsworth and his platoon, with that nice lad, Eddy, were going after them in the night." 
               "Why wasn't you sent?" 
               "Oh, I am wanted too much in the street to keep guard." 
               "More likely," whispered Steele's wife to her daughter, who were walking a little in the rear, "they feared that you would talk too much for an Indian hunt." 
               "But did they find Hal Dudley's body?" 
               "They found something, for I overheard Jim Cook, who works up to Seymour's, say that they found something, but whether it was his body, or his hat; I did not hear." 
               "Who's gone?" said Steele. 
               "Well: I rather think that Wadsworth took the guard for to-day. He certainly did take Corporal Webster ster, who is the most expert woodsman we have, and William Sheldon, who is next to him. Tom Goodwin wa'n't to meeting, nor Hutchins, nor Smith, nor Pond, and I suspect they are all gone." 
               "Hush, husband," said Mrs. Steele, "Deacon Nichols is looking round, and he will think we are engaged in some idle talk on the Sabbath." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           -"this Elm-that o'er my head 
                           Its aged boughs in shade has spread- 
                           How many years have glided by 
                           Since, first, it stretch'd its limbs on high. 
                           A thousand suns have o'er it streamed; 
                           A thousand frosts in morn have gleam'd. 
                           When first a tender twig it stood, 
                           There wav'd around a verdant wood; 
                           The river roll'd beneath its streams, 
                           A mightier wave than now it seems: 
                           No human foot had trod the scene; 
                           The laurels flung a tangled screen, 
                           And scarce the deer could stoop to drink, 
                           So close the shrubbery twin'd the brink." 
                        
                      
                     Old Times: a Poem. 
                   
                
               As soon as there was light sufficient to discern any thing, Sergeant Wadsworth, with his party, were on their way to Capt. Seymour's, and soon reached the foot of his garden. 
                
               "Stop, men!" said the Sergeant; "let Edward Dudley go alone, and examine with care the place of the encounter, and the trail leading from it. He is one of the best scouts in the colony, and has a quick eye, and keen judgment in all such things. We shall only confuse the tracks. It is important to know the exact path they have taken." 
               While Edward went upon this errand, with every sense and faculty in acute exercise, the Sergeant collected his party for a short breakfast. The men unstrapped their knapsacks, and taking out their corn bread and pieces of cold salt meat, and each his little flask of spirits, sat down to eat, but not until the Sergeant had reverently asked a blessing upon the food, which some of the men thought rather long, as they stood uncovered in a frosty morning. 
               "There is a large band of them," said Edward, as he joined the breakfast; "I could plainly discover that fact around the place where the hat and other articles were picked up, last night. But our steps there had so confused the other tracks that I could learn little from them. Following them down by the margin of the pond to the brook beyond, I then examined them with more caution. There must have been some ten or twelve, as I saw nearly as many very distinct foot-prints. They were Indians, and not Dutch, as I knew by their moccasons. They belong to none of our tribes here. The mode of the cutting out of the moccason is more like the French fashion. Two marks I could not account for. These were long hollows in the mud, pressed down as if with considerable weight; they looked as if made by a very long sap-trough, with a smooth bottom. From these holes, the regular march seems to have been taken up. There was but a single track, or foot-mark, as if each one had been careful to step in the tracks of the other. Indeed, such must have been the case, for the foot-print sank deeper into the mud than if one man had made it alone. Near these two round, regular holes in the mud, were fragments of that little shrub which the Indians employ for making ropes and withes. The captives, I presume, were tied with them. I should have said that, among the footprints, was that of a moccason of the fashion our Indians, near the colony, wear." 
               "That's Samoset's, I'll bet," said Isaiah Pond, one of the privates. 
               "Private Isaiah Pond," said Sergeant Wadsworth, "how often must you be checked for that profane and godless habit of offering to bet; and think, Isaiah, it is the Sabbath-day, too, when such worldly vanities ought not to pass through your mind. Your conjecture, however, is probably accurate. But go on, Edward." 
               "I saw not much more; after some rods, the trail led into the brook, which was probably followed to some distance, as I could see scratched and broken twigs hanging down in front of me." 
               "Let us depart at once," said Sergeant Wadsworth. "Corporal Webster, take half the men, and proceed on the right bank of the stream in single file, and keep a good look out. I will take the left bank with the remainder of the men, in the same order. Edward Dudley, do you proceed slightly ahead of both parties for observation. Remember, Corporal Webster, the object is to note the indications that the Redskins have kept in the brook, and especially to observe when they left it, and in what direction. Let not a word be spoken, and keep your matches lighted in readiness. You need not be cautious about your trail, for we are not the pursued." 
               The men were supplied with matchlocks. Each had a short, stout cutlass at his side, and a pair of pistols and a large knife in his girdle. They were clad in quilted coats, which were thick enough to prevent an Indian arrow from penetrating. They were all thus heavily armed, and sank, every step, deep into the mud. But the loose tops of their boots were not rolled down, as in days of peace, but were brought up over the knee, and tied around the thigh, for the protection of the limb. They were, however, stout, hardy men, patient of fatigue, and accustomed to a rough life; and plodded steadily along, with their guns at a trail, and their eyes searching around at every appearance of the bushes overhanging the brook. 
               They had not proceeded a quarter of a mile, when young Dudley stopped and made a gesture for a halt. "What is it, Edward?" said the Sergeant. 
               "Look there," said the youth. 
               It was a place where the alders had swung down almost into the stream, so that whoever waded the stream must have done it almost on the hands and knees. In the middle of the brook, there was a low, mud-covered rock, over which some smooth, heavy object had been dragged, and on which it had been suffered to rest for a moment, while the branches above were ragged and much torn. , The men all gathered round. 
               "That is something in which they are carrying their prisoners," said Edward. 
               "It is a birch bark canoe," said Corporal Webster, who was an old man, and experienced in Indian skirmishes; "I see the grain of the bark printed in the mud." 
                
               "That's it," said the Sergeant; "and there are two of them." 
               They pursued their way for several miles by the side of the brook, breaking their way through the cold, dank alders. 
               It was a beautiful autumn morning. The sun soon came out bright and clear, and drove off the unhealthy and unwelcome fogs; and drank up the thin coating of slight, white frost, that covered the leaves. The delicate tread of the timid squirrel could be heard far off in the still forest; the partridge rose whirring at their approach, and sailed off through the red and seared wood; the rabbit glanced at them from his thicket, and hid himself in his hole. 
               There were evident signs that they were on the right trail. The night march of the Indians had not been so carefully conducted as to leave no trace. The breaking of the limbs of the alders,-the moccason print on some little sand-bar,-the occasional dragging of the canoes under the overhanging bushes,-were all indications of their passage. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "At length the band where now he, sleeping, lay 
                           The huge o'erhanging oaks, in all their pride; 
                           The dashing stream, seen through the alder boughs; 
                           The hazel branches, bending o'er his face, 
                           Were seen. He dreamt, that, motionless, he lay, 
                           And powerless: around his arms, there wound, 
                           In multitudinous folds, a serpent huge. 
                           In vain he strove to shake the monster off; 
                           Still it wound round; tighter it drew its folds, 
                           When with a start, he woke, and found not all 
                           A dream." 
                        
                      
                     Altawmah; Canto II. 
                   
                
               THEY had proceeded thus for some time, when Edward again called out for a halt. 
               "They have turned off here, and gone due west." Corporal Webster was called from his side of the stream, and coincided in the opinion. The trail was now plainer, as if less caution was thought to be needed. This new track was followed along the top of several eminences, on one of which the Indians appeared to have rested and renewed their torches which the first and last of the files carried. The print, where the canoe rested, might be seen on the wet leaves and crushed ferns of the damp forest ground. 
               Several branches of the West Hartford River, which of itself is a branch of the Little River, were crossed by accessible fords; and the trail thus continued in a westwardly direction, until another small stream was reached, when it again terminated. 
               "They have taken the brook again," said Corporal Webster to Edward and the Sergeant, who were in the van; "search carefully for their steps on the rotting moss." 
               But, notwithstanding their severe scrutiny, no traces of the progress of the Indians could be detected. After a walk of a quarter of an hour, over ragged stones and tangled shrubs, making no discovery, Sergeant Wadsworth called a halt, and advised to return and examine the trail, as it seemed to enter the brook, in order to ascertain if the pursuers had not left it; for the stream deviated considerably from the former straight western line. 
                
               "No, no," said Corporal Webster, "the cunning dogs took the brook, and we are either nearing their hiding-place; or else their passage across the mountain. We must search the more carefully." 
               "The bushes are so thick," said Edward, "that we cannot accurately examine the brook. I must do as they did, and follow up in the brook itself." 
               "A good idea," said Webster; "and I will go on the side as near to you as I can, and assist you. Sergeant, do you and the party drop a little into the rear; but watch the banks closely lest they should have suddenly left the stream." 
               They had not proceeded far, when Edward pointed to Webster where some more careless foot had slipped off a rock, and, in falling, had caught hold of a bush, which was torn up by the roots, and the elbow of the man sunk into the deep soil of the bank. 
               Soon the passage of the party in that course was abundantly exhibited by their approach to a little fall in the stream, where their efforts to pass on without leaving the brook were very evident. 
               When on the eminence over which the rivulet fell, Sergeant Wadsworth again halted his party, and sent Edward to the top of the highest tree to reconnoitre. 
               "Follow with your eye," said Corporal Webster, "the course of the brook; you can easily tell it by the greener appearance of the leaves of the bushes." 
               Upon his descent, Edward reported that the stream made a sudden turn to the west, and that he could trace it up to the very foot of the mountain,-perhaps a mile off. "Just where it leaves the mountain, there is a pile of rocks, and I thought I could trace the faint outline of a thin wreath of smoke, ascending the hill from that spot." 
               "We have them," said the Corporal, "if we work warily. The rascals are now preparing their breakfast in one of the ravines, previous to a long march. They will gorge themselves for a fast of several days. We are sure of them, if we approach quietly, and can reach them before they commence their march." 
               "Onward, then," said the Sergeant, "and proceed." A long distance was passed in an exceedingly cautious passage through the low bushes by the now small brook, when they came to a narrow ravine worn by the stream through a rocky hill, and, as they could see through the trees, the mountains rising very near them. The Sergeant halted and assembled the men in the mouth of the small gorge, and rested there for a few minutes. A small portion of spirits was dealt out to each, which they drank diluted in the cold water of the stream. Their arms were all examined, their matches lighted, and every thing, in readiness for a contest. 
               It is not to be wondered at that the heart of Edward Dudley fluttered a little in his bosom as he watched these precautions, and knew the high reputation of both Wadsworth and Webster in Indian warfare, warranted their use now. 
               "Corporal Webster," said the Sergeant, in a whisper, which every man imitated when he spoke, "was you ever here before?" 
               "I remember the place well, now. A deer once took me up this ravine. At its top, the brook issues from the mountain, by forcing its way over some scattered fragments of rocks. Just beyond that mouth, there is a little recess between the rocks, of hard sand, made by the freshets of the brook. It can hardly be called a cave. They are no doubt there, and I suspect, shrewdly, that Samoset led them there, for there were indications when I saw it, last year, that Indians had been in it." 
               "Corporal," said the Sergeant, "do you and Edward go forward and reconnoitre. He'll make a good soldier as soon as he has had experience. Take the hill, and proceed as you think best. Private Sheldon don, follow up the brook stealthily; be ready to support them if attacked, or to observe what you can. Let the sharp whistle of the killdeer be the signal for our onset." 
               The men departed; Webster and Edward, climbing up the hill and going round the gorge, reached its termination before Sheldon. As they advanced, Edward's quick eye saw the head of a young Indian appear for an instant above the rocky barrier, over which the brook fell, but looking in the direction of the ravine, as if some noise had produced suspicion. Concealed behind some fallen logs, they looked through the interstices of the limbs of a thick cedar at the same spot, when the same eager face was apparent again still gazing down the gorge. "Sheldon has betrayed himself by his noise," whispered Webster; "let us crawl nearer, while that Redskin is watching him." 
               As it chanced, just at the moment, a large rabbit sprang across the gorge, and stood on the farther eminence, amusing himself by his gambols. This seemed to have satisfied the young Indian, and to have allayed his suspicions; and, as he watched the movements of the animal, he exposed his whole side and back to the skulkers. 
                
               As they crawled nearer, says the corporal, "I could fetch him now, but the report of the gun would alarm the whole body behind these rocks. Stay here, Edward, and keep my gun and ammunition. I must try skulking. Don't rise or fire, unless he makes a noise, and then the quicker you act the better, both in helping me and in making the signal." 
               In saying this he left the logs, where they were lying, and was soon out of sight. Edward could occasionally see him, as he crawled from one rocky dell to another, until he was in the rear of the savage sentinel, and among the rocks that concealed him. The young Indian appeared taken up with the gambols of the rabbit, but still, at intervals, looked cautiously down the gorge. He fitted his arrow to the string, as the rabbit for a moment stood still; as if he wished to add his flesh to the meal he still hoped to eat before the march commenced. He hesitated several times, as the animal changed his position, little knowing how two experienced woodsmen were closely watching every movement. Just as he let the arrow fly from the bow, the powerful arms of Webster were around him, and his own blanket thrown over his head. 
               At the same instant, Edward and Sheldon sprang forward,-the one from the gorge and the other from the cedar-bush, and assisted in gagging and shackling him; while, in a moment more, the hoot of the killdeer sounded through the clear atmosphere, and the whole party noiselessly approached. Not a word was spoken, as they tied the sentinel to a sapling, and silently crept over the rocks. 
               The first thing that Edward saw, as he and Webster rushed forward in the van, was a huge Indian, standing over Jane Seymour, and brandishing his tomahawk, while Samoset seemed holding him off; and Henry lay struggling on the sand with another. The shot from Edward's well-aimed gun struck the Indian in the head, who fell backward dead over the body of Samoset, whom he had prostrated by his fall. In an instant, the whole English party were in the cave, in a hand-to-hand conflict with the cutlass. The surprise was complete, and every member of the marauding band lay in death immediately. The prisoners were released, the huts fired, and the females and children, brought with the party, were left to find their way back as well as they could. Upon gathering the bodies of the dead for some sort of interment, Samoset was found unhurt, lying beneath the body of the dead chief. He was bound in readiness to be carried to Hartford, there to be judged, as he was considered, in some sort, a subject of the colony. The young sentinel was conducted as a prisoner in the same manner; and Sheldon took care to place the rabbit, with the arrow through his body, in his knapsack, for his night's supper. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           Oh Jealousy, thou green-eyed fiend! what deeds 
                           Of mischief and of wrong hast thou not wrought! 
                           Because a piece of finely-painted flesh 
                           Will choose to smile in preference on one, 
                           The other fools are raving mad, and long 
                           To cut each other's throats, as if there was 
                           One only black-eyed being in the world! 
                           Out on such folly! 
                        
                      
                     Old Play. 
                   
                
               THE march home was conducted in a very different manner from the pursuit. Corporal Webster led the band in a direct line, by certain marks of his own, to the colony, and Wadsworth brought up the rear. The prisoners and the rescued were placed in the centre, and the whole company marched with a more extended front. 
               Edward, at first, busied himself in assisting Jane over the difficulties of the way, when Henry rather rudely interposed, and told him he would take care of the lady, and begged him not to interfere in his affairs. It was uttered in so stern and almost insolent a tone, that the soldiers near turned round to see the cause. 
               Jane, at first, with a flushed cheek, prepared to reply, but Edward said, very calmly, "As you please, brother Henry," and sought, at once, the van, where Corporal Webster, in his blunt, woodsman kindness, endeavored to soothe him, supposing that it was Jane that had driven him away. 
               "See," said the honest Corporal, "she is weeping already about it. But don't mind her tears, Edward; they are the women's match-locks, and do more mischief than shot-a hunter never heeds them. I always think of the old saying, 'that there is as much consideration to be taken of a woman's weeping, as of a goose's going barefoot.' But she seems to have huffed your brother, and he is looking like a thunder-cloud about it. But I see you are troubled, Edward, and do not wish me to talk. It is the Sabbath, too, and we had better march on, and silently thank the Lord that none of us have been killed." 
               When Edward left Jane, Henry endeavored to assist her in passing through the under-brush, but Jane resolutely refused his aid, and finally spoke rather indignantly to him, as pursuing her too perseveringly. This did not serve to diminish Henry's petulance, but he left her to walk by herself, and sought Samoset, as if the fittest object on which to vent his ill-nature. 
               "You red-skinned rascal, it is you that brought me into this trouble, and came near depriving me of life. If you was not bound, I would stab you to the heart, you lying varlet." 
               This was said partly in Samoset's own dialect, but produced no other reply, beyond that of deepening the light of intense hatred in his swarthy eye. 
               "Speak, you dog: what had I done that your spite should be turned towards me. Oh! I remember now. And so your copper-skinned bosom had been pierced by the darts of love, had it? And you wanted the bright-eyed Fawn of the Pale Faces in your lodge? Out upon such preposterous desires!" 
               The sarcasm ruffled the Indian enough to disturb his assumed equanimity, and he hissed low through his teeth, "She would not have you either. I heard it last night." 
               "Take that, you vile copper-colored scoundrel; for your insolence," said Henry, striking him in the face with a stick he carried, he having no arms. 
                
               "Master Henry Dudley," said private Sheldon, who guarded the pinioned prisoners, "it is unmanly to strike a man whose arms are tied." 
               "Keep your advice to yourself, Goodman Sheldon. I will hear no more impertinence from you than from the Redskin, you plebeian boor." 
               "When this duty is over, I'll let you know, young malapert, that in these woods we are all equal, and that nobility of birth is of little service against a good strong arm and a hickory switch. You will never be a man like your brother. Every one loves him." 
               Here Sergeant Wadsworth pressed through the files, and cried out: "Stop this unnecessary talking in the ranks, in such a loud voice. Remember, it is the holy Sabbath day, and must be kept sacred, even in the wilderness." 
               "I shall not stop at your bidding, most puissant Mr. Sergeant Wadsworth," said Henry; "I am not under your command, so give me none of your insolence." 
               "Young man," said the Sergeant, solemnly, "you are bringing up yourself to be a despiser of dignities, and to a certain fall. I shall not have my authority, as commander of this party, disputed. I arrest you in Governor Haynes's name, for insubordination, contempt tempt of your superior officers, and for a disregard of the Sabbath." 
               At the same time, he held him tight in his iron grasp, and tied his hands behind him, despite his frantic struggles and violent exclamations. Putting him under the care of a private, he ordered the march to recommence in silence. 
               No sooner did Edward hear the condition to which his brother had reduced himself by his petulance, than he turned back to the centre of the detachment, and demanded firmly, though with perfect calmness and respect, for what reason his brother was thus treated, and by what authority. Sergeant Wadsworth replied by relating the circumstances. 
               "But," said Edward, "do you pinion him on the military or civil charge?" 
               "Come, come, Edward, you are a good fellow and a first-rate scout and soldier, but a little too much of a lawyer in your whys and wherefores." 
               "I am in no mood for trifling now," said Edward. "Why do you pinion him?" 
               "Lest he should escape, Master Questioner." 
               "But, prythee, whither should he escape? He has no place but his father's house to flee to, and Colonel Thomas Dudley is the last man to screen one of his sons from a legal process, lawfully served. Besides, if you accuse him of a military crime, and pinion him accordingly, you are transgressing your military power. He is not one of your party, and owes you no obedience, either by enlistment, or agreement, or order of the court. You are therefore subjecting yourself to an action of false imprisonment. If you arrest and pinion him for the civil crime of a breach of the Sabbath laws, you are transcending your authority, for you are no constable, and act with no warrant. Remember, Sergeant Wadsworth, that we came into this wilderness for the enjoyment of liberty-liberty from ecclesiastical, royal, or military tyranny-but liberty under law. Law cannot be respected among a people unless all its forms are observed with strictness, and the military power kept in entire subordination to the civil authority. Let me urge you, then, Sergeant Wadsworth, to take a correct view of your present proceedings, and let me warn you of their consequences." 
               "Well, well, Edward Dudley, I suppose you are right; and will, therefore, release the youth from durance. But, I assure you, a report of his conduct shall be laid before the magistrates." 
               "Edward," said Henry, "I suppose I must thank you for your lawyer-like speech and its effects. If you had possessed the spirit of our ancestors, you would have cleaved the low fellow's head to the brain with your cutlass." 
               "Brother, in this our new community, we must lay the foundations of a reverence for law deep in the human mind, if we wish to form, what our leaders have planned, a successful Christian republic." 
               "Pshaw, pshaw, brother of mine, let us hear none of your low republican doctrines; give me the chivalrous warfare of our knightly ancestors-the court-the king-" 
               "Hush, brother, you will be overheard, and reported to those able to punish you. Be more guarded." 
               Henry was about to reply, when, looking round, he saw Jane Seymour's lustrous eyes fixed in admiration on Edward's eloquent face, and a new train of unpleasant thoughts passed through his breast, and his old petulance revived. He turned from his brother, and fell back to the rear, where he sullenly marched for the rest of the route. 
               As the settlement was approached, and the last ford of the Little River crossed, privates Steele and Hutchins were sent on as an escort with Jane to her uncle's house, which stood, as we have observed, in the direction of the Albany turnpike. The remainder of the party crossed the hills directly to the river settlement, which they reached just at the conclusion of the afternoon religious service. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Well did he hail the prodigal's return, 
                           And kill for his repast the fatted calf; 
                           Such fathers are a wonder in the land." 
                        
                      
                     The Good Father: a Tragedy. 
                   
                
               SERGEANT WADSWORTH made his military report very briefly to Governor Haynes direct, who replied, rather coldly, that he would hear it more in detail the next day. The Sergeant had alluded to Henry Dudley's arrest, which the Governor waived in the same manner, saying: "Although it may be proper on the Sabbath, when circumstances require it, to act, or to deliberate how to act, it is not proper nor commendable, when action is finished, to talk over its results; the morrow will be time enough. Let the two Indians, that you have brought as prisoners, be conducted ducted to the jail. Let the young Dudley be called upon for his answer to-morrow. In the mean time, Sergeant, dismiss your party, after a thanksgiving from Brother Hooker that you have returned safely, which we will tarry to hear. Let the rest of the brethren retire to their own residences, and reflect upon the instructions the day has given them. Col. Dudley, we hold you responsible for the attendance of your son before the magistracy to-morrow. Brethren, depart in peace." 
               Solemn was the meeting around the family altar that evening, in the little dwelling of Col. Dudley. There was that expression of unchecked passion and haughty irritation in the face of the younger son that excited the ire of one parent, and alarmed the anxieties of the other; while the still and wordless grief of the elder struck both parents with solicitude. 
               "The first thing of which I ought to inquire, Henry," said the father, is, "why you did not return with your brother, last evening, before the sun went down? Methinks, the command of a parent and the laws of the colony require a prompt obedience." 
               "I had made such arrangements as I supposed would enable me to return in season," said Henry, sullenly. 
               "Why then"-and the old man's face began to gather its sternness, and to flush as he spoke-"why then did you disobey my repeated commands, not to have any communication with Captain Seymour's niece?" 
               "Methinks, father, a son just saved from the cruel death which the savages threatened, might meet with a kinder reception when he first steps over his father's threshold." 
               "Son, don't bandy words with me. The Bible, and the laws of the land, give me a power that I shall exercise." 
               "Husband!" said a mild voice, while the imploring eyes of the mother of his children, moistened with tears, were fixed mournfully upon his face. It called up the father within; and the puritan and the magistrate were forgotten. 
               "Anne, I will forbear. He is our son. But let me tell you, Henry, that no excess of love on your part to that girl will ever justify me in giving consent to your marriage; and, if you persevere in your attachment, you are only heaping up sorrow on your own head, that will burn into your very heart's core." 
               "And does my mother join in this hard decree?" said Henry, taking her hand. 
               "Your mother, my dear boy, says the same thing. You cannot marry Jane Seymour, and any farther acquaintance with her will carry desolation to your own heart." 
               "There will be desolation enough, if I cannot. But I see how it is-she is reserved for the eldest born. That smooth-faced hypocrite must have her, I suppose." 
               "Henry, Henry! you grieve me beyond account. Edward can no more marry her than you. God grant that he may never love so hopelessly, so madly." 
               "Son Henry," said the Colonel, "your conduct is beyond endurance. To your brother's prudence, zeal, and perseverance, you owe your release from the torture of the savage, and do you dare, in your wild, insane passion, to taunt him thus? But let us hear what is the nature of the accusation that hangs over you, to-morrow." 
               The mother started, and, turning pale, cast her imploring eyes upon Edward, who had hitherto sat silently behind the group. He advanced, and repeated the difficulty with Sergeant Wadsworth, as favorably to Henry as he could; and detailed the arguments he had made use of. 
               "Son Edward, you reasoned incorrectly respecting the Sergeant's military power. He must have authority, while engaged in an expedition, over all concerned in it, or who seek its protection as an escort. Still, the Sergeant rather transcended his authority in pinioning Henry. But we will see to that to-morrow. The faults charged are such, that submission to the law will be all that will be necessary. And now, my sons, our opinions having been expressed decidedly to both of you, respecting the indulgence of any attachment to your old playmate, and its utter impossibility, let us close the ordinary duties of the day, arduous and exciting to you, by an exposition of its religious uses and improvements." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Untutor'd Love! E'en in the wilderness, 
                           Thou pour'st thy flood of passion o'er the heart. 
                            
                           For not alone, in the warm climes, beams warmth 
                           Of heart: thy power controls the wanderer 
                           On Heckla's side, until his bosom burns, 
                           Strong, as the lava stream, descending there. 
                           On the North Sea, 'mid everlasting ice, 
                           The Greenland youth thy powerful influence feels, 
                           As bounds his light skiff o'er the mountain wave. 
                           'Tis false, that 'cold in clime are cold in blood.' 
                           The heart, beating beneath the storm-rock'd pines, 
                           That writh'd their gloomy tops on Bantum Lake, 
                           Glow'd strong, as if a Grecian sky she breath'd, 
                           Or tun'd her lute with Andalusia's maids." 
                        
                      
                     Altawmah; Canto III. 
                   
                
               LET us now intrude, dear reader, into a young maiden's chamber, and, if possible, into a young maiden's heart. 
                
               There are periods in one's lifetime, when one lives years in a single day; especially, when the veil is torn off from one's own heart, and all its secret hopes and fears, unacknowledged to one's self, have been laid naked and bare to the conscience and the understanding. 
               Jane had retired early. The fatigues and the dangers of the last twenty-four hours were a sufficient excuse. For though, like all the women of a young colony, she labored hard, and could endure great fatigue, there had been excitement and danger, and mental pain, that had mingled with the fatigue, until nature was nearly exhausted. She read her customary portion of the Sacred Scriptures, and, on her knees, gave her Heavenly Father thanks for the preservations of the day; and commended herself to his protecting care for the night. She divested herself of the torn and soiled clothing which she had worn in her forced expedition; and, having arranged her garments for the next day, she extinguished her light, and for a moment before she sought her couch, looked out on the dark night. 
               The evening fogs were already rising and curling over the spot where she had rejected the advances of her impetuous lover. The tall pine-tree, against which she had then leaned, was almost shrouded by the damps that were fast forming from the neighboring marshes. She sighed as she thought how the mists of sorrow had arisen and shrouded, in the same manner, the heart of the young man who so ardently loved her. 
               She sought her pillow, but not to rest. There were too many objects of thought crowding on her mind to allow her to sleep. Indeed, the very fatigue itself had produced a preternatural state of excited nerves that effectually banished sleep. She must think; and strong and vivid as the lightning's glare were the flashes of intense thought that rushed over her heart. 
               She thought of Henry,-of her final and forcible rejection of his love,-and of the evil traits that he had manifested that day. She still felt inclined to palliate them in her ingenuous heart, and ascribe them to the blow his affections had received. She endeavored to think of his good qualities, and to recapitulate them, as a kind of offset to the growing disapprobation of her opinions. 
               It has often been a matter of philosophical inquiry how a woman feels towards a man she has rejected. He has paid her the highest compliment that man can pay a woman, and yet, in too many cases, that compliment has been the means of producing ing contempt and hatred. Women differ in this respect; and the goodness of their dispositions, and the correctness of their amiability, may be estimated by their conduct under such circumstances. Some girls will ever afterwards favorably remember the excellent qualities of the rejected suitor,-follow his path in life with anxious thoughts,-feel humbled if he degrades himself,-feel an additional self-respect if he becomes distinguished. 
               How much of regret mingles in this self-respect, the world never knows. They never acknowledge it even to themselves, unless caprice had, in part, impelled the rejection. 
               Others, again, magnify the faults of the late lover, as a kind of excuse to themselves; and are rather pleased than otherwise at his departure from the path of duty, as if justifying them in that rejection. 
               Such was not Jane Seymour. She was pained at the necessity of the course she had long resolved to take, but she had not repented nor regretted it yet. She was grieved at the painful exhibitions of ill temper and of petulance which the day's adventures had drawn out; but she never, one moment, thought of recalling her decision. Girls have done it. Compassion for the pain they have produced has led them to encourage addresses, when their heart was not much interested; and they have lived and died as wives, without that absorbing passion which idolizes its object. 
               Jane was compassionate. Every corner of her soul was full of woman's tenderness. It breathed in every breath she uttered,-beat in every pulsation of her blood,-and filled up and pervaded every affection of her heart. She felt severely and keenly for Henry, but another and subtler flame was creeping over her soul, consuming, as it glided on, every spare sympathy, every new-born offspring of compassion. She thought less of Henry than of herself and her own danger. 
               Henry's question of the night before had let the first light into her wilfully dark mind; and the blush, that unbidden then rushed to her face, was the first acknowledgment to herself of the truth. She now thought over the whole day. Edward's conduct had been kind to her, but nothing more. He, evidently, had yielded her in his own mind to his brother; and even, she said to herself, should his brother inform him of the result of our conference, he will not interfere with his brother's pursuit. 
               She started as she caught herself thinking of the possible love of one who never had given her the least encouragement that he thought of her otherwise than as his brother's love. She felt even then, alone as she was, and dark as the night was, the blush of shame mantling her cheek at the idea that she loved one who had never sought her affections. She felt as if even the purity and modesty of her own heart were compromised by thus loving unsought. 
               "Thank God," she exclaimed, "he never knew it, or suspected it. He never shall. He cannot look down into the depths of my soul, and see his image hidden there. But there is not much danger of ever meeting him again. The last thing my uncle said tonight was, that Colonel Dudley was his enemy, and that no son of his should ever marry his niece. He knew how to prevent it, and would do it. What did he mean?" 
               Alas! poor Jane, the course of true love will not run very smoothly with you. You go to sleep with the resolution formed to think no more of Edward Dudley, but the effort will be in vain. On a heart like yours, the impression once made is made for ever. A new impulse has been given to every thought, feeling, and action of your existence, that will never leave you amid the toils and trials of time, or the joys and fruitions of eternity. To a soul, such as beats in your bosom, to love once is to love for ever. Henceforward, there is no more the calm and quiet happiness ness of a free and light-hearted life. One passion has entered your soul, that will color every thought and mingle in every feeling. You will strive against it in vain. Every struggle but winds its coils the more closely around your heart. The rose may leave your cheek,-the rich, red poutiness of your lip may fade into whiteness,-the large and lustrous eye may grow languid in its hidden grief,-but the soul will not lose its tyrant passion. It has commenced its reign, and will hold its sceptre over your heart for ever. 
               Poor Jane! 
               How wonderful is the instinctive impulse given us by our Creator to love. In its regulated purity, how valuable it is to the happiness,-nay, the very existence of the race. The mere intellectuality of friendship does not account for it; the mere tie of animal convenience does not produce it. When it bubbles up in a young heart, it is but the welling forth of a sacred instinct, designed by God to furnish the full tide of the heart's feelings, on which may float all that is joyous and happy and heaven-directed in our nature. 
               The dear and tender ties of the family, with all their lovely and loved connections on earth, and the dearer and more enduring ties of the great family of heaven, depend upon this instinct. Let it not be checked when it buds in the young heart. There are but fewer happier moments on earth than when the fragrance of a new passion begins to exude from the soul. Its purity is unmixed by a single stain of earth; cherish it in its simplicity and delicate innocence. It is a fragrance that ne'er again shall steep the senses of the soul in its new-born joy. Extinguish not the infantile flickering of its innocuous blaze. "It is a light that ne'er can shine again on life's dull stream." 
               Happy Jane! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Seaton. 
                           Which be the malefactors? 
                        
                         
                           Dogberry. 
                           Marry! that be I and my partner." 
                        
                      
                     Shakspeare. 
                   
                
               "WELL, neighbor Steele, are you ready to go up to the court-room to-day. I have finished picking my corn, and there is no hurry about the potatoes, so that I can spend a half day as well as not; so I think I shall go and hear all this strange news." 
               "I have determined to do the same thing, Corporal Bull, and am all ready. But what is the news?" 
               "Why, you see, John Barnard was in my house this morning to borrow my drogue to draw stone, and he said that Sergeant Wadsworth had returned last night, bringing Samoset and Hal Dudley as prisoners ers. They say that Samoset and Hal gathered a large band of Indians, and carried off Jane Seymour when she was walking in her uncle's garden. Wads worth found the Indians out in the woods, and killed the most of them. Samoset and Hal were brought in as prisoners, with their arms tied, and are to be tried to-day." 
               "You don't say so! 
               "Yes: and they do say that Edward and Ha] had a fight, and that Hal was dragged into town." "I don't believe that Edward Dudley fought with his brother, Corporal,-he is too good a lad for that; but that Hal is a perfect cavalier, and rants and raves about, and orders common men around, just as if, here in the wilderness, one man is not as good as another. But was there any thing else? Was Jane Seymour hurt?" 
               "No: some persons do think she went off on purpose to live with Master Hal in the woods with the Indians; and some say she was carried off. We shall learn the whole truth in the court-room." 
               The magistrates, with Governor Haynes at their head, had assembled at the Town House for the trial of the various cases that came before them. 
               The first case that was called was the complaint made by Sergeant Wadsworth against Henry Dudley The Sergeant stated the double cause of his complaint,-the contempt of his military authority, and the breach of the Sabbath laws by unnecessary loud talking on other than religious topics, in a blustering manner. 
               Henry was asked for his defence, and whether he had employed counsel. His brother very modestly stepped forward, and said, that though only a student of the law, he requested the privilege of being his brother's advocate; which privilege was accorded to him by the General Court. 
               No attempt was made to deny the first charge; but Edward claimed, that if it was a crime against the military authority of Sergeant Wadsworth, the present court was incompetent to hear the complaint, not being a regularly constituted court-martial; and that it could be tried only by such a court. Also, that as Henry was not an enlisted soldier, and belonging regularly to the party, he was not under the strict obligations of military rule, so far as respect to the commander was concerned. 
               All this Edward stated in a modest and calm, manner, that was not in the least-offensive to the General Court. He argued that supreme military authority or rule was one of those subjects from which the honorable Court had fled into this wilderness; that the principle under which the new colony was founded was the paramount character of the civil law; and that law should be above both the tyranny of the church and the power of the sword. 
               As to the second offence, he begged the magistrates to consider his brother's situation,-all that he had endured, and all that he had feared,-and re member that the operation of such causes would lead him to forget the sacredness of the day in his irritability. 
               During this first public effort of his eldest son, Col. Dudley sat unmoved in his usual seat on the magistrates' bench. He listened calmly, as the other judges. Not a feeling of the relation in which he stood to the accused and his advocate could be traced on his immovable countenance. 
               After a short deliberation, in which Col. Dudley was consulted, and in which he acquiesced, Governor Haynes arose, and gave the decision of the Court: "That, inasmuch as the power of the General Court, which commissions military officers, must be considered involved in the creations which it makes, the Court consider that they have jurisdiction in the present case, and must equally uphold the military as the civil authority emanating from themselves; and, moreover, secondly, as the Sabbath is made binding by God himself upon all mankind, it must be binding under all circumstances in which man can be placed, and under all frames of temper and modes of disposition;-they, therefore, do find the accused, Henry Dudley, guilty of the two offences alleged against him by Sergeant James Wadsworth: but that, in consideration of the youth of the accused, and the trial which he had undergone from the wily adversaries which surround us, they do adjudge him to be publicly reprimanded by the General Court; and that after the reprimand, he be dismissed from custody." 
               The reprimand was a solemn one, delivered by Governor Haynes; but, we fear, had little other effect than to excite still farther the irritation of our young hero. He was about leaving the Court without expressing it, when the case of the Indian prisoners was called, and he was ordered to stay as a witness. 
               As arrangements were making for the bringing in of the criminals, Mr. Culick whispered to Edward, "Very well, my young pupil, for a first effort. But remember, in your pleas, never to adduce arguments that will contradict each other. One reason, strongly dwelt upon, will have more effect than several independent arguments, where one must of necessity trample down the others." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Barnardine. 
                           I will not consent to die, this day, that's certain. 
                        
                         
                           Duke. 
                           O, Sir, you must: and therefore I beseech you, 
                           Look forward on the journey you shall go. 
                        
                         
                           Barnard. 
                           I swear, I will not die to-day for any man's persuasion." 
                        
                      
                     Shakspeare. 
                   
                
               SAMOSET and the young Mohawk were then introduced by the jailer, an interpreter sworn, and their indictment read. As the trial proceeded, Henry's testimony was delivered fully and clearly as to the deception practised upon him by Samoset, and the stratagems employed to obtain possession of himself and Jane. He swore distinctly to Samoset's agency in bringing about the interview, and the reason he had to desire it. As he loudly and promptly repeated his love for Jane Seymour, as the excuse or reason for soliciting the interview, he looked at his father,- any one acquainted with their disagreement on that topic, would have said, with an air of defiance. But the Colonel preserved the same imperturbable expression of countenance, like a second Brutus. When Henry arrived at the conversation he had held with Jane, he hesitated, and finally said he had been unsuccessful in his suit. 
               Samoset knew only enough of English to follow him a little, but the interpreter rendered the substance to him in his own language. When Henry mentioned his rejection, Samoset turned, with his glistening eye, upon Henry, and uttered, with a sarcastic sneer, in English, "Good-good!" Henry shook his fist at the prisoner with ungoverned rage, but Samoset had assumed his usual stolidity of aspect. 
               The facts against him were abundantly proved by Sergeant Wadsworth, Corporal Webster, and one or two of the privates. Against the Mohawk, the fact of his connection with the marauding band and with the abduction of both Dudley and Jane, was abundantly proved. Corporal Webster swore to his capture and his resistance. 
               When Samoset was asked for his defence, he flung off at once the sneaking, wily, deceptive character he had hitherto sustained, and replied boldly in his native language: "Have I aught to say in my defence? Yes, Judge of the Pale Faces. I have but acted up to the nature of my race. The Young Eagle had insulted me and my nation, by making me his slave to fetch and carry his messages. I chose to let him see I was his dog no longer. The bright-eyed Fawn of the Pale Faces had been rescued by this arm from death; by the laws of our tribes, she was my wife, and I but seized my own. Your whole race have been the enemies of me and of my kin. You have wrested from us, by what you choose to call a purchase, the very homes of our tribes and the burial-places of our fathers. Think you not that we shall avenge whenever in our power? You have driven us from our hunting-grounds; the game is no longer in plenty around us, and we are constrained to travel far towards the setting sun to reach enough to save us from starvation. You have driven us from our fishing-grounds, and we are now restricted to the little streams near yonder mountains. You have driven us from our corn-grounds, and they now smile in their ripeness under your culture. The Red Man has a body that requires to be fed,-he cannot live upon air,-he feels these deprivations, and he resents them. The Red Man has a soul; an insult stings him as deeply and rankles as sorely as it does in the Pale Face's spirit. Will he not revenge? The Red Man has a heart; he can feel the beauty of the Fawn of the Pale Faces as well as the white stripling. He protected her from the bear,-the young Pale Face could not from the Red Men. Has he not a right to what he has conquered? Such is my defence, Sachem of the Pale Faces. Torture me as you will,-a Red Man can endure it." 
               Upon this speech being interpreted,-though most of his hearers knew enough of the dialect of the neighboring tribes to follow the oratory of the Indian,-Governor Haynes rose, and turning calmly to Samoset, said: "All that you have uttered furnishes no excuse for the violence of which you have been guilty. This is not the place to enter into a controversy respecting the rights of purchase under which we hold that property which once was yours. Allowing that every one of your reasons has a foundation in truth, they apply not to you as an individual to cover your individual wrong actions. They apply only to your nation. Neither do the laws of civilized man, nor any laws that we recognize, allow such deep revenge for fancied insults, or admit such a futile claim to the woman you may have rescued. 
               "Interpreter, ask the other criminal whether he has any thing to offer in his defence." 
               It was in vain that the interpreter spoke to him in the Tunxis language. He stood in the box, with eyes seemingly fixed on the distance, as if the scene and deeds, and words, passing around him, were but the idle wind. Samoset was ordered to address him in his own tongue, to whom the Mohawk replied in low, quick tone, as if unwilling that his intense meditations should be disturbed. Samoset, directing his looks at the Court, said, "The young Mohawk declares that through his carelessness as sentinel, in his first war-path, this evil has come upon his father and brothers, and the braves of his tribe. He asks no favor, but will show the Pale Faces how a Mohawk can endure the torture and triumph at the stake." 
               After some short consultation, the decision of the Court was, that the two Indians, Samoset and the unknown Mohawk, should remain in close confinement until the sailing of the next vessel to the West Indies, which would be in a few days, when they were to be consigned to the captain to be sold as slaves, as a punishment for the crimes which they had committed. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "He who 
                           Once hates, may smile, may flatter, may assist, 
                           But ne'er forgives. He smiles to lure the wretch 
                           More surely to the net, and favors given 
                           Are but the fattening that the cannibal 
                           His victim gives." 
                        
                      
                     Revenge: a Drama. 
                   
                
               THE morning after the trial, the town was agitated by the rumor that the Indian prisoners had escaped from the jail during the night before-a foggy and dark night. It seemed evident that they had received assistance from some lurking Indian without, for the tracks of three pairs of moccasons were traced to the ford of the Little River in the rear of the prison, on the next morning. The bars of the windows had been pushed from their fastenings, and a leap of some fifteen feet had been taken from the window. 
                
               Governor Haynes collected his council, who ordered Webster and six others to follow the trail, while they summoned the jailor and his assistant, fined them two pounds apiece, and dismissed them from their employments. 
               Webster returned by noon, without having been able to discover the trail, beyond the Little River. Some excitement prevailed at this escape, and more was experienced when intelligence was received in the afternoon, that two cows had been killed with arrows, in the Cow Pasture, and some of their flesh carried off, and that Robert Deming had been shot at, as he was returning from beyond the Ox Pasture. 
               The fear of an Indian attack was much increased in the evening early, by the burning of John Barnard's barn, beyond what is now Cooper Lane. Governor Haynes's measures were prompt. He made a speech to the people, in which he told them that probably three or four men constituted the whole number of their foes. He sent a guard to Barnard's, summoned the men-at-arms, and doubled the town sentinels. 
               Meanwhile, the attacks of the few concealed Indians seemed now to concentrate on Capt. Seymour's premises. A burning arrow was shot on the roof of one of the barns, but was extinguished. 
                
               While Jane stood at an open garret window, watching the distant blaze of Barnard's barn, an arrow struck near her on the window-frame. She closed the sash, and carried the weapon to her uncle, who fairly boiled with rage at the insult. 
               "This is Samoset's," said Jim Cook, one of the Captain's hired men; "I saw him last week, making just such an arrow, and he took our turkey's feathers, that we had just killed." 
               As a security, the Captain ordered lights into every room, to show the Indians that the family were aroused, and set guards of his men and maids in various parts of his premises, with orders to fire at once upon any intruders. At the same time, he despatched a messenger to the Magistrates, with a request for assistance. The old soldier knew enough of border warfare to be prepared at every point for a savage attack, but failed in that essential requisite in all night skirmishes-coolness. He was a warrior of the old chivalrous stamp, ready to give and take blows in open encounter, in daylight, and to be among the foremost in a desperate assault. But night work and savage fighting were too sneaking, as he called it, to be submitted to with patience, and he fumed and fretted around his inclosures, now in one spot and now in another, not in the most amiable frame of mind, waiting for the attack that did not seem ready to come as he called for it. 
               He made himself hoarse at once by calling out: "Come on, you copper-colored villains; show yourselves in fair, open fight: no dodging behind the trees in the dark. Come on, the old man is ready for you." 
               But he fumed still more when his messenger returned from the settlement, and brought word that the Magistrates had no reinforcements to spare, but urged him to seek the shelter of the block-house with his family. 
               The old Captain went raving mad. He cursed the souls and bodies of all the dastardly Roundheads that governed Hartford. He swore that he never would sneak into the block-house, but defend himself as he might on his own premises, and be burnt with all his buildings and goods, if the Indians so chose. 
               "Did nobody say any thing in help of the old Cavalier? Did none of the rascally, snivelling, psalm-singing hypocrites offer to assist an old man in his extreme trouble?" 
               "Yes, sir," said the messenger, "Edward and Henry Dudley both offered to accompany me, but the Colonel, who was with the Magistrates, would not allow it." 
                
               "By -," said the irritated Seymour, "I'll pay the old Roundhead to-morrow, if God and these cursed Indians spare my life. I'll go to the council and shame him before them all. I will-so help me Satan! But stir, stir, all of you. There is another fiery arrow darting through the sky, down near the sheep barn. Thank God, the fog is up and heavy, and the shingles are new. But run-run." 
               No evil was experienced from the arrow, for it was extinguished before it reached the roof. 
               "I saw," said Cook, running in breathlessly, "where the rascals stood that fired that arrow. I can mark them, if they fire again, by creeping through the tall corn of the garden and corn-field down to the white oak in the corner, near the pond." 
               "Run-run, then, Jim, and pick them off." 
               "Don't expose yourself, James," said Jane, "unnecessarily; we cannot spare one of our defenders." 
               "Go in the house, wench; what do you know of war? Soldiers must expose themselves. Go into the house, and keep out of harm's way." 
               As he spoke, an arrow, shot up in a circle, descended and struck on her shoulder. She pulled it out, and stanched the blood with her handkerchief. "What, wounded? I told you so. Go into the house, and some one will see to it." 
                
               The report of fire-arms now came booming through the fields. "There goes Jim Cook's matchlock. He had a good rest behind the white oak, and has done something, I hope, with one of the tawny-skinned rascals." 
               "I hope," said another of the hired men, "that Jim remembers the rule in savage fights, not to remain behind the tree he shot from long, but to rush to another. Ah! here he comes!" 
               "I saw the rascal step out of the bushes into the cleared ground, to direct his arrow at the house, and took long aim, but my rest slipped. He stood still, however, to watch the effect of his arrow, as he heard Miss Jane scream. I had then an opportunity to fix the rest again, and took good aim with the matchlock. I knew I hit him, for he jumped up several feet in the air, and fell on the dark ground. I could not see him stir afterward, but I thought he could as well lie there till to-morrow; for I did not know how many more there might have been concealed." 
               So passed the night, in agitation and alarm. Jane's wound was not dangerous, but kept the females of the family busy. No further attempt was made on Seymour's premises, though strict watch was kept up during the night. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Who will believe thee, Isabel? 
                           My unsoil'd name, the austereness of my life, 
                           My vouch against you, and my place i' the state, 
                           Will so your accusation overweigh, 
                           That you shall stifle in your own report, 
                           And smell of calumny." 
                        
                      
                     Shakspeare. 
                   
                
               ON the next morning, an early investigation ascertained that the Indian killed by Cook the night before was the young Mohawk who had escaped from prison, and it was at once concluded that all the mischief and alarm, attempted or perpetrated, the night before, had been accomplished by him and Samoset. The Magistrates were called to an early session to examine into the various transactions of the previous night. The death of the Mohawk being reported, a coroner's jury was empanelled, as a mere matter of form, before his burial. Of course, Capt. Seymour, his servants and family, were summoned to testify. The Captain, irritated by the refusal of assistance during the past dangers, was very ready to attend, declaring that he would give the Magistrates and Colonel Dudley a piece of his mind. 
               "He was determined," he said, "to be revenged on the old Puritan Roundhead for all the evil he had done to him." 
               He, therefore, ordered his whole household to attend, heavily armed; and even his niece, though feeble from her wound, was compelled to be present. The old man was in a feverish state of anxiety all the morning, as if he meditated something to which he could hardly reconcile his conscience or his feelings. 
               The Magistrates' Court opened early, and, after hearing the report of the sentinels and scouts, and all the evidence that could be collected, respecting the burning of John Barnard's barn, the coroner's inquest was called. 
               In the mean time, Seymour had sat, lowering through his shaggy eyebrows on the whole body, but more especially on Col. Dudley. When his eyes rested on him, it seemed as if the most intense hatred lighted up their orbs, but the same uneasiness of expression mingled with the hatred. 
               Jane had taken her seat in the corner of the court-room, pale from the effects of her wound, her left arm in a sling, and her face sometimes flushed with the novelty of the situation, and, at others, wan from the loss of blood. Henry Dudley was at her side in a moment, regardless of the gaze of the multitude, the frowns of his father, or the low muttering of Capt. Seymour, "You'll wish yourself somewhere else, soon." 
               Edward Dudley was among the lawyers on their usual seats, but regarding the whole scene with an interest that would betray itself in spite of his usually well-governed feelings and well-regulated countenance. 
               The examination of the family of Capt. Seymour was full as to all the events of the previous night, as the Magistrates wished not only to satisfy the requisitions of the law respecting the death of the Indian, but to obtain information concerning the whole transactions of the night, and ascertain how general an Indian insurrection was to be apprehended. 
               Capt. Seymour dwelt with considerable length and some exaggeration on the danger of his family, and the "dastardly cowardice and partiality," as he termed it, of the Magistrates, in not sending him assistance. To these allusions, Governor Haynes gave no apparent attention. He was very much in the habit of investigating but one particular at a time. 
               Jane's testimony was simple and to the point, of her wound's being caused by an arrow shot from the very spot where the Mohawk was killed. There was a murmur of approbation in the crowded court-room at the exceeding fascination of her beauty, as she modestly but clearly told her story. Even the older men among the Magistrates were softened at her appearance, and listened with deference-all but Col. Dudley, who shut his eyes as she was called, and never opened them until her testimony was ended. 
               This being finished, Governor Haynes very briefly directed the foreman of the Jury what verdict to render, and ordered the proper officers to see to the burial of the body. He then turned to Capt. Seymour:-"The subject of law being settled, the Magistrates are now ready to answer and reprove such complaints as may be made against their decisions. They stand ready, Captain Richard Seymour, to inflict a fine upon you, for an open contempt of their decisions, but take into consideration the peculiar excitement under which you labor. The erection of your house at such a distance from the settlement has always been disapproved of by the General Court. It has placed you out of the reach of the spiritual privileges every true well-wisher of the colony values. It has cut you off from those legal and necessary restraints and duties of watch and ward, to which we are all subject. This being the case, we have thought it best to leave you to your own resources of defence, and, as you had not cast in your lot among us, not to protect you in return. It was therefore resolved, last night, on motion of our beloved brother, Colonel Dudley, not to send such reinforcements as you demanded, especially as they were believed to be more needed in another quarter." 
               "And so, unless I will unite in the farce of what you call divine worship, and become as sneaking and vile dissenters as ye are, I and mine are to be left to the tender mercies of the savage? Is this your boasted piety? I claimed the protection of the law you boast of, and am told I cannot have it, unless I cant, and whine, and sing psalms, like you! So it was 'our beloved brother,' Colonel Thomas Dudley, that left me to the attacks of the savages? I'll unmask you, you hypocrite! I'll tell a tale that shall make your blood forsake your cheeks more than it does now. Listen, ye holy and pure men, as ye think yourselves, and know what a hollow-hearted and worthless wretch ye have fostered among you." 
               Here several of the Magistrates arose to interrupt him. "Let him alone," said Col. Dudley, calmly, though very pale; "if it must come, it may be as well now as at any time." 
               "Listen!" bellowed out the enraged and excited old man, fairly frothing at the mouth in his fury. "Ye guardians of the public morality, and planters of the only pure and true faith in the wilderness, as ye call yourselves, your hero and saint, who sits among you as a 'beloved brother,' was a rake and a debauchee before he left his native England, and yon affrighted girl, that sits trembling in the corner, is the offspring of his illicit love. I have told you this before, Thomas Dudley, and you know that she, who is called in the world by the name of Jane Seymour, is the daughter of Alice Lee, whom you betrayed in the bloom of her youth. Do ye hear it, ye canting hypocrites?" 
               Oh, how different was the aspect of the two men! They were both pale, but Seymour's eyes were blazing in the light of gratified hatred and consummated revenge, while Dudley's fixed gaze seemed to express sorrow and shame more than anger. He did not turn his eyes towards his sons, nor notice the confusion in the corner where Jane sat. He was standing, and essayed to speak, though evidently almost choking under the attempt. 
                
               "I warned you of this," broke in Capt. Seymour, with increased violence, "when you insulted me before the General Court, last year. I warned you of this when I privately showed you the proofs of this secret, and made you acknowledge my pretended niece was the perfect image of Alice Lee. I told you, then, that the next insult would meet with public disgrace, and you have it now, you canting, sneaking hypocrite! And yet you went on, and allowed your son to play the lover to his own sister, and to court her affections, and you did not dare, coward as you are, to confess to him what a bed of coals he was kindling for his own affections. But now the secret is out, I shall not even give up the long-neglected daughter. She shall be my niece still, and inherit my property. I swore to Alice Lee that I would protect her child, as long as the blood flowed in my veins. That oath I shall keep. I have left misery enough in your family to satisfy my revenge. It shall never be visited on her head, but I thank God, none of your breed can now marry her." 
               Col. Dudley again calmly waved his hand to speak, when Governor Haynes interfered: "Permit me, Brother Dudley; this matter belongs to the church and to us. Bold, bad man," said he, turning to Seymour, "do you take your oath that this tale is true?" 
                
               "So help me God," said the Captain, trembling with rage, "if this damsel, called Jane Seymour, is not the daughter of Alice Lee!" 
               "Enough," responded the Governor. "Brethren of the Church of Hartford, and Magistrates of the colony of Connecticut, hear ye. This story is no new one to us, and to the pastor and committee of our church. When Col. Dudley presented himself to unite with this church, he told us how, in the dissipations and excesses of youth, Satan lured him astray, and that, as he supposed, there existed a proof of the great sin of his earlier days. He related to us the circumstances of the intimate connection with Alice Lee, his subsequent separation from her, and ardent but unsuccessful endeavors to trace her out, until he had, as he supposed, abundant proof of her death. Not until long after this, did he unite himself to Anne Stanley, his present worthy lady. Nor did he form that union without relating to her every circumstance of his early, unfortunate, but apparently guilty attachment. Being convinced of his deep penitence of this and of his other faults, and of his trust that his guilt had been washed out in the blood of the Saviour, we admitted him to regular standing in the church. The expected disgrace of this assault, therefore, falls to the ground, and the malice of that wicked ed man fails of its aim, except as it crushes the affections and harrows up the feelings of the young." 
               "I have but to add," said Deacon Nichols, "that the church did not think this youthful crime of Brother Dudley required any public atonement, in a settlement so distant and a period so remote from the event. It was therefore resolved to keep it within the breast of the church committee. If it has injured the happiness of the young, I shall grieve that such a decision was formed." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Sins of my youth! 
                           That stand, in troops, about my memory, 
                           And hover blackly o'er my path of life, 
                           Haunt me not thus! Are ye not wash'd away 
                           In the Redeemer's blood? Has not true faith 
                           And penitence the mighty balance struck? 
                           Hence! Let me die in hope!" 
                        
                      
                     The Convict: a Tragedy. 
                   
                
               "THE brethren," said Col. Dudley, "will allow me to state a few circumstances connected with this long-repented crime-if crime it be. When my heart was young, and my affections warm, I came across the beautiful Alice Lee, at the house of a distant relative. I need not describe to you how beautiful-her very image has stood before you this day, and excited your murmuring approbation. She was ignorant of the world-artless and confiding. A violent attachment arose between us. I wonder now at the strength and unreasonableness of that attachment, as I look back upon it. It was idolatry-the creature was really worshipped. Our attachment was kept secret, of necessity-for she was dowerless, and my father, in the haughtiness of his nobility, would have disdained to sanction a union between his son and the portionless Alice Lee. Whether he had any suspicion of our love, I knew not, but he ordered my instant return to his castle, with a determination to send me immediately to the continent. We had one more night before we parted-our last interview on earth. None but those who have loved madly can tell the agony of that meeting and that parting. I obtained from Alice the promise of an immediate private marriage, which was at once accomplished by the aid of a priest in the immediate neighbourhood, without the regular license, without witnesses or certificate. We did not separate until the carriage which my father had sent for me came to the door. 
               "There was no deliberate, guilty seduction, as that bad man would intimate. Alice was trusting as a child, and believed that a legal marriage had taken place; and such was my belief, until I subsequently ascertained that the marriage, in the eye of the law, was null, on the ground of the absence of witnesses, the want of a license, and of the consent of friends, we both being under age. I did not know, until afterwards, that even the priest who married us had been suspended by the Bishop for irregularities, and had no power of performing the marriage ceremony. That man has asserted before now that I knew he was under suspension. As true as there is a God in heaven, brethren, I knew it not; and, under the ignorance and impulsiveness of reckless youth, I did not stop to inquire how much or how little earthly form was necessary to legalize a marriage. I only knew that we had taken each other as husband and wife in the sight of God, and supposed we had complied with the laws of man. The wrong which I did was not what the malice of my enemy asserts, but it consisted in connecting my destinies with hers, when I had no control over them myself. 
               I went abroad, and staid there years, until the death of my father. On my return, I made every inquiry for Alice Lee, intending, at once, to repair the involuntary wrong I had done her. I could discover nothing of her. The friends, with whom she had been staying when I knew her, had died or were gone-none knew whither. During this search it was that I became acquainted with Richard Seymour, who declared to me that Alice Lee had been dead several years. I grieved over this result of my youthful and reckless passion, but soon found comfort in the society of Anne Stanley, and in the growing love of liberty and hatred of oppression. My history, since I came to this land, to enjoy this liberty, you all know." 
               As his father finished, Edward raised his head from his arms, where it had been placed at the very commencement of this scene, and looked with swimming eyes towards his parent, as if confidence in his integrity had not been shaken. 
               Capt. Seymour sat, discomfited and uneasy, looking furtively at Jane, but never casting his eyes towards his opponent, whose sincere tone and manly confession brought conviction even to his heart. He had shot his shaft, and the arrow had fallen harmless from the breast of him against whom it was aimed; but, alas, how deeply had it wounded three young hearts, one of which was the only being he really loved! 
               It would be difficult to describe the effect which Capt. Seymour's communication had upon some of those most interested in it. At his commencing denunciation, Jane looked up in broad amazement, fearing lest the exciting scenes of the last night had so acted upon the irritable mind of her uncle, as to have deranged his faculties. As the truth dawned on her mind, she covered her face with her hands, but listened still intensely to the conversation. 
               When such a sudden, unlooked-for, unexpected event occurs to us, where there is nothing on our part but a passive attention to it, the first effect is stunning. It does not produce tears or fainting, or even much external manifestation of sensibility or excitement. It is as if the senses of the soul had been numbed by the blow. Such were Jane's feelings, as she thought of herself. She was roused from this partial stupor, and obliged to uncover her face, on hearing the stifled gasp which Henry gave, who stood by her side as the communication was made. He fell, like one shot down, at her feet, and seemed bereft of sensation. He struggled for breath, but waived off all assistance that others attempted to bring. 
               "Henry," said the maiden, very low, "compose yourself. I rejoice that you are my brother. I can now bestow on you the affection and friendship of a sister, which your former feelings have prevented me from exhibiting." 
               Foolish maiden! to suppose that when the very heart-strings were cracking, that the offer of your calm friendship could be any solace. The insatiate demands of Love can never be fed by the 'cold baked meats' of a sisterly friendship! 
               For once, the impetuosity of his temper, and the pride of his character, were of service to him. The blood went back to his heart-oh, how much colder than when it rushed forth! He arose and left the court-room to seek in solitude the indulgence of the feelings that gushed in lava floods of hot, boiling, seething passions over his soul. 
               "Would that I could have calmed him by a sister's love," thought Jane, but at the thought there came the suffocating gush of reflection: "Edward, too, is my brother. Can I feel towards him a sister's love?" 
               The icy hand of despair was laid on her heart likewise-the hum of the voices in the court-room sounded more and more confused-the objects swam before her eyes, and soon, in senseless forgetfulness, she lost all consciousness of the present, nor did she awake to that knowledge again until she found herself upon her own bed, with the anxious faces of the attendants around her. At first, she gazed around in astonishment. "Where am I? What have I done? What has happened?" 
               Slowly the tide of recollection rolled back its bitter ter waves over her mind, and she turned upon her pillow and wept. 
               Edward started convulsively, as Jane fainted and was borne from the court-room. He seized his hat to accompany her, but checked, in an instant, all external indications of emotion, and was proceeding calmly, though with a pale countenance, to her assistance, when Capt. Seymour rudely seized him by the arm: "No, no, young Puritan, you do not go near her. I claim a right over that girl, obtained by the support of her infancy and childhood. Your own canting laws give me that power, and no son of Thomas Dudley shall ever make love to his own sister. Back with you." 
               Edward glanced at his father, and saw the same feeling in his eye, and quietly returned to his seat and his duties. What he felt, no one knew. It was sufficient always for him to know what he felt himself. He never displayed his emotions, and always despised himself when accident or sudden excitement had drawn them forth. "People may call me cold," he often said to his mother, "I know what hidden fire there is in my own heart. It is enough to light my path of life,-what need for others to know its strength or its weakness." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "God may forgive, but cannot blot them out. 
                           Systems begin and end. Eternity 
                           Rolls on his endless years, and men, absolv'd, 
                           By mercy, from the consequence, forget 
                           the evil deed, and God imputes it not; 
                           But neither systems, ending nor begun, 
                           Eternity that rolls his endless years, 
                           Nor men absolv'd, and sanctified, and wash'd 
                           By mercy from the consequence, nor yet 
                           Forgetfulness, nor God imputing not, 
                           Can wash the guilty deed, once done, from out 
                           The faithful annals of the past." 
                        
                      
                     Pollok. 
                   
                
               WHEN Col. Dudley returned to his house that noon, he walked with a sadder step. The blow he had been long anticipating had fallen, and had scathed others with its withering stroke. His wife was alone. She saw the unwonted trouble on his brow, and was alarmed. 
                
               "Husband, what aileth thee?" 
               "Anne, the bolt, long threatened, has been shot. Seymour has made his denunciation." 
               "Dear husband," said the loving wife, folding her arms around him, "you must have had a day of severe trials. But," added she, looking up lovingly into his stern, sad face, "you have held fast to your integrity?" 
               "Yes, Anne, God supported me; and I related every event as it occurred. How have I appreciated this day the judgment and the kindness of your advice, sweet wife, to relate to the church or its officers when I united with it these sad events of my early life; I then thought the church had no business with the past, on the profession of repentance. How sound was your advice, then, dear Anne; to-day, I have reaped its benefit." 
               "Rather say, dear husband, that you owe it to the dictates of your own integrity in informing me of all the facts, even before I had decided to love you, in order that the knowledge of the past might not afterwards put me to shame. It was that very integrity of heart that made me cleave to you for time and eternity; would that I could put that aching head upon my bosom, and lull you to sleep and forgetfulness." 
                
               Edward then entered for dinner; and the wife sank back to her submissive look, and the husband banished from his countenance the tenderness and the confidence of love; and was once more the stern, cold, sad Puritan,-rendered still more wintry by the events of the morning. 
               The afternoon of that day was the weekly lecture, which all felt under as much obligation to attend as to be present at the exercises of the Sabbath. Here was Mr. Hooker's peculiar province. The Sabbath he devoted exclusively to spiritual instruction. But he made his week-day lecture the opportunity of reproving his people for faults or follies other than those connected with religious discipline. It was here that he attacked any political principles broached in the Council, where he could not enter his protest. He was a sound Republican, and a sturdy Independent in religion, but, at times, a little too much disposed to dictate on both temporal and spiritual matters. These lectures were always interesting from their containing allusions to the current events of the day. 
               Mr. Hooker, in his prayer, alluded to the events of the night. He prayed for Barnard by name, that the loss of his barn might be sanctified to his use, in preserving him from too great an attachment to this world's goods,-a fault that poor Barnard was too prone to indulge in; and that it might be blessed to the whole public, by rousing up their charities and sympathies, until they all joined to erect a new barn for the sufferer. He alluded to the alarms produced by the Indian attacks, and prayed that the whole congregation might realize how Satan, in spiritual matters, was roaming round their souls in the same dark way for their injury. 
               The text of his sermon was from Numbers xxxii. 23, "Be sure your sin will find you out." The doctrine that he deduced from it was the certainty of the Divine punishment for sin. He argued, "that punishment under the administration of God was two-fold: the satisfaction of justice, as it may be called,-that is, the rendering of so much pain for so much guilt; stand, secondly, the naturally constituted consequences of the act itself. Of the first kind of punishment, we may say, that God has determined that repentance and faith in the Saviour can release mankind from it. Of the second, that God has determined that nothing shall exempt the sinner from its effects." 
               The application was evident to all. Indeed, though he mentioned no names, he spoke often of "our beloved brother," and of the trials he now endures dured as the consequential punishment for his sin. "Be careful then, young men," he continued, "how you allow unbridled passions to obtain dominion over your souls. They govern with a tyrant's grasp; they leave a scar which all the blood of a Saviour cannot obliterate. God may pardon sin through Jesus Christ, but he never erases the record, 'Sedet, eternumque sedebit.' On the great ledger of heaven it stands for ever in its flaming characters. There may be, it is true, a balance struck on the opposite page written in the blood of Christ, but the sin, once committed, retains its hue for ever. Tears cannot blot out or wash away the records of Heaven. Penitence cannot erase from the great system of God's government the consequences of the one wrong act. Repentance and faith in Jesus Christ, though they may remit the penalty of the broken law, cannot alter the motion of a single wheel in the mighty chariot of God's Providence, as it rolls its endless cycle through the universe. The consequences of guilt are as irreversible as the decrees of God; they stand as unshaken as the foundations of the battlements of Heaven; they will last until eternity sighs out its duration. Give heed, then, young men, to the warning voice, and walk the safe, straight path of integrity and holiness. Give heed, then, young women, and avoid the least breath which pollution may breathe upon your purity; when lost, it can never be regained. It glitters in the early spring-time of life like the morning dew in the tender flowers, and, like that, too soon to vanish from the heart for ever. If, dew-like, it is exhaled by the heat of passion, or evaporated by this world's sun, it never recondenses on the heart. Virtue may follow vice,-the heart may be brought back to honesty and truth,-principle and religion may resume their reign,-but purity once lost is never recovered. The tear of repentance may wash and soften the stony heart, but it brings not again that early perfume which innocence and delicacy spread over the soul. 
               "Of the wrong done by this early submission to the recklessness of the passion of the moment, our brother repented long since; and if a life of rigid self-denial, of eminent holiness, of a constant and ardent devotion to the cause of Christ, is any evidence, then we may feel that he has been pardoned for the sins of his youth; but their consequences, under the punitive justice of God, are not obliterated. Here they stand out in all their horrible freshness; here, even in this distant country, and at this distant period, as if it were the very sunset of the day on which they were enacted,-blasting the affections of the young like the simoom of the desert,-mildewing the peace and happiness of the aged like a pestilential vapor. Be warned then, my hearers, against the indulgence of wrong, for be sure that your sin will find you out." 
               Henry had not been seen all day. For his absence his father made no inquiries, and uttered no reproaches. Late in the evening he came home, haggard, worn out, with the settled paleness of deep despair painted on every feature. He went at once to the room which he and his brother occupied, and found Edward sitting up for him, appearing nearly as much distressed as he. 
               "Do not say a word to me, Edward; do not attempt to comfort me. There is no word that can alleviate the pain of this blow; no consolation that can assuage its agony,-for, Edward, Edward, there is no hope! If she were false, or even married to another, there would still be some lingering ray of future hope left in the mind; but there can be none here. It is madness even to think of it. Oh, how I have cursed my existence this day!-cursed her, and my father, and every one." 
               "May God forgive you, my suffering child," said his mother, who had silently entered the room; " and may he give you strength to sustain this fearful fate. We have warned you of this, as soon as it was known to us. We hoped it would not be necessary to say more. Be calm, my dear boy, and submit to this chastisement." 
               She lavished upon him those caresses which she thought necessary to wean him from his suffering, and to show him there was still affection in the world left for him, little thinking in her partiality that there was another present on whom such caresses had never been lavished, and who would have given worlds for these very manifestations of a mother's love, which Henry, in his despair, rather pushed from him. 
               "Was he not suffering too?" he thought; "did I not love her likewise with as strong a flame? But she knows it not, and, thank God, no one does. I would not have been my brother's rival, even if my love ate out my very heart." 
               "Good night, beloved Henry. Good night, son Edward; comfort your brother. Your calm, equable mind, can be of some service to him now." 
               Did either of those brothers sleep that night? 
               "Where have you been to-day, Corporal Bull?" 
               "On duty, up to Centinel Hill. I meant to have gone with you to the court-room, as I told you I would last night, when we were up at John Barnard's nard's fire; but I was sent on guard to watch for those plaguy Indians, as if they would think of coming in the day-time. But, neighbor Steele, did you go up, and what was done?" 
               "Oh, the magistrates, as usual, inquired into the fire, and the other attacks; and I suppose came to the wise conclusion, by an unanimous vote, that Indians were around. Jim Cook shot one up to old Captain Seymour's, that had wounded Miss Jane with an arrow, and tried to set fire to the barns. His body was brought down, and a jury sot on't. He was that smoky-looking youth of the Mohawks who ran away from jail." 
               "Well, I guess they settled that verdict pretty quick. There ain't much crying over a dead Indian now-a-days." 
               "You may say that. But the strangest thing to come is, that old Captain Seymour, who was towering mad, because the magistrates did not choose to send him some musketeers last night, proved there, in court, that his niece, Jane Seymour, was Colonel Dudley's daughter; and the Colonel owns it: and Jane fainted, and Hal Dudley had a fit; and old Colonel Dudley looked as if he could have eaten up the Captain for telling the truth; and your favorite Edward sat as calm and as cold as if he were glad of the whole." 
               You shan't abuse Eddy, for he is a good lad, and will be an honor to us. What a strange affair!-but I can't stay any longer. There are the cows to milk, and the pigs to feed, and lots of other chores; so, good night." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "I wore Bill Martin's wig, 
                           When I train'd, when I train'd: 
                           I wore Bill Martin's wig, 
                           When I train'd. 
                           I wore Bill Martin's wig; 
                           'Twas fixed up very trig; 
                           And I felt darnation big, 
                           When I train'd." 
                        
                      
                     Old Song. 
                   
                
               EARLY on the next morning a summons for the Magistrates and Council was early sent around the settlement. Rumors began to prevail that important measures were to be taken. It was soon certainly known that a courier had arrived from Massachusetts, giving intelligence that a new Indian war had commenced within their domains; and requesting that their brethren of Connecticut would send as soon as possible a detachment of soldiers as a reinforcement to the Springfield and Hadley settlements, that were threatened with an attack. 
               It was resolved, that; as the request was urgent, fifty men should be dispatched that day, and that Capt. John Mason should prepare the remaining train-bands to follow at another day. 
               An increase of the military force occasioned some promotions. Sergeant Wadsworth was made a Lieutenant, and had the command of the detachment given to him. Edward Dudley solicited, through Mr. Culick, the appointment of Ensign, and obtained it. Corporals Webster and Bull were both made Sergeants, and with two Corporals were sent in the detached party. 
               The day was a busy one, and by noon the little band was ferried across the river, and set out upon their errand. 
               About half of the men were armed with matchlocks, the remainder with pikes; each man was furnished with a cutlass, pistols, and a knife in his belt. Their dress was of woollen,-the home-made, sad-colored cloth of the period,-made double, and quilted with cotton, so that an Indian arrow could hardly penetrate it. They carried no extra clothing, except a pair of stockings; though the careful wives of some had provided them with thread and needles against contingencies. In his knapsack each carried provisions,-Indian bread, boiled pork, and cheese, with a metallic cup. Some of the younger pikemen were provided with fowling-pieces, in case a supply of game should be needed. Each had two blankets rolled up on the top of his knapsack, but no arrangements for tents or an encampment had been made, for the party expected to reach the settlement of Springfield, where the danger was, the next day; and one night's bivouac did not distress them in anticipation. The steeple hat, with no feather or ornament, and the boot hose tied up over the knee, completed their equipment; and they presented an array of stern, solemn men, with firm mien and undaunted front, entering upon what might prove a dangerous enterprise; but a danger to be met firmly, solemnly, seriously,-with no lightness of affected courage or of wanton bravado, but with that dependence on the care of Jehovah that had accompanied them through all the vicissitudes of their eventful lives. 
               Lieutenant Wadsworth and Ensign Dudley were not dressed differently from the rest, except in the superior excellency of the same fashioned equipments. 
               They kept, in their route, as near the river as they could, as their best guide; but were obliged to make considerable detours into the country to avoid the low grounds on the margin of the river, and the various streams and rivulets that entered it. Sergeant Webster was placed in the van to select the best path through the woods, his hunting experience having often taken him up to the Podunk country. The soldiers marched compactly, with no particular order, but none were suffered to lag by Wadsworth, who brought up the rear. No attention was paid to circumspection as to their trail. They had no enemies in the rear to fear, and were too formidable a body for the Podunks to attack. 
               After crossing the Podunk, their course was again towards the river; and they kept along on the top of the eminence, next west of the present East Hartford and East Windsor road, until they reached the Scantic. Here they were obliged to make another detour into the interior, over the brooks and branches of the Scantic, well known in modern times by the trout fisherman. About half an hour before sundown, they reached the banks of that branch which is now termed Broad Brook, some sixteen miles from the settlement at Hartford. Here Lieutenant Wadsworth ordered a halt, and sent Sergeants Webster and Bull to select a place for a night encampment. They returned soon, and conducted the company to the spot which they had selected. Ah! well we know that spot; many a nice trout have we taken from yonder deep, dark pool, near the foot of that yellow birch. A slight hill, covered with a copse of oak-trees, arose near the bank of the brook, but left a pebbly margin of a few feet, over which the stream dashed furiously in its freshets,-now it murmured along sullenly at their base. The underbrush had principally died away under the shade of the old oak, and a few minutes' work with the cutlasses cleared the rest. Preparations were made for cooking their game on the pebbly bank of the brook, by Webster's advice, that the current of air which the brook created by the motion of its waters should carry the smoke with it down stream, and not unnecessarily betray their encampment. 
               On their arrival, the roll was called over, and David Rice, one of the privates, marked as missing. Upon inquiry being made, Corporal Goodwin said that Rice told him in the morning that he could not start as early as the rest, but would follow their trail, and reach them before night; "Rice is a queer fellow; he never is ready for any duty, but he is a good woodsman, and can reach us if any one can." 
               A sentinel was placed on the beach under the shadow of the rocks, and two more near each extreme of the encampment. 
               Before eating, Lieutenant Wadsworth called the men together, and after reading by torch-light a short passage from a small Bible he carried with him, he prayed for a blessing upon their food, for protection during the night, and for assistance in the duties and under the trials of the next day. He then exhorted the men to place their confidence in God, to repent of all their short-comings during the day, and, after their repast, to seek sleep as soon as possible; giving them notice that their march would be resumed as soon as day broke. He then assigned to Corporal Goodwin the care of relieving the guard, and to Sergeant Bull, the Quartermaster's department, of arranging the conveniences for food, both for supper and an early breakfast; and for the accommodation of the men during the night. 
               Supper was nearly finished, when the loud voice of the westernmost sentinel was heard to call, "Who goes there?-who goes there? Answer quick, or I shall fire." At the same time, they heard him fix his rest in the ground. 
               The soldiers all started to their feet, but they soon heard the voice of Rice, crying out, "You need not shoot, Steele; it's only I, David Rice." 
                
               Rice then approached the encampment, accompanied by Henry Dudley, who was followed by his faithful hound. 
               "Lieutenant Wadsworth," said Rice, "I got here just as quick as I could. I had some corn to pick this morning, and the old woman had not mended my coat; but here I am, and have brought you a volunteer beside." 
               "Lieutenant Wadsworth," said Henry Dudley, rather haughtily, "I choose to accompany this expedition. I have learnt from one of our townsmen, that Samoset has probably joined this new Massachusetts outbreak; and I wish to settle accounts with that rascal." 
               "We receive you as a volunteer," said Wadsworth; "but expect you to submit to the necessary discipline of military authority. I am sorry you have joined us, for I have already had some experience of your disobedience to authority. But we cannot send you back now. But as for that dog, he cannot remain with a party and a trail like this; he will betray our approach at once by his barking. He must be killed." 
               "Let me see the man who dare kill my dog," said Henry, flaring up at once; "he will have to take a blow from my cutlass." 
                
               "I rather think," said Wadsworth, coolly, "you will find out who is master here before we part." 
               "There is no need of altercation," said Edward, "the dog is a faithful and obedient one. He may be of use to us in the trail. At any rate, Lieutenant, I will be accountable for its behaviour, and will confine it if it proves troublesome." 
               "The dog," cried out Rice, "is a perfect Christian. Once or twice to-day, when we were at fault on the trail, the dog set us right, and seemed soon to understand what we needed, and kept ahead of us directly in the right course." 
               "Why do you speak so irreverently, and like a blustering cavalier, David Rice," said Wadsworth; "it is not seemly for a godly man to use such language." 
               "Edward," said Henry, sullenly, "have you any supper for me? Here are some partridges and a rabbit." 
               "I'll attend to the supper," said Rice, "my old woman says I'm a capital cook." 
               They descended to the level of the brook, the dog quietly following them; and David Rice soon put his roasting and broiling propensities to the test, in preparing a good supper for himself, Henry Dudley, and the "Christian" dog, who had his share. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Oh, the doleful, dismal suz! 
                           Oh, the doleful, desperate suz!! 
                           Oh, the doleful, dreadful suz!!! 
                           The Indians lay behind the fence, 
                           And shot him down, stone dead!!!! 
                        
                      
                     Old Song. 
                   
                
               WHEN Henry sought the resting-place of his brother, the latter found that he had left home wholly unprepared for the expedition. He had a fowling-piece and a knife of course, but nothing else except a cutlass. Edward gave him up one of his blankets and a knapsack for his pillow, resting his head himself, as he slept, against a huge oak. 
               When they had lain down, Edward said, "We had looked for you for some time this morning, when the news of the requisition from Massachusetts arrived rived, but you was not to be found. Our mother said she was glad of it, for she could not permit you to go." 
               "It was afternoon when I returned; I cannot stay at home and see every thing that reminds me of Jane Seymour. Jane Seymour! rather Jane Dudley-that maddens me. I have been wandering around to-day in some hopes of tracing out the course of Samoset. I have no other one on whom I can revenge my losses. I urged father and mother to permit me to join the expedition as a volunteer. Father at length gave his consent for me to wait and march with Captain Mason, but I could not assent to this. Mother, for once, was firm, and absolutely prohibited my going.. I left the house in a rage, determined to follow, if I stole a boat to cross the river with. Poor Bevis, here, had been with me all the day, and I could not drive him back,-and shall not, let yonder old bigot say what he will. As I was looking along the bank for a boat, I saw Dave Rice just entering one,-sleepy David, as the boys call him; I found him all prepared for the expedition. He said he had been belated by the corn, and then he had to run down to Nichols' store for some salt and pepper,-he could not go without them; and altogether he was late. I soon stopped his chattering, and he, very willingly, consented to have me go with him, as he had only a pike, and I had a fowling-piece; and 'Look here,' said he, 'here is a little iron kettle in my blankets; a very small one, that will answer to make a stew in to-night.'" 
               Edward permitted him to run on, glad that his mind could find a diversion in any thing. 
               "But, brother, I am sadly grieved that you should have gone contrary to mother's commands. She so seldom lays them upon you that I should think you would find it difficult to disobey." 
               "Perhaps that is the very reason. I have sometimes thought that had my mother commanded me more, I should have been less reckless and head-strong. It is rather too late for her to begin now, however; and so I started." 
               "Brother, brother, I am afraid that an expedition commenced in disobedience to a mother's commands will have but an unfortunate termination." 
               "No croaking, Edward; no utterance of evil omens. But why should I care;-life has lost its charm, and the sooner its fevery dream is over in the sound sleep of death the better. But come, let us sleep; I am tired." 
               "Oh, brother," thought Edward, though he did not speak it, "think of the waking from that sound sleep in the light of eternity, with its realities around your soul. May God pardon you." 
               The tired frames of the brothers soon yielded to sleep, although many distressing thoughts pierced the bosoms of both. The other inmates of the grove had sunk to slumber long since, and the beams of the young moon shone on the sleeping group, the huge oak trees, and the solemn pace of the vigilant sentinel; while beneath the rock, on the pebbly beach of the murmuring brook, the relief guard, under Corporal Goodwin, sat around the embers of the decaying fire, occasionally supplying them with fuel, and nodding in partial sleep, as the lulling sound of the brook over its pebbly bottom hushed them to rest. The night was still and clear. A faint vapor rose from the brook, and curled up the side of the rocky hill; the screech-owl's boding scream echoed from her nook in the high oak, as the wind gently rustled its seared and dying leaves; the insect creation of summer were mostly hushed by the early frosts, and the prowling wolf was far up the distant mountain. As the slanting light of the setting moon struck upon the dark pool near them, the hermit trout, who had lain there quietly during the day, dashed at the bright leaves that floated on its surface face, or grasped the struggling cricket that had unwittingly leaped to destruction. 
               The march was resumed early in the morning, after a hearty breakfast. Lieutenant Wadsworth advised the men that circumstances might prevent a meal being taken before night. As they approached the Massachusetts line, greater precautions were taken against surprise, and the summits of those hills chosen where, through the trees, the distant river could be seen as the only guide to their place of destination. Webster and Dudley still kept in the van, while Wadsworth brought up the rear. Henry trod rather moodily along. No conversation was allowed in the ranks, and the want of excitement in the regular monotony of the progress was annoying to one of his temperament. 
               Noon found them within the bounds of Massachusetts, and very near, as they supposed, the objects of their march. They had crossed one Indian trail going eastward, but did not pursue it, lest it should take them from their main object, that of giving aid to their distressed brethren. At noon, they seated themselves on the brow of a hill sloping to the north, at the foot of which ran a cold stream, and snatched a hasty repast of the remains of their ample breakfast. As they were seated, Webster was seen suddenly denly to rise, and go to the very brow of the hill, and stand attentively, holding his head back in the air. 
               "What is it, Sergeant?" said Lieut. Wadsworth; "what do you see or hear?" 
               "Nothing," said Webster, returning to his seat, "nothing; but I smell the smoke of a distant fire, and it is not the smoke of leaves or of fresh cut wood." 
               They all sprang to the ledge, and snuffing up the air, which, being rather brisk from the north, brought the smell of smoke from a great distance. 
               "Do you smell it, Lieutenant?" said Webster. "Very plainly. It has a mixed smell of various descriptions." 
               "It is the smell of old timber and seasoned pine," said Webster. "There is a framed dwelling burning somewhere at the north. Ensign Dudley, you are young; will you climb yon high oak that hangs over the cliff, and look in the direction of the smoke?" 
               Edward unbuckled the belt of his cutlass, and left his knapsack and his weapons at the foot of the tree, with his hat. He was young, agile, and fearless. The highest branch he could reach and preserve his position was attained, and he looked out on the surrounding country. The river lay at his left, moving sleepily amid the gay autumn-colored forests that surrounded it,-its waves slightly ruffled by the northern wind. No farm-houses, and villages, and steeples, and cultivated fields, were seen rising in the distance, as now, from that same high cliff, but one unbroken belt of heavy trees skirted the horizon, rich with the dying hues of the vegetable year. Over their variegated tops, at a point on the north verge of the horizon, a heavy black smoke arose, with its lower edges tinged with flame. Its lurid masses surged up in succession over the gay woods, like death amid the brilliancy of a ball-room. He hailed them below, and pointed out its direction. 
               "Come down, Ensign," shouted the Lieutenant; "we must hurry. The enemy are at work." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Thou know'st," he sternly said, "that ne'er 
                           An insult I forgive; 
                           Nor does there breathe a man who dares 
                           Provoke my rage and live. 
                        
                         
                           "This night my foeman I surpris'd, 
                           His fresh torn scalp I bear; 
                           His blood, the signal of my tribe, 
                           Upon my brow I wear. 
                        
                         
                           "E'en now, around his smoking home 
                           My warriors watch the fire; 
                           That home, Ompoia, once was thine; 
                           That foeman was thy sire." 
                        
                      
                     Nootonuc and Ompoia. 
                   
                
               A NEW arrangement was now made in the march. The scouts were called in. Wadsworth himself took the lead with Webster, and Edward was sent to bring up the rear. Their ranks were now condensed, and they stalked through the wood at a quicker pace. Two flankers were placed at about twenty rods from the front rank; two of the best and most experienced men of the company. Henry sought the rear with his brother, but felt the excitement and enthusiasm of the moment with the rest; and even, of his own accord, attached a leash to his dog's neck, and held him in from rambling. 
               An hour was spent in this rapid march, the increasing smoke being their guide. At length, they came out upon a clear piece of land, on a hill but a little distance from the river, and saw the object of their search. They had come too late. The smoking remains of the frame and the roof were blazing in the cellar, and the blackened stone chimney stood as a solemn beacon of what the savages had done. They had come too late; for on that sandy knoll there lay a man in the vigor of life, two grown-up lads, their mother, and three young girls, in the cold embrace of death. They were nearly stripped of their garments, and their disfigured heads showed that it was not prisoners but scalps that their merciless enemies had desired. 
               The expression on the faces of the man and the youths was calm, though solemn, showing that their death-wound had been made by the bullet before their scalps were taken. But the distortion and pain expressed in the countenances of the females indicated that they had been scalped, and left to die in their agony. 
               The party halted as they came upon the clearing, and stood gazing in silent sorrow at the mournful scene. Each one thought of the little ones he had left, and how such might be their fate. 
               When the whole party had deployed into the inclosure, and all were assembled around the dead, Lieutenant Wadsworth spoke: "Friends, there is one duty that remains for us before we go farther,-to give a Christian burial to these, our murdered brethren; and not leave their bones to be gnawed by the wolves and the catamounts. Ensign Dudley, you are detached to superintend this solemn business. Sergeant Webster, select a man, and ascertain from their trail the number of our foes, and the direction which they took. Henry Dudley, restrain that dog of yours, or he must be killed." 
               The dog, as he saw the bodies, had set up a long, unearthly howl, which would have soon given to the pursued foe a knowledge of their approach. Henry obeyed, for the solemnities of the scene and the firmness of the command overawed him. 
               Edward set about his duty immediately. In a rude log barn, which had been overlooked by the savages, he found two shovels, a spade, and a hoe. With the latter, he scraped off the top of the ground in the place which he had selected, in the midst of their little garden, where no roots would retard their digging. The soil was light and sandy, and the labor of excavation easy. Three men took the implements, and worked with all their strength for a few minutes; and then, at a nod from Edward, three others took their place. In a short time a trench was thus dug, deep enough to hold the bodies, and wide enough for two to lie abreast. Reverently was each corpse borne to its last resting-place in the garments that their murderers had left; the father, the mother, the noble boys, and the blooming girls, were all carefully deposited in that rough tomb, by men who felt the reality and the solemnity of the occasion. 
               Edward, himself, threw the first shovel-full of earth on the bodies, and the zeal of the men soon filled the grave; loose stones were heaped up upon the mound, and the buried were thus left until the resurrection morning. 
               This work being done, Edward then reverently took off his hat, which he laid upon the rock; and spreading out his hands, addressed the Father of us all in Heaven. Each rough soldier uncovered his head, and bent his eye in reverence. Edward's prayer was short. There was too much work to perform for a long address. He begged for a sanctification of this event to the soldiers before him; that each arm might be strengthened, and each heart nerved by the sight which they had seen; that God might see fit to make them the instruments of punishing this atrocity, and preserve their lives for it. 
               When he concluded, and had replaced his hat, he drew his cutlass with a jerk and a rattle that made the pine-woods resound again. 
               "Brethren," said he, waving his sword over his head, "we have done the last duty to the dead but one, and that is to avenge them. Their souls are in God's hands; vengeance is in ours. Are you ready?" 
               The low murmur, "We are!" was the response of the men. 
               They then gathered their arms and their knapsacks, and resumed their march. There was no word of threatening,-no huzza of excitement. They were men who went to such a work calmly, deliberately, solemnly. With them, it was a religious duty. The scene of devastation before them was but another argument, added to the long chain of reasons, that the native tribes should be exterminated; and not a soul present stepped forward on the coming march with any feelings of compunction or compassion towards the savage race. What had been the fate of the family of this settler might be theirs, unless the whole race were cut off. 
               The character of the Puritan was precisely fitted to the conquest and settlement of a new country. There was a solemn sternness about all his resolves that conducted to ultimate success, even under the most discouraging obstacles. These settlers never sat down to weep under the pressure of their lot, but, with a trust on high, rose up to work. The same solemnity and sternness ran through all their domestic life. They were kind, but never indulgent. Rigid in their discipline, they formed men to be the future lawgivers and citizens of the great Republic that was to arise. 
               Henry was surprised and awed at the new light in which his brother now stood before him. He had thought of him, hitherto, as the sharer of his bed, the companion of his sports, the partaker of his labors. He now saw him commencing the great struggle of life,-a man among men,-swaying their passions, governing their wills, influencing their decisions,-and he was awed. It was no longer his brother Edward ward that he saw, but one destined to wield the power of the rising community. 
               Sergeant Webster had returned from his assigned duty before the ceremony of interment was finished. He leaned upon his gun, watching with solemn severity the whole scene. He then remembered the log-house near the Little River, where sons and daughters called him father; and that they too were subject to a similar fate, unless such enemies were exterminated. 
               When Dudley had finished, Webster advanced to Lieut. Wadsworth, and said in a low, stern voice, "Follow me." He led them to the borders of the little cleared corn-field of the cottager, where the freshly made foot-prints of a large body of Indians could be perceived crossing it. He called attention to one larger, and with a very differently constructed moccason. 
               "'Tis Samoset's," said Lieut. Wadsworth and Edward, in a breath; "we examined that foot-print too closely but a short time since not to remember it." 
               "The other Indians are some French tribe," said Webster; "they have the Canadian form in their tracks." 
               "Where's Samoset's track?" said Henry; "show it to me. Here, Bevis, smell him." 
                
               He took the dog by the leash, and put his nose into the foot-print. "Hie, hie, find him!" 
               "Well thought of," said Wadsworth; "keep him before you, and hold him in; and we can pursue that track by his aid." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXVIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Now in that bushy dell, the echoes rose 
                           Of many a dreadful sound; the crash of tomahawk, 
                           Drinking the life blood of the sever'd brain; 
                           The scream of parting life heard loud and shrill 
                           Amid the storm of war; the deep-toned curse 
                           As broke the fragile spear, when needed most; 
                           While, over all, the shout Altawmah gave, 
                           Exulting, as he drove the death-axe home." 
                        
                      
                     Altawmah: Canto III. 
                   
                
               THE march was again commenced. Each matchlock man unbound his rest from his gun, and examined his powder and his match. Cutlasses were loosened in the sheath, and pistols examined. The pikemen fell in the rear, as less fitted to carry on a tree fight, if such was to be the order of battle. 
               The march had not been continued more than half an hour, thanks to Bevis's assistance in finding the trail, when Wadsworth halted the party and listened. The dog could hardly be restrained, for distant shots were now plainly heard, and the faint echo of the terrific war-whoop-generally a fearful sound to the settlers' ears, but one which the Connecticut men were beginning to despise. 
               The order was given for all the matchlock-men but ten to deploy on the flanks of the foe, each seizing a tree, and advancing, while a pikeman was to cover him at the same tree, to protect him from a sudden rush. Edward was ordered to remain in the rear with the ten matchlock-men, to act as a reserve, and strengthen where a reinforcement might be needed. 
               "You do not intend to follow this mean, dastardly mode of tree fighting, do you, brother?" said Henry. "How our knightly ancestors would have blushed at such a departure from the rules of chivalry! Why not march out, at once, and drive them from their covert?" 
               "Henry, you speak foolishly. Every nation has its customs. We have no means of encountering a foe like this, but by imitating his own mode of fighting, and there prove our superiority. Watch the fight, and you will learn something to guide you in after life." 
                
               A shot was heard nearer. "Men, to your trees," said Edward. Each took a huge tree in front of him, and peered cautiously around its trunk. Edward beckoned Henry to him. "Follow me, brother, and do as I do. Tie Bevis to this tree, and leave him for the present. He will only be injured." 
               A bullet from a distant gun struck very near Henry, which led him to imitate Edward's example. 
               "Oblique to the left," was the word passed from tree to tree, "to fall on the enemy's flank, we are too near the flank of our own friends." 
               Henry wondered at the ease and precision with which the manuvre was executed, each soldier passing rapidly from one tree to another, bearing to the left, but still advancing, until a rising ground was reached, from which the van of the extreme left could see the encounter beneath them. 
               The Massachusetts men were but a small band, and were retreating, having evidently lost many of their number, but still turning behind each tree, and firing as they retreated. The Indians, flushed with success, were pressing on in a direction that brought the Hartford reinforcement on the flank and even rear of their extreme right. Wadsworth's dispositions were soon made. He headed the men who pressed down obliquely on their flank, while Webster led a second division to the left, and Ensign Dudley, with the reserve, passed round the base of the hill to attack the rear and cut off the retreat of the Indians in that direction. 
               The first intimation of the presence of the Connecticut men which the savages had, came from a murderous discharge from Wadsworth's division, which cut down many of their ablest men. The right wing of the Indians wheeled at once, and took another station behind the trees, while Wadsworth's division, under the cover of the smoke and confusion, seized a station considerably in advance. 
               Seeing a reinforcement, the Massachusetts men turned and pressed forward in their turn, thus bringing the Indians partly between two fires. 
               Webster's division, of course, had farther to go to reach the rear of the Indian line, and Dudley's still farther. But the fire of Webster's division scattered the Indians, and the battle was decided before Dudley reached the assigned ground. 
               Indians are never good soldiers under a surprise. They broke in confusion at once, and endeavoured to escape by their own left flank. But here they were met by the Massachusetts men, and assailed in the rear by Webster's division. A few broke from their covert, and endeavoured to rush by the flank of Webster's ster's force, but were met with a heavy fire, and pinned to the earth by the pikes as they passed. 
               Dudley's corps now came into action, and picked off many of the stragglers. One powerful Indian, formidable with European arms, and frightful in his war-paint, had nearly reached Edward's left, when Henry called out, "It is Samoset; give him to me to fill up my vengeance!" So saying, he sprang forward from his covert, and madly pursued his foe. Samoset heard the shout of, "Stay, you scoundrel of an Indian," and stepped behind a tree. In vain Edward cried out to Henry to be wary, and exposed himself to rush to his rescue. Samoset discharged his piece ineffectually, and flinging it away, he rushed upon Henry, struck him with his knife in the breast, and seizing him in his arms, flung him with great violence to the ground. He stepped one foot on him, and had raised his tomahawk to strike the blow for the scalp, when Edward, outstripping the men, struck him with his cutlass, and then seized him around the arms. 
               A struggle for life and death ensued. Samoset was older, heavier, and stronger, but he had to contend in this wrestling match with one more agile and active, whose muscles were all flexible and at his command. Edward tried to fling him, but in vain. Samoset endeavored to release his arms to use his tomahawk, but was unable to do it. The men could not fire without injury to Edward, but they ran as rapidly as their heavy armor would permit. 
               But a new combatant was before them on the scene of action. Bevis, when he was tied at a distance, had heard his master's shout as he pursued Samoset, and breaking his leash, came bounding towards the combatants. Springing up, he seized Samoset by the shoulder, and brought him to the ground, where the blows of the pikemen, who first reached the spot, soon put an end to his existence. 
               The victory was complete; hardly ten of the savages escaped towards their canoes, and many of them were shot by their pursuers before they reached them. 
               When Wadsworth and Webster returned from the pursuit, they found Henry nearly dead from his wounds and bruises, while the men were stanching his blood, and Edward was supporting his head. Bevis, too, was alternately licking his dying master's hand, and then growling over and tearing, in his rage, the lifeless body of Samoset. 
               "What! Henry Dudley wounded! Where is it? Ha! an ugly place. Handle him gently, men. Double a blanket under him, that he may lie easier. Who did it? What, that cunning serpent, Samoset? But I see he has paid the penalty for all his evil deeds." 
               His whistle called his men around him. "Friends and brethren, you have gained a bloodless victory to ourselves, there being no one seriously wounded but Henry Dudley. It is now drawing near night. Quartermaster Bull, see to the preparations for the evening meal, and Corporal Goodwin, look out for a proper place for an encampment. To-morrow, we must proceed farther up, and drive the savages from Hadley and Deerfield." 
               Henry, now somewhat revived, muttered, wanderingly, "Where's mother?" 
               "Poor fellow," said Corporal Bull, "we must contrive some means to make the night comfortable to him." 
               "Oh, brother, brother, let me die at home. Carry me back to my own little chamber. I cannot die here in the dark woods. Can I not live to be carried home, and die in my mother's arms?" 
               What a picture for a painter did that scene furnish? The beautiful youth, lying at his length, his face in the last agony of life, his head upon his brother's breast, whose tears fell like rain on the dying Henry's head,-the stalwart forms of the stern Puritans, looking on in their compassion,-the dead Indian,-the dog crouched at his master's feet, licking his cold hand,-the eternal forest around them, dressed in its autumn glories. What a picture! 
               Again Henry moaned out, "Carry me home to die! I left my mother, contrary to her commands. Let me see her only once before I close my eyes on this world's scenes, and beseech her forgiveness. Oh, let me die at home!" 
               Poor boy! The last drops of life were even then welling from his heart. 
               "Brother," whispered Edward, "it is too late; there is now no refuge but in Christ." 
               The dying youth's mind wandered. "Who are these standing around my bedside? They all look like father in his stern mood. Where's mother? Why is not she here to hold my aching head? Where's Jane? Will she not see me once more?" 
               Wadsworth stooped and gently wiped off the damp dews of death that were settling on his forehead, and the froth that covered his lips, for Edward was too much overcome for even these sad duties. 
               "Was that mother?" said Henry, as he started at the touch and opened his eyes. "Oh, no; no: trees and armed men! Even the blue sky shut out. Give me air. Let me breathe the sweet perfume of home once more! Oh! let me die at home!" 
               The words gurgled in the throat, the breath stopped, and then, with a long-drawn sigh, the spirit left its clayey tenement. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXIX. 
                
                   
                     
                        "The old, old fashion! The fashion that came in with our first garments, and will last unchanged until our race has run its course, and the wide firmament is rolled up like a scroll. The old, old fashion-Death!"
                      
                     Dombey and Son. 
                   
                
               "LIEUTENANT WADSWORTH," said Sergeant Webster, "I would advise that the corpse of our young friend be immediately sent, under a proper escort, to his home." 
               "My own decision leans that way. The mode must be by the river. There is, I am told, a flat-bottomed boat near us, with a square sail, which the Indians stole, somewhere above, in which to cross the river, in addition to their canoes. It will be readily given up to us for this purpose. Ensign Dudley will, of course, accompany the body, and be released from the remaining labors of the expedition. David Rice and Aaron Clarke, who understand the navigation of the river, will accompany them. There is yet sufficient light to commence the voyage, and the moonlight will last until the rapids are cleared. Ensign Dudley, does this arrangement meet with your approbation?" 
               "Do as you list," was the reply; "I have no power of judging left." 
               "The sooner then that it is done the better." 
               The body was then enveloped in a blanket, and carried by the sorrowing soldiers to the boat. Bevis slowly followed, every now and then uttering a mournful howl. The remains were placed gently on the bottom of the boat, after packing beneath it several of the bloody blankets torn from the Indian corpses. The head was slightly raised and propped, so that it could not roll, and a blanket spread over the whole. Edward silently took his place as steersman, while Rice and Clark pushed the boat off with their long oars, and hoisted their sail to the north wind. The boat slowly put off the shore, the men with their officers standing uncovered until it had reached the middle of the stream, and was fairly in the current. 
               The moon still gave a checkered light through the western trees, as the boat shot down the rapids, but left them in darkness as they skirted along the sparse dwellings of Windsor settlement-now silent in the embrace of sleep. The day had dawned when the Hartford chimneys appeared in view, and the sun had risen before the boat was moored in the Little River, near the foot of Front-street. 
               The news of her arrival and the freight she carried, spread before she rounded Dutch Point, and passed the fort: Mr. Hooker and Deacon Nichols felt it their duty to break the news to the afflicted parents, while Governor Haynes and some of the Magistrates met the boat at the dock with the bier in their hands. The procession was a long, sad one. The event had collected almost every male of the settlement: some from curiosity; others, from sympathy with a family that all respected; others, to hear from Rice and Clarke the events of the campaign, and the safety of the little band that had left them. 
               The grief of the father at hearing the news, was repressed, for men were looking at him, and he shut up every emotion within the iron gates of his own heart,-but that of the mother was frantic. She had been struck where the blow was most keenly felt, and her exclamations were almost in so many words: "Ye have taken away my gods, and what have I left?" She was for rushing to the boat, or for stopping ping the bier in its progress, but was prevented by the kind firmness of Mr. Hooker. "You cannot see him until he has been prepared for the death chamber," was the firm announcement. 
               On reaching the house, Governor Haynes authoritatively bade the multitude to disperse, and none to enter the house of mourning but those he designated. He directed Mr. Hopkins and Mr. Culick to examine the two men who had returned, and to publish the full accounts of the reported battle at the town-house at 10 o'clock, at which hour he summoned the people. He then directed the few whom he had suffered to enter the house, to wash and dress the body before the parents saw it. 
               Edward went at once to his mother's room, and related to her and his father the scenes of Henry's death. 
               "Did you make no effort to save him? Did you desert him in the hour of his greatest need?" 
               "Mother, no: I have still on my body an undressed wound which Samoset gave me in the contest." 
               "Forgive me, my son; this blow is too heavy for me. Heaven preserve my intellect." 
               "Anne, remember who chastens,-from whom the blow comes, and be humble." 
                
               "I will, husband, I will, but not now. I cannot now." 
               The hour for the funeral had arrived. It was the custom for the early settlers of the State to hold such religious services as were then common at funerals, at the Meeting-House. In small communities, each person knows every other; and in a newly-settled community, a wonderful and powerful degree of unanimity of feeling prevails. They are all members of one great family. Hence, in their small houses, there never would be room enough for the assembling together of the whole. As religious ceremonies were early considered proper, it was thought best to hold funerals in the Meeting-House. 
               A sufficient number of men to carry the corpse went to the house, but stood without in the yard or street. Four of the number then went in, accompanied by some one who assumed the guidance of the whole, as a kind of manager, who brought the coffin out and placed it upon the bier. The mourners then came out, two and two; the bearers raised the bier to their shoulders, and the men formed in procession in front, while the women and children followed the mourners in the rear. The bell struck its solemn note, as the bier was lifted, and tolled at long and measured intervals, during the progress of the procession cession. As they marched slowly on, four from the head of the procession stopped, two on each side, and waited until the coffin reached them. They then took their turns to bear it, while the four relieved formed in the front of the coffin, and, at the same time, four more stepped one side from the head of the procession to await their turn in the sad labor. 
               Reader! You who have been accustomed to the hearse and the carriages of a city funeral for years, do you remember the awe with which this procession of men struck you in your childhood? the chill that came over you, when the four in advance stepped silently one side, until the dead,-or, as it seemed to your young imagination,-death itself reached them?-the shudder, as the coffin rocked, as it was shifted from shoulder to shoulder, and the fear lest it should fall, and the sheeted dead burst out into the gaping crowd? Do you remember the first time when you was thought old enough to join in this solemn duty of carrying the dead to their last resting-place?-the fear lest you should stumble and fall, or allow the weight to slip from your shoulders? 
               But the days of the bier,-the coffin borne on the shoulders-the long procession winding slowly on a mild summer afternoon, far off to the solitary hill, where the dead all slept soundly together,-are all gone-and with them, many of the ties which bound humanity together, and many of the solemn lessons taught to the living. 
               Such was the funeral of Henry Dudley. The long procession moved through the streets to the first rude Meeting-House that stood near the site of the present State-House. The father stepped firmly, though there was no bravado or defiance to the world on his brow; but he saw not the groups of his pitying neighbors and fellow-citizens that were around him, nor heard the stifling whisper of the children, as they pointed out, "That's his father." His wife clung to his arm with both her hands, and seemed almost to be carried by him. Her face was closely shrouded by her veil, but the by-standers could see the shudder that ran through her slight and fragile form, as she raised her head at the interruptions which the change of bearers produced. 
               Edward walked alone in their rear-fit emblem, he thought, of the solitary life he must henceforth lead-but not the less resolved to hide every burning feeling and ardent thought, under the same impenetrable face of calm, moveless expression. Duty was to be his external aim. Passion and sorrow and affection were to be buried in his heart, as deep as the grave now gaping for Henry. He thought of his mother, and trembled as he saw her weak frame writhing under the tempest of grief which had assailed her. "She must go next," was the saddening thought. "My father, too,-grief must bend and shake that strong, oak-like frame, and stern, unyielding character. I must take his place soon, and give the whole energies of my soul, as he has done, to the perfection of the principles on which this rising colony is to be built. Why, then, should I suffer the same grief that hurried Henry to frenzy, to freeze up the current of my soul, and to make me unfit for the great duties that lie before me? No: here, as I follow the remains of my early and only playmate to the grave, I form the strong resolve to crush all private emotions, and to live alone for my parents and my country." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXX. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The lost: the lost: they're in the grave, no more my path to cheer; 
                           Their forms no more shall bless my view, a lonely wanderer here. 
                           They've breathed the last warm wish for me; the last fond hope have felt; 
                           And in their strong desires for me, in last fond prayer have knelt." 
                        
                      
                     Old Times. 
                   
                
               WE pass over the religious ceremonies of the church. After rising for prayer, as she sat down, Anne Dudley placed her husband's arm around her, and laid her head upon his shoulder. The Colonel seemed, at first, to feel that the exhibition of any affection was out of place on such a public occasion, and partially withdrew his arm and let it fail by her side, but Anne drew it up again, and he did not remove it. 
               Much as the Puritan character revolted against any display of affection in public, as partaking of a lascivious tendency, not a soul present but felt its propriety and beauty now. The idol of the mother had been removed, and the loss but drew her the more closely to the husband. Mr. Hooker alluded to it very beautifully in his closing address to the mourners. As he spoke to the bereaved mother, he said, "May you find, madam, the arm of the Almighty drawn around your soul to comfort it, as the arm of your husband is now drawn around your body to support it." 
               The graveyard was north of the church, on a slight eminence, now levelled, where some of our public-houses now stand. Many of the trees were still flourishing in their primeval majesty, but clad in the brown tints of the decaying year. A slight shower, the night before, had stripped them of their gaudy plumage, and the yellow and red leaves of the poplar and the maple were lying in heaps upon the grassy graves. The coffin was stripped of its pall, and lowered into the grave. 
               Oh! how the mother's soul shuddered as the ends of the last earthly house of her Henry grated on the pebbles as it slowly sank into the earth! A few shovels full of soil were then flung upon the coffin, and the minister solemnly returned the thanks of the mourners for "burying their dead out of their sight;" when the crowd dispersed, and the grave-digger and his assistant shovelled in the remaining earth, without any ceremony. 
               Col. Dudley endeavored to persuade his wife to leave the place; but no: there was a terrible fascination to stay and watch until every glimpse of the coffin of her son was hidden from sight; and, even then, it was with extreme difficulty that she could be hurried away, though the flushed cheek, hot hand, and trembling frame told her husband that the excitement had proved too much for her. 
               There is no sound in animate or inanimate nature so intensely saddening as that of the fall of the first clod of earth on the coffin of a beloved friend. The heart never feels so utterly forsaken as at that moment. While the friend was struggling with life, there was hope. No one ever relinquishes it. Even after the absolute certainty of death is forced upon the understanding, there still is a kind of lingering hope that some miracle might yet take place-that it may be but a trance-that the dead may live. We think of all the miracles which Christ wrought on earth, and feel as if ours was just the case to call out his compassion to restore the lost one. 
               It is not Hope. She has left the threshold. It is but clinging to the shadow which she throws on the wall at her departure. 
               But when the coffin is closed, and the lid screwed down, and the pall flung over it, we tremble, for even the shadow of Hope has left us. Then comes the grave-the heaped up earth by its side-the sobered eyes of the sorrowing spectators all turned upon us-the grating of the coffin as it moves down the deep, dark pit,-and then, as the solemn sound of that first shovel-full of earth comes up, deadened, from the depths below, it knells death-death-to the heart. The last farewell of the soul until the resurrection morning is then uttered. 
               There is another painful period, when friends are lost, that the mourning heart feels. It is the first meal after the funeral is over. The place at the family board is empty. There is no saying that he is absent or sick, or will be present soon. It never more will be occupied. Move the chair away. He comes no more. Meals, and days, and months, and years-nay, a whole long lifetime-may pass, but the lost one comes no more! 
               How well for man it is, that the sources of grief dry up in the heart-that time is the great softener and alleviator,-and that memory is less intense, as the world moves on. Man could not endure and perform form the great duty which God has set before him, if there were no drying up of the springs of sorrow in his soul. 
               How well for man, that he can look beyond the gates of the grave into a country of happiness, peace, and love, where all tears shall be wiped away, and where he hopes, once more, to meet the beloved ones of earth. Were the grave "the be-all and end-all" of life, how wretched would man be! But Hope, that had fled from the heart, and withdrawn even its darkened shadow from the wall, comes back with the sunlight of Heaven, which casts no shadow over the heart, but fills the soul with the blissful anticipations of the future. 
               The evening meal was passed in silence and in tears. The evening exercise was from the fifteenth chapter of the Corinthians, and the enthusiasm of the belief in the resurrection lighted up the face of our Puritan with the glow of consolation. But, alas! it struck no answering chord in the heart of his wife; the coffin-the pall-the grave in the cold churchyard closed in over the gloomy night of her soul. As she shut her eyes, the dead form of her loved son came before her in such vivid distinctness, that she would start as if it were real. There was no vision of the future,-of hearts purified and justified, spending ing an eternity in glowing and glorious light, such as flashed over her husband's mind, and were described in the bright language of his Christian eloquence;-there was a long, dark journey before her; she trod it alone; gloomy was the aspect of the strait path, as she slowly forced her way through its obstacles; it was the path to the grave, and she shuddered as her mind seemed compelled by some extraneous power to contemplate it; reason almost tottered on its throne, when her husband closed his explanatory exercise on the chapter, and rose for prayer. 
               There was a warm and kind vein of sympathy running through his whole prayer, that soothed Anne Dudley's spirit, and led the storm of her mind to seek relief in tears. 
               As she lay that night with her head on her husband's breast, she broke out suddenly with the exclamation: "Husband, God is righteous, and has punished me as I deserve. As I have lain here, the past has been brought before me in the most vivid coloring. The reckless rashness, obstinacy, and self-will of our son has been my fault. He was my darling, and I never restrained him in childhood or youth. I was proud of his beauty, and thus gave him vain and frivolous ideas. I was proud of his spirit, as manifesting the chivalry of his ancestors cestors, and I never checked its unholy promptings. God has visited me in justice, and taken my idol from my heart. You restrained his petulance and his impetuosity, and I encouraged it; hence he came to me under all his restraints for release. It is I that have brought him up to perish early. It is I that have educated him to die by the hand of violence. Do not comfort me by words, dear husband-it is not just; but press me closer to your breast, for, oh, my heart is cold within me." 
               "How hot you are, my Anne, there's fever in your system. Shall I rise and prepare some medicines?" 
               "Nay, nay, leave me not. I shall not hold you long. Again there comes before my soul that long, long, dark, gloomy path, that leads to the grave. Henry's pale and bloody form beckons me forward in it." 
               "Anne, dear Anne, your mind wanders. Let me get some cooling drink." 
               "Not yet, not yet. Let me lie on your breast yet awhile. I must soon exchange it for the damp earth of yonder graveyard." 
               She was quiet for a while, when a violent shivering fit succeeded to the burning fever of the moment before. 
                
               In these alternations of heat and cold, the night was spent, and she did not slumber until the morning was advancing, when Col. Dudley arose from his sleepless couch, leaving the unconscious Anne in her fevery sleep. He immediately despatched Edward for the physician of the settlement, who at once pronounced that Mrs. Dudley had a violent attack of lung fever, that disorder so disastrous and fatal to the early settlers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "No: no: they are not lost to us; the dark cold grave holds not 
                           All that we priz'd or lov'd so well, within that narrow spot. 
                           A wider home, a freer range is theirs-that heavenly train; 
                           Nor shall they feel again, as once, the sting of grief or pain." 
                        
                      
                     Old Times. 
                   
                
               ANNE DUDLEY gradually sank through several succeeding days. She suffered little pain-the sick of that disease seldom do. For most of the time, she lay in a state of stupor, where weakness and fever were alternately performing their sad office. 
               She was seldom rational; or, if giving rational answers, forgetting them in a moment. Often, during her sickness, her mind wandered. There was no violence in the delirium, but the spirit, in its muttered words, seemed dwelling on the past. It was the bright day of youth and hope once more with Anne Stanley. Sudley Park was before her in its beauties. The meadow bank, rich with the green of early spring, with its bright screen of hawthorn blossoms, was before her eyes. She smelt the morning perfume of the violets, as the light breeze breathed over their odor. She heard the evening sound of the curfew, as it came softened over the low hills. There was peace and joy and youthful gayety once more in her old, withered, crushed heart. 
               Oh, how intensely did the anxious husband listen to these low mutterings; how the firm lips quivered, and the stern eyes filled, as he followed these early reminiscences, and heard how Thomas Dudley's name mingled with their bliss. 
               The present was seldom with her: most of her conceptions were brilliant and beautiful; most of them infantile recollections of her early home. The death and funeral of her son were never pictured to her imagination; the long, long, dark gloomy path that led to the gates of the grave seemed banished from her soul. 
               Once, when an unusual pain slightly racked her system, she was terrified with a scene of their early life in America. The first time in which she had ever seen the Indians in their war-paint, was when a party of them, for some treaty-making purposes, had entered the settlement and marched through the streets. The sight struck terror into the young mother's heart. She seized her two little boys, and fled into some dark recess of the house, from which it required all the tenderness and some of the firmness of her husband to withdraw her. 
               This scene was re-enacted in that moment of pain: the plumed and painted savage-the terror-the agony, at first, to find her boys, who were exulting in the pageant as it passed their house in its visit to the Governor-the vain effort to conceal them and herself;-all passed over her mind in their full reality. 
               As her mind calmed, when the pain grew less, the memory of that scene grew less terrific. "See, husband," she said, "how our boys show out their characters now. Edward looks on calmly and gravely, as if he asked himself what is the use of all this parade, while darling Henry claps his little hands with glee, and imitates the strut of the savages." 
               Once, as reason dawned, she asked for Henry and Edward. "Here I am, mother," was Edward's soft reply. She looked around. "Oh, I remember now," and tears came to her relief. 
               Her husband watched over her, night and day. though every neighbor was kind, and the whole community munity anxious. A little band of exiles in a new and savage country feel powerfully drawn towards each other. 
               On the last night of her residence on earth, her mind brightened. She spoke of her death with no terror. She expressed her faith fully in her Savior. 
               "Husband, dear husband," said the dying wife, in a voice so low that he had to stoop over her to hear it, "your prayers for me have been answered, and I have peace within-oh, what peace and hope! Your duties to me, so cheerfully, kindly, affectionately bestowed, are soon to be finished, but I cannot go the way of all the living, without blessing you from my inmost heart for all that you have been to me. I have often grieved that I had not a stronger character, and a stronger mind, to have assisted you in the great work you have undertaken here in the wilderness. I have not been a help-meet for you. I have hindered you often by my fears and my follies, by domestic cares-perhaps by a too exacting love. I am afraid I have demanded from you that time which would have been better devoted to the state, or to God." 
               "Dear Anne, think not so. I have often blessed my God, that you was just such a wife;-so entirely fitted for the character I must bear in my outer destiny tiny. Had you interfered with my plans by your dictation, or even by your unasked advice, I might have felt that you was going beyond your sphere. Had you been a fretful, complaining woman, my home would soon have been a wretched one. But you have never presumed upon my affection to direct my plans; when I have felt doubtful about certain measures, I have placed the subject before you, and your decision has always been right. I was rejoiced to find that you did not take sufficient interest in the discussions going on, to feel elated or chagrined at their success or failure. They were burdens that a proud, firm man, as I am called, prefers to bear alone. But no, my dear wife, you have been always ready to soothe my cares by your affection, without the curiosity to inquire what those cares were, unless I chose to unburden my heart. I have given you my confidence, whenever I have thought the confidence itself would not be a burden to you. But, oh, how delightful has been the feeling, when, agitated by the trials of a new colony, anxious for the success of my measures, uneasy at the prospect of things in England, or disturbed by the encroachments of the Dutch, or the incursions of the Indians, how delightful it has been to me to feel that I had a home, where I could fling them all aside,-and that I had a wife, whose ready affection would soothe my cares and troubles-who loved the man, not the statesman. Dear, very dear to me, has been our affectionate intercourse, Anne. It has softened me, led me heavenward, destroyed the influences of selfishness and pride, and strewed my path of life with all the flowers that God has chosen should adorn it. Without you, I should have been a cold, hard, haughty man; forgetful, too often, of the nicer sensibilities that throb in the hearts of others." 
               She smiled upon him as he stooped over her, and raised her weak hand and felt of the beloved face, pushed back the hair on the forehead, and passed her hand gently over every feature, while her eyes seemed devouring, for the last time, those lineaments so dear to her. 
               Dudley started as he felt that hand. It was hard and rough, with the long labors of the wilderness. When he had clasped it in his own, he had not felt the change, for his own were still more hard and rough and horn-like by his constant labor. He thought of the soft, white hand he had first pressed on the violet bank in Sudley Park; and a pang of regret-of almost remorse, passed across his bosom as he remembered to what labor and toil and suffering ing his love had subjected that tender and delicate woman. 
               But earth, its labors, and toils and suffering, would soon be over. "Husband, kiss me once more-once more, as in youthful love." 
               The last, long kiss of expiring love was taken: as she sank back upon her pillow, she faintly said: "Thomas, you will soon follow me, will you not?" 
               That night, she died, dropping, all unconscious of pain or of dissolution, into the long, last sleep of death. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "'Tis like those pangs the wretched know, 
                           Who bury all they love below; 
                           Who hear the clod's dead, heavy fall, 
                           Upon the coffin of their all; 
                           Whose hopes all lie beneath its lid, 
                           Yet long to see that coffin hid; 
                           And, turning from the narrow cell, 
                           Reflect that all they lov'd so well, 
                           Is mute and cold beneath the clay 
                           That holds them for corruption prey." 
                        
                      
                     Old Times 
                   
                
               AGAIN, the long funeral train of bearers, with the bier on their shoulders, sought the meetinghouse; again, did Col. Dudley and his son take their seat in "the pew reserved for the mourners," and listen to the voice of the saintly Hooker, as he preached the accustomed sermon over the dead. 
               In his glowing eloquence, he delineated the life of the deceased; he spoke of her youth, spent amid the luxuries of the Court in England,-of the delicate, and timid, and tender female, leaving all that had twined itself around an affectionate heart, to follow a beloved husband into the wilderness there to give the testimony of a well-spent life to the religion she professed. He described her influence over the women of the colony; how, by her labors and toils, she had shown that work was no degradation for the nobly born,-no objection to the delicately bred. He spoke of the example of her purity and her mildness; of her home virtues, and the light she had spread over that sacred inclosure. He spoke of her charities; of their quiet distillation over the neighborhood like the dew of Heaven; of the many mothers in Israel that she had relieved, strengthened, comforted, supported. 
               "Hear you that sob?" exclaimed he, in tones that thrilled through every heart. "It is not from the bereaved husband's heart. He looks up in faith beyond the veil of time, and sees her now in all the glorious garniture of Heaven. It is not from the motherless son: the spirit of submission to our Father, God, restrains the agony of his emotion. It is from yon group of widows, whose stay and staff has been rent from their hands. Were this the proper place, you would see them, like the widows of Joppa, not only 'weeping, but showing the coats and the garments which Dorcas had made while she was with them.' Not all the solemn requiems of the cathedrals of her native land could better sound over her remains than those widows' sobs. No Egyptian spices could better embalm her memory than those widows' tears. No carved marble slab will stand in the church of her native village to record her name and preserve her memory. It is recorded on the tablet of the orphans' hearts, and will be felt and cherished after her body has crumbled into the grave." 
               Silently the father and the son deposited the remains of their loved one in the dust. The November wind howled bleakly through the bare and leafless trees that stood over her grave. The leaves fit emblems of mortality, dry and crisped, and sear,-whirled in giddy dances over the rough-hewn tombstones of the inclosure. Far in a corner of that grave-yard, they left her, to await the Archangel's trump. 
               Silently they passed back to their desolate home, and sat down to their untasted meal. 
               "Edward," said the father, "we are all that is left of the household. You are of age, and have already ready entered upon the duties of manhood. Your path now must be an independent one, based on your own resolutions and decisions. My task, as the father of a family, in this world has ended. May God forgive its errors, and bless its efforts. My plan is formed. Henceforward, I devote myself to the interests of this rising colony. My private wants are few. You know our neighbor, Peleg Wright, has been obliged through misfortune to sell his farm. He has no children, and it is my determination to place him and his wife in this house to take care of our domestic affairs. His wife is a strong woman, and abundantly able to take upon her shoulders all the labor your mother performed. Wright himself has health enough left to superintend on the farm such laborers as I shall hire. This arrangement will be a charity to them, and a convenience to me; and it is one respecting which no scandal can be breathed. 
               "But, Edward, as I said before, you are now a man. I have enough property for you to commence life for yourself, and to begin the solemn duties of the family relation. Is there no female around you of the proper age, and of a suitable disposition, that you can make your wife?" 
               "Father, you have touched upon a delicate subject ject; but I will answer you in the confidence with which you speak. There was one to whom I had given my whole heart. Late disclosures, as you well know, have forbidden the hope of possessing her. I can love but once, and I shall never marry. To this conclusion I had arrived long since, when I found myself my brother's rival. From duty to him, I had buried my feelings in my own breast. Now he is no more, I can express them to you, my dear father; but I cannot comply with your wishes." 
               "It is strange, Edward, that I never suspected this. Your brother made no secret of his attachment. It is strange. But I know your tenacity of purpose, and the command you have over every expression of emotion." 
               "Edward," continued he, after pondering some time, "are you not afraid that this power of concealing real emotion may prove of disservice to your character? Will it not beget not only a cold external habit, but, in its very self-control, produce the same coldness of feeling? The habitual restraint of the expression of passion may, in time, repress the emotion itself, and you become cold, calculating, and feelingless." 
               "There is not much danger of that now, father. But, whatever may be its effects, the habit is formed and fixed; neither do I wish to alter it. Self-control will give me a much greater control over men." 
               "Be careful that it does not make you selfish and overbearing, as life advances. 
               "But, my son, speaking of Jane Seymour, as she has been called, you may have thought it strange, since my public acknowledgment of her, that I have not brought her home. I could not, under the existence of your brother's feelings, and certainly shall not now with yours. I made some overtures to Captain Seymour, through the Governor, to assist in her support; but the Captain absolutely and positively refused all assistance, and declared, that while he lived, she should never want support, and that she should never darken my doors. 
               "I have reflected a great deal upon the occurrence, as much, in fact, as the peculiar condition of our late sorrows would allow. I cannot understand the circumstances yet. If Jane Seymour is the daughter of Alice Lee, and I am her father, she ought to be much older;-older than my early recollections of her childhood, when she first reached this country, would warrant. Yet, she is the perfect picture of Alice Lee, as she stood before me in the bloom of her youth." 
               "Jane used to say that her uncle made her much older than either of us, and yet she never realized it herself." 
               As Edward laid his head on his pillow that night, Hope wove her silver-threaded web over his heart. He ransacked his memory for early expressions of Jane and of Seymour, before the families had quarrelled, to make out the fabric of another airy castle, and furnish materials for Hope's woven tissue. But he could not succeed; and soon his thoughts took another turn, though still every link in the chain was stained with the hue that had painted the first. 
               What a magic wand has Hope! What an apparently firm tissue of events can she weave out of a single attenuated thread! But for hope, the world would be a wilderness indeed,-only surpassed by the still bleaker "leafless desert of the mind," which would be the lot of those who tread it! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "But he who stems a stream with sand, 
                           And fetters flame with flaxen band, 
                           Has still a harder task to prove, 
                           By firm resolve to conquer love." 
                        
                      
                     Scott. 
                   
                
               WE have left our heroine too long, and we fear lest she should not be quite as much a favorite with our readers as she is with us. 
               When the surprise and shock made by the communication of Capt. Seymour in the court-room were deadened a little from their first intenseness, Jane reflected long and thoughtfully upon the story. There was much in it that she could not reconcile to the facts in her own memory. She had heard it remarked, that she and her reputed uncle reached this country about five years after Col. Dudley; and that Edward was six years old when he came to Connecticut, and his brother some three years younger. She computed her own supposed age with these data, and could not reconcile them. The memory of her own girlhood was inconsistent With the idea that she was so old as Seymour would make her. The kindness, too, of her uncle had been so uniform and so intense that she could not but wonder why it should have been exercised towards an enemy's child. But then Col. Dudley had publicly acknowledged the relationship, and made overtures for her support. She puzzled herself in vain efforts to disentangle the intricate mazes of such a web of inconsistencies. 
               The first time that she saw her uncle alone, she inquired of him what he intended to do with her. "Do with you? why keep you, and support you, and love you, as usual. That cursed old Puritan wants to do something for you, but I will see him as far the other side of the infernal regions as it is from here there, before I will permit it. No, Jane! I promised your mother to be a father to you, and I will be. So, do you call me uncle still, and be my dear niece; and don't worry your head about support. You shall never want while I live, nor after I'm dead, as you'll find by my will. So cheer up, and let us hear the sound of your voice singing through the old house, as usual." 
               "Indeed, uncle, I have no wish to leave you, but I supposed that the laws, or some other cause, might require it. I have no wish to go into Colonel Dudley's family. There are many reasons why I should not. But, dear uncle, this stain upon my birth must ever prevent me from going beyond the walls that have sheltered me so long, for I shall be pointed at wherever I go. Do not therefore urge it?" 
               "Well, well, I will not. I would not have told the story, but to shame that old hypocrite. I'm sorry I did, if you take it so much to heart." 
               "Such truths are always better known than concealed. Think of the horrid situation I now should be in, if, in answer to his solicitations, I had married Henry Dudley. The truth is always the best, and I regret that I was not informed of it sooner myself. As for singing, dear uncle, songs are the language of joy and happiness; and you cannot expect them from me." 
               "Well, then, be as happy as you can; but never talk of support while old Richard Seymour is living." 
               Ever after that conversation, Capt. Seymour's conduct towards Jane was of the kindest character. He never blamed nor scolded her as he had often done, but allowed her to do as she pleased; and appeared relieved, and even gratified, if he saw a smile upon her face. He was evidently in considerable mental perturbation, and, seemingly, anxious to decide upon some course to which he was averse; and though kind, and even tender to Jane, was terribly irascible to his whole household. 
               From the reports of the domestics, Jane learnt, day by day, the history of the little community; the departure of the troops,-the sudden move of Henry,-and the grief of his mother, were brought to her with the usual exaggerations. About Henry's state of mind she made many inquiries, and expressed much sympathy. She made no remarks on Edward's military advancement,-not even expressing her gratification at the evidently high reputation for prudence, forbearance, and bravery that he enjoyed among the leading men of the colony. 
               "It is Henry after all that she loved," said Hannah to Esther; "I was not quite certain before, for I thought she rather huffed him. It is he, for she has said so much about his absence and his feelings." 
               "Well," said Esther, "I'm glad it was not that sober, cold-hearted Edward. But, poor girl, she can't have either of them now!" 
               How falsely they reasoned! True love is silent and reserved. It is shy of mentioning the beloved name, and shrinks from commemorating even the merits of the favored one. Friendship is loquacious,-can talk and act, and feel sympathy; while Love buries its sympathy in the inmost heart, and fears to allude even to the cause that would produce it. Where you see a young lady prompt in praising a man's virtues or good qualities of mind or body, depend upon it there is no love there. Love expresses no sympathy or admiration, however much it may feel them. There is no raising of the eye with the glad gaze of welcome, as the loved one approaches; the welcome is in the dewy lid, the cast-down look, the trembling nerve, the palpitating bosom. Friendship has an open, honest, gladsome gaze. It grasps you by the hand as welcome-yes, very welcome to the lighter feelings and emotions of the heart. 
               He who is experienced in the knowledge of the human soul, can tell, by one reception from the girl he secretly loves, how she stands affected towards him; how much the joy of seeing him is the honest expression of open friendship, or the timid, trembling concealment of hidden love. Even a lady's eye, if she possesses a true character, will be guide enough to her feelings. How differently the world judges! 
                
               The news of Henry's death reached Jane suddenly. Hannah and Esther heard it early, before breakfast, and formed a plan between themselves to settle the question of her love, by its annunciation. 
               "Oh, Miss Jane, only think! Henry Dudley has been killed by the Indians, and they are bringing his corpse round to his home in a boat, by the Little River." 
               She turned very pale and trembled, as what girl would not at hearing of the death of one who had stood to her in such a relation. 
               "Oh, horrible news! Is it true? Is Edward safe?" 
               The handmaidens were satisfied, and they indulged their propensity to gossip by giving her the details. 
               At Henry's funeral Jane took a seat in the corner of the gallery, in rather a disguise, so that she should not be recognized. Her tears fell plentifully,-whether over Henry's bier, standing in the aisle, or over the sight of Edward's calm, pale face, we are unable to determine. It was a terrible fascinations however, to sit and mark the expression of that face; there seemed to be something more manly than ever before, in the rigid determination to suppress all external signs of immoderate grief which marked his countenance. 
                
               "It is only for once. It is only for this time," exclaimed she to herself. "May God forgive me! but it is the last-last time; he does not think of me,-he never will, only as a sister, bringing disgrace to his house and his father's name." 
               We are afraid our poor heroine heard little of the sermon that day, and did not sufficiently realize that he was in the coffin before her who had loved her with an Eastern fervency of passion. 
               That night Jane went earlier to her couch than usual, but not to sleep. She held a long and solemn communion with her own heart, and chid its waywardness in loving one who had been declared to be her brother, and who had never transcended the bounds of a brother's gentle love to her. She accused herself of a want of maidenly delicacy, in thus giving her heart unsought. She accused herself of crime in the nature of her attachment. But, accuse as she would, the feeling would arise; the faint hope,-the fancy generated by desire,-that there was yet some unthreaded mystery about her birth. She finally came to the resolution to rouse up every dormant energy, and drive his image from her mind. This resolution calmed her, and she set about its accomplishment with energy. She kept herself busily employed; she would not allow herself a moment ment for reverie, or even reflection. If his image occurred (and, alas! it would, full often), she drove it from her soul by the effort that every well-regulated mind can make. A change of place would have assisted her; but she had no daily associations with his presence at her own home, and change of place was the less necessary. 
               Thank heaven! such wounds to a sensitive heart are not irremediable. There is a conservative energy in a well-governed breast that will rally from the effects of such a wound, and recover its healthful tone. 
               But let such a sufferer avoid the society of the one we inflicted the blow-avoid even the places where the loved image can be recalled by associations, for these associations that memory cherishes as the fondest, are the most opposed to the power of recovery. 
               After all, the discharge of accustomed duty will be the best remedy for the wounded spirit in all such cases of despair. The consciousness of performed duty will seem, at first, but a poor exchange for love unreturned or despised; but it will soon extract the poison from the dart, and bind up the wounds of the soul. 
               This was Jane Seymour's consolation; and in the performance of her wonted duty, she sought for comfort, and found it. Her uncle's health seemed to be breaking up. He needed her society and her assistance much, and she gave it cheerfully; and found not only comfort, but happiness; not enjoyment, for she seldom smiled. The charms of life's future prospects had been broken, and though the storm was retreating, the rainbow of promise and of Hope did not gild its dark border. 
               All her anxiety was revived by the intelligence that Madam Dudley had taken cold by standing on the wet grass at Henry's funeral, and had a lung fever; and that she was considered dangerously sick. The daily news brought her of the sick woman's condition was a sore trial to her resolution. She remembered with gratitude Mrs. Dudley's early attention to her, and would have gladly joined the sympathizing neighbors in their care, but many things intervened. 
               When Madam Dudley died, there were such unutterable yearnings of spirit to have the power of comforting Edward, that her heart rose in rebellion, and seemed almost inclined to fling off those fetters of stern resolve which she had bound round it. But her better, firmer nature conquered, and she was herself again, the stronger for her struggle, though it had added to the pallor of her cheek and the settled gloom of her dark melting eye. 
               She did not attend the funeral. She argued that it was better for the firm decisions she had made, not to see Edward under the softening influences which sympathy for his loss might create. 
               Such was poor Jane's condition, as the cold blasts of winter whistled through the leafless forests of Hartford,-fit emblem which she presented of 
                      
                        "The shrivell'd scroll, the scatter'd leaf, 
                        Sear'd by the autumn-blast of grief." 
                     
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXIV. 
                
                   
                     
                        "Dear me! to think that Dombey and Son is a Daughter, after all!"
                      
                     Miss Tox. 
                   
                
               THE health of Capt. Seymour appeared gradually to fail, without the intervention of any particular disorder. He grew melancholy; his former swelling and bravado had quite forsaken him. Once or twice he was willing to allow that his Puritan neighbors had some commendable traits of character: he was very kind to Jane,-rather oppressively so. 
               At first she felt inclined to be by herself, and to spend her hours in silence; but as soon as she saw that her company was necessary for the old man's comfort and happiness, she seldom left him, but conversed with him cheerfully and quietly, though never gayly. She read to him from such books as she had access to, but more particularly from the Bible. The daily lessons of the church were read by her, and listened to with most devout seriousness by the Captain. She tried to induce him to attend meeting on the Sabbath, but was unable to accomplish that object. His will was rewritten under a lawyer's direction, and it secured to Jane the entire control of every description of his property, brought from England, or accumulated in this country. 
               As the earlier months of winter passed on, he grew more feeble; and, finally, one morning, when unable to rise, he listened to Jane's earnest request, and sent for a physician. He told the Captain plainly that his constitution had given way, and that his lease of life was about to expire; so that if he had any temporal affairs to settle, the sooner he did it the better. 
               At first Seymour rather laughed at the assertion; but finding his strength gone, and the powers of nature failing, he became alarmed. His attendants got him up, and attempted to dress him; but he fainted, and lay as if dead so long that all the family were much alarmed. 
               On his recovery he called Jane to his bed-side, and in a very excited voice, exclaimed; "Yes, I will do it before I die. I will not go to my last account with a lie in my mouth. Send as soon as possible for Colonel Dudley and his son, for Governor Haynes, Mr. Culick, and Parson Hooker. Let them come immediately." 
               The persons sent for arrived as soon as practicable, wondering at the sudden call. 
               "Mr. Culick, you are a lawyer, and have my will already in your possession. I wish you now to put down in a proper and legal form that which I am about to say, that I may sign it, and swear to it. Governor Haynes and Parson Hooker, I have sent for you to be witnesses to my declaration. Thomas Dudley, you and your son are interested in what I have to say, for I am about to confess injustice to you. Jane, do not go away, for I wish you to hear, and shall have no strength to repeat it. I have much to atone for even to you." After a short pause, "Hannah, get writing materials for Mr. Culick, and then leave the room." 
               The arrangements were all completed; Culick and Edward sat down to the table to write, Edward with his back to the bed and to Jane, who sat weeping at its head, ready to reach any thing the sick man required, but keeping her eyes studiously averted from Edward or his father. Col. Dudley sat in the chair given him by the bed-side, with a stern and rather haughty look; while Haynes and Hooker were grave as the presence of a dying man would make them, as well as the expectation of some singular revelation. 
               Seymour began by turning entirely around, so as to face Col. Dudley, and look him full in the eyes; and then spoke: "I was acquainted with Alice Lee long before you knew her, Thomas Dudley. I was brought up with her from childhood. She was a sweet, lovely, fragile thing-easily persuaded that this world was all as honest as she, and as guileless. Her great defect of character was a yielding facility of disposition, accompanied by such a kind wish to make every body happy, that she was ready to bestow her love on any one that besought it with tears, more for the sake of calming their misery, than of making herself happy. 
               "You remember her exquisite beauty; that I loved her is no wonder. I had loved her from the first dawn of human passion in my soul. With me there is no change-nor turning. Love and hatred are equally strong, and durable as life. I love the memory of Alice Lee as strongly as I loved her person, and I hate you now, Thomas Dudley, as warmly as I did seven years ago, when you refused my vote in the Town Meeting; and I tell you plainly, that were it not to do justice to this dear girl, you never should hear how I have wronged you, dying as I may be. 
               "The changeful and variable disposition of Alice gave me great uneasiness, though she professed to love me strongly. I expressed myself so warmly upon what I thought the too facile character of her disposition that she grew afraid of me, and, though professing still to love, rather avoided me. I was never gentle enough for such dispositions. Kindness would have counteracted the evils of her deportment much more readily than severity. She went to visit a distant relation, as I thought, and still think, to avoid me. There she saw you, and yielded to your ardently expressed attachment. You said in public, last autumn, that she loved you madly; but I still believe that there was no more affection than she had bestowed upon me. Perhaps she was incapable of a lasting attachment. 
               "I followed her, as soon as I was able, and found her in an agony of grief at your forced departure. She at once appealed to my sympathies as a brother, as she called me, to comfort and assist her. You, who know my character, can conceive of my chagrin, and even rage, at being appealed to in such a form, where I had every reason to believe that a tenderer tie existed. But I dissembled, and I promised. 
               "The first thing which I did was to examine into her alleged marriage. I asked her for the certificate: there was none signed. I inquired about the license: none had been granted. I searched for the priest, and without difficulty found him out; and ascertained that, for the sake of the fees, he had deceived you, and had never informed you that he had been suspended by the Bishop. The whole marriage was plainly illegal and void in the eye of the law. I told Alice so, and made her believe that you knew it, and had used the deception for the purposes of seduction. 
               "She went back with me to our own county, humbled and despairing. She felt herself the victim of deception, and sank under the blow. Submissively, she begged me to do what I could to hide her shame. I made arrangements by which she was taken care of in Wales, under a feigned name, where her infant and your child died." 
               All his hearers made an exclamation at once; even Edward forgot his usual equanimity, and darted an excited look towards Jane: but she kept her face behind the bed-curtains. 
               "Yet you swore," said Col. Dudley, "that she that was called Jane Seymour was the daughter of Alice Lee." 
               "Be patient, and hear me out. Alice was an orphan, as you well know, and the death of her guardian had placed the little remains her fortune in my hands. She preferred remaining in obscurity in Wales, and the civil war and its exciting scenes rather obliterated her from the minds of every one. I visited her constantly, and after a while, renewed my suit. She resisted, although I brought evidences of the illegality of the marriage, and of your apparent desertion. 
               "On your father's death you returned from abroad, and same to Alice's native village in search of her. I placed myself in your way, and persuaded you that she was dead. I knew it was impossible for you to discover her residence, or the falsity of my representations. On my next visit to Alice, I showed her from the public papers that your father was dead, and left her to draw her own conclusions respecting your sincerity. Your marriage to Anne Stanley, which took place not long after, was likewise duly reported to Alice, as a proof of your faithlessness. 
               "This argument convinced her that you considered the marriage illegal, and that she was your victim. I found it easy then to induce her to be my wife. A happy year was spent in retirement in Wales, but at the close of it I had lost the treasure for which I had played such a desperate game. She died in giving birth to this dear girl, who has been my companion and my solace ever since. 
               "Governor Haynes, and gentlemen, you all hear me acknowledge that Jane Seymour is my daughter, born in legal wedlock, and by inheritance and by will, heiress of my estates." 
               "Wretch!" said Col. Dudley, "did you suffer Alice Lee to go to her grave believing that I had wronged her?" 
               "You cannot think me such a fool, Thomas Dudley, as to suppose I would undo the effect of all my schemes by the confession of such a trivial affair? Besides, of what use would it have proved? You was married, and was engaged in those political events by which you had lost your property. She was dying, and blessing my kindness with her dying breath, that had saved her from disgrace." 
               "One question more," said Governor Haynes, "why did you pass this young lady off as your niece?" 
               "I am hastening to that point. My marriage was unknown to my family or friends. After Alice's death I left the scenes in Wales, that only brought her to my recollection, and returned to my native county. To avoid curiosity, and the possible exposure of the deception practised on Alice, I passed my daughter off as an infant niece, left me by my brother, who had just before died in Spain. The success of the Parliamentary army led me to collect all my property, which had always been kept snug, and embark with my supposed niece and my servants for America. New Netherlands was my destination, but the vessel, for some reason, came up the Connecticut, and here I resolved to settle; though, if I had known before I left the vessel, that Thomas Dudley was a member of the colony, I should have gone elsewhere. But you treated me kindly, and little Jane soon took great delight in Madam Dudley's society and that of her boys, which intimacy I encouraged, until the refusal of the Council, of which you was the President, to receive me as a voter unless I became a member of your Puritan church. Your insults, as I considered them, to myself and my religion, have been the cause of all the difficulties between us. I never forgive; and if it had not been to place my Jane in her proper position, you would never have heard of this confession." 
               During this extended conversation, Edward had, at first, trembled, as he wrote, by request of Mr. Culick, the outlines of this confession. Upon his emotion being perceived by Mr. Culick, who slightly smiled as he observed it, Edward made one of those efforts for which his mind was distinguished, banished every emotion from his pale face, and wrote all that was needed with firm nerves, and a steady hand. What he suffered inwardly, no one ever knew; what rising hopes and new-fledged joys were nestling in his bosom, as he calmly wrote, were never suspected. 
               When he finished, Mr. Culick took the instrument to Capt. Seymour, who signed it with a shaking hand; and then it was witnessed by Gov. Haynes and Mr. Hooker. 
               Jane, in the mean while, had buried her face in the pillow, near her new-found father's head; and though her sobs shook her whole frame, none saw fit to notice it. She dared not speak, even to her father, though she longed to urge him to a forgiving spirit. She dared not look at Edward, lest her face should betray the new-born hopes fluttering in her heart. 
               Mr. Hooker then rose: "You have done your duty, Richard Seymour, to our brother Dudley, although not with the right Christian spirit of forgiveness ness. Let me urge you to lay aside your animosity, and allow the light of mercy to irradiate your last hours." 
               "Parson Hooker," said the Captain, "I sent for you as a respectable and influential man to witness my statements, but not to preach. So refrain." 
               The gentlemen, at this hint, took their leave, full of thought on the strange story they had heard, but perfectly convinced of its truth. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXV. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The rose is fairest when 'tis budding new; 
                           And hope is brightest when it dawns from fears; 
                           The rose is sweetest, wash'd in morning dew, 
                           And love is loveliest, when embalm'd in tears. 
                        
                      
                     Scott. 
                   
                
               THE old man lingered till night, carefully and affectionately attended by his daughter. She never alluded to his late statement, or the strange motives that had led to it, or to the new views and feelings which were budding in her mind. He was uncomplaining and submissive, though he knew he was gradually sinking. 
               Jane had no time to turn her eyes inward, and reflect upon her altered destiny, though the feeling that it was altered, would occasionally flash over her soul in its brilliant joyousness, even amid the contemplation of the death-scene before her. It was impossible to prevent it. The general, steady, straight-forward current of her thoughts was towards her sick father and the attentions due to him. But this onward tide did not prevent side eddies of reflection, or rather, of sudden suggestion, where the ideas connected with her present condition would float round in rapid circles, as if they were in glee. 
               He gave many directions about his affairs at intervals, and heard very devoutly the services of the church for the sick and dying, read by Jane. 
               As night drew on, and the darkness closed around them, the Captain stretched up his arms. "Jane, I am going; kiss me for the last time; forgive me for all the pain I lately gave you." After a few more gasps, he uttered: "Jane, tell Colonel Dudley that I forgive him the injustice he did me. May God forgive me all that I have done and felt against him, for Christ's sake." With this prayer for forgiveness, his spirit fled to the tribunal above. 
               The day after the funeral, the trustees under the will assembled at the house, by order of Mr. Culick. Edward Hopkins was the principal, for Capt. Seymour had said that, though a Puritan, he could be trusted. The will gave his whole estate to his daughter Jane, whom he again declared to be his own child, and born in lawful wedlock. Her true age was also stated, which made her a year younger than Edward Dudley, instead of several years older. Mr. Hopkins was appointed her guardian until she was married. A packet of letters was ordered to be given to Col. Dudley, without breaking the seal of the envelope, which proved afterwards to be letters that he had written to Alice Lee, while abroad, which Seymour had taken care should never reach her. 
               Soon after this; Edward Dudley requested an interview with his father, and, telling him of the love he bore to Jane Seymour, requested his permission to pay his addresses to her. 
               "To this, my dear son, I can have no objection. The feud between the families was caused by a circumstance that has no existence now; and I am by no means disposed, except for such extraordinary occasions, to thwart the wishes of the young. Jane is worthy of your love. She who has made an affectionate and kind daughter, will make a loving wife. But, Edward, are you sure of your own feelings? Do not marry her merely for the sake of having a wife, or from the idle fancy of the moment, or for the property which she possesses, and for the influence which that will give you in the community. On a union, formed from such motives, there will be no blessing descending from God. Do not marry, unless there is in your heart such a fountain of strong affection that it will sweep away in its courses all the obstacles which the petty duties of life must spread in your way. Obstacles will arise to the smooth progress of married love, from unforeseen dissimilarity of temper, from clashing wills, from the various lets and hindrances that clog the wheels of life's progress from without. To meet all these, there needs that strong affection which can bear and forbear, which can submit when necessary, and refrain from exasperation; an affection that makes the two spirits but one in feeling, in aim, in action. You have never yet shown that affection; can you feel it?" 
               "Father, do not suppose, because I conceal my feelings, that I do not possess them. I was early taught by you to exercise self-control. Often have you told me, in childhood, that its want was your great defect of character-your easily besetting sin. I saw its want in brother Henry, and the pain which this deficiency gave you and my mother. Hence, I early formed the habit of self-control, and, as a consequence, of concealment. I am conscious that I possess strong feelings and warm affections. I know that I can make sacrifices, for I have already made them. Why should the world know the same? When my character or acquirements or knowledge will prove of any benefit to the world, it shall have their exhibition, but I have no wish to carry around a card on my forehead, announcing that I am a man of strong feelings, warm affections,-possessing delicacy and tenderness and truth; look all ye men, and admire; ponder all ye women, and love! 
               "Forgive me, my dear father, if there is any thing disrespectful in this language .to you or your wishes. I feel assured that I shall make a kind husband to Jane, for I love her with all the energy of a strong soul, exercising its power of self-control. That love will be the hidden wheel that will regulate every action and feeling of my life." 
               "Well, well, my son, I am silenced, though not convinced. Depend upon it, however, if Jane Seymour possesses one of those dispositions that require daily asseverations of love, as the daily food of the heart, she has many unhappy hours before her." 
               "But why so, father? She must know that I love her next to my God; she must know from my character that my affections are as unchangeable as the laws of the Medes and Persians: that knowledge ought to satisfy her, without my telling her of it daily. I shall live and act for her; why must I say so constantly?" 
                
               "Edward, you do not know any thing yet of the female heart, and, hereafter, when you find Jane with a cloud on her brow, and her own expressions of intense love becoming formal and constrained, you will remember this conversation." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVI. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "Wilt thou be mine? Is there no distant hope 
                           That time will waft me to the isle of joy 
                           Rising so fair, amid the lake of life, 
                           Deck'd with bright green and flowers that never fade? 
                           No greater joy to me, than, by thy side, 
                           To push our boat to that green, happy isle; 
                           Our hearts in unison, like strokes of oars; 
                           Together braving every storm that low'rs; 
                           Together smiling, as the sun basks bright 
                           Upon the glassy wave, that floats us on." 
                        
                      
                     Altawmah; Canto II. 
                   
                
               HOW different are the natures of man and woman on the subject of that great motive power in the mechanism of human happiness-Love. On the mind of man it is much more violent; in woman, more lasting. Man's love is more material; woman's, more intellectual. In man, it is a passion; in woman, an emotion. With man, it is but a transient flame, burning, to be sure, with strength, but liable to be interrupted by the employments of the world. With woman, it is her all,-"her world, her sin," fed with continual fire in the inmost recesses of her heart. With man, it is the relaxation of life; with woman, it is the business. Hence, if you destroy it in man, you rouse his feelings for a moment, but the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of employment soon rub out the effect. His beloved sinks from his heart 
                      
                        "As sinks the stranger in the crowded street 
                        Of busy London: some short bustle's caused- 
                        A few inquiries-and the crowd close in, 
                        And all's forgotten." 
                     
                   Destroy the source of love in woman, however, and all her comfort is withered. She has no world to plunge into for relief. Love and domestic happiness was her world; and not only the streams of her happiness are destroyed, but the fountain itself is dried up. 
               The declaration of his attachment was made by Edward in the evening of a cold winter night, while they were sitting around the blazing logs of the huge fire-place of the sitting-room. The handmaids, Hannah and Esther, had conscientiously retired to the kitchen;-conscientiously, we say, for they were doing as they would be done by. 
               Edward was as usual calm, rational, dispassionate. He described his love in all its strength, but he so governed his feelings and restrained his emotions as he did it, that it seemed more like the description of another's passion than of his own. He did not even tell her the extent of agony that he had felt in supposing his brother was preferred, nor the struggle that he underwent to make the sacrifice to his brother's claims. He barely alluded to his determination of making that sacrifice, for men of his peculiar temperament are never boastful or vain-glorious. He related how he felt at her abduction, and the joy he experienced at her rescue. He dwelt at rather more length upon the misery produced by the disclosure in the court-room, but he said he never wished to recall it again, as it was now over. 
               "And now, dear Jane," he continued, "are you willing to spend your life with me, preparing each other for eternity? You know my character, and well know whether its peculiarities will be suited to constitute your happiness. Will you be mine?" 
               Jane had remained during the rather long exordium to this declaration with her head partially averted, but gazing on the burning coals; the castles which those coals made as they fell among the hot ashes were very brilliant and beautiful to Jane,-the world to her young mind looked as bright. In spite of herself, her eyes filled with tears at the pleasure it would give to answer affirmatively. 
               As he closed, she turned upon him those truthful, trusting eyes, swimming in the moisture of strong affection; "I will, Edward Dudley, so help me God. I will willingly spend the life that lies before me with you, hoping that death will be but a passport to an eternal union. No one but you has ever possessed my youthful affections; none but you can ever have them. I give you all that a warm heart can give; your nature is not such, dear Edward, as to trample it under foot. But will your father approve of your connection with the daughter of a bitter enemy?" 
               "My father has already approved my choice, and is prepared to receive you as a daughter." 
               As the evening wore on, and their plans and duties for the future had been discussed, Jane looked Edward in the face with her earnest gaze: "Edward, you do not look fully and perfectly happy. I fear lest my imperfections of education and nurture will diminish your happiness." 
                
               "Not so, dear Jane; but understand me at once. I am feeling the most exquisite happiness, but see no reason why my face should tell it to the world. Remember, that I love you with a fervency and strength passing the love of woman; that I am unchangeable in every feeling and purpose: yours I am, fully, completely, entirely;-yours I shall continue to be while life throbs in my heart. Rest satisfied with this knowledge; it will always be so. It will not be necessary for me to repeat it often, or to make an every day boast of its existence by unnecessary external manifestation of it. You will be happier to know this fact now, Jane. I am ready now, and shall be at any moment of the future, cheerfully to lay down my life for you. Your image will be always on my heart. For you will be my labors and efforts; you will know this whenever action is necessary. I have spoken of this now, that it may never be necessary to speak of it again. I had rather act than talk. I am not fond of making professions, or of expressing what I feel. Rest satisfied with the knowledge of this intense, all-pervading love, even if I do not always choose to find words with which to clothe it." 
               That night, ere sleep came over her, Jane reflected long and solemnly on this last conversation; but under the cheering influences of youthful hope and strong affection, she did not view it as an obstacle to her happiness. But, alas! it was the cross she had to bear in life, and often, very often, was she obliged to recur to it, to prevent her heart from sinking within her, at the fear of the loss of her husband's love. Great things would occasionally occur to draw out that hidden love in all its power. How earnestly did Jane wish that such great occasions were every day. There was no coldness through life in Edward's treatment,-no unkindness,-not the least neglect. He was attentive to his duties, anticipated her wishes, and was a constant protector. But with Jane, love was her daily food; she needed a supply each day, fresh baked in the oven of affection, to satisfy her starving heart. She missed the daily kiss,-the affectionate endearments,-the very words of love. She knew that Edward loved her, but she would have given kingdoms had she possessed them for a daily, or even a weekly repetition of the sounds of love. She was not exacting, but her heart was lonely. It needed daily encouragements. Had she been an ordinary character, her love would have grown cold, or died away in her breast. Such lamps need their daily supply of oil, or they are extinguished. As it was, she buried its excess in the sepulchre of her warm heart, and built around it the marble of a cold exterior; while its flame was silently devouring her heart's core. When she had children, she expended on them the superfluous warmth of expressed affection, which her husband did not value, and was happy. 
               The character of our young Puritan may not interest the ladies, but we must portray his faults as well as his excellencies. We hold him as a warning to those of both sexes who suppose that sensitive hearts are wrong in demanding constant declarations of attachment. They become necessary as the evidences that love has suffered no diminution. Jealousy does not create this desire; suspicion does not produce it. Sometimes it arises from a want of confidence in the individual's own power of pleasing, and the fear that from that cause that love has expired, if it is not expressed. Sometimes it results from the actual overflowing of an affectionate heart. It must express the attachment that so constantly swells it, or the heart would burst; and it looks for the same in return. 
               Husbands! wives! if such should be the character of the friend you have chosen for life, do not hesitate to gratify such desires, even if they may seem unnecessary, or superfluous to you. They arise from no want of confidence in the strength or reality, or continuance of your attachment, but from the gratification of hearing repeated often the happiness taken in your love. 
               But all this was an after-feeling on the part of Jane. She now sank to sleep, elate with her new-born happiness, and blessing her Creator for the flowery paths of peace and felicity opened before her steps. They were the flowers that the dews and the sunshine of Hope, Joy, and Love, had caused to spring up; their perfume came over the senses of the imagination like the odor of the earliest blossoms in Eden: their hues struck the fancy as brilliantly as morning in Paradise! Did they wither? 
               Edward was precisely fitted for the leader of a rising State. He was brave when the exigencies of the case required it, but war was no pastime to him, nor did its glories bring any gratification. He was one that would never hurry his infant community into conquest to feed his own ambition, but he was gifted with all those talents that made defence efficacious. He was cool, calm, prudent, full of resources, and of an unyielding pertinacity of character that could never submit to usurpation. 
               His eloquence bore the stamp of his character. It was argumentative,-addressed to the understanding ing alone; never persuading, until conviction had been reached. It produced an effect upon the contemplative minds of the early settlers of Connecticut, much more powerful than if it had been more imaginative. On very great occasions, once or twice in life, the hidden fires of his soul burst out in strains of overpowering eloquence, that swept every obstacle away in their destructive power. He. early acquired an immense influence over the public mind, and never lost it. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XXXVII. 
                
                   
                     
                         
                           "The steeds were tired; the muse is too: 
                           She hopes in mercy we've got through: 
                           She thinks she soon must die. 
                           Poor jade! I fear I've used her ill- 
                           The road is bad across the hill, 
                           Where fancy's regions lie." 
                        
                      
                     Old Times. 
                   
                
               "FATHER," said Edward, soon after his marriage, "Jane and myself are very desirous that you should take up your abode with us. Our house, thanks to Captain Seymour's care, is a very large and commodious one,-much preferable to yours. You will then have some one to take care of you, as old age creeps upon you, and be surrounded by those you love and who love you." 
               "No, my son, it cannot be, and must not be. Under such circumstances, a father is always a restraint straint. You have now commenced the life of a man for yourself. You will raise up a family to whom you will be the vicegerent of God on earth. They must look up to you as such; and your influence will be weakened, if they see you looking up in your turn to your father. The independence of a man must be acquired by you at once, to make you useful and respectable in the community. Our ideas might clash; you would then be exposed either to the pain of opposing them, or to the contempt of sacrificing your own views to mine. A son had better launch his boat on the turbid stream of human life under his own pilotage. If his father still sits at the helm, that son will never acquire the self-dependence, firmness, and experience necessary for his guidance. No, my son; I shall be better by myself. I shall be near you,-shall visit you frequently; but to be an independent man among your fellow men, you are better by yourself. In the rough school of actual life, you will learn the severe experience necessary to enable you to take my place in this infant colony, when God shall say my labors have ended. My pilgrimage hereafter in life must be a solitary one, but I gird up my loins, and take my staff in hand, to walk it while God gives me strength. I do not ask to die. I have yet much to do in the formation of our rising State, and in the establishment of true religion and free institutions in this new land. I have educated you for the same duty. Go out then into the world, and begin your Christian duties by raising a family of children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord; and by governing, controlling, and directing them, learn how to govern men. 
               "Do not say that my lot will be a solitary one. I fear not solitude nor silence. I have made arrangements for all the necessaries, and many of the comforts of life. I look not beyond. I make no complaints of my loneliness; it is the cross that Christ has laid upon me, and shall I not bear it? Your mother's sainted image is near me. She comforts me with love fresh from the golden streets of Heaven. I do not repine, though the zest of life's enjoyments has evaporated. I shall not feel that I am flung, like the wreck of what I once was, on the extreme shore of my wintry life, useless and crumbling in the sand that half buries me. I have still something to do to glorify my Maker, and to benefit the world. 
               "Go then, my children, to your own duties, and may God bless you in them." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
