
    ----CITATION----
        Barrell, George.. Bubbles of Fiction .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5743 wright2-0224
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               BUBBLES OF FICTION.
            
            BY GEORGE BARRELL, JR.
            
            
               NEW YORK:
               DEWITT & DAVENPORT, TRIBUNE BUILDINGS.
            
            1852.
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to act of Congress, in the year 1851, by DEWITT &
                  DAVENPORT, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States for
                  the Southern District of New York.
               STEREOTYPED BY HENRY PALMER,
               199 William st., N. Y.
            
         
         
            TO My father, IS THIS WORK, AS A TOKEN OF RESPECT, INSCRIBED.
         
         
            
            CONTENTS.
            
               JAVAN. 
                     I. A Manuscript treats of a Jewel, 9
                     
                     II. Javan is introduced to the Reader, and an Account is given of the
                        visit Javan paid her, and also of an Adventure that occurred during their
                        Ramble, 15
                     
                     III. Javan departs in search of the Emerald, 25
                     
                     IV. A Flight of Time, 27
                     
                     V. Kufan is made Happy, 28
                     
                     VI. Javan narrates his Adventures—with the Lions, 29
                     
                     VII. Javan narrates his Adventures—with Strange People, 34
                     
                     VIII. Javan narrates his Adventures—and ends them, 42
                     
                     IX. They open the Box, 50
                     
                     X. The Pilgrim on his Journey, 52
                     
                     XI. The Reader is favored with the view of a Bevy of—but read, and you
                        will know, 54
                     
                     XII. Pipe-smoking and Story-telling, and the Emerald is seen, and
                        Transformations occur, 57
                     
                     XIII. King Othult in his Banquet-room, 67
                     
                     XIV. The Travellers obtain a view of Mount Pandan, 75
                     
                     XV. The Vision of Javan, 78
                     
                     
                     XVI. The Pilgrim on the Summit of the Mountain, 80
                     
                     XVII. How Javan and Kufan reached the end of their Journey, 82
                     
                     XVIII. The Enchantment, 88
                     
                     XIX. Pad—Ura—and the Flight, 92
                     
                     XX. King Othult in his Harem, 99
                     
                     XXI. The Imp and the Golden Ball, 105
                     
                     XXII. Pad and Javan, 108
                     
                     XXIII. A Fight in the Air, 111
                     
                     XXIV. The Dragon-fly, 113
                     
                     XXV. What happened to the Pickles of Othult the King, 115
                     
                     XXVI. The Messenger of Baffra, 119
                     
                     XXVII. The Search for Ura, 121
                     
                     XXVIII. The False Baffra, 122
                     
                     XXIX. The Wise Men of the Kingdom, 125
                     
                     XXX. The Expedition of Folly the Dwarf, 127
                     
                     XXXI. The Battle, 131
                     
                     XXXII. Folly the Dwarf, 132
                     
                     XXXIII. Javan's last Attempt to obtain the Emerald, 134
                     
                     XXXIV. Downfall of the Tower, 136
                     
                     XXXV. Javan and Java, 136
                     
                  
               
               THE FROST IMPS, 137
               
               ZENO AND XARA. 
                     I. Before, 147
                     
                     II. After, 150
                     
                     III. The Moral, 151
                     
                  
               
               THE BENDING BRANCH, 153
               
               ZELL. 
                     I. The Maiden, 165
                     
                     II. Strange Conduct, 170
                     
                     III. The Midnight Scene, 171
                     
                     IV. Death, 174
                     
                  
               
               OPIUM. 
                     I. Bliss, 175
                     
                     II. Fear, 179
                     
                     III. Agony, 179
                     
                     IV. Repentance, 180
                     
                  
               
               MY LAST WALTZ, 181
               
               THE VIOLINIST OF TOLEDO. 
                     I. How Geronimo arrived at the House of Don Levidono, 191
                     
                     II. How Geronimo played on his Violin, 194
                     
                     III. One Hundred Years after, 197
                     
                  
               
               THE GAME AT DICE, 201
               
               THE ELIXIR OF LIFE. 
                     I. What occurred in the Stone Room of the Tower, 203
                     
                     II. The Scene in the Bed-room, 211
                     
                     III. The Lady Elverina, 216
                     
                     IV. But a Dream, 219
                     
                     V. Sunset, 220
                     
                     VI. The Serenader, 223
                     
                     VII. The Elixir, 228
                     
                     VIII. The Story ends, 230
                     
                  
               
               
               THE STATUE OF MARBLE. 
                     I. The Smoke of the Cigar, 233
                     
                     II. Feats of Wonder, 237
                     
                     III. The Contract, 244
                     
                     IV. The Statue, 247
                     
                  
               
               EUGENE, 251
               
            
         
      
      
         
            Bubbles of fiction
            BUBBLES OF FICTION.
            
               JAVAN.
               
                  I.
                  A MANUSCRIPT TREATS OF A JEWEL.
                  IT was night, calm and tranquil night, while high in the heavens sailed slowly
                     along, the Evening Queen, throwing far and wide her mellow rays, and casting
                     into insignificance the glittering planets and the more distant twinkling stars
                     that formed her company. Mountain top, and hill, and sea, were lit up by her
                     brightness, and also the soft fleecy clouds, which from time to time were
                     wafted across her round disk, experienced the same effect. Quite rugged was the
                     landscape. Bold craggy mountains bounded the horizon, with their snowy peaks
                     shooting in strong relief against the evening sky; and they were so curiously
                     formed, possessing so many cuts and angles and soaring pinnacles, that hardly
                     ever will the traveller see the like, no matter in what country he should
                     chance to be.
                  The scenes of this tale are laid in the interior of Africa.
                  The landscape was unnaturally beautiful.
                  In a hollow among the mountains reposed a lake as smooth as though it were a lake of the
                     dead—hushed and unrippled. At times one could see through the crystal water,
                     and imagine objects of beauty were beheld, such as trees of coral and beds of
                     shells; but when a dark cloud interposed between the wave and the moon, all was
                     darkened, and the lake then resembled a sheet of steel, in which all the crags
                     and stunted bushes, the mountains, and, in fact, every thing, was mirrored with
                     the most minute exactness.
                  On the border of this lovely expanse of water stood a youth of dusky hue, tall,
                     and of a fine shape, around whose waist and hanging to his knees was a
                     curiously embroidered skirt, while the rest of his body was free from covering.
                     A perfect Hercules did he appear to be, possessing a powerfully-formed body,
                     wide breast, and sinewy arms. Sandals protected his feet, and rings of gold
                     hung from his ears. Stooping, he dipped the vase he held in the lake, and
                     raising it, then the drops fell like glittering diamonds to the place from
                     whence they were taken; then, turning he commenced ascending a narrow, and at
                     times dangerous path, winding around crags, mounting and descending jutting
                     rocks, till at last the mouth of a wide cave was reached, from which place a
                     fine view of the wild scenery could be obtained, and around which grew several
                     stunted pines and firs.
                  Entering the cave, he laid the vessel by the side of an old man sitting on the
                     rock floor, and threw himself on a pile of leaves in the corner, as though
                     exhausted. This other personage was habited something like the youth, with the
                     exception that no earrings did he wear, and that his skirt was formed of far
                     inferior material, and, moreover, was not embroidered; a long beard, as white
                     as the summits mits of the surrounding mountains, rested on his breast, which,
                     on account of his having long been in a stooping posture, was curved inward,
                     and his head was shadowed by a few iron-grey hairs. He was attentively engaged
                     in perusing a voluminous manuscript. A pine torch, blazing and emitting volumes
                     of thick smoke which rolled out at the entrance, was thrust in a crevice of the
                     rock by his side; but it afforded rather a dim light.
                  "Kufan," said the youth, "you seem to be greatly interested in your
                     occupation."
                  "Ah, Javan, are you there?" said he with the manuscript, fixing upon him his
                     dull eyes.
                  "Yes; did you not perceive me before?"
                  "No; but some light seems to be thrown upon the subject."
                  "What have you discovered?"
                  "I have found by this manuscript, which you know was left me by my father, that
                     the great prophet of the just, and originator of our religion, Kiran, left upon
                     the earth, before he was transported to Paradise, an inestimable gem."
                  "Indeed," exclaimed the youth, rubbing his chin, "and what good do you think
                     that will ever do us?"
                  "The greatest."
                  "What kind of a gem was it?"
                  "An emerald."
                  "Really," exclaimed he, laughing, "an inestimable gem sure enough! why, do you
                     not know, father, that they are quite common and cheap? Not long ago I bought
                     of a wandering merchant several beautiful ones, that glittered greatly, and
                     were as green as could be, and I had them fitted into a necklace, with which I
                     encircled the lovely neck of my adored girl, Java, Kiran bless her!"
                  
                  "Yes, yes, Javan; but the great Kiran would not bless you, after talking in
                     that style."
                  "He would not?"
                  "No, not he; do you think he would be pleased to have his gem so abused?"
                  "Well, then, give me an account of the stone; how large was it?"
                  "Of the size, my son, I know nothing, for the manuscript tells me not a word;
                     but of its qualities, great is the praise given."
                  "Ah," said Javan, "but wait one moment, father;" and he arose and took from a
                     corner an earthen pipe with a long stem, filled the bowl with a fragrant,
                     though pungent weed, that grew in the surrounding country, and sitting on the
                     leafy couch, applied the weed to the burning torch, and the end of the stem to
                     his mouth; "proceed," continued he, quietly smoking, "I am ready to hear
                     you."
                  "But, first, my son, where is the water I asked you to get? I much need it, for
                     my throat is parched."
                  "By your side, father."
                  The old man drank of the water, and then proceeded with the narration of what
                     he had been reading; when, having heard all the surprising qualities of the
                     gem, Javan became determined to seek for it.
                  "Kufan," said he, "where is that stone?"
                  "The manuscript says, as far as I can decipher, that it is on this earth."
                  "That, father, is what I call really wonderful," replied his son, sending a
                     stream of smoke across the cavern; "on the earth! Ha! ha! But in what part of
                     it, for, if I do not mistake, our earth is very large, and I have heard that
                     the great water surrounding it, is an immense distance off."
                  "That is true; but I again find that the gem is in our country."
                  "Then my resolution is made."
                  "What may that be?"
                  "To search for it."
                  "Do you know where to go?"
                  "No; but that you will doubtless yet discover."
                  The light waxed dim.
                  "Javan, light another torch."
                  He once more arose, and illuminating a new one, tossed the old from the cave,
                     and which after describing a fiery streak and emitting showers of sparks, fell
                     hissing in the placid lake beneath.
                  "My son," said Kufan, after a short time spent in reading, "the emerald as I
                     have told you is in our country, but to find its place of concealment you will
                     have to travel far."
                  "What distance?"
                  "Were you ever beyond this range of mountains?"
                  "Never."
                  "I have heard that beyond it lie deserts covered with burning sands, and where
                     no green thing ever did or ever will grow; animals of great ferocity abound in
                     quantities, and no water is to be obtained."
                  "And is that the place to which I will have to proceed?"
                  "You will have to cross this desert, and go unto a great city."
                  "And that city, what is its name?"
                  "Kairo, the seat of magnificence, where it will be told you in what place the
                     emerald is concealed."
                  "Who is there to give me the information?"
                  "The manuscript is at an end, and I am unable to tell you."
                  
                  "Why will I have to go so far; is there no one here that knows?"
                  "I know of none."
                  Javan meditated and puffed, and puffed and meditated, and then he puffed
                     again.
                  "Why," said he, with eyes still riveted on the ground, "did you not get
                     possession of the manuscript before?"
                  "I was bade by my father on his death-couch—I well remember the scene—not to
                     open the chest buried in a certain spot, of which he told me, till I was
                     seventy years of age, should I ever attain that period of life. That order I
                     have kept, and now is the time appointed; this day I dug up the chest, and
                     discovered the manuscript which I have read."
                  "I suppose, then, he did not wish you to become acquainted with the secret,
                     till you had become too old to undertake the expedition in search of it?"
                  "That was his reason, I have no doubt; and now, while I think of it, I
                     recollect how he was once about undertaking a journey which he said would be
                     full of perils."
                  "In search of the gem?"
                  "It may be, but he was dissuaded by a dream, which he would never
                     disclose."
                  "If, then, he wished not to undertake the journey, or thought there was evil in
                     it, why did he not destroy the manuscript?"
                  "Every thing is wrapt in mystery, and all I know I have told you."
                  "From what you have said, I have come to the conclusion of undertaking the
                     expedition, feeling sure I will be successful."
                  "You are sufficiently old, my son, and understand the ways of the world, I have
                     no objections to your determination, and may Kiran bless you."
                  Soon after they stretched themselves for the night on the bed of leaves, having
                     first extinguished the torch. Javan slept but little, to tell the truth, for
                     were not his thoughts occupied with the great emerald?
               
               
                  II.
                  JAVA IS INTRODUCED TO THE READER, AND AN ACCOUNT IS GIVEN OF THE
                     VISIT JAVAN PAID HER, AND ALSO OF AN ADVENTURE THAT OCCURRED DURING THEIR
                     RAMBLE.
                  HAVING awoke the next morning at quite an early hour, Javan set forth for the
                     habitation of his beloved Java, to pay her a short visit, and also to bid her
                     farewell; but his heart was filled with sorrow at the idea of not beholding her
                     for so long a period as he anticipated being absent. After one or two hours'
                     tedious walking, he came to a lovely dell, in the center of which was erected
                     the habitation of her parents. Around it stretched the soft green sward,
                     sprinkled hither and thither with crimson and yellow flowers, while the
                     dwelling itself needs a word or two to be said in its description, as it will
                     be seen it was greatly unlike those ordinarily beheld.
                  It was built of branches, inserted in the earth, and twisted and interlaced
                     overhead, forming a thick roof, which, owing to the dense foliage, proved an
                     impenetrable screen to the rays of the sun. These branches having been taken
                     fresh from the trees, and saplings having also been planted, they took root and grew, thus bearing at all
                     seasons of the year a beautiful appearance. An entrance was made in the side
                     facing a narrow stream. Women, I believe, are notorious for being fond of
                     flowers. Is it not so, reader? I have always found, what little I know of the
                     sex, such to be the case. Well some of the inhabitants of this beautiful lodge
                     had planted creeping vines, and they had grown over the branches and curled
                     around them, forming a mass of flowers of every hue and of great fragrance,
                     over which fluttered thousands of gaudy-colored butterflies, and, to judge from
                     the great humming, one would suppose the busy bees also were at work.
                  Javan stood on a high rock overlooking the whole glen: "Magnificent!" exclaimed
                     he, "the glen, how green! the sky, how blue! the abode, how superb! but," he
                     added, clasping his hands, "the flower that dwells there, great Kiran, how
                     lovely! Would to Heaven she were mine!" He fell into a revery: "Mine! do I wish
                     she were mine? Why can I not obtain her? She is young, she is gay, she is
                     beautiful; I love her, and has she not told me that she returns my passion? Her
                     father and mother are aged; time has weakened them; their strength is nigh
                     gone; I marry the lovely girl; I take charge of all; my father, the aged Kufan,
                     shall also have a dwelling near; every thing will be right, and we shall all
                     live a merry, happy life, and I know that Kiran will bless us." Javan stopped,
                     and standing in an attitude of prayer, exclaimed, "Great Kiran, bless us!" and
                     he again fell into a revery. "That is one side of the picture, now for the
                     other: happiness, contentment, and Java are in one scale of the balance, what
                     shall I place in the other? What can I put therein that will weigh it down?
                     What has more attractions? The emerald; aye, the emerald. Java is beautiful,
                     and dearly loves me; the gem is endowed with supernatural qualities. Java may
                     die, and then I would be plunged into sorrow, deadly sorrow; but the green
                     stone can never be taken away, for I would first part with my life; but,—aid
                     me, Kiran, and I shall possess myself of both jewels!"
                  He then descended the zigzag path and entered upon the green lawn. As he
                     advanced near the habitation music was heard, and he knew it to be Java
                     singing, as was her custom in the early morning, for she had before told him
                     that at that part of the day she always felt happy, and Javan, as he listened
                     to her thrillingly sweet voice, acknowledged that he also felt happy.
                  The song continued.
                  Javan stood without, with clasped hands and bended head, listening to the
                     melody;—by-and-by it ceased.
                  "Java!" cried he, with a loud voice.
                  In an instant a rustling was heard within, and through the open entrance of the
                     lodge rushed a female, who, in the next moment, was locked in the arms of the
                     admiring youth.
                  "Java!" murmured he, and he pressed his lips, to hers of rosy hue.
                  "Javan!"
                  He stood a few steps distant, admiring her beauty, when, as they thus stood, an
                     artist might take the subject for a picture. We will describe them.
                  The youth we have before presented to the reader; a little difference was,
                     however, remarked in his dress, as a white cloth, embroidered like his skirt,
                     was passed over one shoulder, and fastened around his waist like a sash, with
                     the knot on the opposite side. On his head he wore a crimson cap, ornamented with a dancing blue
                     feather. Java was really beautiful. Her long, black, silky hair fell in
                     graceful curls over her shoulders and bosom; a skirt encircled her waist, and
                     with this exception, her form was seen in all its marvelous loveliness. Now, I
                     wish the reader to understand that there was nothing of the appearance of the
                     negro about either of them; her nose was as straight as that of a Grecian, and
                     her full lips partook nothing of the Africans; her teeth were even, small, and
                     of a pure white, while her eyes were of a melting black, shaded beneath long
                     lashes. Around her neck, and reposing on her bosom were the jewels Javan had
                     given, and of which he had spoken to Kufan. How magnificently those green-hued
                     gems appeared in the sunlight, as they lay upon her golden-hued
                     brownish-colored breast! Reader, what do you think of Java? But silence—she is
                     about speaking.
                  "Javan," said she, in words soft and musical, "why have you been so long
                     absent?"
                  "Java," returned he, heeding not the question, "how beautiful you are."
                  She blushed and smiled.
                  Once more was she in his arms.
                  An old man bent with age, supporting himself on a staff, appeared at the door
                     of the vine-clad dwelling. He came, no doubt, to discover the reason of the
                     young girl's quick departure. As he saw them he turned and acquainted some one
                     within with the view he had beheld, then he bid the youth enter. Java ran to
                     her parent, and spake to him a few words. The old man again smiled, shook his
                     finger at her, and re-entered the dwelling, while the girl, bounding to her
                     lover's side, spoke as follows:
                  "I ask again, dear Javan, how it is that you have not been seen here for so
                     long a time; do you not still love your Java as formerly?"
                  "Yes," cried he, "many times more than ever, but unforeseen occurrences have
                     prevented me from performing my duty. Do you think I would stay away unless
                     something unusual should occur?"
                  "No; but what has happened so unusual?"
                  "It is a long story; let us walk, and I will tell you."
                  So they walked, and Javan, passing his arm around her waist, felt her's rest
                     upon his shoulder.
                  "Now tell me, Javan, what it was, for I am anxious to hear it."
                  "I dare not.—I cannot yet."
                  "Has misfortune happened unto the good Kufan, your father?"
                  "Misfortune has not happened unto him."
                  "What then is it that afflicts you?"
                  "I expect to be separated."
                  "From whom—your father?"
                  "Yes; and one, too, who is yet more dear."
                  Java trembled.
                  "I expect for a time to be separated from you," said Javan, gazing from
                     her.
                  "Why, O, Javan, why will you leave me? How can I live without you?"
                  "For a time—but for a time."
                  "Yes, yes; but a day without you is as a year."
                  Several minutes were spent in silence.
                  "My Java," exclaimed he, "feeling her warm tears fall upon his shoulder, "I
                     will soon be back. Is not the loss of your presence as grievous to me?"
                  "It cannot be; it is not possible."
                  
                  "Stop, I beseech you; the sight of your grief afflicts me."
                  "Where are you going?"
                  "Many days' journey distant."
                  "And when will you return?"
                  "Kiran only knows."
                  "Now, I have a proposition, if you would but grant it."
                  "Let me hear it, then; dry your eyes, and now for the proposition; but first
                     let me tell you, that if it is for me to give up my expedition, you may as well
                     not say any thing."
                  "It is true, I would not like you to go; but it is not that. Am I not strong
                     and able to bear fatigue?"
                  "Ah, Java, it will never do. No, I must say—for I see your desire—that I will
                     never agree for you to accompany me."
                  "Why not?" asked she, with a trembling voice; "can I not share the dangers of
                     the travel? and it will not hurt me."
                  "But how can you go with me? for, in fact, I am not aware where I am bound; all
                     I know is, it is somewhere over the mountains, across hot sandy deserts, and
                     exposed to the burning sun."
                  "It is hot here, you know."
                  "Yes; but here you have trees to which you can retreat, and water in which you
                     may bathe; there, not a thing grows, and except in one or two places, water is
                     unknown."
                  "And are you going to risk your life in that country? But what are you going
                     for?"
                  "That must remain a secret, my dear one; at any rate, know that you are always
                     in my thoughts, and what I get you shall have."
                  And silence again reigned. They walked, and having passed through a romantic
                     passage completely overshadowed by trees, which connected the glen with another
                     of still greater extent, they emerged into the vale, and yet continued silent.
                     The bank at whose base they now were, was densely covered with bushes and
                     trees, and also was quite high. Javan having espied a flower some distance up
                     the side, which he was desirous of obtaining, as he knew, in the language of
                     flowers, it was expressive of devotion and love, requested Java to seat herself
                     an instant on the soft carpeted bank, which here and there was free from
                     bushes. She complied, and he rushed up through the thick vegetation.
                  Above the head of the unsuspicious maiden protruded a branch, bearing blue
                     bell-shaped flowers, which began to bend, and then was distinguished the head
                     of a serpent—motionless. It was copper-colored and sprinkled with pink spots;
                     the mouth was open, the forked tongue laden with the deadly venom, dashed in
                     and dashed out, the jaws were bluish, and broad and yellow were the streaks
                     upon its throat. How fascinating were those eyes! Good heavens, how they shone!
                     They were like black diamonds. The serpent began to move. The young girl was
                     unaware of its presence. Stealthily and slowly it moved—away to the left,
                     around a branch of the plant, and, as it noiselessly passed, could be seen
                     between the openings, its beautifully-colored body gliding onward.
                  Javan had nearly reached the flower.
                  The head of the serpent was now seen behind the young girl, who was seated as
                     we have stated, and was unaware of the threatening danger. Little, either, did
                     that youth imagine he had started in his ascent a serpent from its den. The
                     flower was obtained, and triumphantly descending, on a sudden was he startled
                     by a loud shriek from Java; in an instant was he by her side, and grasping the
                     neck of the reptile, with all his
                     strength strove to unwind it from her body, for three or four times had it
                     coiled itself around. Java shrieked with pain, for the reptile, in the agony of
                     strangulation, was tightening its coils, while the courageous youth with all
                     his force was compressing its neck. The eyes protruded from their sockets, the
                     mouth opened, while the tongue, that awful weapon, was hanging quivering from
                     thence, and drop after drop of poison, perhaps, was slowly dripping to the
                     ground. Java grasped the cold, loathsome body, and essayed to disengage it from
                     her, but could not succeed, for in its death agony the serpent was lashing the
                     ground with its tail, and tightening its folds upon the unhappy victim. She
                     continually called upon her lover to relieve her, while the tears rolled down
                     her cheeks, and her bosom contracted with pain; she yielded, and sank upon the
                     sward exhausted. Javan trembled with anxiety, and redoubled his pressure. The
                     head dropped, the motion ceased, and the serpent was dead; but to make sure of
                     its fate, he seized a large stone that was near, laid down the head, and with
                     one blow crushed it, then grasping its tail, commenced to unwind it, and rescue
                     the maiden; but she had fainted. A fountain was near at hand, gushing from the
                     crevice of a rock. He formed a bowl with his hands, and in this manner carrying
                     to her the water, sprinkled it upon her face. Who can describe his joy when he
                     saw her eyes open?
                  "Javan!" cried she, with joy, though faintly; and Javan raised her from the
                     ground.
                  "Javan," cried she again, "do I behold you, or is it but my imagining; am I
                     alive, or am I in the world of spirits?"
                  "My dear girl," he replied, "you do behold me; you are yet, thank Heaven,
                     alive."
                  "And the serpent?"
                  "Lies crushed at your feet."
                  "Ah," said she, pressing her hand to her brow, "what pain I endured, what
                     sensations! to feel the monster coil itself around me, and then grow tighter
                     and tighter, my breath faint, and to know that death was nigh, and then, oh,
                     Javan, to die without bidding you farewell. It was a horrible moment!"
                  "But it is all passed now; hard work did I have to master him, but see! his
                     head is crushed; his power is gone."
                  "But, Javan," she replied, faintly smiling, "what a beautiful body; how soft
                     the scaly sides appear; how beautifully variegated is his neck!"
                  "Java, I like not to look at it, for it brings to my recollection how nigh you
                     were being taken from me; come, let us be going."
                  "I feel faint. I see water; will you get me some?"
                  And the young girl leaned heavily on the arm that, wound around her waist,
                     supported her. At her request, the youth stretched forth his hand, and plucking
                     from an overhanging bough a large leaf, formed it into quite a handy cup, then
                     proceeding, and supporting as he proceeded his fair charge, held beneath the
                     dripping crystal element his green-lined rustic goblet, which soon overflowed
                     with the fluid, and which he then presented to her. She quenched her thirst and
                     returned the cup, and he, having refilled the leaf, drank, placing to his lips
                     that part which had been touched by hers, which she noticed, and smiled in
                     consequence. They then returned, and arrived near the habitation they had left;
                     but before they entered, it being a few rods distant, Java said, in a trembling
                     voice:
                  
                  "So, Javan, you are to leave me?"
                  "Yes, dearest, but will soon return."
                  "And you will not forget me?"
                  "Forget you? never! Never, my dear Java, never will I forget you."
                  "And—and—"
                  "But will you be true to me, Java?"
                  "Yes; but why ask me? Can you doubt my words; have I not told you so many
                     times?"
                  "When I return I will seek you."
                  "And you shall find me still entertaining the same feelings for you as
                     now."
                  He unloosed from his ears the small and delicately-carved gold rings, in each
                     of which was set a precious stone, "Take them, Java," he said, "take them as a
                     remembrance."
                  "Will you accept mine? they are not so costly, but—"
                  "Yes; and I will wear them for ever; give them to me;" and he helped detach
                     them.
                  "When I am far, far away, still will I have something that will bring you in
                     imagination before me."
                  So the exchange was made, and the plain rings of the girl hung from his ears,
                     while his sparkling golden ones were adorning still more her beautiful
                     head.
                  "I cannot go in now," she said, gazing at him; "I cannot show my tears unto
                     them; I will stay with you till you go."
                  "That is at the present moment, Java; come."
                  And they were again in each other's arms, as though that embrace was their
                     last. Java burst into tears as she hung upon his neck, and Javan felt the quick
                     throbbings of her heart, as he pressed her close to his breast. Tearing herself
                     on a sudden away, she ran quickly to a grove of trees, and he saw her no more.
                     Entering the rose-embowered dwelling, he made his adieux to the old couple,
                     telling them he was about undertaking a long and perilous journey, and that
                     Java, unable to conceal her grief at his departure, and not wishing to be seen
                     in that condition, had gone to compose herself. They each grasped his hand, and
                     the father, noticing his daughter's earrings, Javan smiled, and soon after
                     departed.
               
               
                  III.
                  JAVAN DEPARTS IN SEARCH OF THE EMERALD.
                  IT was in the grey of the morning. Light tints lit up one by one the numerous
                     snow-capped peaks around. From a pale white they assumed a roseate hue. The
                     eastern sky gleamed into quivering light, and breaking from the bands of sleep,
                     and rending asunder in his power, the fiery clouds, the gorgeous King of Day
                     arose majestically. It was a grand sight, and Javan stood at the mouth of the
                     cave witnessing the same, and he also looked, meditatingly, in the silent lake
                     beneath, and fancied he saw the form of her he loved reflected therein, but no
                     form in reality did he there see, except the form of nature exemplified in the
                     bushes, in the mountains, and in the trees. Soon a rustling noise was heard,
                     and Kufan stood beside him. He was habited as formerly; but the youth was shod
                     with heavy sandals, and grasped a long
                     staff, possessing a glittering barbed point.
                  "My son, you are early risen."
                  "I always rise early, you know, father."
                  "You are soon about to leave me?"
                  "Yes, soon."
                  "Javan, you may forget your mountain home; you may forget, when you are in
                     distant countries, and among strange people, your father—"
                  "Never!" interrupted the youth, with energy, "never will I be guilty of such
                     conduct."
                  "And you may forget," continued the old man, "all your friends and relatives;
                     but oh, my son, forget not the great Kiran."
                  "I shall not."
                  "Forget him not, and he will not forget you."
                  "I know it, father, I know it; and may he bless and take care of you in my
                     absence."
                  "You now know the route to be taken?"
                  "Yes; and you may expect me in a short time to return with the great
                     emerald."
                  "I hope so, my son."
                  So Javan having, with tearful eyes, embraced his aged parent, grasped his
                     iron-shod staff, and strode away, while Kufan, wiping away a tear, re-entered
                     the cave. It was a sorrowful sight to see that parting; the son leaving his
                     father; the father parting from his son. And Javan went away, and the day
                     waned, and the twilight came, and the moon arose, and Kufan stretched himself
                     in his now lonely cave, on the now unshared bed of leaves. Java also passed
                     that night sorrowfully. Now sleep, when, betimes, it did visit her, was filled
                     with visions of her lover—he who saved her from death, from the venomous fangs
                     of the serpent; and she wondered what it could be that would thus take him so
                     far away from home; something of which he would not state a word, fearing,
                     perhaps, that he might be induced to give up the undertaking. What could it be,
                     too, that she would share? Her mind was filled with meditations like these, and
                     sleep, in consequence, went far from her.
                  Day followed day, week followed week, month followed month, and year followed
                     year, but during all this time Kufan grew older, and so did Java, and more
                     sedate, too, but Javan appeared not. What had become of him? Kufan wondered and
                     wondered, and at last concluded that he must have departed this life;
                     suffering, the violence of enemies, or the fury of wild beasts might have
                     brought him to an end; and he rested with the idea that never again would he
                     behold him, at least not in this world. Java grew sorrowful, as we have said,
                     and her health declined. What had become of Javan? Did he not promise soon to
                     return, and had not a great length of time elapsed since that promise was
                     made?
               
               
                  IV.
                  A FLIGHT OF TIME.
                  THREE years flew past.
               
               
                  
                  V.
                  KUFAN IS MADE HAPPY.
                  IT was evening. Kufan sat, with folded arms, gazing upon the mountain scene,
                     when suddenly the mouth of the cave became darkened by a visitor. Kufan arose,
                     but before he had advanced three steps the unknown rushed towards him, and
                     throwing his arms around his neck, exclaimed, in a voice hoarse with emotion,
                     "My father, oh, my father!"
                  "My son! my son!" murmured the overjoyed parent, "now will I die in peace, for
                     I have once more beheld you." It was Javan.
                  "My father, what pleasure it is to see you again," said Javan, the next day, as
                     they sat in the mouth of the cave.
                  "How pleased I am to see you; but how is it you have stayed away so long?"
                  "My adventures have been many, and my dangers have not been few."
                  "Give me an account of them, my son."
                  "I will, and will end them before the hour when you take your sleep."
                  "Have you met with success?"
                  "I think I have been successful in thus returning."
                  "But the subject you departed about—the gem?"
                  "You shall hear; soon I will give you an account of every thing."
                  "But first of all tell me, is it favorable or unfavorable?"
                  "Favorable."
                  "Then I am content and now for your story."
               
               
                  VI.
                  JAVAN NARRATES HIS ADVENTURES—WITH THE LIONS.
                  "YOU know, father," commenced Javan, "that about three years ago (I think that
                     is the time, having made inquiries since I returned) I left this, our cave,
                     having first bid farewell to my friends, for a far distant country, among
                     strange people, whom I knew not, neither their customs nor manners, and on an
                     undertaking that would seem to those not let wholly into the affair, as
                     foolish. I left, you recollect, in the early morning, and descended the
                     mountains with feelings not easily described; at times Sorrow reigned, for was
                     I not leaving you, my father, and she whom I adored, and still do adore? At
                     other occasions Sorrow was dethroned and Joy was triumphant in her seat, for
                     was I not upon a search for the great emerald of Kiran? So, then grasping my
                     staff, which served me much in the descent, with a firmer grip, I quickly
                     advanced, and, ere long, reached the bottom, where lay a country pleasing to
                     the eye, for it was beautifully diversified.
                  "Towards mid-day, although I had partaken of so plentiful a repast in the
                     morning, I felt the cravings of hunger, incited, no doubt, by my early walk; so
                     I looked about for something to satisfy myself, hoping some fruit or vegetable
                     might be found; but such was not the case, and I was forced to go without
                     eating. Onward proceeded the majestic sun, who was beginning to throw his rays
                     more slantingly upon the earth, when I suddenly perceived before me the tracks
                     as if those of some small animal that oftentimes is used for food. I followed
                     the traces, as they were plainly
                     imprinted in the sandy soil, till I came to a small hole in the side of the
                     bank, and in which I had no doubt the creature was lying, such, I knew, being
                     its custom. It was my determination to kill and then eat it, for I was not over
                     particular as to its being cooked, I can well assure you, feeling sadly the
                     effects of being so long without food. I advanced to the hole, and with the
                     pointed end of my staff uprooted the earth to get at the occupant, when a
                     sullen, though distant roar broke upon my ear. What this might be, I at first
                     was sadly perplexed to tell; no animal that I knew, was possessed of such a
                     voice, and while meditating, the sound was repeated, but more distinct, which
                     made me think the animal, whatever it might be that produced it, was
                     approaching. Is there danger? was the first question I asked myself. There is
                     not, was the answer. Now you may think I thought very imprudently, but I was of
                     a different opinion, for there being quite a number of lofty trees around, I
                     thought if, peradventure, danger should come, I might seek refuge among the
                     branches, and thus be placed out of its reach.
                  "Having come to these conclusions, I continued with great perseverance to
                     unearth my destined victim. I had caught a glimpse of the creature, bent
                     double, when a roar perfectly terrible startled me, and lifting my eyes I saw a
                     huge quadruped, which I knew from descriptions to be a lioness, rushing at full
                     speed towards me. Had I known to what animal belonged the roar I might have
                     escaped; but such it seems did not happen, and I had barely time to collect my
                     fleeing senses—for I was nigh forsaken by them—when she was within a very few
                     feet of my person. I grasped my pointed staff, balanced it as you first taught
                     when you placed it in my hands, took a sure aim, and then hurled it. I was
                     astonished at my success, for the barbed point entered her open mouth bristling
                     with fangs, and, emerging, penetrated through her hind paw into the ground,
                     pinning her in that position. I must have been endowed at that awful moment
                     with more than ordinary strength, for never did I exhibit more dexterity or
                     power.
                  "Horrible, indeed, was then the roar that saluted my ears; my father, indeed it
                     was terrible. I saw her writhe with the sharp pain, filling the air with her
                     agonizing cries, and then essay to withdraw the instrument with her teeth; but
                     it was useless, for, as the point was barbed, when it had penetrated her foot
                     of course it was impossible to be extricated.
                  "When thus my enemy was placed in a situation unable to do me injury I thought
                     I was safe and free; but ah! how sadly was I disappointed, for it seems the
                     consort of this beast was within hearing when she received the wound, and I now
                     plainly perceived through the vista of the noble trees, the enraged animal
                     bounding impetuously onward. To attempt, then, an escape by running would be
                     totally fruitless, for could I flee from an enraged lion? So I climbed the tree
                     nearest at hand, and had but safely got among the branches when the king of the
                     forest made his appearance, and the state of his mate being discovered, the
                     roar of rage that followed will I never forget; it exceeded any thing ever
                     heard by me before, not excepting that of the lioness. He had, no doubt, caught
                     a view of me, for in an instant was he crouched like a cat at the foot of my
                     tree, growling, lashing his tail, and fixing his piercing eyes upon me. While
                     in this situation I was safe; but how long would that continue? I felt
                     exceedingly faint, and could hardly
                     keep hold of the branch. At last, finding I was liable to fall, I arose and
                     proceeded rather higher till I came where three or four twisted limbs formed
                     quite a pleasant seat, and threw myself therein, I can assure you, more dead
                     than alive. The rustling I caused made the lion think I was about descending or
                     falling, for I beheld him spring to his feet and stand ready to pounce upon me
                     the moment I touched earth. Howbeit, he was deceived. By chewing the green
                     leaves I assuaged my thirst for the time being, but already began to look upon
                     death as an event that would soon happen.
                  "The night arrived. The moon shed here and there a stray beam, and also lit up
                     the figure of the beast, who still was glaring upon me. My situation was
                     dreadful, for either I must stay where I was, and die of hunger, or fall and
                     yield myself to the sharp teeth that from time to time met my view. Day
                     approached. The lion I found asleep. From what cause the animal thus slumbered
                     I cannot, for my life, discover. I was really surprised. Such a thing had not
                     presented itself to my imagination. As for the other beast, she, poor thing
                     (for I really pitied her), died about the middle of the night. Her roars had
                     been growing fainter and fainter for a long while, and gradually ceased. At
                     first it was my idea she had succeeded in getting liberated, but, on a survey
                     being taken, I beheld her lying stretched at full length upon the sandy soil,
                     the lance still pinning her foot to her body; but she had pulled it from the
                     ground; and it was then I saw the living one lying asleep; at least that was my
                     firm conviction, to judge from his closed eyes and regular, long breathings. I
                     was now determined to escape—but in what manner? To creep down and thus get
                     away would certainly awake the beast, and I would be then lost; so I supposed
                     the only means of being liberated was in my success and silence in getting from
                     one tree to another (for the branches of one projected into those of the next),
                     and so on till I was at a sufficient distance to trust to my legs. I arose, and
                     softly crept along the branch on which I was till I found it bended, so I was
                     forced to ascend to the next, which was more firm. At the end of this I
                     clutched the next, and in monkey fashion, but with hardly any noise, drew
                     myself up, upon the same, and in spite of its bending, and to my gratification,
                     succeeded in getting to the next tree, and was thus distant a short space. In
                     creeping along the bough I heard a rustling, which came from the lion; he
                     stirred, and fell again in silence. A long time did I linger, and then
                     continued my hazardous route. I was then distant two trees. My hands were much
                     wounded, while my limbs were, in like manner, exhausted and nearly unfit for
                     use. The branch I was on chanced to be rotten, and in an instant I fell to the
                     ground, happening in my good luck to escape without injury. I was silent. Did
                     the lion hear me? I listened. All was still. I managed to increase the distance
                     between us, and as tree after tree slowly was passed hope was raised in my
                     breast, and I looked upon my escape as a thing of which I was sure. I now
                     ascended a small knoll, and looking back distinguished the animal still lying
                     in the same posture as when I was captive among the branches. To run at present
                     might awaken him, for doubtless he was possessed of a very acute ear, and my
                     footfalls might be the means of startling him, so I walked for some distance
                     and then ran."
                  "And what became of the lion?" interrupted Kufan, who had been a very attentive
                     listener.
                  
                  "Well, father, it is my opinion he is still lying under that very tree,
                     surprised why I do not make my appearance."
                  "And so you did not see him again?"
                  "No; and exceedingly happy was I to part company in that way."
                  "Well, that was quite an adventure."
                  "It was only told as a prelude to a more important occurrence that afterward
                     befell me."
                  "Tell it, and I will listen to it with great pleasure."
               
               
                  VII.
                  JAVAN NARRATES HIS ADVENTURES—WITH STRANGE PEOPLE.
                  "SAFE from one danger," continued Javan, "another menaced me. Safe from the
                     jaws of the lion, I was by no means safe from the jaws of famine. No! I knew
                     that unless some unforeseen occurrence should take place by which food might be
                     obtained, I would surely starve. I then began to repent my undertaking. What
                     have I come after? murmured I; after a thing of naught, a piece of imagination;
                     an emerald. I then smiled as I uttered that word, an emerald. Surely, and have
                     I risked my life, and what, if possible, is more than that, my beloved Java,
                     for a piece of mere green stone. But then once mine, I thought, suppose I
                     should obtain that piece of mere green stone, what would be the consequence?
                     Oh, my father, imagine how enthusiastic I then became, and how I paced briskly
                     onward in the direction I thought would bring me to that country for which I
                     set forth; but my strength failed, and I sank exhausted on the ground. How long
                     I lay I know not, but on awakening found myself in motion. I opened my eyes,
                     though with difficulty, and looked—"
                  "And what did you see?" interrupted Kufan.
                  "What think you?"
                  "I really do not know; I am a very bad hand at guessing, but what did you
                     see?"
                  "Nothing."
                  "Nothing!"
                  "Absolutely nothing."
                  "How was that; were you blind?"
                  "No; but there was a blinder."
                  "Explain yourself."
                  "There was a bandage across my eyes."
                  "How did that come there?"
                  "When I found it was impossible for me to see, I tried to raise my hands to
                     remove the obstacle, when I discovered they were lashed to my sides. I cried
                     out, when a very gruff voice spake close to my ears, 'Be quiet, as you value
                     your life.' 'Where am I?' said I. 'Hush,' replied the voice, and I felt
                     something cold on my neck, which was like the blade of a dagger. 'Tell me where
                     I am going,' spake I, no way abashed. I felt the point of the dagger resting on
                     me. 'One more word from you,' growled the gruff voice, 'and I will silence you
                     forever.' And therefore was I silent.
                  "Soon I heard the tramping of horses (it was my idea I was on one of those
                     animals), and then it died away, and now I heard my master encourage his steed.
                     Two or three times did he then urge him forward, which seemed to me as if he
                     were escaping from something. The air grew cool, which made me think it was night; but
                     still on we went, though at a much slower pace. Then the animal was put to a
                     walk, and we entered a thick wood, to judge by the rustling of branches
                     overhead, and the crackling of dead leaves underfoot. My master (for was I not
                     in his power?) then descended, and unloosing the bandages, I distinguished, by
                     the uncertain light of the moon, the company in which I was. I saw before me a
                     man of great stature, of an intense darkness of skin, but whose eyes shone like
                     those of the serpent that had, a long time since, attacked my Java—you remember
                     the story. In his hand he carried an immense spear, that quivered like a reed,
                     and with the exception of his legs, from the knees downward, his arms and his
                     face, on which grew a long black beard, his body was completely bound up in
                     folds of white cotton, and upon his head was a turban of like material. His
                     horse, a noble animal, was by his side, nipping the branches within his reach.
                     Immediately a dagger glittered before my eyes. 'Cry not, or move not,' muttered
                     my captor, 'unless you wish to feel this blade.'
                  "'But who are you; what do you want with me?' asked I.
                  "'Who am I? I am your master. What do I want with you? to obey me,—and, my fine
                     youth, if you do not conduct yourself in a manner becoming a submissive slave,
                     recollect what I say to you, you will be the sufferer.'
                  "'But how came I in your possession?'
                  "'You were lying on the grass, and I saw and secured the prize.'
                  "'Where are you going to take me?'
                  "'It is of no use for you to ask questions, for you will not get answered; but
                     I will just tell you this; the reason why I wished to get before my company was
                     to mark you, for such is the custom of our band, that when a slave is once
                     marked he cannot be taken away; he becomes the property of the purchaser; but
                     if one should see you were unmarked, he would fight for you, and if I got
                     beaten you would be his property. I am now here alone, and will mark you. Down
                     upon your back.'
                  "I saw that it was useless to resist, for my arms were fastened, so I complied
                     with his orders, and stretched myself on my back, amid the withered leaves of
                     autumn. He then knelt by my side, and with his dagger slowly passed the point
                     of the same across my forehead. I remained motionless, for if I ventured to
                     move the knife might wander from its course and injure me severely. When the
                     bloody line was completed, he produced something that felt like powder, for
                     some fell on my face, and I could feel the smart as he laid a little train in
                     precisely the place where before had been the weapon.
                  "'Now,' spake the grim-visaged man, 'you are my property. In a day or so, or as
                     soon as the wound heals up, there will be seen across your forehead a light
                     crimson streak, and though you should rub and wash as much as you please, it
                     would be of no use, for such is the effect of the preparation I used, that
                     immediately it stains the skin, and nothing known can take that stain away, and
                     should you venture to escape, at a word the number of my companions would be
                     great that would fly after you. Can the lamb escape the wolf?' I shuddered when
                     I thought of my situation. 'And,' continued my master, 'when we reach the band
                     there will be given you a horse to lead on which my booty is carried, for all
                     of us have extra horses to carry our prizes.'
                  
                  "At these words I came to the conclusion I had fallen into the hands of a
                     marauding band of robbers, who, no doubt, were upon one of their expeditions,
                     sweeping off every thing within their reach, and committing all sorts of crimes
                     when resistance was offered. My master, whose name I never heard, but whom, in
                     telling my story, I will call Grim (for grim indeed he was), then opened his
                     mouth and gave a long shrill cry, resembling, I believe, the cry of no living
                     thing in Paradise, earth, or hell, and while the horse pricked up his ears and
                     I wondered—no answer was returned. The cry was repeated, when afar off was
                     heard one of a similar character. Grim then sprang into his saddle, and
                     dragging me before him whipped on his steed in the direction of the sound. He
                     stopped, and again gave the cry. Nearer was the answer. The third time I was
                     nearly deafened by the noise, and the third time it was replied, now quite near
                     at hand.
                  "Shortly we came unto the encampment of these desperadoes. Here they were in
                     great numbers, grim as my master, and completely armed. A large tent was
                     pitched; beneath it were grouped the band, while many were picketting the
                     horses, securing the plunder obtained during the day, or cooking the evening
                     meal, while the green branches used for fuel cracked, and sputtered, and
                     smoked, and burned away right cheerily. I was liberated from my bands, food was
                     given, and soon blessed sleep deprived me of all knowledge of my grievances.
                     The next morning, quite early, we were on the move, and before night had
                     crossed a great space of country. My time thus passed was, I assure you, any
                     thing but agreeable, and I was constantly meditating on some way by which I
                     might escape from bondage, and be in my former state of freedom. But in what
                     manner might I escape? There was the question, for during the day to attempt
                     such a thing would be the height of folly, and my only chance then was at
                     night. Night would cast a shroud of darkness over my proceedings; in darkness I
                     might be freed, and it was my resolution to depart, no matter by what means.
                     The next night I intended putting that resolution in action; the way I knew
                     not, but peradventure something would turn up that might be favoring. The time
                     came, and there was no moon, when, about the middle of the night, I sat upright
                     on my cloth beneath the tent and looked around at the robbers, who were all
                     wrapped in sleep, and crouched in every conceivable posture; near by, was my
                     master, and by his side, within reach of my hand, was his dagger, which had
                     fallen from his sash, and which was the identical instrument that had traced
                     the bloody line across my forehead. My first idea was to get possession of it;
                     I stretched forth my hand, and it touched the handle; I grasped it, and holding
                     it firmly, for an instant narrowly watched the sleeper's countenance. Had he
                     opened his eyes, the blade would have reached his heart; but he lay still, and
                     then I crept slowly along, every now and then watching the faces of those I
                     passed, for I was determined to escape, as I have said, at any rate. Outside
                     the tent a boy saw me, and was about giving the alarm, when I beckoned to him;
                     he advanced, and I then told him (having my dagger gleaming before his eyes)
                     that if he ventured to cry I would kill him. The threat had its effect, and I
                     then gagged him and tied his hands behind him, and also his legs together, so
                     that he could not give an alarm when I was gone. I yet recollect the youth, as
                     he lay upon the ground, with rage in his eyes, though totally unable to speak a
                     word. I then commenced walking ing
                     very briskly, and even ran, when another person, in the shape of a man, came
                     unawares upon me; to hesitate would be to me destruction, so I instantly, with
                     a blow of my dagger, toppled him to the ground, and left him weltering in his
                     blood. When I now think of my act I shudder; but then, liberty was before my
                     eyes, and liberty I was determined to have.
                  "Again I escaped; but my question now was—as when so long previous I had
                     escaped the lions—where could I obtain food? Two days I travelled onward,
                     subsisting on roots and such berries as were to be found, and at night reposing
                     in the branches of some lofty tree; on the third, about noon, I came within
                     view of some huts, and distinguished the inhabitants collected nigh them. At my
                     appearance they became very friendly, and beckoned me to come nigher; being
                     exceedingly hungry, I acquiesced with their wish, and came near, but had hardly
                     reached the first dwelling when some ten or twelve men rushed upon me, and
                     being weak I offered not much resistance, and was led captive to a hut, into
                     which I was pushed, and the entrance closed, with the exception of a small
                     circular spot, which was occupied by the eye of one of my captors, who
                     immediately smacked his lips. That smack made me tremble."
                  "Why," again interrupted Kufan, "should the mere motion of the lips cause a man
                     like you to shake with fear?"
                  "Wait a moment," replied Javan, "and I will tell you. He went away, and then I
                     saw the eye of another person who did not smack his lips; then came a third and
                     a fourth, and then a party of females, to judge from their voices, who laughed
                     and spake much in a muttering manner. At last one of them said, and I heard it
                     distinctly, 'He will be prime when he is fat.' I now trembled more than ever,
                     and my heart throbbed violently."
                  "With love?" asked Kufan.
                  "By no means; but with horror, and with fear, and with despair."
                  "Why, what was the matter?"
                  "Soon a hand was extended under the entrance, holding a dish of boiled rice,
                     which, having deposited, it disappeared. I touched not the food at first, for I
                     knew but too well I had fallen into the hands of cannibals."
                  "Of what!" cried Kufan, aghast.
                  "Of cannibals. I was reserved to be eaten by those very persons who had gazed
                     at me, and by those very women whom I had heard express their sentiments.
                     Though I was hungry, yet I did not wish to grow fleshy, and have my last day
                     brought to hand, so I determined to eat just enough to support life, and in the
                     meanwhile seek a means to escape. Day after day was I kept in my prison, but at
                     last they could not restrain their desire to taste my flesh, for one evening I
                     was bound with cords and led to the center of the village, where were collected
                     all the inhabitants, and where was a large blazing fire ready to receive me.
                     Something now I was determined to do, so clinching my hands, for my dagger had
                     been left in the heart of the robber I had killed, I turned about when loosed
                     from the cords that bound my arms and feet (though why they loosed me at all I
                     cannot conceive) preparatory to being stretched across the fire, and felled
                     one, then another, and then another of my enemies, and seeing they drew their
                     weapons, seized a fire-brand, dashed into the center of them, and by dint of
                     brandishing the same, scorched, blinded, and astonished them, when, narrowly
                     escaping a spear, I took to my heels and never stopped till I fell headlong
                     from a precipice into a river, which I considered the luckiest thing that could have happened, for
                     when carried down the stream I glanced up and saw the assembled multitude on
                     the height above, with raised hands, regarding my progress. I dare say they
                     considered me something more than human, for there they continued standing in
                     the attitude of astonishment."
                  "A miraculous escape!" ejaculated Kufan.
                  "Miraculous, indeed," said Javan; and having taken breath, he went on with his
                     story.
               
               
                  VIII.
                  JAVAN NARRATES HIS ADVENTURES—AND ENDS THEM.
                  "EVERY thing seemed to go against me, and I crawled from the flood faint and
                     weary, and threw myself in despair on the sandy beach. 'What hope,' cried I
                     aloud, in agony of despair, 'what hope have I of ever attaining that object for
                     which I left my home?' and echo repeated in a mocking manner—'Home!' 'What hope
                     have I of ever seeing my father and Java?' and echo again answered—'Java!'
                     'Great Kiran,' cried I, falling on my knees, and crying with a loud voice,
                     'give me strength that I may proceed onwards, and echo said—'Onwards!'—and
                     again—'Onwards!'—and afar off could be heard—'Onwards!' I arose, and determined
                     to go onwards.
                  "As I have already said, every thing went against me, and I will tell you in
                     what manner. When sufficient strength was obtained, I set forth and wandered,
                     in fact, I knew not where, slowly and sadly. So many incidents had happened
                     that I considered myself fated either to die the death of a slave, or one more
                     horrid. First, I had escaped from lions, then wandering robbers, then, and
                     lastly, from being eaten by human beings. 'It is useless for me to try to evade
                     any evil, and I do not doubt but that, were danger to come, I would yield to
                     it.' Hardly had that thought passed through my brain than I heard in the
                     distance the sound as if of many horses, and then they suddenly appeared, and,
                     as I was distinguished, they were directed towards me. I sought not to escape;
                     the men expressed no astonishment at my resignation, and one of them, quickly
                     mounting me before him, away we went. My possessor did not say a word, and I
                     kept silence. Away we sped, and after some time entered quite a large
                     collection of houses, where all the inmates rushed forth and filled the air
                     with their boisterous hurrahs at my capture; but what to make of all this was
                     certainly beyond my comprehension. Were they going to cook and eat me? Should I
                     again escape fire?
                  "The village was situated on the side of a high mountain, one of a long range
                     that on the right and left I had seen disappear in the blue haze of the
                     distance. It was about sundown. I was carried to a square door opening to a
                     cave dug in the side of the mountain, and when it was opened, thrust therein;
                     the entrance being quickly fastened with a billet of wood. For an instant or
                     two, my eyes being unaccustomed to the darkness, I could see nothing, but
                     shortly, little by little, I distinguished a human being seated near the wall,
                     with his head resting on his knees. I approached, and laid my hand upon his
                     shoulder, when instantly I found myself lying on the opposite side of the
                     cavern, stretched at full length.
                  
                  "'I told you not to come near me again, and the next time you do I will kill
                     you,' growled the stranger.
                  "I was astonished.
                  "'You received a little this time, but the next I will kill you.'
                  "These words, proceeding from the mouth of the stranger who had knocked me
                     over, and who was now glaring upon me, caused me no little surprise.
                  "'Surely,' said I, advancing, 'you are mistaken, I have never been here
                     before.'
                  "'What have I done?' said he, in a changed tone of voice, 'so you are not him
                     who placed me in this hole?'
                  "'You see I am not.'
                  "'Who, then, are you?'
                  "I acquainted him with the circumstances that had befallen me since I left the
                     robbers.
                  "'Your hand,' cried he, grasping it, 'we are then brothers in misery.'
                  "'Have you been a prisoner long?'
                  "'For so long a time, that I am puzzled to know, in reality, how long it
                     is.'
                  "'And what are they going to do with you?'
                  "'Sacrifice me, as they will you. When I was taken,' continued the unfortunate,
                     throwing himself on some leaves in the corner, and motioning me to do likewise,
                     'I knew that the day, the feast day, of their god Lula was sometime or other to
                     be celebrated. I am not of this people; my land is far, far away, where they
                     have no idols, where they have no god but—'
                  "'Kiran,' interrupted I.
                  "'Precisely; and where all the people live in peace and happiness, and in love
                     with one another. But as I grew older I was tired of that land—good Kiran,
                     shall I ever see it again, that happy land!—and was anxious to travel. I did
                     travel, and the whole amount of it was that I arrived in this place and was
                     taken and imprisoned, to serve as one of the victims to be sacrificed to the
                     god Lula.'
                  "'Am I then the other?'
                  "'You are; the more victims sacrificed, the greater, so they say, will Lula be
                     gratified.'
                  "'Accursed people,' cried I.
                  "'You are right,' said the stranger, 'they are accursed, and will certainly
                     get—' But no matter what he did say.
                  "'No doubt of it; so you think all the time between the present moment and the
                     time of celebration will be employed in collecting victims.'
                  "'I feel certain of it.'
                  "We were then silent.
                  "'My friend,' said I, after a short interval, 'I have already escaped from
                     numerous perils, is there not some way of escaping this?'
                  "'I see none,' he replied, and I heard him sob.
                  "'What! are you weeping? Have you not the strength of mind to bear up under
                     this affliction?'
                  "'I have not. Know, oh stranger, that I have a wife and child in the land where
                     I was born, and which I left, being driven by that accursed Spirit of
                     Travel.'
                  "'My friend, I weep with you and pity you; pity me, for I am nearly in like
                     condition.'
                  "'Have you also a wife to mourn your loss?'
                  "'No; but I have left behind one as dear, who was soon to have been my partner;
                     but come, put a brave face on the matter; something within me tells me we shall
                     escape, and I shall see the dear one whom I have left,' cried I, springing to my feet, 'let us arise; are we not
                     strong? Let us by our united efforts break down the door, overturn the
                     sentinel, should any be there, and trust to our legs for safety; are you a good
                     runner?'
                  "'Yes, and I applaud your advice; so let us collect our strength, and make one
                     bold effort.'
                  "We then retreated to the end of the cave opposite the door, through whose
                     cracks streamed faintly the light of day, and rushing with all the fury
                     imaginable dashed upon it, and the fastenings gave way, and down it came to the
                     ground, overturning in its course a poor sentinel, who, I really believe,
                     imagined the world was coming to an end, for he shouted in a most horrible
                     manner, whether from pain or fright I knew not. Now, the screaming of this
                     youth was precisely what we did not wish, so my companion applying a
                     well-directed blow levelled him for the second time, and we took to our heels;
                     but too late, for the boy had given the alarm, and the inhabitants, turning out
                     in great numbers, and not feeling particularly well pleased to be deprived of
                     their prizes, did their best, and we were recaptured, our hands and feet
                     tightly lashed, and rethrown in the same place from which we had escaped; when
                     the broken door having been replaced and fastened as well as possible, and
                     finding there was no possibility of flight, a single sentinel, so I understood
                     from the conversation without, was appointed to keep guard, and the inhabitants
                     returned to their huts, having first given us to know that we were to be
                     sacrificed the following morning.
                  "The day wore away, and night arrived. Near me I noticed a small piece of sharp
                     and jagged stone protruding from the wall of the cave, and which was so small
                     that it could hardly be perceived, but was very apparent when the hand was
                     passed over it; and this small article was to be the key that would unlock our
                     prison, or, in other words, the instrument that would cut asunder our cords. I
                     then got upon my knees, although suffering greatly (for my ankles were so
                     tightly bound together that any movement caused them to be very painful), and
                     raising my hands, commenced rubbing the cord that held them upon the stone.
                     Little by little the string gave way. My companion noticed my proceedings with
                     a beaming eye, and could hardly prevent giving a triumphant shout as he saw me
                     loosen my hands. My first impulse then, when my hands were at liberty, was to
                     be free entirely by undoing the ligaments around my feet, but the recollection
                     that my companion was yet bound called me to his rescue, and so with some
                     difficulty I untied his cords, and then we both liberated our feet. What should
                     we do then? To break forth as formerly, would only be a repetition of the
                     former capture, and we should by no means escape the morrow's sacrifice. My
                     companion thought of an expedient, and both of us lying on the ground, as
                     though yet bound, he commenced moaning and groaning, as if in great agony. The
                     sentinel laughed, which raised my anger, and in a whisper I advised a rush, but
                     he shook his head, and bid me keep still, and then continued his moaning; then
                     he began to call on his god, and ask pardon for a great sin committed. The
                     guard here spoke, and told him all his sins would be atoned for on the morrow,
                     for then King Lula would eat his heart! The moaning was not stopped, but in the
                     intervals he told the keeper that he had, some time previous, murdered a man,
                     and buried his wealth in a certain spot that he could designate; that he was
                     very sorrowful, and wished a priest of Lula was near, that he might confess unto him, and
                     receive forgiveness, and then he would discover the place of the concealment of
                     the riches, which might be given to Lula at the time of his sacrifice, as an
                     extra atonement. I smiled as I became aware of the stratagem of my
                     companion.
                  "The guard ceased laughing at the mention of the gold, and then said that he
                     himself was a priest of the great Lula; that he would hear his confession, and
                     receive his wealth to offer it to the great king. The sufferer, though aware of
                     the tremendous falsehood uttered, acquiesced, and the door was partly opened;
                     and in the faint light I saw the man enter, and proceed towards the moaning
                     person. He then commenced his confession, which, in reality, was a very artful
                     story. He lay so that his liberation could not be discovered, and, as the guard
                     crouched by him, gave a story of the murder that, hardened as I was, made my
                     blood freeze. Could he, in reality, mean what he said? Could it be possible
                     that a human being would act in that way? But let me state, that afterwards he
                     said all was but the work of his imagination. As the bloody narrative
                     proceeded, his voice grew more and more husky, and the sham priest thought in
                     reality he was dying.
                  "'Speak louder,'—he exclaimed—'speak louder.'
                  "'Well—when my knife—had—my knife—had done its work—I robbed him of all his
                     gold and jewels—gold, and there was—gold and jewels—
                  "'Well, what then? Speak louder.'
                  "'And his gold,' (his voice near died away) 'and digging a hole
                     deep—deep—buried him there—the man—killed.'
                  "'And the gold, what did you do with that?'
                  "'The gold, what gold?'—and his mind appeared wandering—'what—what gold?'
                  "'The fruit of the robbery; what did you do with it?'
                  "'Oh—yes—I buried—deep—deep.'
                  "'Where?'
                  "'Beside—'
                  "'Where?'—cried the guard, advancing still nearer, and bending over him, so as
                     to hear his last breath—'tell me; where is it buried?'
                  "'Beside; beside the man—knife—gold—jewels—be—'
                  "'Where was it?'—cried he, with great anxiety, bending still closer, and
                     placing his ear over the mouth of the supposed dying man.
                  "This was the moment desired. 'Accursed!' growled the resuscitated—'receive
                     your reward!'—and in an instant the guard felt himself clutched by the neck,
                     and while thus held, I sprang and overturned him, and placed my knee upon his
                     breast. 'Shall I kill?' cried my friend, grasping the dagger that was in his
                     victim's belt, and aiming the keen point.—'No, not when we can manage without
                     it, but just bind him tightly, while I hold him.' It was quickly done. 'Now,'
                     again said I, 'with the dagger scrape down a quantity of earth, and when you
                     have sufficient, bring it here and we will gag him.' The earth was brought; his
                     mouth was quickly filled; and, untying the cloth that hung from his waist, it
                     was torn in strips, and bound tightly around his head, thus forming a perfect
                     gag, which we defied all his powers to remove; and taking one last look at the
                     doubled-up figure (for his hands we fastened to his opposite feet) my companion
                     told him we were leaving for the treasure, and, refastening the door,
                     departed.
                  "My story is now soon ended. We wandered about, fortunately escaping the
                     inhabitants, till we encountered a
                     company of merchants bound to Kairo, and joined them. My companion fell sick
                     when we were in the vast desert, and he was, with his camel, left behind, for
                     such was the custom. I arrived at the great city, and, after some time spent
                     there, at last met an old sage, who told me all about the manuscript left by
                     your father. He took me into his sleeping-room, and showed unto me a square
                     iron box, but without any fastening, telling me that he who could open it would
                     discover the place where the emerald might be found, and that many old and
                     young men had tried, but could not succeed. I lifted the cover, and found a
                     small box. Some grotesque characters were written on a brass plate, which was
                     highly polished, and ornamented its top. The sage advised me not to open it
                     till I saw you (for he seemed not only to know your name, but also all about
                     you), and I agreed so to act; we parted company, and here I am before you."
               
               
                  IX.
                  THEY OPEN THE BOX.
                  JAVAN had ended his narrative.
                  "Now," said Kufan, "let me see the box."
                  Javan produced it.
                  "Open it."
                  Javan opened it.
                  "I see nothing."
                  "Nor I either."
                  Both looked blank.
                  "Kufan!"
                  "Javan!"
                  "The sage has deceived me."
                  "And you have had your labor for nothing."
                  "Is there nothing in it?"
                  "Nothing."
                  Javan viewed the box, and with fury dashed it to the ground.
                  "And you have now lost your box."
                  "So much the better, for I shall now have nothing to put me in remembrance of
                     my troubles."
                  "But look, there are some characters."
                  And by the light of the torch, which was thrust in the crevice of the rock,
                     Javan saw that on the inner side of the bottom of the box figures were
                     indented.
                  "Sure enough; the mystery is solved, and the sage has not deceived me."
                  "Read them, Javan."
                  "I cannot; try you."
                  And he handed him the broken piece, when Kufan, after some studying, spoke to
                     the effect, that the jewel would be found on the top of Mount Pandan, and that
                     the enchantment of the skulls would have to be performed.
                  "On the top of Mount Pandan?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then I am determined on going thither."
                  "Do you know the way?"
                  "No."
                  "Can you perform the enchantment?"
                  "No—can you?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then all will be right."
                  
                  "I fortunately possess all the articles."
                  "Then you will go along?"
                  "Yes."
                  "When shall we start?"
                  "To-morrow morning, at sunrise."
                  "So be it."
                  Javan extinguished the torch, and then they retired.
               
               
                  X.
                  THE PILGRIM ON HIS JOURNEY.
                  THE sun was setting—setting in the midst of gaudy-colored clouds—setting in the
                     distant mountains of those airy articles which were piled in fantastic
                     shapes—the sun was shining o'er the scene.
                  A distant peak of snowy whiteness was being suffused in roseate hues, when in
                     the vale beneath trod slowly along an aged man, whose feeble steps were aided
                     by a staff, and whose eyes were riveted on the already noticed peak; his visage
                     was careworn; his long hair, and still longer beard, were of an iron-grey,
                     approaching to whiteness; his only garment was composed of a brown mantle,
                     wrapped in many folds around him, while coarse sandals guarded his feet.
                  The scenery of the country through which lay the route of this aged man was
                     exceedingly beautiful: before him was distinguished a zigzag path winding
                     through a pleasant valley, and lost behind bushes and rocks, and then seen
                     wandering on and on, till its end was lost as it ascended the side of the
                     monstrous mountain far ahead, whose peak nigh melted in the air. Green bushes,
                     tall, nodding palms, with stems exceeding straight and smooth, and with
                     magnificent tufts of long green leaves at the tops, waving gracefully, were on
                     either side; majestic old trees grew hither and thither; laughing springs and
                     bubbling rivulets danced merrily through the flower-besprinkled grass, and
                     sweeping lawns spread before the beholder in every direction.
                  It was a magnificent scene, and though surrounded by all these charms of
                     nature, the pilgrim paid them not the slightest attention; his lips moved
                     slowly, and steadfastly gazing on that distant peak, did he continue his
                     journey.
                  The sun sank.
                  The pilgrim also sank upon his knees, and bowing his forehead to the green
                     turf, offered a prayer to the great Kiran, the God of heaven and earth, in
                     which he stated how he had been long travelling, and how faint and weary he
                     then was, but yet possessing perseverance in his object, he wished sufficient
                     strength and ardor might be given, to enable him to reach the place of his
                     destination, and when he arrived there he might meet with his reward. For an
                     instant he stopped, and then continuing, thanked his Creator for all His past
                     mercies. He arose, and proceeding to a spring, drank of its pure water, and
                     then proceeded on his way—but faint and weary was that pilgrim old, and,
                     notwithstanding his anxiety to advance, he fell on the green sward, totally
                     unable to move a single limb.
               
               
                  
                  XI.
                  THE READER IS FAVORED WITH THE VIEW OF A BEVY OF—, BUT READ AND
                     YOU WILL KNOW.
                  LOUD was the laugh, and merry withal, that now was heard proceeding from behind
                     a clump of blossom-clad bushes; nearer did it come, and now was plainly
                     distinguished the rustling of leaves, as if some one was crushing them
                     underfoot—the bushes were pressed aside, and forth sprang a female, who would
                     have advanced had she not on a sudden been arrested by the view of the fallen
                     pilgrim; and let us seize that moment of surprise to give her description.
                  She was of the medium height and most divinely made; in fact the most skillful
                     sculptor could not have made a better form. Her color was of a golden brown,
                     and she stood in the attitude of surprise, one foot thrown a little back, as
                     was also her body, one hand carried to her lips and the other slightly
                     extended, and the yet strong glow of the heavens threw her in beautiful light
                     and shade. Her hair, extremely long and curling, was thrown back and kept in
                     its place by a wreath of roses, intermingled with opening buds; her lips were
                     full and rosy; her eyes very sparkling, and her hands uncommonly small and
                     well-formed. A dress, curiously embroidered, fell to her knees, while a pink
                     scarf encircled her slender waist, and the ends, where it was loosely tied,
                     descended nearly to the small sandals which seemed by golden bands to be
                     fastened to her tiny feet; amulets, armlets, and necklaces of precious stones,
                     completed her attire.
                  Her stay was short, for uttering a slight scream she bounded away, and
                     retreated between those bushes whence she came forth. Is not the curiosity of
                     females notorious? Soon the leaves again rustled, and the same beautiful face
                     was seen, and those eyes were peering at the still motionless man; then another
                     face was distinguished, and yet another, till at last four female faces were
                     perceived amid the thick foliage. The first person stepped forth, another
                     followed, and having gained courage, they at last formed a group, a lovely
                     group, around the aged man. Would not he have been perfectly fascinated had he
                     beheld those eight eyes gazing at him? They were a beautiful set of
                     smiling-faced females; but the rest paid a respect to the first that could not
                     escape the beholder, and her amulets and trinkery, and the embroidery of her
                     dress and sandals were much more costly than theirs, which would seem to
                     designate her as being of higher birth.
                  "Ellee," she said to a sprightly girl by her side, "what do you think of
                     it?"
                  "Certainly, Ura, I cannot tell."
                  "Nor I," said another, whose glossy ringlets were bound with crimson buds, and
                     whose name was Meemee.
                  "Nor I," added another, whose scarf that hung around her bosom was of green
                     gauze.
                  "Is he dead?" asked Ellee.
                  "I do not know," replied Ura; "I never saw any thing dead but my little
                     golden-plumaged bird."
                  "And how did he look?" inquired she of the green gauze, named Poulee.
                  "Like this man; he laid so still, so motionless."
                  "He does not move," remarked Ellee.
                  "No," added Meemee, who possessed, by the way, most sparkling eyes, "he does
                     not."
                  
                  "Ah, Meemee," said Ura, "what would you advise us to do?"
                  "Yes; let us have your opinion," said Poulee.
                  "Now for the advice," added Ellee.
                  "Well, girls," spake she, "my advice is to run away just as fast as we
                     can."
                  "Run away!" cried they all together.
                  "Yes; just as quick as—"
                  "But why?"
                  "Why? he may be asleep, and—"
                  But no sooner did these words escape her lips than the maidens, alarmed at the
                     danger they were in (that is, if he were asleep, and should awake), than they
                     scampered away like a troop of frightened deer, in every direction. But the
                     pilgrim gave no signs of life, and after a while they one by one stole forth
                     again, and occupied their former places.
                  "He is yet still," said Ellee; "why did we run away?"
                  "Why? there is the question," answered Ura; "now if it had been some young
                     warrior it would have been right for us to run; but see, this person wears the
                     appearance of a sage."
                  "So he does," said one.
                  "See his staff," said another.
                  "See his grey beard," said the third.
                  "No;" again said Ura, "if this had been Baffra, my beloved, I would run away,
                     as it would not be proper for me to stay; but here is one that has a right to
                     be helped; he is, perhaps, asleep, say you; well then, all is well, he will do
                     us no harm."
                  "But suppose," said Meemee, "suppose he were not asleep, what would you do
                     then?"
                  "Have assistance brought. Which of you will take him by the arm and gently
                     shake him? which of you will do it?"
                  No one spake, but quickly drew back.
                  "Then," continued Ura, "I will; why be afraid? have I not told you there is no
                     danger?" And so saying, she advanced a step or two, stooped, and gently shook
                     him by the arm; but quite exhausted was the poor man, and not a sound escaped
                     his lips.
                  "He is sick—perhaps dead," said she.
                  "I shudder," exclaimed Ellee—"dead!"
                  "He may be; he may not be; but run, Ellee, run to the tent, and bid my
                     attendants come; if we can succor this holy man it will be an act meeting the
                     approbation of the great Kiran. Ellee, run—run!"
                  And Ellee ran, and in a short time Ellee, the sprightly, returned. The two
                     eunuchs who followed, held a short conference, and then with care lifted him in
                     their arms. Meemee having taken possession of the staff, and the other girls
                     walking with Ura in the midst, and their arms around each other's necks, the
                     whole company moved slowly onwards in the direction of the tent.
               
               
                  XII.
                  PIPE-SMOKING AND STORY-TELLING, AND THE EMERALD IS SEEN, AND
                     TRANSFORMATIONS OCCUR.
                  BETWEEN the light green trees an opening was discovered leading to a beautiful
                     clearing, covered with the softest
                     grass, and in the middle of which was erected the tent, composed of purple
                     cloth streaked with gold, and having a couple of pink streamers waving from the
                     summit of the pole in the center. This tent met the grass on every side, and
                     was impenetrable, save in front, where a looped-up portion served as an
                     entrance. There a few eunuchs sat cross-legged within view, who, on the
                     appearance of the company, quickly arose, and hastily advanced to discover what
                     was the matter, and who was the aged man they bore.
                  The matter was soon explained, and then Bellin, the chief of the dusky
                     attendants, had the pilgrim carried within the tent, and being quite noted for
                     his success as a physician, by aid of medicines and proper treatment brought
                     him to his senses. His eyes opened, and he looked around. Great was the joy of
                     the lovely Ura, that she had been the means of rescuing a holy man from death,
                     and great also was the pleasure of the three other females.
                  "Which" exclaimed the pilgrim, when he had so far recovered as to be able to
                     speak, "which of you is my benefactress?"
                  The three girls exclaimed with one breath, as they pointed to the silent
                     Ura—"She!"
                  "Accept, then, my daughter"—said he, kneeling before her—"my thanks; may Kiran
                     bless you!"
                  "Arise, my father," she replied, "I have done but my duty."
                  "Kiran will bless you."
                  "Now, my father," she continued—"will you not give me the history of your life,
                     and tell me from what cause you came to be placed in the position I found
                     you?"
                  "My daughter, the incidents of my life are few, and totally unworthy your
                     notice; but since you have desired to hear, I will tell them."
                  "Do so, my father. Bellin, place a cushion."
                  And the aged man sat cross-legged.
                  "My father, do you smoke?"
                  "A pipe would be acceptable, my child."
                  "Bellin, a pipe."
                  And a pipe was produced; a slave filled the bowl with a fragrant weed, and soon
                     clouds of smoke encircled the aged man's head, and betimes completely hid it
                     from view.
                  "Meemee," said Ura to her attendant, "bring me mine with the amber
                     mouth-piece."
                  And a delicately carved pipe was soon resting on the floor before her, and the
                     amber mouth-piece inserted between her lips gave passage to the smoke that now
                     escaped therefrom.
                  "Are you ready, my daughter, to hear the narrative?"
                  "I am."
                  Ura reclined upon her cushion, encircled by the three females; and as she
                     smoked at intervals, she first sent a puff at Meemee, then one at Poulee, and
                     then at Ellee, and then sent one up in the air, watching it as it wreathed
                     itself. The pilgrim then opened his mouth, and, between the intervals of the
                     smoke clouds, spoke as follows:
                  
                     THE PILGRIM'S STORY.
                     "My father, oh, lovely hearer"—said he, addressing his conversation to the
                        attentive Ura—"was a king, a mighty, far-famed king. I had two brothers, one
                        of them older and the other younger than myself. The latter was my favorite.
                        We would ride together, and throw in concert the lance, and in all my expeditions he was
                        my companion. Those were sunny days."
                     Several minutes were spent in puffing dense clouds.
                     "The sky, clear, and blue, and bright, became dark, and black, and dismal.
                        Pleasure fled away on her quickest wings. Despair reigned in the castle of
                        the king, my father. Sorrow was everywhere. Why—why was there darkness, and
                        despair, and sorrow, and dreariness? My eldest brother died—aye, died. He
                        died, but how? Poison did the work. Who could have so done? Mystery was over
                        all. The name of the assassin remained in darkness.
                     "The night was dark. The moon was not up. The stars refused to shine. An
                        awful night! The winds roared. The rain descended. It was a terrible night.
                        Terrible for me. My younger brother was struck with sudden sickness. A year
                        had elapsed since his brother's death. In his darkened room lay he upon his
                        couch. His head was hot and his cheeks were feverish. His hand was burning.
                        His pulse was high. I watched him. Always was he with me during his health,
                        and when unwell should I forsake him? No!—no! I loved him, and guarded him.
                        In that room sat I by his couch, with my face buried in my hands, weeping.
                        My heart was full. I could not refrain from weeping. But a sound was heard.
                        He was talking in his sleep. How fearful were the words he uttered! How I
                        trembled as I heard them, and wished to close his mouth, that he might not
                        utter them, but could not. O Kiran! would I had never heard them!"
                     The pilgrim relinquished his pipe, and hid his face in his hands. Ura
                        thought she saw tears fall therefrom.
                     "Father," said she, "are you indisposed?"
                     "I am not, but the recollection of that evening overpowers me."
                     "Perhaps you wish not to tell me the events that then occurred."
                     "You have wished to hear all; I will tell you all."
                     "The sick person," continued the pilgrim, "muttered. I heard it. I recollect
                        it. 'Ah, it is well,' murmured he, 'it is well to find fault—very well—but
                        am I not the youngest? The dark night—all propitious—the soothsayer—you will
                        be king—I will be king!—how I sprang for joy! King!—my
                        brother—love—cup—poison—do not kill me, I beseech you—drink—drink, or you
                        die—sword glittered before his
                        eyes—drink—take—drink—flee—death!—death!!—death!!!' Such was the muttering I
                        heard. How awful was the intelligence! He told me in his sleep how he, being
                        the youngest, desired to be king over all, and had not waited for a natural,
                        but made an unnatural death. No doubt my death was also planned. When the
                        mutterings were finished, I cried aloud, and it awoke the
                        sleeper.—'Pelod'—cried he—'Pelod'—I answered not.—'Pelod, where art thou?'
                        'Here'—said I, in a hoarse voice, 'and, Pelon, I heard
                        the—confession.'—'Confession!'—cried he, sitting in his couch—'confession!
                        what! when!' 'You were asleep—you murmured.' 'And you heard all?'—'I heard
                        all.'—He fell back, and I rushed from the place, hardly knowing where. The
                        news was to me terrible. I could not live under the same roof with him. In
                        my escape I met my father, who, with a drawn sword, opposed my advance.
                        'Where away?' I know not.' 'What is the matter?'—'Your son is—' 'My son is
                        dead.'—'And is not the sick one your son?' 'He is not. When he was young, I
                        placed him with you and your
                        brother as a companion.'—'Thank Kiran!'—exclaimed I, 'that I know
                        that—thanks that you have told me.'—'Why?'—said my father—' for what
                        reason?'—'Because he killed my brother.'
                     "Now, it may seem strange to you that my father never should have told me
                        that until that hour, and also that he should have told me any thing at all;
                        but such it seems was the fact, and I was instantly relieved of the
                        impression that a brother could have been guilty of such an act. I stayed
                        near the entrance while my father rushed in. I heard him ask if what had
                        been told him were true. The answer I did not hear. But I did distinctly
                        hear the rush of his sabre through the air, and the sound of a fall. What
                        became of the youth I know not; whether he died by the weapon or by his
                        malady I cannot tell, for acting on the impulse of the moment I left the
                        house, being overwhelmed with deep emotions, and have never seen the place
                        since. Howbeit, I afterwards understood that a neighboring prince made war
                        and took all the possessions of my father, who ended his days in a
                        prison.
                     "Day after day I wandered, and at last came unto a solitary hut in the
                        mountains, where dwelt a man retired from all intercourse with the world,
                        and whose only duty was prayer. I told him my situation, and he consented to
                        accept me as a pupil and to teach me his religion, and I was to aid him in
                        his devotions and sacrifices. I was pleased with this change of living, and
                        for many years we dwelt under the same roof. As he said, so he acted. As he
                        promised, so he performed. He took especial pains to make me religious, and
                        taught me how to pray. Then I possessed an inclination to be religious, and
                        it became my firm intention, when age should have ripened my years and
                        experience should have had its influence, to perform the part of a
                        preacher—a priest of the great Kiran. I assisted at the time of prayer
                        before the shrine, and by my devotions gained the whole of his affections;
                        but sorrow came when uninvited, and it was my painful lot to consign to the
                        grave my beloved companion. Being bereaved of my best friend, what should I
                        do? I would not return to the home of my father, and besides I had no taste
                        for trifling pleasures. So being encumbered with no property save the
                        garments I wore, I set forth, determining to lead a wandering life,
                        subsisting on such things as were set before me, do all the good in my
                        power, and preach, as I went, the word of Kiran. Great, oh my hearers, has
                        been the extent of my travels, and at last, having arrived at a great city,
                        I spent several years therein, and from an humble office in the temple of
                        Kiran rose to that of chief priest, and it was while in that capacity I came
                        in possession of a most wonderful article, the quality of which I will soon
                        tell to you. It is not my desire to state how and in what manner, but
                        suffice it to say, I did become its possessor. A few nights afterwards,
                        lying upon my couch, I was visited by a vision, in which I clearly beheld an
                        angel of the great Kiran, who, descending amid clouds of most glorious
                        colors, advanced even to where I lay. The arm was extended and the finger
                        pointed—'Go, go,' cried the phantom.—' Whither?'—I replied—' To the top of
                        Mount Pandan,' said the heavenly vision—'for thy time is come; the great
                        Kiran has need of thee; arise, gird on thy sandals—on!—on!' In my dream I
                        bowed my head, but said nothing, and when I had raised it the vision had
                        departed. On the morrow I told what I had seen to my brethren, and bidding
                        them farewell, set forth. This day I have seen the end of my pilgrimage, for yonder lies the
                        summit of the Mount, and had it not been for the assistance received I
                        verily believe I should have departed this life ere I arrived there. May my
                        benefactress be blessed, yea, may the blessings of Kiran be upon her."
                     The pilgrim ended his narrative.
                     Ura had also finished smoking her pipe.
                     "Father"—said she—"if I do not greatly mistake, you mentioned some wonderful
                        article of which you were the possessor. Would you gratify me and my friends
                        by telling me what it was, and also what are its qualities?"
                     "You are right, my daughter, and I will tell you what it was—an
                        emerald."
                     "An emerald!"—exclaimed the females, with disappointment, for they had
                        expected something more valuable—"only an emerald!"
                     "Yes, my children; but you have not heard all; that jewel is the emerald of
                        the great Kiran."
                     "Is it possible!"—cried one and all, while the faces of the eunuchs bore
                        marks of astonishment.
                     "Yes, my children, it is true. My daughter, by what name art thou
                        called?"
                     "My name, father, is Ura."
                     "Then, Ura, my beloved, I will give unto you this inestimable gift. I will
                        endow you with the magic gem; I myself might have used it, but I am tired of
                        the world and wish to depart, and besides, has not the great Kiran called
                        me? Yes, Ura, my daughter, to you will this jewel be of value—may it be a
                        benefit to you."
                     "And what, my father, are its qualities?"
                     "You will see, for I will try the experiment on myself—behold me now."
                     And the aged man, with hair and beard white, and with eyes that had, through
                        years, lost their lustre, produced the jewel, in shape like unto a heart,
                        and attached to a brilliant golden chain; when passing the bright links over
                        his head, around his neck, the females sprang up and hid themselves behind
                        the curtains, while the eunuchs, with drawn swords, presented them to the
                        stranger's breast, for in the place of the aged pilgrim with white hair,
                        bended frame, and dim eye, there stood a youth of beautiful appearance, with
                        flashing eyes, rosy cheeks, and waving black curls. No wonder the maidens
                        were surprised at the change—no wonder the eunuchs were startled at seeing
                        so handsome a youth so near their charges; howbeit before the points of the
                        sabres had touched his body, he slipped off the chain, and became instantly
                        as before. Away had flown his handsome appearance, and he was yet the aged
                        wanderer. The girls made their appearance.
                     "Well, my daughter"—said he—"how did you find the change? Do you see the
                        merits of the emerald?"
                     "I did, father—but you so startled me!"
                     "Be not afraid; no harm will or could have happened you; but let me give you
                        the gem; you have done a good thing unto me, you have rescued me from death;
                        this will be a little recompense. My days are numbered; of what use, then,
                        would the jewel be to me? None. But you—you are yet young, and in the
                        spring-time of life; of what value then it will be to you!"
                     Ura bowed her head, and the golden chain slipped over it. No sooner,
                        however, had the sparkling article touched her bosom than a great change
                        occurred, a change that was nigh as great as the one that had already taken
                        place with the pilgrim. The beautiful face became still more beautiful ful. Before, one would positively
                        affirm that such could not be the case; but after the gift encircled her
                        neck quickly would he alter his opinion, and acknowledge the fact. Aye! she
                        was beautiful. Her eyes, of great lustre, obtained a greater degree of
                        brilliancy—an unearthly splendor, and her long hair had no rival in point of
                        glossiness and waving outline. Have we not said she was finely formed? Now,
                        oh reader, she was superb—such a magnificently moulded body and limbs!—such
                        a graceful turn of the neck!—such a face! No earthly woman was like her so
                        handsome.
                     The stupified faces of the eunuchs became expressive of astonishment and
                        admiration, which they made known by shrill-toned exclamations. Meemee,
                        Poulee, and Ellee bit their lips with envy. Were they as beautiful? Were
                        they as enticing? Were they as angelic? Each one answered these questions by
                        the simple negative monosyllable. They drew back from her embroidered couch,
                        while she sat blushing like the opening rose, looking precisely as if fresh
                        from the enchanted gardens of Paradise.
                     The pilgrim arose and spake.
                     "I am now undertaking, as I have told you, the latter part of my pilgrimage,
                        but much time and much ground has yet to be passed before I can arrive at
                        that place. I grieve to part with you, for my heart is with you; but on my
                        lonely journey I will be comforted by the knowledge that I have made, at
                        least, one person happy. Maiden, I will tell you the qualities of that gem.
                        Kiran the Great, blessed it, caused it to be formed in its present shape,
                        and endowed it with the power of bestowing the appearance of eternal youth
                        on its possessor; and though without it one should be as old and infirm as
                        myself, still, when it hangs from the neck, beauteous youth will be
                        apparent, as you have seen in my case. It will not lengthen the life, or
                        make one rich or happy—all that depends upon its owner—but it will make one
                        beautiful. My words are said; fare ye all well; my words are said. Maiden,
                        may the gem always attend you; maidens, farewell."
                     Having uttered these words, he waved his hand, and the rest paid due
                        obeisance; then grasping his staff with a firmer grip, he moved slowly
                        onwards from the tent. Not a person stirred, but all eyes were turned upon
                        his retreating figure, till a clump of red-leaved bushes hid him from their
                        view; and then the eyes of each were riveted on the beauteous Ura, whose
                        rose-tinted countenance was being suffused with the mantling blush.
                  
               
               
                  XIII.
                  KING OTHULT IN HIS BANQUET-ROOM.
                  NOT far distant from the place where the incidents already mentioned
                     transpired, was the beautiful palace of King Othult. In the midst of a city it
                     stood, and of a verity appeared as if the work of enchantment, being situated
                     in a large square or lawn, which was covered with thick grass, and kept
                     close-cropped by numerous long-fleeced sheep, that here and there dotted its
                     surface. Bushes served to beautify the scene, while noble trees formed the
                     back-ground, above which, however, rose the frowning head of the lordly Pandan,
                     that mountain to whose summit we left the pilgrim plodding his weary way.
                  The palace was in form square, and in the center, to a great height, rose a
                     circular tower. The whole building was
                     painted blue and white, with a profusion of gilding; the cornices, the windows,
                     the turrets, and numerous spires, shone in the sunlight, as if made of pure
                     gold, while hundreds of streamers, green, crimson, and purple colored, floated
                     from its summit. Within the windows hung airy curtains, and here and there
                     balconies protruded. From the main entrance of this beautiful mansion could be
                     obtained a splendid view of the city, which was not like most cities with which
                     we are acquainted, for it was composed of tents and light structures,
                     ornamented with flags, and golden balls, and spires, and surrounded by fine
                     trees, while there could be seen in front of some, fathers of families
                     surrounded by their smiling offspring, and there could also be heard the sound
                     of music proceeding from dwellings of happiness. Every thing appeared joyful;
                     mirth reigned; and never did a sovereign govern a more contented people.
                  Such was the residence of King Othult, the father of the lovely Ura, and now we
                     can account for the respect paid by her attendants, and also for her more
                     costly garments; when, having received the reader's permission, we will
                     introduce the monarch himself, and also tell what occurred within the palace
                     walls.
                  The king sat in his banquet-room. This apartment was quite long, and
                     illuminated by four-and-twenty windows, twelve on a side, of highly-stained
                     glass, which were partly hidden by long curtains of blue satin, sprinkled with
                     silver stars, falling to the floor. The ceiling was beautifully painted in
                     fresco, representing some great feast, which did the artist considerable
                     credit, but who it was that thus immortalized himself remains to be known. Who
                     could have painted with more life-like appearance those guests, each one of
                     whom seemed to be rivaling his neighbor in the quantity of food to be eaten?
                     Between each of these windows, and from the floor to the ceiling, was a broad
                     looking-glass, which produced, as one may imagine, a very curious effect, for
                     the room and all things were multiplied to an endless number; and if you stood
                     in front of one, you might see as many likenesses of yourself as you desired. A
                     long-napped rich carpet covered the floor, while ottoman after ottoman, covered
                     with blue satin, embroidered with silver thread, was placed upon it at even
                     distances. At the upper end of this apartment sat the king on his throne; while
                     at the other hung a rich brocade curtain, doubtless giving entrance to another
                     room. The king was attended by his dwarf, and as it our intention to describe
                     both, the former personage being the most important, will be the first
                     presented.
                  Perhaps you may think a king should be young, rich, handsome, bold, and daring,
                     but to stay your imaginings I will at once tell you that he was ugly—aye,
                     fearfully ugly. A person might with safety traverse the whole globe in search
                     of one more hideous, but he would return unsuited. A turban of gaudy brocade,
                     surmounted by a plume of blue feathers, rested on a large hairless head, that
                     would have astonished any phrenologist, ancient or modern; his ears, by no
                     means of the smallest size, were still more extended by immense lumps of pure
                     gold dangling there-from; with the rainbow did his nose vie in color, and it
                     hung very despondingly over his wide mouth, which we will take the opportunity
                     to state was toothless; one of his eyes was missing (we might, if we chose,
                     tell an exceedingly interesting and highly diverting story, how and in what
                     manner he became deprived of that organ, and there is some chance we may yet favor the reader
                     with it), and the other was overshadowed by a brow which protruded to an
                     alarming extent, forming support to a forest of wiry hairs; his lantern jaws
                     and chin were quite tastefully ornamented by half a score of red hairs, which,
                     in spite of many efforts to get curled, were as straight as the bristles we see
                     on the back of an angry porker; and portly was he in the extreme, so that it
                     was with much trouble he managed to curve his legs in the oriental style
                     beneath him. His dress was of crimson silk, profusely ornamented with golden
                     buttons, dangling from little chains. A green sash was tied around his
                     "wasp-like" waist, and the amber mouth-piece of his pipe was between his lips,
                     while the bowl, supported by a brazen image, was filled with aromatic
                     tobacco.
                  So much for the king; now for the dwarf.
                  This important youth was four feet three and a quarter inches high, and as ugly
                     as Satan himself—that is, if a humpback, bandy legs, face black as jet, small
                     pug nose, an immense quantity of hair on a monkey-like face, and the whole
                     figure enveloped in a habit of flaming yellow, would bear any resemblance to
                     his infernal majesty.
                  And so much for the dwarf.
                  And there, too, were grouped men, whose countenances were clothed in blank
                     wonder, for it seems their lord and master was narrating some astonishing piece
                     of news, though what it was we have been unable to discover.
                  The king on a sudden clapped his hands.
                  And so did the dwarf.
                  Then the tapestry that, as we have stated, hung at one end of the room, was
                     pulled on either side, and the figure of Bellin, the eunuch, in his monstrous
                     breeches and turban, appeared. He advanced half way across the apartment, and
                     upon his knees, bowed his head to the floor, awaiting in silence the orders of
                     his master.
                  "Let the wine be brought"—said he.
                  The slave still continued prostrate.
                  "Begone, prince of darkness!"—cried the dwarf, imitating the king so precisely,
                     and so comically withal, that a smile passed over the features of all present,
                     except the victim of the witticism, who glanced fiercely at the diminutive
                     person.
                  "Why do you interrupt me?"—exclaimed the king.
                  "I ask pardon; but, sire, I have a question."
                  "What is it?"
                  "Whom shall we pledge in the first cup?"
                  "Pledge! what do you mean?"
                  "Mean? why, simply, to what lovely damsel shall we drink?"
                  "Silence!"—cried the king, in his mirth sending a cloud of smoke at the
                     speaker, enveloping him in the suffocating perfume. Now, the dwarf detested
                     tobacco most heartily, and this salutation caused him to sneeze and cough at a
                     great rate, while the king looked from one to another of his courtiers for
                     applause, and received what he desired.—"Have you enough yet?" exclaimed he,
                     sending cloud the second.
                  "Yes, sire, I have."
                  "Then do not let me have any more of your impertinences."
                  "But, sire, you were wrong."
                  "I wrong!—what!"—shouted the monarch in mock rage—"I wrong!"
                  
                  "Oh"—cried the other, somewhat frightened by the volley of words—"I
                     meant—that—"
                  "You meant to insult me."
                  "No, sire."
                  "What have you to do with women?"
                  "Permit me—pardon me."
                  "Well."
                  "But I have more to do with them than you."
                  "Prove it—now prove that"—and he leaned back on the embroidered cushion, and
                     sent puffs of smoke among the banqueters on the ceiling.
                  "First of all—let me see—first of all—"
                  And the dwarf pulled his beard.
                  "Well, first of all—ha! ha!—I knew you could not get along."
                  "Oh yes, but I can."
                  "Go on then—now for the first proof."
                  "First of all I am handsomer than you."
                  He warded the blow that was dealt, and cried—
                  "Nay, nay, now, I beseech you not to get angry; what I told you is the truth. I
                     have two eyes—how many have you? What maiden would get in love with such an
                     ugly old fellow as you? Ha! ha! getting angry are you? I am not overpowered
                     with flesh, and can therefore easily escape."
                  Suiting the action to the word he did escape.
                  "You confounded little wretch, you humpbacked Folly come here."
                  "It was only in jest," parleyed he from a distance.
                  "Come here I say."
                  "Now do not, I pray—I beseech."
                  "Shall I call the guards—come here, and if what you did was in jest, take your
                     accustomed place."
                  The dwarf complied with great fear and trembling; but hardly had he taken his
                     seat on the small cushion than by a dexterous movement of his superior's foot
                     he found himself rolling heels over head to the floor.
                  "It was all in jest"—grinned the monarch, and a third puff of smoke set the
                     dwarf a third time into a desperate fit of coughing and sneezing.
                  The tapestry was again raised, and twelve slaves in white turbans and skirts,
                     entered, each bearing a silver salver, on which rested a goblet of the same
                     valuable article, containing wine, and each slave knelt before a courtier (they
                     were seated in a semicircle), and laid before him the dish, then arising,
                     formed themselves in a line from the throne to the tapestry, awaiting the
                     signal to depart. A slave advanced to the king, and kneeling, held out a dish
                     and goblet. This the dwarf took, and instead of handing it, as was his duty, to
                     his master, at one draught drained the cup, then smacking his lips and nodding
                     his head in great satisfaction, placed it upon the salver. But this action was
                     rather too free; the foot of his majesty was again used, and Folly, the dwarf,
                     was pushed against the slave, who, in his turn, fell upon the first of the
                     line, and who tumbling upset the next, and the whole company fell sprawling in
                     a heap; this was not all, for as the guests were quite near, the slaves in
                     falling struck them, and upset their goblets, drenching their worthy persons
                     with the fragrant juice, which so exasperated them that they arose, and to a
                     man vowed never again to see the illustrious king, and were about to leave his
                     presence, had not the monarch himself, relinquishing his pipe, waddled to them
                     and entreated them to stay, as he would have every thing rectified. Wine was
                     again produced, and the dwarf was sentenced to punishment ment dire. But, as he was being taken from the
                     room, he entreated so hard to be forgiven that at length his wish was granted,
                     and, with the permission of the guests, he was pardoned and remained. After a
                     little more conversation, Othult clapped his hands, and a slave making his
                     appearance, he commanded that Ura should be brought before him. She appeared,
                     completely shrouded in a dark veil and garment.
                  "Ura, come hither. It has been told me that Kiran has blessed thee with his
                     great emerald."
                  "It is so, father"—answered the maiden.
                  "Let me hear the whole of the particulars."
                  She told all.
                  "Ura, you may depart."
                  Ura departed.
                  "What a curious story"—said one of the courtiers.
                  "It is, indeed"—said another.
                  "Wonderful! most wonderful!"—exclaimed a third.
                  "Miraculous! astounding!"—added a fourth.
                  "How beautiful is her form"—observed a fifth.
                  The dwarf smacked his lips—
                  and received in consequence a box on the ears.
                  "My friends"—said the king—"I am overjoyed."
                  "And so am I"—said one.
                  "And so am I"—echoed the rest.
                  "That such a blessing should happen to our family."
                  "Hurrah! hurrah!"—cried the dwarf—"wine! wine to drink to her health."
                  "I applaud the judgment of Folly"—said the king, clapping his hands—"wine,
                     wine."
                  And wine was brought.
                  "Drink, drink"—said the king.
                  "Drink, drink"—said the dwarf.
                  "Drink! drink!"—cried in concert the rest.
                  And the affair ended by all of them getting drunk (the dwarf included), for
                     were they not greatly pleased that the jewel should be in the possession of the
                     daughter of the great—
                  —of the powerful
                  —of the handsome
                  —of the magnificent
                  —of the generous
                  —of the witty
                  —of the interesting
                  —of the rich King Othult?
               
               
                  XIV.
                  THE TRAVELLERS OBTAIN A VIEW OF MOUNT PANDAN.
                  THE morning sun dispelled the rising mists, and deluged all nature with his
                     glorious beams. Javan had risen long before his majesty had made his
                     appearance, and was waiting for Kufan his father to awake. He sat upon a
                     jutting crag without, and while there his mind was filled with the thoughts of
                     the all-wondrous gem. Mount Pandan reared itself, in his imagination, before
                     his eyes, while over its snow-capped head hung a star of great lustre. Still
                     brighter did it grow and change betimes its hue, till at last it settled into a
                     vivid green, tinging the whole mountain with its glare. It was the emerald! And
                     then the gem commenced descending—descending by degrees till it was but at a
                     short distance, and Javan, incited by his imagination, sprang up, and would have rushed towards it, had
                     not his father's voice dispelled the charm, and recalled him to himself. Then
                     he perceived he stood upon the edge of the precipice, while one step in advance
                     would have plunged him in the lake beneath. His brain grew dizzy, and passing
                     his hand over his brow, he retreated and entered the cave.
                  "Javan, Javan, where are you?"
                  "I am here, father."
                  "Have you been long up?"
                  "Yes, for a long time have I been staying here, expecting you to rise; I would
                     have awakened you, but thought you might need all your sleep."
                  "You did right, Javan."
                  "How soon will you go?" said he, after having partaken of their morning
                     repast.
                  "Just as soon as I can get my staff and box, for as we read in the
                     hieroglyphics, several ceremonies will have to be performed."
                  "The enchantment of the skulls, if I recollect aright."
                  "Yes, that is it; you will shoulder the bag."
                  "Where is it?"
                  "In the corner yonder."
                  And they set forth; Javan carrying on his back the sack containing what
                     remained of human heads, and also a staff to support him when wearied. Kufan
                     likewise grasped one, and had under his arm a small box. On they went,
                     descending the mountain by zigzag paths, crossing torrents that foamed away
                     beneath them, and ascending and descending hills. Hardly any conversation was
                     held during the day's walk, for Kufan loved silence, and the mind of the youth
                     was filled with the vision of the emerald. Night arrived—calm, lovely night,
                     and having partaken of some coarse but good food, brought with them, and
                     quenched their thirst at a bubbling rivulet, the travellers sought repose upon
                     the grass, under the branches of a wide-branched thick-foliaged tree, and
                     having wished each other a pleasant rest, were lulled into slumber by the
                     singing of a bird.
                  Refreshed by their sleep, and fully prepared for the labors of the day, quite
                     early were they the next morning upon their journey. The third day passed. The
                     fourth likewise glided into oblivion.
                  "Javan"—said Kufan, on the evening of the fifth—"what do you see?"
                  "The face of nature smiling."
                  "Describe the face of nature."
                  "I see a valley, fruitful in the extreme, bounded to the right and to the left
                     by beautiful trees, and dotted with sheep, and covered with a beautiful green
                     carpet of grass, and with flowers."
                  "What else do you see, Javan?"
                  "In the center of this fertile plain I see a sheet of pure water, and birds
                     skimming over it; and beyond it I perceive a path, bordered, I should suppose,
                     with flowers, leading over a hill and unto a mountain, whose base is sprinkled
                     with habitations, and covered with green, but whose summit, awful and terrible
                     to look upon, is white."
                  "Javan!"
                  "Father?"
                  "That is the end of our journey; we have not much farther to go."
                  "And the mountain?"
                  "Is the renowned Pandan."
                  
                  "Kiran be praised!"—exclaimed the happy youth, and sinking upon one knee, he
                     bowed his head in reverence.
                  "Kiran be praised!"—murmured the aged Kufan.
                  And there was a pause.
               
               
                  XV.
                  THE VISION OF JAVAN.
                  THAT evening they sought their rest within view of that mighty mountain, wrapt
                     in the expectation of ascending it the next day; but the anxious youth closed
                     not his eyes till the shades of night had withdrawn it from his eager gaze.
                  Javan dreamed that night, and in his vision he was standing upon a pinnacle of
                     a mountain, and at his feet jutted, from the intense darkness below, crags of
                     various shapes, black and dripping, as if with water. Behind him clouds of
                     impenetrable night were piled, while overhead were ones of lighter hue. In
                     front was a vast collection of those vessels of the air, charged with thunder
                     and lightnings. Many sharp, forked streaks played about, and rattling thunder
                     accompanied.
                  The artillery of heaven ceased. A short distance in front appeared, in the
                     midst of this veil of clouds, a small spark of light, as of a tiny star, which
                     increased and grew lighter at the same time, tinging the surrounding clouds.
                     And there was a fear attending Javan as he, with eyes riveted upon it, bore the
                     strong refulgence. His eyes suffered not beneath its intense light. Suddenly
                     there came a thunder sound, terrible in the extreme, which, breaking open as if
                     with a giant hand, this luminous spot, threw the clouds in every fantastic
                     shape imaginable, and disclosed the figure of a man of great height, with long,
                     transparent wings, and eyes that glistened brilliantly. He spake in a voice
                     terrible and loud.
                  "Mortal! I am Pad the mighty—mighty—mighty! Mortal, I can aid you in your
                     undertaking. My advice is to persevere. Persevere, and you shall find. Search
                     for the emerald. Will you take my aid and advice, and will you persevere in
                     your search for the gem?"
                  Javan, though his heart throbbed quickly, though he was blanched with terror,
                     and though his lips trembled as he replied, yet he did answer, and it was in
                     the affirmative.
                  "It is well"—replied the phantom.
                  And the phantom vanished; and now a much stronger light shone in its place.
                     Where the clouds before had been of an inky darkness, they now assumed a pale
                     lead color, and then a roseate hue, and attained a great brightness. The place
                     where stood the winged being was at present occupied by one far more lovely—a
                     female.
                  "Javan," spake she, in a remarkably soft voice, "Javan, misfortune will only
                     arrive should you attempt the search for the emerald of the great Kiran. Javan,
                     I warn—I advise you to relinquish all ideas of obtaining it, for you never will
                     be the possessor thereof. Return to your far distant home, and live in peace
                     and happiness."
                  A remembrance of Java flitted across his memory, but he spake not, and the
                     whole scene, clouds, female, and all, vanished in the twinkling of an eye.
               
               
                  
                  XVI.
                  THE PILGRIM ON THE SUMMIT OF THE MOUNTAIN.
                  THE pilgrim sighed as he left the tent, sighed when he recollected his younger
                     days—days that would never again return, save in his memory. What a most
                     curious thing is that memory! How is it possible for a person to recollect
                     things that so long ago have transpired, with freshness, while the occurrences
                     of yesterday pass like a dream? Such was the case with the pilgrim as he left
                     the tent in which were the females and the fair Ura, on whom he had bestowed
                     that inestimable gem. When he thought of them, he thought of his younger days,
                     and all the sorrows and pleasures thereof—and as we have before stated, he
                     sighed.
                  The pilgrim continued his walk. The green fields and the smiling plains were
                     left behind as he ascended the mountain side, and soon was beyond the line
                     above which grows not vegetation, and surrounded by rocks, in whose crevices
                     snow was here and there lodged. Onwards he plodded, stopping betimes to rest
                     his weary limbs, with glaciers and eternal snows around him. The genial warmth
                     was gone, and the cold piercingly pervaded his unprotected frame. He was
                     completely chilled, with difficulty could he move, and he experienced a strong
                     inclination to sleep; so much so, that more than once he was well-nigh induced
                     to gratify the desire, but then he recollected the object of his travel, and
                     knowing that not a moment was to be lost, he pushed on with great energy, and
                     ascended as quickly as possible. Half way up he discovered a hut, built by some
                     former traveller, and it was with no small pleasure he took up there his
                     lodging for the night. The next day he was astir, and in due course of time
                     arrived at a cave, which place, he imagined, was the one of his destination, it
                     being on the very summit, and also on the brink of a precipice, to look from
                     which, caused his blood to freeze with horror.
                  Beneath him was a greatly diversified country, combining both hill and dale,
                     while open land and forest lay in beautiful display; and far to the westward
                     sank beneath the distant hills the golden orb of Heaven. Slowly wandered the
                     eye of the pilgrim over this vast panorama.
                  He fell at the entrance of the cave, joined his hands, and raised them.
                  The cold was intense.
                  The pilgrim prayed, and his prayer was fervent. He prayed for that reward for
                     which he had travelled so far, encountered so many perils, and had braved even
                     death.
                  Still more intense grew the cold.
                  The eye of the pilgrim dimmed; the sun sank rapidly; the shades of night, like
                     an immense mantle, overspread every thing; the frame of the pilgrim grew stiff,
                     stiffer, and yet stiffer; his eyes remained open, but sightless; darkness had
                     completely covered the face of nature—but there still remained that aged man
                     kneeling—his body had frozen, and his spirit had wafted itself away.
               
               
                  
                  XVII.
                  HOW JAVAN AND KUFAN REACHED THE END OF THEIR JOURNEY.
                  Javan trembling awoke. The sun had commenced his journey and was wide awake, so
                     also was Kufan.
                  "My father, I dreamed the past night," said Javan.
                  "So did I, my son."
                  "My father, my dream was of terrible things."
                  "So was mine, my son."
                  "It was divided into two parts, the bad and the good."
                  "You astonish me, for so also was mine."
                  "And did the two beings, the demon and the fairy, appear?"
                  "Yes; the one with web-like and the other with angel's wings, the black and the
                     white, the good and the bad."
                  "And did she tell you to give up the pursuit for the jewel?"
                  "Aye; telling me that evil would only ensue, and that it would never be
                     mine."
                  "And your answer?"
                  "Was that I would persevere notwithstanding her threat."
                  "What was that, father, for she did not threaten me?"
                  "She said if I ascended Pandan on the morrow in search for it, Death would
                     await me."
                  "Death! it's terrible! Father, you had better not go."
                  "Folly! But what did the other one promise? Did he not urge me to go on with
                     the search; tell me he would give his aid at times, but always his advice?"
                  "He may; but recollect what the fairy said. She is more powerful than he. Do
                     you not recollect how bright the light was when she appeared. It was like the
                     light of yon rising sun."
                  "But what would you have me do? Stay behind? Never! No, my son, never! I am
                     anxious to get that jewel, very anxious, and having come thus far, do you think
                     I will give up my object? No! Evil may arise, but evil I will dare."
                  "I applaud your firmness, father."
                  "And I your entreating powers. As for myself, no doubt I will die, for you know
                     I am aged. It is not, therefore, for myself I wish the stone; but it is for
                     you, Javan, that I brave all these dangers, for you that I have walked this
                     great distance; for you, my son, for you."
                  "Father, I thank you," replied the youth, bending his head, "but
                     notwithstanding you have come all this distance and braved so many perils,
                     notwithstanding all that, it is no reason why you should throw your life away;
                     at least I see none."
                  "But of what avail is my life? Throw it in the balance against possessing that
                     gem, and tell me how stand the scales. I would willingly give it up, as I soon
                     shall have to do, and what avails a few days sooner or later, to obtain for you
                     the ownership of that jewel."
                  "Father, I thank you for your love towards me, but I have a proposition."
                  "Name it."
                  The fairy said death would await should you venture to ascend the mountain in
                     search of the emerald, did she not?"
                  "She did."
                  "Now, I will go alone; I will by myself ascend to the summit of this hoary
                     mount."
                  
                  "But did you not receive any warning?"
                  "I received none."
                  "So you accepted the demon's proposition to persist in getting the jewel?"
                  "Exactly, as did you."
                  "Go on now with your proposition."
                  "I will ascend to the summit, and find out where the article can be found."
                  "And you forget about the incantation"—quietly interrupted the aged person—"who
                     is to perform that?"
                  "Can you not teach me it?"
                  "It is impossible."
                  "Then I will have to lose you."
                  'Nay, nay, my son, but let me tell you one word. I place no reliance upon that
                     dream."
                  "No reliance!"
                  "No; I think it is but a piece of my imagination, a vision of the night."
                  "We will suppose it is; but how can you account for the same vision of the
                     night, as you term it, occurring to both of us."
                  "There I am at fault; it is wrapt in mystery."
                  "And so you insist upon going?"
                  "My mind is made up, for it is absolutely necessary."
                  "Then let us go."
                  "And they took the same route as took the pilgrim. The green fields were
                     passed, and so was all vegetation; the glaciers and snows were encountered, and
                     the cold air penetrated their bodies through the extra clothing they had
                     prudently taken; they also experienced the same desire to slumber, but as Kufan
                     was in some manner aware of the fatality attending such an action, he kept the
                     young man and himself astir, and such was their activity and industry, that
                     before the setting of the sun they had attained the summit.
                  "Here we are at last," exclaimed Javan, "what a magnificent prospect is spread
                     before us!"
                  "True, there is a fine prospect, but I should like to see a far 
                        bettter
                        better
                      one."
                  "What is that? What view can be more extended, more beautiful than this?"
                  "The view of the emerald."
                  "I agree with you there; but it would be extremely agreeable if we could find
                     some cave to enter, for notwithstanding the fine prospect, the cold is very
                     striking, much more so than the view."
                  "So be it; then suppose we hunt for one."
                  In a few minutes they came unto the cave, of which we have in a preceding
                     chapter already spoken, and saw the frozen figure of the aged pilgrim.
                  "Kiran!"—cried the youth, starting back with surprise and horror—"what a
                     terrible sight."
                  "Terrible? I see nothing of the kind."
                  "Nothing terrible? Why, father, does it not surprise you? Was it not startling
                     when it first came upon your gaze?"
                  "I will acknowledge it was in a slight degree, but from the figures carved in
                     the box you brought back with you from your travels, saying the enchantment of
                     the skulls will have to be performed, I imagined we would find some subject
                     here for us to experiment upon, as the incantation has to be performed upon a
                     lifeless human being."
                  "Then how will you proceed? How are we to find out where is the emerald?"
                  
                  "That will be very easy to discover, for the question you just now asked, will
                     be answered by him"—pointing to the body of the pilgrim.
                  "It is impossible—it cannot be done."
                  "My son, it is possible, and it can be done."
                  "Can the dead speak?"
                  "You will see."
                  "Suppose, then, we proceed immediately with the operation."
                  "Very well; untie the mouth of the bag, and arrange the skulls in a circle
                     about the body."
                  It was quickly done, and twelve skulls grinned in solemn display around the
                     prostrate figure of the frozen pilgrim. Javan shuddered as he lay them, one by
                     one, on the snowy ground, and averted his eyes from the horrible sight, for he
                     could not bear to gaze at them.
                  "Now"—said Kufan, when the business was ended—"we must possess our souls with
                     patience."
                  "Why cannot we proceed immediately with the ceremony?"
                  "We cannot until the full moon shall have been sometime up, and to-night there
                     is a full moon."
                  So Kufan, resolving to pass the intervening time in slumber, retreated to the
                     farther end of the cavern, and rolled himself in a corner, whence sundry sounds
                     caused Javan to think his worthy sire was already in the land of dreams. As for
                     himself, he wrapped his thick garments about him, and laying on his breast,
                     with his chin resting on the very brink of the precipice, feasted his eyes on
                     the superb scenery, and watched the fighting of two birds of prey far below. At
                     times they whirled in the airy fields, striking with their powerful wings, and
                     inflicting terrible wounds with their sharp-pointed beaks. He watched them till
                     he saw the victim sink like a stone through the air, and the other dart after
                     him. The first fell upon an icy crag, and the conqueror made a hearty meal of
                     the poor bird, who filled the air with his loud shrieking, while the sharp
                     talons of his master sank deep in his body, and while every blow received from
                     that bill, removed morsels of flesh, and added to his torment.
                  Javan withdrew his gaze, and his mind wandered, first to Java and then to the
                     dream, and last of all he thought whether by means of the inanimate body he
                     could discover where was the great emerald. He was startled by the loud crying
                     of a bird. Lifting his eyes, he saw the bloody fowl winging his way with
                     flapping wings to the eastward, and then beheld on that icy, crag the mangled
                     carcass of the once proud and free inhabitant of the air.
                  The Sun King had driven his fiery steeds beyond the western hills for some
                     time, when Kufan awoke, and called upon his son; but that son was in a drowsy
                     state, and answered not. He called again, but no reply was received, when,
                     fearing some accident might have happened, he arose, went to the mouth of the
                     cave, and there beheld him stretched upon the frozen ground, with his head
                     nearly hanging over the precipice. Taking him by the arm he pulled him back,
                     and by dint of rubbing with the palms of his hand and using other remedies,
                     succeeded in restoring him to consciousness.
               
               
                  
                  XVIII.
                  THE ENCHANTMENT.
                  IT became night, and Kufan set to work preparing every thing for the coming
                     event. By the pale light of the moon he opened his box, presenting to view a
                     variety of little vials containing different colored drugs, together with
                     several crucibles and brazen pans, when putting some two or three kinds of
                     powder into one of the pans, and having by a handful of snow made it into a
                     paste, he formed the compound into little pyramids, laying one on the top of
                     each skull. He also laid a train of dark-hued powder from one to the other, and
                     sprinkled the whole with different colored powders; when, having so done, he
                     rested from his work and reclosed the box. Javan during the performance looked
                     on with attention. By-and-by the time arrived, and the full moon blazed high in
                     the heavens and illuminated the cave. The venerable Kufan applied fire to one
                     end of the train of black powder; slowly it creeped along like a flaming
                     serpent, and meeting the first pyramid, set fire to it. At first it flashed
                     with a thick smoke into a yellow flame, and the watchful Javan would have sworn
                     he beheld the teeth of the skulls strike together. A tremor ran over the
                     pilgrim's frame, and when the first little heap was blazing, the fire advanced
                     along the train and met the second, which formed a pink flame; the teeth again
                     chattered and the pilgrim's body again trembled. The third pyramid was green,
                     the fourth purple, the fifth orange, the sixth crimson, the seventh scarlet,
                     the eighth white, and so on to the twelfth, which last having missed fire, of
                     course emitted no flame whatever. At each successive heap, as the element
                     caught it, the chattering was heard from the skulls, and the pilgrim shook; and
                     now with each pyramid emitting its peculiar color, Kufan knelt in front of
                     them, having his back to the yawning depth, and with a lighted stick touched
                     the top of that heap that did not burn, but the fire did not yet communicate
                     itself, so he kneeled still lower, and blowing upon it, succeeded in his
                     object; but no sooner had it caught the spark, than it exploded with a loud
                     noise, dimming his eyes and singing his beard, while the other eleven fires
                     were instantly extinguished. This by far was not the most important event that
                     occurred, for at the explosion, the pilgrim's body with arms extended, sprang
                     to its feet, and striking the luckless Kufan in the breast, caused him to
                     stagger backwards. He reeled to the edge of the precipice and fell over, but in
                     falling grasped at a craggy piece of rock, and by its aid held himself.
                  "Javan! Javan!"—screamed he with agony.
                  "Father! father!"—cried the unhappy young man—"where are you? the fire has
                     dazzled my eyes; all is 
                        darknees
                        darkness
                     ; I see you not, where are you?"
                  "Hanging to the edge of the precipice—help! help!"
                  "Father!"
                  "Help! help!" cried with a trembling voice the wretched man, holding on with
                     all his strength, and trying to draw himself up; "Javan! help! here!"
                  "Father, I cannot see you! Kiran! I am blind!"
                  "Blind!" cried the suspended man, "then I am lost."
                  "I see a little—hold on, my father, yet a while."
                  "Quick! quick! Kiran, help me!"
                  "My eyes are stronger; yet a while; one moment more."
                  
                  "I am sinking"—cried the aged person, with the blood flowing from his hand, and
                     tinging the snow—"I am sinking."
                  "I see! Kiran be praised! hold on, father, hold on—my father!"—cried he,
                     rushing to the edge—and then, with dizzy eyes, he saw the unfortunate man
                     whirling through the air, and then strike a projecting crag, rebound far off,
                     and descend with frightful speed, till he was lost to view in the mighty
                     caverns below. He stood staring downward, and then fell senseless on the ground
                     beside the wretched figure of the resuscitated pilgrim. But what a tableau! Let
                     the reader picture to himself a mountain peak covered with snow, and the full
                     moon a little above the distant hills, throwing every thing into light and
                     shade; on the edge of that peak a man lying motionless as though on a sudden
                     struck by the hand of death; behind him another, standing as still as though a
                     statue, and at his feet twelve blackened skulls—the hazy scene around, and the
                     valley beneath, and the far-off pinnacles of gilded snow, and then he will have
                     a faint conception of the striking picture.
                  By degrees Javan awoke from his trance and arose; the awful horrors of the
                     passed scene broke upon him, and he stood transfixed, remembering the fate of
                     his father. He leaned over the brink, trying to pierce the depths below for his
                     lost friend; but all was still and silent as the grave, and save a few
                     prominent objects, the depths were hid in darkness. How awful were his
                     thoughts! But did not the fairy of the vision speak the truth? Did a similar
                     fate await him? or was one more fearful to end his days? Little by little his
                     mind reverted to the cause of his being where he was, and turning, he was again
                     struck with astonishment at the sight of the pilgrim who had been raised on his
                     feet and calmly stood within the magic circle. Javan knew not what to do; what
                     was to be done? How should he find out where was the emerald? He gained courage
                     enough—(for to tell the truth, he was struck with fear)—to speak unto the
                     statue-like figure, and the following was the dialogue that occurred:
                  "Can you tell me where is the emerald of the great Kiran?"
                  The figure slowly bowed his head, which causing Javan to gain new courage, he
                     again addressed him.
                  "Where is it?"
                  "In the possession of a maiden."
                  "Who is that maiden?"
                  "The daughter of a king,"
                  "What king is it?"
                  "King Othult."
                  "Where can she be found?"
                  The body was silent. Javan spake louder, but to no effect, and he was forced to
                     believe the charm had been broken. He approached nearer so as to hear better,
                     but found as he did so that the figure retreated, and as nothing further could
                     be learned respecting the gem, and wishing to get rid of such an object, he
                     advanced a step, and the pilgrim retreated the like distance beyond the circle;
                     again did he proceed, and the body retreated step by step, till on the very
                     brink it stepped off, and Javan saw it swiftly fall through the trackless air
                     and disappear. He kicked the skulls one by one into the void, and when the last
                     had departed sat upon the ground totally at a loss what to do, when the moon
                     retreated behind a dense mass of clouds, and darkness was upon the face of the
                     earth.
               
               
                  
                  XIX.
                  PAD—URA—AND THE FLIGHT.
                  JAVAN cursed the hour of his birth. "Cursed be the times in which I received
                     life, and when I set forth upon my travels; what hath it availed me? To what
                     hath the whole expedition amounted? I leave my gentle Java, the flower of the
                     valley, and undertake long journeyings; escape from every variety of danger,
                     traverse boundless deserts of hot sand, and obtain a mysterious box; return,
                     and start without hearing from my loved one; get nigh frozen to death ascending
                     this tremendous mountain, and performing an incantation, lose the author of my
                     being. What hath it availed me? Nothing, nothing, nothing; the emerald, the
                     object of our search, we have not, and I know not where to find it. Upon whom
                     shall I call for help? Upon Kiran? Will he give an attentive ear? Upon whom
                     then?" He stopped, for a sudden thought flashed upon him. He remembered his
                     dream, and how the demon named Pad had told him that at all times he would give
                     his advice. Would he give it now? "Perhaps," thought he, "it was not all a
                     dream; may I not yet succeed by his help? I will call loudly upon him." And
                     loudly he did call, when on a sudden he saw a gigantic man hovering beyond the
                     edge of the abyss, with slowly-flapping wings, and what was most curious, he
                     appeared brightly illuminated, appearing as if his hands, arms, legs, body, and
                     wings were composed of ground glass, while within a strong light lit up the
                     whole.
                  "What do you want of me?"—said he, alighting on the ground, and standing before
                     him.
                  "I had a dream the past night, in which a being appeared unto me"—
                  "I am that being; what is it you want?"
                  "At that time you advised me to persevere in my search for the great emerald,
                     telling me you would at times give me your aid, at times your advice. Can you
                     then tell me where the daughter of King Othult is at the present moment?"
                  "She has left her father's presence, where he had called her to hear the
                     account how she had received the gem."
                  "Tell me how she came to be its possessor"—said Javan.
                  "The pilgrim who lies at the base of the precipice was rescued from death by
                     the girl, and with it he rewarded her."
                  Javan asked what he would counsel him to do in this matter.
                  "I will tell you"—replied Pad—"the king and all his court are drunken with
                     wine, for they had quite a rejoicing on account of the great honors paid their
                     house by one of its members being the possessor of the emerald said to be of
                     Kiran. I will transport you there, and you must set fire to the building."
                  "If that such be the case, would not every thing be burned? What would I gain
                     by the operation?"
                  "You are wrong in thinking you would gain nothing, for you might gain the
                     jewel; do you think that is nothing? When you have applied the torch and once
                     set the building in flames, confusion will follow, rush in, heed not whoever
                     you may meet, seek the princess, and take from her the gem."
                  "Transport me there, then, this instant"—said the youth eagerly.
                  
                  The demon whistled exceeding loud, and by degrees his lightness grew less and
                     less distinct, and in a moment he had vanished from our hero, who wondered in
                     what manner he would be carried to the palace of the king, if Pad was not to
                     take him; but his wondering soon ceased, for in the very place where this Pad
                     had stood, rested a bat of most gigantic proportions, with outspread wings, and
                     in readiness for flight. Javan sat upon his back, and with his arms clasped the
                     reptile's neck. Up they rose, and smoothly floated onwards, while the rider of
                     this curious steed found himself in by no means a pleasing situation, for
                     should he relinquish his hold, or in any manner slip from his seat, there was
                     every probability of a fall, and his being dashed in pieces. Swifter grew his
                     flight, and shutting his eyes, he held on tighter, giving himself entirely to
                     his fate. The wings of the bat buzzed loudly, and the wind whistled by them as
                     they went. On a sudden the noise ceased, and the young man found the reptile
                     had closed his wings and was dropping at a fearful rate through the air. As
                     they approached the earth they were again spread, and the descent was slower,
                     and when, on touching ground he sprang off not in the least hurt, the mammoth
                     bat did vanish.
                  Not far distant was the illuminated palace of King Othult, and when he looked
                     there, and thought of the treasure it contained, he advanced quickly in its
                     direction, and soon stood before the magnificent structure; he saw no one, for
                     it happened, as the king and his court were rejoicing, so were the guards, and
                     therefore none were visible. Javan noticed with admiration the light and airy
                     structure, the many burnished spires, the towers, and the illuminated windows;
                     and he heard the sound of mirth and the voices of drunken men in the jovial
                     song, and he also heard the gay laugh. He looked about for something with which
                     to commence the conflagration, and finding a quantity of combustible material,
                     was quite at a loss what to do for light. He thought of an experiment he had
                     seen performed, so procuring two pieces of nearly decayed wood, commenced
                     rubbing them together with great rapidity; a light smoke appeared, and he
                     rubbed quicker and harder; the smoke increased in denseness, and still harder
                     and swifter did he rub, and then they burned. Quickly applying it to the dry
                     stuff, it took fire, and the operator saw with pleasure the flames attach
                     themselves to the decorated woodwork of the building. Seizing a handful of the
                     burning stuff, he went to another part and set fire to that, and then the
                     merrily blazing fire got under way, consuming rapidly whatever it met, while
                     the smoke rolled aloft, and the flames burst forth with gentle roarings.
                  The incendiary rushed in the palace through an open window. He grasped his
                     dagger, and ran from the apartment, which was tenantless, to the next. This
                     room happened to contain half-a-dozen eunuchs, who, not knowing the building
                     was on fire, drew their cimeters and sprang towards our hero, who, seizing his
                     dagger firmly, cried that every thing was in flames; but they heeded him not,
                     and one of them made a sweep at his head; the glittering blade rushed through
                     his turban but inflicted no wound, for he crouched suddenly, and then springing
                     up, the eunuch felt a weapon's point, and fell. Possessing himself of the
                     cimeter he attacked the rest, and by his superior force and skill wounded some,
                     and caused the remainder to flee.
                  The inmates now became aware danger was nigh, and to escape the fire rushed out
                     in all directions, and Javan had care
                     not to be overturned by the frightened beings. On he ran from apartment to
                     apartment, overturning some persons into whose heads the fumes of the wine had
                     risen, and being nearly overturned by others; at last he discovered one whom he
                     thought was the object of his search, standing alone at the further end of the
                     room.
                  "Help, help, good stranger!"—cried she—"help!"
                  "Fear not, beauteous being"—answered Javan, dropping the point of his cimeter,
                     and advancing towards her—"fear not, I come to protect thee."
                  "Thanks, stranger; your aid is welcome, for they have all deserted me."
                  Javan was struck with admiration. The smoke was curling through the windows,
                     and rendered objects quite indistinct, notwithstanding tapers of green wax were
                     burning, and there he saw the fair Ura, beautiful as the morning, standing in
                     inexpressible grace. Her long waving hair, her brilliant eyes, and lightened
                     complexion had its effect upon him; but as he advanced, he beheld an object
                     reposing on her bosom, that caused his heart to throb and his breath to come
                     and go quickly, for it was the emerald. He then felt certain she must be the
                     daughter of King Othult; for did she not, by Pad's information, have the
                     emerald, and was not that it encircling the neck of the beautiful female
                     standing before him? He advanced towards her, and, under pretence of leading
                     her forth, grasped at the jewel, but was instantly pushed back by the lovely
                     female (who had interpreted his movement as one of a different motive from what
                     he intended), and received a wound in the hand, inflicted by a poignard which
                     she had worn in her girdle, but which she then grasped tightly.
                  "Most beautiful!" exclaimed Javan, again advancing—"I intended"—
                  "Back!" cried Ura; "one step nearer, and I bury this in your heart."
                  "Light of the world," again spake our hero—"I would die to save you."
                  "Then open a way for me to depart; the smoke is suffocating."
                  "You are then caged, my bird. Yes, I will become the possessor"—and he dropped
                     his weapon and rushed upon her, clasped her around the waist with one arm, and
                     grasped the jewel with the other. The terrified Ura shrieked, and dashed her
                     poignard into his shoulder, which caused him to relinquish his hold; but again
                     defeated, he once more seized her. The girl, however, with superhuman effort,
                     burst from his grasp, and with his cimeter, which she picked up, kept him at
                     bay. The smoke grew more dense, and Javan, muttering to the effect that though
                     he would die he should conquer first, broke off an elegant pillar, about the
                     height of a staff, though much thicker, that beautified the apartment, and
                     rushing upon her, with one stroke dashed the weapon from her grasp. Immediately
                     she ran through an open window upon a piazza, and with the fleetness of a deer
                     fled, quickly pursued by our hero, till she entered the tower of which we have
                     before spoken, and fastened it within. Not to be defeated, he commenced, with
                     the re-taken cimeter, to hack at it till he had demolished it enough to effect
                     his entrance. A spiral staircase met his view, up which he quickly ascended,
                     accompanied by the smoke, which rolled in volumes. He reached the top, which
                     was a flat roof encircled by a railing, and beheld Ura who at his presence,
                     rushed to the railing and stood upon
                     it. Beneath her, at a great depth, lay the palace, and nothing prevented her,
                     should she lose her balance, from being launched into eternity.
                  "One step more and I spring!"—cried she to our bewildered hero.
                  "I beseech thee"—
                  "Stir not, or I spring!"
                  Javan was struck with her speech. Could she mean what she spake? Would it be
                     possible she would spring from such a dizzy height? If she thus acted, the
                     emerald would be lost, for she would fall into the midst of the burning
                     building, and thus every trace of it would be gone. He thought he might seize
                     her before she sprang, and thus obtain what he desired.
                  "Maiden! I entreat thee"—exclaimed he, sinking on one knee, so as to get
                     nearer, when he intended to spring and catch her—"hear my words. I came to
                     rescue you; I heard you were in danger, and I meant"—
                  "To place me in greater"—she interrupted.
                  "Not so, but to draw you from it"—and then he sprang and caught hold of her
                     silken scarf as she leaped into the air. With much exertion did he keep himself
                     from following, for with such force did he rush, that the railing broke beneath
                     his weight, and had he not clutched the edge he would have been lost; but when
                     he searched for his escaped prey, what was his astonishment to see her in mid
                     air, in company with a female bearing the precise resemblance of the fairy he
                     had beheld in his dream. He watched them till lost to view as they directed
                     their course to a neighboring mountain, and then was he aroused to a sense of
                     his own critical situation. Behind him was the palace wrapt in flames, while
                     millions of sparks filled the air, and the smoke circled the tower, at times
                     nearly suffocating him, while by the light he beheld hundreds of people gazing
                     on the scene of destruction. How should he escape? To spring forth would be
                     certain death, as no fairy would come to his aid; so he descended the
                     staircase, and when near the bottom found it burned with fire. He was in a very
                     perilous position. The flames caught over his head, and he heard their roaring
                     and the crash of falling timbers.
                  He trembled, when Pad, the demon, stood before him, and stamping the ground,
                     the whole tower fell, half on one side and half on the other, and Javan felt
                     himself seized by the arm, and an instant afterwards was cleaving the air with
                     great rapidity.
               
               
                  XX.
                  KING OTHULT IN HIS HAREM.
                  FROM his banquet-room King Othult went to his harem. Splendid indeed was this
                     apartment, with its mirrors and most rich tapestry and most rare and superb
                     paintings, (though not, we must allow, of the most moral description,) and its
                     gilded pillars supporting the arched, fretted ceiling. Then and there were
                     collected quite a number of females fair as the day. The monarch was seated on
                     a gold-embroidered pink satin cushion, stroking his face with great
                     complacency, and listening to the gay warbling of a gay prisoner, who rested on
                     a gaily decked couch a short distance off. Her voice was clear, and thrilled
                     the very soul of the half drunken
                     king, who turned his stupid face upon her, and with his eyes expressed his
                     pleasure; but I forgot to state that the floor of this room was of a pure white
                     and highly varnished, while thereon was painted in an exceeding tasty and
                     skillful style, birds and butterflies, hovering among gorgeous flowers. The
                     song that was being sung ceased.
                  "Light of my eyes"—hiccuped the monarch—"come here, come now, do." The
                     songstress arose and went slowly towards him, received a kiss from the handsome
                     man as a reward, and then returned. A sooty faced man stood with folded arms in
                     the corner, and to him did the king give orders that the dancers might appear.
                     The slave clapped his hands, and as if by magic, the tapestry of purple silk at
                     the end of the saloon was raised, and there bounded forth six girls dressed in
                     pink gauze with flowers around their heads and bunches of flowers in their
                     hands. At a given signal they arranged themselves in a row, and then as the
                     whole company of females composing the audience raised their voices in a
                     plaintive air, they commenced a series of most beautiful evolutions, showing
                     their splendid forms to the best advantage, and waving in fine style their rosy
                     wreaths. The music grew melancholy, and so also did the dancing. The dancers
                     performed excellently, and the entranced king spared not his applause, and
                     shouted during the fine passages, and drowned the voices of the singers by
                     clapping his hands. The music died away and the fairy like feet of the dancers
                     moved slower and still slower, when on a sudden the movement grew brisk and
                     lively in the extreme, the girls did their best, the king was more than
                     delighted, vowed he never witnessed finer execution, and swore by his beard he
                     would drink himself to death to show his admiration, and when they had
                     withdrawn, nothing would suit him till they were again brought forward and
                     again went through the whole performance.
                  They had retired for the second time when a loud noise was heard without, which
                     was the voice of Folly, the dwarf, and the footsteps of many persons. In vain
                     did the king imagine why he should thus be annoyed; no reason whatever could he
                     find. The eunuch, who was standing with folded arms beside the curtain, lifted
                     it up, and the dwarf was seen running towards his majesty followed by twelve of
                     the wisest men the place possessed. Up they came towards him, running in a
                     line, when the merry dwarf kneeled, and away went the whole twelve over him
                     heels over head.
                  "The guards!"—shouted Othult.
                  And there entered six blacks armed with cimeters.
                  "Bring before me the slave of the tapestry."
                  And the trembling man was brought before the king.
                  "Why did you raise the tapestry without my orders?"—said the monarch.
                  "I heard the sound, and—"
                  "Off with his head!"—he cried.
                  And on the spot was he decapitated.
                  "Seize the twelve and the dwarf."
                  It was done.
                  "I beg you, sire"—cried Folly, now seriously alarmed, "hear me, I have
                     something important to say."
                  "Wait till the rest have their reward, and I will then teach you to transgress
                     my rules and orders; silence! Slaves, do your duty."
                  And immediately, in the presence of the frightened females, who were all
                     collected in the corner, six men lost their heads, and then the other six took
                     their turn. When all was finished the king bade them retire, with the
                        exception tion of one who stood
                     waiting to execute the trembling Folly.
                  "What is it you wanted to say to me?"—cried Othult, with as much fierceness as
                     he could command.
                  "I wished to tell your majesty that you had better fly just as quick as you
                     can."
                  "Fly! What do you mean, do you wish to join the rosy people on the floor?"
                  "No; but I wish my master to run away; escape, quick."
                  "Raise your sabre"—said the king to the executioner—"what do you mean now by
                     telling me to run and escape?"
                  "The house is on fire; every thing is in flames; I ran with the headless men
                     that now lay there to tell your majesty."
                  Now arose a scene that almost beggars description. The females screamed in a
                     most terrific manner, the eunuchs squealed, the dwarf nearly killed himself
                     laughing at the ludicrous sight, while the more than half drunk king could not
                     for his life discover what was the matter. At last when the lungs of the
                     females and eunuchs had given out, and when the sides of the dwarf ached so
                     that he was forced to stop laughing, he had a chance of enquiring the cause of
                     the uproar.
                  "The palace is on fire; see! there comes the smoke"—said the dwarf, pointing to
                     the tapestry.
                  "Fire! fire!"—screamed the females, and concert number two was commenced and
                     carried on, while the king, who was yet ignorant of the cause of the riot, was
                     nigh being strangled by the frantic embraces of his women, all of whom ran to
                     him for help. He no doubt thought his last hour was at hand, for from an excess
                     of rage he turned to prayer, and called loudly for help. What was to be done?
                     Othult now found the smoke quite suffocating, but notwithstanding he did all in
                     his power, he could not free himself from his fair captives, who were crying
                     with fear, and wringing their hands and his neck in terror. The dwarf now made
                     himself heard.
                  "Sire"—said he—"I have a means of deliverance if you would but hearken unto
                     it."
                  "Yes, yes; what is it? quick!"
                  "The only safe mode of egress is the windows, for the rest of the building is
                     in flames."
                  "And how would you have us go? Spring out and break our necks?"
                  The dwarf thought it would not be much loss if he did, but answering, said—"By
                     no means, my king; you see the curtains of the window, tear them down and tie
                     them together, and we can make a stout line, and then fasten one end around
                     your waist, and we will gently lower you down."
                  "Oh!"—cried the king, shuddering at the proposal.
                  "Oh!"—squealed the eunuchs.
                  "Oh!"—cried the women, in chorus.
                  "And oh!"—said the dwarf—"if you do not agree to that, I can tell your majesty
                     you will get roasted, to a certainty. I can feel it grow hotter and hotter.
                     Your majesty had better follow my advice."
                  His majesty made a sign, and in one instant the curtains were torn down and
                     formed into a long band. But when one of the terrified ladies approached the
                     monarch to tie one end around his waist, he swore he would die before it should
                     be done, and would see some one else go through the experiment. A eunuch
                     volunteered, and getting upon the
                     edge of the window, before they tied the rope trembled so with fear, that
                     losing his balance he fell and disappeared. The women screamed, the king looked
                     aghast, and the dwarf laughed.
                  "Now, your majesty"—said one of the women, going near him.
                  "Curses on the whole of you, you wretches, you wish to kill me, I see it; you
                     wish"—
                  "We wish to save you."
                  "You all lie, every one of you; there is not one here that tells the
                     truth."
                  Silence predominated.
                  The king was now in reality drunk, and could hardly speak straight. He was
                     leaning against the wall for support. The dwarf perceived this, and very well
                     aware that the time lost was exceedingly precious, took the band, and getting
                     behind his majesty slipped it around him, and tied it well, then they all
                     seized him and bore him bodily to the window, let him out, and commenced
                     lowering him; but by no means pleased, he used his lungs lustily, and kicked
                     like a brave man; however, finding the more he kicked the tighter grew the
                     line, he very wisely desisted, and in a few seconds was safely landed on his
                     back on the ground, remaining in that position, totally unable to loose the
                     band, or to get upon his legs. Folly saw this, and requesting the females not
                     to let go their hold, he let himself down, untied the curtains, and then, with
                     remarkable agility, ascended, monkey-fashion, to the window. The females, one
                     after the other, were lowered, and the merry little man amused himself much
                     with their cries and fears. The flames burst through at the farther end of the
                     apartment, and the smoke was dense and suffocating. All the women were down,
                     and the dwarf yet remained, so fastening the torn curtains around a pillar near
                     by, he safely descended, and then they all, with their united strength, pulled
                     the sleeping monarch to a place of safety.
               
               
                  XXI.
                  THE IMP AND THE GOLDEN BALL.
                  URA awoke as if from a trance, and looked around in great astonishment, as she
                     knew not how she became transported to where she was. Was she not a short time
                     previous in her father's banquet hall, where were assembled many men, and was
                     she not ordered to give her history how and by what means she became possessed
                     of the emerald that performed the most miraculous of all miracles? and now she
                     was sitting upon the side of a mountain. The moon was bright, and the prospect
                     quite entertaining; but on glancing slowly over the vale at her feet, she
                     noticed a great blaze, and beheld her father's palace in flames. This threw her
                     into another train of reflection, and she recollected how, when in that
                     building, the cry of fire had been heard, and how she sought in vain to escape
                     its fury; how, on a sudden, a handsome young man, armed with a bright cimeter,
                     had appeared, and at that dreadful hour had sought to offend her; how she ran
                     to the top of the tower, the youth pursuing, and how she had sprung off; "but
                     how came it," thought she, "that I am here?"
                  She then gazed attentively at the edifice, and noticed the flames embracing
                     every thing; could see the people running in all directions, the timbers
                     falling, the millions of sparks
                     rushing in the air with thick clouds of smoke; and almost imagined she could
                     feel the heat and hear the roar attending the work of devastation. The light
                     subsided, and the smoke became less dense, and the fire assuaged its fury. Ura
                     felt revived, and entering a cave, laid herself down and slumbered, but not
                     before she had offered a prayer to the great Kiran, beseeching him to spare the
                     lives of her parents and her friends, and to protect her during the night.
                  The morning arrived, and Ura sat upon a mossy stone watching the first rosy
                     tints that ran along the eastern horizon till the time when the sun-god, having
                     whipped his horses, came dashing on at a great rate, deluging the world with
                     his glory. Ura felt hungry; she wandered about, and happily found some ripe and
                     juicy berries, with which simple fare she made her repast. An hour or two
                     afterwards Ura felt thirsty; before her ran a brook, resembling a skein of
                     silver thread, with a cord of like material in the center; and having followed
                     this, it brought her to a place where it formed itself into a mimic cascade,
                     and holding the hollow of her hand beneath it, succeeded in obtaining a
                     refreshing draught.
                  But the fair daughter of the handsome king was not pleased with her situation;
                     she liked not thus to be left solitary; so it was her firm determination to
                     descend to the vale, seek her parent and her friends, and live with them. This
                     resolution was acted upon immediately, and the beautiful girl commenced
                     descending, now around a bush, now over stones, and then across the trunks of
                     fallen trees—but was arrested by a voice. "Stop!" said the mysterious sound.
                     Ura did as she was commanded; she stopped, and expected to hear it again, but
                     was mistaken. Who could it be—what could it be? Was it earthly or unearthly?
                     She listened, but heard nothing, therefore she again descended. "Stop!" cried
                     the voice still louder, and it seemed to proceed from a bush on the left. She
                     became, on the repetition of the command, transfixed to the earth, her feet
                     refused to move, and she was motionless. Was it her fancy, or was it reality?
                     Did she really or only imagine she saw a hand, as if of a woman, without any
                     arm or support, and which for an instant pointed towards the bush, and then
                     disappeared? She thought this extremely curious; what could it all mean? First,
                     she had received a jewel that caused her to become beautiful, then falls from a
                     tower and finds herself on a mountain, and commences to descend but is arrested
                     by a voice, and beholds a hand pointing to a bush. She determined to proceed to
                     it, but the only object there that merited any attention was a large-sized nut.
                     To break this was her next object, and it being too strong (an attempt being
                     made) to crack it with her hands, she seized a stone, and laid the nut upon a
                     rock, broke it, and out dropped a golden ball, nearly the size of the shell in
                     which it was contained. Ura uttered an exclamation of surprise, and grasped at
                     the glittering thing—when it commenced slowly rolling. Ura wondered what caused
                     it to do this, as it had been lying perfectly still; nevertheless, she followed
                     it. On it rolled, and on ran Ura; she was completely fascinated. Often would
                     she nearly have it in her grasp, when away it danced, and away pursued she.
                     But, by the heading of this chapter, the reader expects to hear something about
                     an imp. We will tell him all about that by-and-by, and, begging to be forgiven
                     the disappointment, will leave the beauteous princess chasing the golden ball,
                     and present another scene.
               
               
                  
                  XXII.
                  PAD AND JAVAN.
                  UP through the trackless air rushed Pad; his wings buzzed loudly, and with one
                     hand grasped he Javan, while the other was held aloft as if pointing to the
                     place where he was going. Up rushed the two, and as our hero saw the objects
                     below recede, he grew fearful and even trembled; but at last they descended and
                     entered a cave. Now let me describe it, and if you do not agree with me that it
                     was beautiful, I pity your taste.
                  The mouth was surrounded by rough crags and rocks of every shape and hue, some
                     brown, others black, some covered with green and white moss, others naked,
                     while brambles and bushes were in great profusion. Only the mouth of this cave
                     could be seen, for trees and underbrush covered the whole, and ran up even to
                     the top of the mountain in whose side it was. Before it was a wild, and in some
                     places broken ground, with jutting crags and bushes meeting the eye in divers
                     places. A narrow path ran in a zigzag manner from the cave to the summit of the
                     mount, and moreover from the entrance handsome scenery was beheld, though by no
                     means so fine as from the top of Mount Pandan.
                  The next morning Javan awoke, was charmed with the beauty of the place, and
                     called for Pad, who quickly appeared.
                  "What do you want of me?"—asked the spirit.
                  "To gain some information. What became of the possessor of the emerald? I saw
                     her spring from the blazing tower, but instead of being, as I expected, dashed
                     on the ground, a female caught her, and together they flew away."
                  "That female is my greatest enemy; her name is Damarina, and she is an angel of
                     Kiran."
                  "And what are you?"
                  "She is an angel of the King of Light; I of the Prince of Darkness."
                  "Indeed! I expected as much though; but even if you are, cannot you do for me
                     as much as she? She bid me give up searching for the jewel, you entreated me to
                     go on; she said if I persevered evil would happen; you otherwise. Pad, you were
                     wrong, and she was right, for has not evil happened? Where is Kufan, my
                     father?"
                  "Where you will be hereafter."
                  "And where is that, in Paradise?"
                  "Precisely; in a Paradise—but this is trifling—you called me, what
                     do you want?"
                  "I have told you once; what has become of the daughter of King Othult; but what
                     is her name?"
                  "Her name is Ura."
                  "Yes, Ura the Magnificent—how beautiful she was; but what has become of
                     her?"
                  "Do you see this mountain on which we stand? Run your eye in a line aloft, and
                     you will faintly see a gigantic tree."
                  "I perceive it"—answered Javan, following the direction of the demon's
                     hands—"and is Ura there?"
                  "She is at this moment beneath the tree, viewing the landscape."
                  "I will go this moment, for as you say she is there what prevents my getting
                     the jewel? what more fitting time can I have?"
                  
                  "I would willingly let you go, but it is impossible; when in that district she
                     is under the care of Damarina; you are under my protection; you cannot go near
                     her, but she can come near you."
                  "Do you say it? Kiran!"
                  "Hush! Utter not that name unless you wish me to depart."
                  "I will be more careful in future; but you said you could get her to come
                     here."
                  "Yes, and now say she is coming."
                  "Coming? Is it possible? Now will I obtain the jewel; but tell me, why is she
                     coming?"
                  "She has found a nut in a bush; that nut contains a golden ball, which at the
                     present moment is rolling, while she pursues."
                  "And will pursue it," continued the excited Javan, "till she comes to this
                     cave, and then I will gain two things, the emerald and herself. Pad, I thank
                     you; but how long will it be before she gets here?"
                  "She is coming now; lift your eyes and behold."
                  Javan lifted them, and beheld though yet far distant, a female pursuing an
                     object, and every now and then stooping as if to catch it. He gave a cry of
                     joy, and with a throbbing heart saw her appear and disappear, as she sank and
                     rose, owing to the unevenness of the path; nearer and still nearer did she
                     come.
                  "Javan"—spake Pad, shaking his gigantic pinions—"she has passed the
                     boundaries—she is yours"—and spreading them, he rose from his sight, while our
                     hero leaned against a tree, pressed his hand to his heart, and awaited the
                     approach of our heroine, whom we will now again present to our reader's
                     notice.
               
               
                  XXIII.
                  A FIGHT IN THE AIR.
                  ON—on—on—over stone and sod, over brook and stream, and grass and sand, went
                     the ball, the glittering golden ball, and after it came Ura, Ura the beautiful,
                     Ura the blessed, though, at present, Ura the unfortunate. A gentle breeze was
                     stirring, just enough to bend the tops of the purple flowers that lined the
                     way, and gently to rustle the surrounding foliage, but quite sufficient to
                     cause her long curly hair to float behind her, and to impart a more brilliant
                     rosy tint to her cheeks, while her eyes sparkled with the excitement of the
                     adventure. No cessation was there to the pursuit, and though her breath came
                     fast, and her bosom heaved quickly, and the jewel resting thereon rose and
                     fell, yet she was fascinated, and pursued the resplendent object.
                  We have said she wondered what it was that kept it rolling, for it was not
                     always down hill, as sometimes it would ascend, and swiftly too, very steep
                     places. Had her eyes been so gifted as to see as we see, she would have beheld
                     a little laughing imp—little! aye, a man in 
                        minature
                        miniature
                     , scarce three inches high, who kept constantly pushing it onwards,
                     and when near the grasp of the fair pursuer would exert himself, and with one
                     blow send it far beyond her reach.
                  She entered a green plot of ground and then struck into the wild and
                     magnificent path leading to Javan's cave, near which he stood, concealed behind
                     a tree, and watching her movements with feelings not easily to be described. On she came; Javan was in readiness;
                     the ball rolled slower and slower; Ura thought its capture was at hand, and
                     stooped to grasp it, when it fell into a small but deep pool by the wayside.
                     She uttered a cry of disappointment, and Javan rushed quickly from his hiding
                     place with open arms towards her.
                  Tremendous claps of thunder rent the air.
                  Javan and Ura faced each other in mute astonishment; they became rooted to the
                     earth; he wished to advance, and she to recede, but both were unable to effect
                     their purposes.
                  The face of nature became changed in the twinkling of an eye; the sky grew
                     dark, while the horizon was illuminated by a streak of vivid red; the breeze
                     had departed, a deadness overspread every thing, life to all appearance was
                     gone, and an unearthly hue was spread over all. A streak of dazzling light
                     rushed through the inky sky, a crash of thunder followed. Ura trembled and
                     Javan quivered with fear. The thunder again roared; terrific sounds were
                     heard—wild, long, and dreadful shrieks. A rush of wind, carrying all before
                     it—a gigantic whirlwind, tore up trees by the roots, spinning them around and
                     around. The whirlwind subsided, and the horrified spectators beheld two objects
                     in combat appear in the air.
                  Javan recognized Pad.
                  Ura beheld Damarina.
                  The demon, with quickly-flapping pinions, and armed with a flaming sword, was
                     hovering over the trembling landscape, while above him was Damarina with a
                     blade of flame of the most intense whiteness. The weapons clashed, and the
                     meeting produced millions of glittering sparks. Grand and yet awful was the
                     fight; thrusts and blows were given, when victory seemed to decide for the good
                     genius. They were hovering in the air, attacking, pursuing, and retreating,
                     when Pad yelled with agony, and using well his pinions, escaped howling from
                     the presence of the victorious fairy, who soared to the realms of light. And
                     then the storm passed away and nature smiled again.
               
               
                  XXIV.
                  THE DRAGON-FLY.
                  THE charm was now broke that caused the two youths to remain in their
                     respective places. Ura turned and fled, while Javan quickly pursued. He caught
                     her by the scarf that hung floating from her waist; it tore, but still on she
                     flew. He cried unto her to hear him, but she paid no attention, and on they
                     went. Fortune seemed to favor him, for in a few more seconds he had passed his
                     arm around her waist and was trying to possess himself of the jewel. Ura
                     screamed for help; Javan smiled at her vain efforts, when on a sudden the fairy
                     seated in a car appeared, he relinquished his hold, and Ura having sprang in
                     the vehicle, which was drawn by pigeons, beside the fairy, off they glided.
                     When Javan thought his prize secure, lo! it was wrested from him. Instead of
                     being the possessor of the beauteous maid and the famed jewel, he was the
                     possessor of nothing but bitter disappointment—and on flew the car drawn by the
                     active pigeons, and Javan cried unto Pad for help. The demon appeared.
                  "Give me the means to overtake them"—cried Javan—"I had her within my grasp
                     when she was carried off."
                  
                  "Damarina is my conqueror and my power will soon leave me. Bitter enmity exists
                     between us, and the contest was all on account of that golden ball that drew
                     Ura toward you."
                  "Will there be another fight?"
                  "One of us must be vanquished; encounters will follow encounters till one of us
                     is destroyed; but you wished to pursue her"—he stamped the ground—"what sort of
                     conveyance would you like to have, for I can bring any kind or
                     description?"
                  "The quickest."
                  Pad again stamped the earth, and an immense dragon-fly appeared, whose wings
                     extended a vast distance, and on whose back Javan sprang, and in a moment was
                     in quick pursuit. Now came a tremendous race through the air; for Damarina
                     seeing the conveyance produced by her enemy, and knowing the speed at which it
                     went; and moreover, knowing she possessed no means of evading it, cheered her
                     winged creatures with her voice, while Javan, with his arms wound around the
                     neck of the gigantic insect, saw with pleasure how he gained upon his fair
                     prey. The dragon-fly kept on in a perfectly straight course, for in a perfectly
                     straight course kept the fairy. On a sudden the feathery steeds turned to the
                     right, and Javan's insect in wheeling for the purpose of still keeping up the
                     pursuit, unluckily jerked our hero off his insecure seat, and down went he at a
                     fearful rate through the air. What was below he knew not, for with such
                     rapidity did he descend that all objects were indistinguishable.
                  Down went Javan—obliquely.
                  Down went Javan—perpendicularly.
                  Down went Javan—headforemost into the waters of a large lake, where we will
                     leave him descending, and turn to other matters.
               
               
                  XXV.
                  WHAT HAPPENED TO THE PICKLES OF OTHULT THE KING.
                  KING OTHULT, driven from one palace, went to another not far distant, for he
                     possessed many. Quite happy was he at his rescue, and when he had become sober,
                     repented having been so cruel towards the wise men as to cut off their heads,
                     instead of which he ought to have raised them to honor and offices of
                     distinction. He felt grieved; but the half dozen goblets of wine drank for the
                     purpose of wishing them success in entering Paradise, completely removed his
                     poignant grief, and placed him in a right merry mood.
                  The king and those of his court that had escaped the flames, settled themselves
                     in the new palace, and events transpired as formerly. Now and then he thought
                     about his daughter, the fair Ura, and wondered what had become of her. He
                     smoked and drank, and the smoke operating upon his nerves, he fell asleep,
                     awaking with the conviction that if she were consumed in the late
                     conflagration, that he would never see her again; but if otherwise, he might or
                     might not have that great pleasure; and then King Othult became exceedingly
                     merry, and determined to have rejoicings, and for this reason commanded the
                     comic dancers to be brought before him: they came, and were composed of the
                     females of the palace, but so disguised that one would have hard work to
                        discover what they were, some
                     being transformed into animals, some into reptiles, some into birds, and some
                     into beings that never were seen in heaven, earth, or sea. Their dancing, too,
                     how odd! It was not dancing, but a series of capers, springings, boundings,
                     jumpings, and rollings, and such a variety of confused noises, that King Othult
                     was nigh dying with laughter. When they had finished their curious contortions,
                     he treated them to a goblet of wine apiece, and then dismissed them.
                  King Othult loved wine, and King Othult drank wine. Now, being faithful
                     chroniclers, it is our duty at this moment to make known to the reader a very
                     curious trait in the taste of this worthy monarch. Men have their idols;
                     sometimes it is wine, sometimes it is gambling they fancy above all things, and
                     many for their objects of worship have women; but our handsome king, though his
                     taste partook of all these things, yet his chief delight was in eating a
                     certain preserve called pickles. At that moment he felt as if he should like
                     some, so he ordered an ugly slave in the corner to have the jar containing them
                     brought before him. It was brought. This jar, a present from a neighboring
                     king, was full four feet high, and made of clay and painted, having a beautiful
                     appearance. On it was delineated different scenes, humorous, comic, and tragic,
                     being scenes in love and scenes in war, while the large mouth was covered by an
                     immense brazen lid, heavily embossed, and ornamented with divers curious
                     figures. Two eunuchs brought this in, a long two-pronged fork was produced, the
                     king grasped the fork, the slave unfastened and raised the lid, and the monarch
                     was about making a stroke for one of the floating delicacies, when what should
                     appear but the head of our worthy little friend the dwarf. The females shouted
                     with laughter, the eunuchs dropped the lower portion of their faces and raised
                     their eyebrows, while the youth himself suddenly withdrew his head, in time to
                     escape the two-pronged fork, which had been thrown by his angry master.
                  "Folly!"—cried he, in a tremendous voice—"Folly!"
                  "Well, sire"—said he within the jar.
                  "Up with your head."
                  The dwarf did as commanded.
                  "Why have you spoiled my pickles?"
                  "I could not help it, master. I was put in."
                  "Put in! By whom?"—said Othult—"but first get out of that."
                  "I cannot."
                  "Then stay there."
                  And the dwarf was again imprisoned, and the cover refastened. Othult, angry as
                     he was, could not but smile when he saw the dwarf's woful appearance, as he
                     very much resembled a pickle himself, but he thought it would do him good to
                     keep him there a short time.
                  "Folly says"—spake the king to the surrounding astonished persons—"that some
                     one put him in the jar; did he speak the truth?"
                  "Yes, your majesty, he did"—was heard to proceed from the jar.
                  "Who, then"—said the king—"put you in?"
                  "It was Meemee."
                  "Meemee, come here."
                  And Meemee came from among the females who were reclining on one side of the
                     room, and advanced before him.
                  "Did you put him in, Meemee?"
                  
                  "I did, my lord."
                  "Did you not know my pickles would be spoiled in consequence?"
                  "Yes; but it was the only thing at hand. You must know, my lord, that it was at
                     a very early hour this morning that Poulee and myself were in our room occupied
                     in dressing our hair, for we had taken a ramble in the country, and the
                     branches of the trees and the wind had discomposed it. I then was talking of
                     the late fire, how lucky we were to escape, and how it was all owing to the
                     skill of Folly, and had made an end of my discourse, when a noise was heard
                     behind the curtain of the window, and on removing it the dwarf was discovered.
                     He fell on his knees, and said his audacity was owing to his great love for
                     me—(the little imp!)—and he furthermore said he would die if I would not return
                     his passion. We both laughed, but he immediately arose and ran to where I was
                     sitting, and before I was aware, fell to kissing me."
                  "It is a lie, your majesty"—said the voice from the jar.
                  "Silence!"—said the king, and the eunuch softly shook the earthenware, while
                     the unfortunate prisoner was heard to splutter at a great rate.
                  "Stop! stop! my master"—he cried.
                  "Will you be silent there?"—said the king.
                  "I will; but that was untrue that Meemee said, for I never kissed her, but
                     would like to do so."
                  "Continue your narrative"—said the king to Meemee.
                  "I have nigh done"—replied she.—"When he made the attack, we both thought
                     something must be done, so we caught the youth, and despite his kicking and
                     scratching, were about to carry him to Bellin, that he might feel the rod, when
                     we passed through the chamber where was the jar, I thought it empty, so we
                     raised the lid, and with no little trouble got the refractory fellow inside,
                     and fastening the lid, we retired."
                  "Is that so, Folly?"—said the king.
                  "Yes, your majesty"—replied the dwarf.
                  "Bellin, take that fellow and give him a sound washing and then a sound
                     whipping, for I will learn him to go after my women and spoil my pickles. Take
                     him off, Bellin, and see that full justice is done."
                  The eunuch bowed and the jar was withdrawn, while I suppose there is hardly any
                     use in stating that Folly received the full extent of his sentence.
               
               
                  XXVI.
                  THE MESSENGER OF BAFFRA.
                  THE day after this important affair, and late in the afternoon, a stranger
                     appeared at the entrance of King Othult's palace, and a guard appeared before
                     the stranger, and was told to bring him before his lord and master. He hastened
                     away, soon returned, and the stranger was shown into the room where sat Othult
                     the Magnificent upon a cushion of golden cloth, surrounded by his wise men. The
                     stranger bowed to the ground, and standing, spake as follows:
                  "Know, oh king, that I am sent by the puissant monarch Baffra, unto the great,
                     the noble, the magnificent King Othult."
                  "The name of Baffra be respected," observed the king.
                  "The name of Baffra be respected," murmured the wise men; but to the stranger
                     it sounded so curiously, that he
                     could not forbear laughing, which want of respect so exasperated the king that
                     he sprang to his feet, dashed down his pipe,(which caused the dwarf to clap his
                     hand to his head, and utter an exclamation of pain,) and called upon his guards
                     to remove the man from his presence.
                  "Know, oh king, that this conduct shall not go unrewarded. The mighty Baffra
                     shall become acquainted with the treatment his servant received, and the great
                     Othult shall grovel at his feet in the dust."
                  The guards entered, but before they could lay hands on him the stranger had
                     escaped, and mounting his fleet steed was soon away. The king, wondering what
                     message the stranger brought, ordered one of his soldiers to mount the fastest
                     horse he had and overtake him, and persuade him to return. Towards evening, the
                     stranger again stood before him, and Othult learned that Baffra had asked the
                     hand of the Princess Ura in marriage.
                  "Oh messenger of the mighty king"—said he—"I know not where she is."
                  But the messenger thought that quite impossible, and thinking it a falsehood,
                     departed in a rage, firmly resolving, that as he was the favorite of his lord,
                     he would get him instantly to declare war against the monarch who saw fit to
                     refuse his daughter in marriage. Baffra heard the reception his favorite had
                     received, and notwithstanding his great love for the fair Ura, and her love for
                     him, (for they had been often together, and the reader will recollect, in the
                     first part of this story, where the princess and her attendants had collected
                     around the fainted pilgrim, she mentioned a certain person bearing his name,)
                     resolved to give instant war; and for this purpose he collected a great army,
                     and quickly commenced the march.
               
               
                  XXVII.
                  THE SEARCH FOR URA.
                  GREAT was the anxiety felt by the king for his lost daughter. It is true at one
                     time he came to the conclusion she had been destroyed by the raging flames, but
                     then when he was more sober his mind was by no means at rest. That she was
                     among the ill-fated at the conflagration he could hardly believe. Did she not
                     receive, from a messenger doubtless of the great Kiran, the far-famed emerald?
                     If so, was it not then probable she would be preserved? So it was his firm
                     belief that she was alive, and if so it was his determination to send people in
                     search. Quite a number were therefore collected, and at last the expedition
                     departed.
                  Ura, when protected by the fairy, was landed from her car on the mountain side,
                     and before she could express her gratitude found herself alone. A day passed; a
                     weary day, for every thing was so still, and she was so lonely. Now about the
                     evening hour it chanced she beheld in the plain beneath, a body of persons
                     spread out so as to occupy a great space of ground. They commenced ascending
                     the mountain, and then, by the color of their banners, she perceived they were
                     the men of her noble father, so she came and advanced towards them; they
                     discovered her, and immediately a loud cry of joy arose, and in triumph she was
                     conducted to the palace. The king received his daughter at the gate, and
                     grasping her hands imprinted a kiss upon her forehead; then presented her to
                     one or two of his wives, for he had quite a number (though not so great a number as Solomon)—now the mother
                     of Ura was dead—and then having heard the recital of her adventures, which were
                     briefly narrated, rendered thanks to Kiran, commanded all the prisoners taken
                     in war should be liberated, and also that at night there should be a grand
                     illumination, with a magnificent display of colored fires in front of the
                     palace. The prisoners were liberated, to their joyful surprise, though they at
                     first imagined it was to their execution; but when they found their chains
                     knocked off and the doors thrown open, and they were at liberty to go
                     wheresoever they pleased, they proceeded in a mass to the palace, where nothing
                     would satisfy them but that the princess should be seen, for they had heard it
                     was by her means they had been freed. She came, they saw, and a terrific shout
                     arose. The king also received his share of the applause, and so overjoyed was
                     he that he commenced capering about with any one within reach, and before long
                     had sought the cup to excite him still more, which produced its effect, for ere
                     long he fell to the ground dead—drunk, and there was of course no fireworks
                     that evening.
               
               
                  XXVIII.
                  THE FALSE BAFFRA.
                  LET us return to Javan. We have shown how, from his insecure seat on the scaly
                     back of a gigantic dragon-fly, he fell, and how he entered the waters of a
                     large lake, head foremost, and when the chapter came to an end, was half
                     immersed; we will therefore let him entirely disappear. As he did not know how
                     to swim, when he came to the surface he struggled with the waters, and heard
                     the dreadful noise of the overwhelming waves; he could see nothing, and gave
                     himself up for lost, but then the remembrance of the demon who had led him into
                     all these difficulties flashed upon him, and he managed to call upon him, when
                     with a loud noise he appeared.
                  "Help me!"—cried the sinking youth.
                  "Hold in your breath and you will float."
                  He did so, and found he did indeed float.
                  "Now thrust out your legs and make strokes with your arms at the same
                     time."
                  And he did this also, finding by the experiment he swam, and before long he
                     stood upon the bank with Pad by his side. He found fault with the demon for
                     having forsaken him; but the spirit said his trouble was owing entirely to his
                     not having remained on the dragon-fly, which had orders to pursue the pigeons;
                     however, at present he had a fine plan, which he thought would succeed. "You
                     must know," said he, "that Ura is in love with a prince named Baffra, whose
                     kingdom is next to Othult's. Now this Baffra has been some time absent from the
                     presence of Ura, and in truth is dying of love for her. Therefore he has this
                     day sent a messenger to king Othult, asking the hand of his daughter in
                     marriage, and the king not knowing in reality where his daughter was, frankly
                     told him so, when Baffra has determined to give him battle, so that he may
                     obtain the hand of the princess by force, as he supposes he cannot by entreaty.
                     The princess whom you have chased, has reached the side of the mountain some
                     time ago, and will before long be in her father's palace, for he has of a
                     sudden taken a strong interest in her welfare, and sent a company for her
                     discovery. Now this is my plan. I
                     will transport you to the tent of Baffra, who, with his army, are not far
                     distant, and will make you take his appearance, and cause the real prince to
                     vanish."
                  "Then"—exclaimed Javan—"I will give battle, and if fortunate, very well, but if
                     peace should be made then the princess will give me her hand, and she and the
                     jewel will be in my power."
                  "You are right, let us now depart."
                  They together ascended in the air.
                  "What do you see before you?"—said Pad, after a moment's interval of time.
                  "Many tents pitched."
                  "It is the encampment of Baffra."
                  "Where then shall we alight so as not to be seen?"
                  "It matters not, for we are both invisible."
                  They touched ground, and proceeding to the tent of the chief, which was easily
                     distinguished, they passed by the vigilant guard, who with naked cimeter stood
                     at the entrance, and entered. Baffra was sitting on a cushion calmly smoking.
                     Pad advanced and commenced waving his hand and Baffra grew drowsy, shut his
                     eyes, nodded, and fell back on his couch, wrapped in a deep slumber; then Pad,
                     passing his hand over the sleeping person, did the same to the astonished
                     Javan, and lo! the aspect of his face was changed, and in the place of his own
                     he possessed that of Baffra; his clothes next underwent the transformation, and
                     the false Baffra stood beside the demon. Pad clapped his hands, and a little
                     imp came slowly swinging to and fro, descending through the air from the top of
                     the tent, then another, and another, and yet another, till a great quantity
                     filled the place. At a given signal they arranged themselves on each side the
                     sleeping prince, grasping some portion of his garments ments and spreading
                     their small pinions arose, and Javan saw neither them nor the sleeper any
                     more.
                  The morning came, and Javan awaking from sleep, was extremely astonished to
                     find how much he had gained in knowledge, as all the most secret thoughts of
                     the real prince came to his memory, and even all the events of his past life,
                     how he had first seen Ura, the impression she had made, and how he fell in
                     love, and after a while departed from the palace on account of the sickness of
                     his aged father, and how, when he had died, the regal powers came unto him, and
                     also having sent a messenger to ask the hand of her he loved, the messenger was
                     insulted and his request denied, and how, resenting the refusal, he had
                     determined to wage battle, and if possible, carry off the princess. All these
                     events and many of less importance, flew quickly over the false Baffra's mind,
                     so that when the attendants in the morning entered the tent he was by no means
                     at a loss how to act. The whole army was now on the march, and before night had
                     thrown her dark veil over the peaceful face of Mother Nature, the doomed city
                     was within view. New emotions reigned in the bosom of the false Baffra. He was
                     about giving battle, and if none was offered in return, to sack the place,
                     while all his care would be to seek the fair Ura, who, according to the demon's
                     word, was in the palace.
               
               
                  XXIX.
                  THE WISE MEN OF THE KINGDOM.
                  NOW it came to pass it was evening, and it also came to pass that the evening was dark, so that the
                     guards of Baffra's army did not perceive a spy among them. When safe, the youth
                     ran and carried the news to King Othult, who, as it may be supposed, was rather
                     surprised, and ran, just as fast as his short legs would carry him, to his
                     harem, where he made known the dismal news, and was nearly smothered by the
                     frantic embraces of his women, who all—as in the occurrence of the fire—looked
                     to him for help. But this was too much for the afflicted monarch, so knocking
                     down first this one, then that, and managing to escape from the place, he ran
                     into the room where were all the wise men of the kingdom—exactly twelve—seated
                     in a ring cross-legged, with their chins resting on their hands and their long
                     white beards falling therefrom; and Othult sat cross-legged in the midst.
                  "Woe! woe! woe!" said the first wise man, after Othult had spoken.
                  "Awful news, awful news!" said the second wise man.
                  "Umph!" cried the third.
                  But the rest said nothing.
                  "My counsellors," said the king.
                  All eyes were turned upon him.
                  "What shall we do?"
                  "What shall we do?" said the first, with the utmost gravity.
                  "What shall we do?" said the second.
                  "What shall we do?" said the third.
                  And the rest said likewise.
                  "Shall we fight?" said the king.
                  "Shall we fight?" said the first man of wisdom.
                  "Shall we fight?" said the second, and then the rest.
                  "I think we had better," observed the king.
                  "I think we had better," observed the first.
                  "I think we had better"—observed the second.
                  And the third—
                  And the fourth—
                  And the fifth—
                  And the sixth—
                  And the seventh—
                  And the eighth—
                  And the ninth—
                  And the tenth—
                  And the eleventh—
                  And the twelfth—
                  Therefore, owing to the opinions of those men, whose brows were shadowed by
                     green leaves, in consequence of their profound wisdom, it was resolved—that
                     BATTLE SHOULD BE GIVEN.
               
               
                  XXX.
                  THE EXPEDITION OF FOLLY, THE DWARF.
                  IT was not only in the palace the uproar existed, for the whole place was
                     steeped in terror. "The enemy! the enemy!" cried the men; the women caught up
                     the sound, and it was echoed by the children. Some were arming themselves for
                     combat, but exactly one half of the inhabitants, when the news was made known,
                     arose, took only their children, and ran from the place in an opposite
                     direction to the encampment of the enemy, for the mountains.
                  The morning came, and Othult ran with all his females and two or three
                     frightened eunuchs, to the top of the large tower gracing this, as one did the former palace, and from that
                     commanding station saw, with trembling limbs and throbbing heart, the bright
                     flashing of the spears of the opposing army; how bitterly did he then repent
                     his conduct towards the messenger! how sorry was he that his daughter was not
                     given to the Prince Baffra! Every thing appeared to be a judgment against him,
                     and he verily believed this day would be his last. A commotion was heard below,
                     and soon the cause of it, Folly, made his appearance.
                  "I have a favor to ask your majesty"—said he, bending the knee—"are you not
                     surrounded by danger! and is it not likely evil will befall you?"
                  "Yes; but is it only to tell me this that you came here?"
                  "Oh, no; I came to deliver you from all this evil."
                  "You! Verily, that is wonderful; how will you undertake it?"
                  "By going forth, and no doubt I will be captured."
                  "Ha! ha!"—laughed Othult, in spite of his terror—"no doubt you will; there is
                     not the least doubt of it."
                  "But that, your majesty, is precisely what I want."
                  "You want to be captured!"—exclaimed, in return, the surprised king—"then how
                     can you free me from the danger?"
                  "I will tell you: when I am captured, I will be taken, just as I am, before
                     Prince Baffra."
                  "No doubt you will, and no doubt his first command will be to strike off your
                     head."
                  "It may be, and it may not be so. Now, this is my plan: I will of a sudden slip
                     from my guards, for I am very expert, and rushing upon the prince, will run
                     this dagger in him," producing a small one; "even if I do not make a large
                     wound, my labor will not be thrown away, for you must know the point of the
                     weapon is dipped in a most deadly poison, and when once it enters the flesh,
                     all the skill in the world cannot keep the person who receives it from
                     death."
                  "And you will engage"—said the king—"to rid me of the enemy?"
                  "I will, and it was for that purpose I came here."
                  "But, then, should you strike the king, you will most certainly be killed."
                  "I am aware of that, but do not in the least hesitate, for I love my king, and
                     would cheerfully die for him."
                  "How can I express my gratitude? Go, Folly, go, and may success await you."
                  We will follow the dwarf, and see how he succeeds in his expedition. Descending
                     quickly the stairs of the tower, he was soon outside, and telling one or two
                     persons the whole affair, induced them to chase him when he was at a certain
                     distance, and also to fire an arrow or two, but by no means to hit him. This
                     was to let the enemy see he was running from his camp, as if he were guilty of
                     treachery. On he ran, and one or two men after him; he did his best, and kept
                     at a good distance, for, notwithstanding his small stature, Folly was quick of
                     foot, and could outstrip in speed many a full-grown man. To the camp of the
                     besiegers directed he his steps, and when his pursuers saw he was about getting
                     in danger, they wheeled and went about as fast in the opposite direction, while
                     Folly stayed not his pace till arrested by a guard, who conducted the curiosity
                     to Baffra's tent. Javan was astonished at the figure, and immediately there was
                     a dispute among the men what this
                     could be, whether a human being or monkey. And they could not agree till the
                     dwarf, not liking the severe pressure the guard gave his wrist, wished him, in
                     the politest terms imaginable, to release his grasp. He complied, and with all
                     the bystanders was amazed; and Folly was free; now was the wished-for moment,
                     so rushing upon the false Baffra, he quick as thought buried the dagger in that
                     prince's leg, and as quickly was by that person's foot levelled on the ground.
                     The guard cried, "Murder!" while the rest shouted, "Treason!" but "Pshaw!" said
                     Javan, "I hope you do not suppose I am frightened by that imp and his
                     bodkin."
                  "The wound is not very dangerous," said one of the attendants; "the little
                     rascal came here on purpose to kill you, and was sent by his noble master. If
                     he had been taller, my lord, your moments would have been numbered."
                  "I know it, I know it; but take away the animal."
                  "What shall we do with him?"
                  "Any thing you please, only take him away." And his leg was bound up with a
                     scarf to stop the bleeding. Meanwhile the dwarf was led from the tent and
                     fastened to a long stake. The soldiers were gathered together meditating what
                     should be done.
                  "Ha! ha! ha!" laughed the dwarf mentally, "they say if I had been taller his
                     days would have been numbered. Ha! ha! little do they know his days are
                     numbered, and in not a very long time, Baffra will be—but how tight they tie
                     me! How savage they look, these grim men! I have done my part, now comes
                     theirs; I wonder what they will do to me?"
                  At last an idea struck the soldiers and the army at that moment preparing to
                     advance for the purpose of attacking the city, the dwarf and stake were
                     shouldered, and he was forced to proceed with them till they came nigh unto the
                     walls of the city; then they drove it firmly in the ground, and our little
                     friend found himself not only a prisoner, but also in a very precarious
                     situation, for the enemy having advanced, and hostilities having begun, he grew
                     not a little frightened at the arrows as they fell around him, and the stones
                     as they whizzed past his head.
               
               
                  XXXI.
                  THE BATTLE.
                  FROM the windows Othult saw the enemy advance, beheld their glittering spears,
                     and heard their loud war shout; now rushed the arrows, carrying death with
                     them, and together with the stones, completely darkening the air; the din and
                     yells tended to make the royal spectator shake with fear, and now and then an
                     arrow would strike the tower, and a stone would thunder against its wooden
                     walls, for quite near was he to the scene of action. A cessation took place,
                     followed by a fearful roar, and the whole body of men ran quickly onwards; the
                     fighting was terrific; the enemy scaled the walls, attacked the inhabitants;
                     yells, shrieks, and groans rent the air; none were spared, and dwelling after
                     dwelling was set on fire, and Othult stared and shook, and yet did stare.
                  The enemy spread over the place; smoke arose in every quarter, and soon it was
                     evident the palace was in their power. A crash of stones was heard; arms
                     glittered everywhere where, and the
                     sword drank blood. The tower was attacked, and the foremost of those that
                     ascended was Javan, the false Baffra; in his hand was a long crimsoned sword,
                     and his turban was stained with the blood from his wounds; his dress was
                     reddened with the day's work, and his face was wild in aspect. At our hero's
                     presence Othult yelled with terror, and then fell on his knees praying for
                     mercy—and the women were lying fainting in a heap.
                  "Where is the princess?" said Javan, raising his sword.
                  "Above," cried Othult.
                  Our hero quickly ascended to the room where he would find the lovely Ura.
               
               
                  XXXII.
                  FOLLY, THE DWARF.
                  WHEN the first charge was made, Folly felt the whizzing of the implements of
                     war, and gave himself up for lost; he prayed loudly for succor, but in the
                     middle of the action was knocked down, stake and all, and insensibility
                     followed—he awoke, and rubbing his eyes, tried to discover where he was, and
                     found the tide of war had passed, and raising his head, saw the men scaling the
                     city walls; when finding such to be the case, he managed, with an arrow that
                     lay near by, to cut the cord that bound him to the stake, and then using his
                     legs, ran towards the forest, not far distant. He gained it, and climbing a
                     tree, stayed there for safety, when, being quite tired, he slumbered. Awful
                     were his dreams, for they were entirely about being killed at the stake, and so
                     much did they affect him, that he shook with fear, which caused him to fall
                     from his seat, and down through the branches fell he—but just before touching
                     ground stopped so suddenly that it nearly killed him; he looked up to see what
                     was the matter, and then to his horror found the end of the rope, which was
                     still attached to his body, had become entangled among the branches—he tried to
                     get loose, but was unable—the winding cord caused him slowly to revolve, some
                     four feet above the earth, and some distance from the body of the tree—he
                     essayed to untie the knot wherewith he was fastened around the waist, but owing
                     to the great pressure was unable to do it, and his hands were so cut by 
                        the the
                        the
                      cords, that to use them in attempting to ascend by the rope was out
                     of question; so he was at full liberty to think of all his actions.
                  "This"—thought he—"is surely a punishment for my sins, for killing Baffra, as
                     he certainly will die. But how am I to get away? Here, no doubt, I will hang
                     till death comes. Better had it been were I to have perished on the
                     battle-field; but here—ugh!—that bird!"—and he struck at a bird of prey
                     wheeling about his head. "Good heavens! it wants to eat me before I am
                     dead!"
                  And the dwarf roared in his agony; then he commenced with great exertions to
                     get himself into a swinging motion, so that peradventure he might catch the
                     branches, but he gave it up and hung motionless, only at times driving off the
                     audacious fowl. After a time he grew faint; the bird 
                        contined
                        continued
                      swooping around him; he lay still; and then, after awhile, the bird
                     of prey lit upon his face—for—Folly the dwarf was dead.
               
               
                  
                  XXXIII.
                  JAVAN'S LAST ATTEMPT TO OBTAIN THE EMERALD.
                  JAVAN tore down the curtain and rushed into the room, in the farther corner of
                     which was Ura, crouched in an attitude of fear.
                  "My Baffra!" cried she, arising and running towards him.
                  "Back!" shouted he, presenting his weapon; "where is it?"
                  "Where is what? Am I not here? Did you not come for me?"
                  "No; but for something far more precious—the EMERALD."
                  "Ha! is it that!" and in a moment of bitter disappointment she tore it from her
                     bosom, and threw it far out of the window, when immediately her great beauty
                     vanished. "Was it for this you came, and not for me?—it is gone."
                  "Wretched girl!" yelled the furious Javan.
                  Pad stood before him.
                  "You have done the work," said the smiling demon, pointing to the prostrate
                     female.
                  "I see—I have killed her—the princess—the—"
                  "It is untrue, she is not the princess."
                  "Who then is it?"
                  "Java."
                  "Java!" cried Javan, dropping his weapon and gazing upon him as only those
                     horror-struck can gaze, and retreating ten or twelve steps.
                  "See!"
                  And the dying girl bore the resemblance of her he loved.
                  "Java," cried Pad, "behold your lover! the contract is finished."
                  And Baffra was changed into Javan.
                  "My Javan! my Javan!" and she died.
                  "Accursed demon!" cried the horror-struck youth, "what means this?"
                  "When you had departed in search for the emerald, she grew desirous of knowing
                     for what purpose you thus left. I presented myself and made a contract, in
                     which I was to bring her into possession of the gem. Ura, Othult's daughter,
                     having, by negligence of prayer, placed herself in my power, as did also the
                     Prince Baffra, I removed her, (as I did him,) and in her stead placed Java,
                     causing her to take the princess's resemblance, having first promised that she
                     would meet her lover when she found the great emerald. The only thing that
                     astonished me was, that Damarina could have taken her under her protection; for
                     it can be hardly possible she knew not the change; but such, in fact, might be
                     the case. The time has arrived; she saw you, and she had the jewel. She is
                     gone."
                  "Where?"
                  "Would you like to know?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And to follow?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then press my wrist."
                  Javan pressed it, and fell motionless on the floor.
               
               
                  
                  XXXIV.
                  DOWNFALL OF THE TOWER.
                  THE men thronged the tower, when, being of light workmanship, it gave way—a
                     yell and cloud of dust arose, and all was still, and the place was burned and
                     blackened where before had stood so many handsome dwellings, and but few
                     escaped the terrors of that day.
                  —Please except those that ran to the mountains.
               
               
                  XXXV.
                  JAVAN AND JAVA.
                  "OPEN your eyes," said the demon.
                  Javan did so, but owing to the terrible sight he beheld, instantly closed
                     them.
                  "Where am I?"
                  "In the Paradise I spoke to you about, on Mount Pandan."
                  "And Java?"
                  "See."
                  "Great Kiran!"
                  "Come—"
                  "Spare me!—"
                  "Come—"
                  "Spare!—"
                  But it was too late.
                  
               
            
            
               THE FROST IMPS.
               IT was a really magnificent day, as I encased myself in a thick overcoat, buttoned
                  it up to my throat, and left the house, treading upon the snow that had fallen the
                  preceding night. How delightful was the sound as it crisped beneath the step, how
                  bracing was the cool air, and how superbly the trees appeared, all gayly frosted
                  o'er and glittering in the rays of the sun! Truly it was a beautiful morning.
               It was my intention, determined upon while proceeding towards Broadway, to visit
                  my particular friend Alfred Royal, and see the great object of which he had spoken
                  so much. I wandered on and on till the gay thoroughfare was reached, and there in
                  reality a fine spectacle was presented. The sleighs were out, ranging from the
                  heavy, clumsy article belonging to the stage lines, and dragged by two or three
                  pair of horses, as the case might be, to the light, zephyry contrivance skimming
                  the snowy surface of the ground, drawn by the stylish nag, gayly caparisoned, with
                  a host of silver bells, and whose drivers appeared to take the utmost satisfaction
                  in seeing how near they could glide past a stage sleigh, and not receive any
                  danger from the experiment.
               Down Broadway went I, feasting my eyes with these fine sights, but with my
                  thoughts elsewhere; they being centered upon the object of my morning's excursion.
                  That part of the day is by me usually devoted to wandering in the paths of
                  literature, for perhaps the reader is not aware that it has so pleased fortune as to make me one of
                  that unfortunate class of beings termed authors, who rack their very brains,
                  consume ink, paper, time, etc. etc. etc.—for what? perhaps a momentary fame, or
                  barely enough of the "filthy lucre" for their maintenance. In the mornings,
                  therefore, I am usually occupied at the desk, but in the afternoons am at liberty;
                  however, this friend of mine, Alfred Royal, was urgent for me to pay him a visit
                  that morning, as he had a very curious object he would like me to see, as he
                  supposed I was a lover of the marvelous. I had known this youth for some time. He
                  was a person that was continually reading scientific works, making all sorts of
                  experiments, and was by profession a watch-maker. He had also been for some time
                  engaged with an article that was at present completed, and he wished me to see its
                  power thoroughly tested. This being the case, and knowing, moreover, that there
                  was hardly a chance but that I would be pleased with the exhibition, whatever it
                  might be, I had not touched pen or paper that morning, deferring my labors till I
                  had returned from paying the visit in question.
               After a short time spent in walking down New York's gayest street I turned into a
                  narrow one, and after threading my way along this for no short space of time,
                  arrived at an alley, down which dark passage I proceeded, and then rapped soundly
                  on a crazy door, which was opened by a shoeless, stockingless girl, and to my
                  inquiry whether Mr. Royal was in, was answered in the affirmative and directed to
                  his room, the door of which was attained after stumbling up a pair of ill-made
                  stairs and tumbling over a trunk or box at the head. Having knocked, I heard
                  steps, and the door was opened.
               "Ah, my dear fellow," said the occupant, grasping me by the hand, "I am glad to
                  see you. I knew you would come, and so have placed every thing in readiness; but
                  sit down, and let us first talk a little."
               I assented, and we sat on chairs near the window. Alfred Royal was a curious
                  being, for at times he would be as light and cheerful as one could wish, and then
                  he would sink into despondency, and be deep-plunged into melancholy, out of which
                  it was a useless attempt to draw him. In appearance he was thoughtful, but his
                  eyes! there, indeed, you might gaze, and gaze with pain, too, for they possessed a
                  curious searching property, and as you looked you might imagine you were being
                  glanced into, even to your very heart, and the passions reigning there were being
                  read. His whole appearance was as one who had seen much sorrow. Now, he appeared
                  in the cheerful mood. His conversation was gay, embracing various topics, all of
                  which were treated with his usual skill.
               "Now, Alfred," said I, "suppose you show me the wonderful thing that has brought
                  me here."
               "Yes, I will, and I am certain you will be astonished."
               "Of course; it was to be astonished that I gave up this morning's work."
               "The object I will show you is, to tell the truth, something not met with every
                  day. I myself have made it, and have spent nearly ten years of my life, that is,
                  leaving out the hours devoted to my trade; yes, ten years have I been engaged in
                  the manufacture of it, and now think it perfection."
               "Produce it," cried I, "produce it; do not keep me any longer in suspense; let me
                  behold this most wonderful article, for, in reality, I greatly desire to see
                  it."
               
               "If you will hand me the box by your side, I will show it to you."
               And he pointed to a square one of mahogany, bound with brazen clasps, and secured
                  also with a strap, serving at the same time as a handle.
               "What!" cried I, "is it in this small affair? Surely you must have something
                  rivalling the articles we read of in one of the stories in that most entertaining
                  work, called the 'Thousand and One Nights.'"
               "It does greatly resemble one of them."
               "Which? as I guess I know the story you refer to; the magical tapestry, the
                  wonderful apple, or the enchanted spy-glass?"
               "The latter."
               "Have you a spy-glass in this box? Can you see whether the occupants of the moon
                  carry their heads on their shoulders or under their arms?"
               "I shall say nothing about it, for I see you are disposed to trifle, and I will
                  therefore leave you in a state of suspense till all is prepared."
               I said no more, and Alfred, placing the box on the window-sill, arose, and
                  stretched across the room a large square piece of cotton, which having done, he
                  closed the shutters of the window, leaving open a square door therein near the
                  bottom, and having fixed all to his liking, he opened the mahogany box, and with
                  the utmost care drew forth a brazen instrument, so much resembling a solar
                  microscope, that I instantly exclaimed:
               "A solar microscope—I have never seen one tried, and its exhibition will be quite
                  acceptable."
               "You mistake, my friend," replied Alfred. "Although this, in the strictest sense
                  of the word, is a solar microscope scope, yet the effect is quite different, for
                  while the former absolutely requires the most powerful rays of the sun, this does
                  not, and where that magnifies one hundred times, this magnifies one million."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed I, "there is then quite a difference between the two."
               "You see this little instrument; well, you would be perfectly surprised were I to
                  make mention of all the different glasses and the different pieces of mechanism
                  inside. It has cost me a lifetime of study, and I hope by exhibiting it to make my
                  fortune. The vexation attending its manufacture is incredible, for there are
                  pieces of workmanship within this narrow tube upon which, if you were strongly to
                  breathe, would be totally destroyed; you may therefore imagine what a trial I have
                  had. Time after time have I been so unfortunate as to spoil the work of weeks, and
                  it was only yesterday evening I succeeded in getting all finished, and it is now
                  ready for use. There! what do you think of that?"
               During this speech my friend had been placing his apparatus in order, and now
                  pointed to me the effect on the strained sheet. The sun did not shine on the
                  window, and yet upon the sheet was a circular space of light, covering nearly the
                  whole of it, and it struck me as wonderful how, at such a short distance from the
                  instrument, there could be thrown so large a circle, which was not simply lighter
                  than the rest, but so bright, that at first it was to my eyes absolutely
                  dazzling.
               "How is that produced?" asked I.
               "By the mechanism within the instrument."
               I looked at him in surprise. Could it be possible that a ray by no means
                  brilliant, should, by passing through a
                  brass tube be made to possess such power of light? But where was the use in
                  doubting the fact; the thing was before my eyes; I could do no more than express
                  again my astonishment, and look on with all attention.
               "Now," said Alfred, "I will show you one or two specimens, to exhibit the
                  wonderful power of my instrument. First of all I will reduce that power so as to
                  suit article of a large size; there," added he, after having performed something
                  in the way of turning screws, which I could not distinctly see, owing to the
                  darkness in which every thing was placed, "I will show you a very common article,
                  and a specimen that is generally used: there is a needle, hold it within the rays
                  of light proceeding from the tube and examine it; you acknowledge the point is
                  quite fine?"
               "I do; as fine as I should suppose a needle could be made."
               He placed it in its proper position, and there was delineated on the cotton a most
                  curious object; but as it has been generally described, there will be no use in my
                  doing likewise. I expressed my great satisfaction in viewing it, when the
                  exhibitor commenced slightly turning a screw; instantly the representation of the
                  needle point increased in size, and at last covered the whole circle of light on
                  the cotton.
               "So I might go on," he said, "increasing the size, if the sheet permitted; now, if
                  you please, I will return to it the original power, and we will examine specimens
                  of a much smaller size."
               "With pleasure," answered I; "really I did not expect so agreeable a treat."
               Alfred left the room for a moment, and then returning had in his hand a small
                  quantity of snow.
               "I will," said he, "put a flake on my glass, and then we shall see the
                  effect."
               He did so, and as the extreme coldness of the room prevented it from at once
                  melting, we had a fine opportunity of viewing all its beauties, and truly they
                  were many, and likewise were they great. The flake was transferred upon the
                  cotton, but presented such a really beautiful appearance that the eye would hardly
                  ever tire in beholding it. There were innumerable spars thrusting themselves
                  upwards, glistening with an extremely bright luster, and caverns, and lakes, etc.,
                  all being comprised in a single flake of snow, greatly magnified, however, as may
                  be supposed, which to the naked eye appeared in no wise to merit observation.
                  Soon, however, the warmth of the article on which it was placed caused it to melt,
                  and then was perceived on the cotton the effect. You could see taking place the
                  gradual thaw, here and there. The spars and pinnacles toppled, and falling, cast a
                  cloud of snow. Then you could distinguish the gradual formation of a torrent; the
                  stream rushing onwards carrying all before it, and at last grow furious, leaping,
                  and splashing, and dashing in its course to the end of the circle of light, and
                  then being lost in darkness; and I saw the vast collection of ice-work of which
                  that simple snow-flake consisted gradually sink, till at last there was a great
                  fall, and the whole slid swiftly from my view.
               "Now the flake has slid off the glass," said Alfred, laughing.
               "By Jove!" cried I, "that goes far ahead of any thing I have yet heard or
                  seen."
               "Nothing, nothing at all," said he; "I have a sight now that will be greatly its
                  superior."
               
               "You are joking."
               "I am in earnest; there is not a joke about it."
               "How do you know then the effect, seeing this is the first time you have tried
                  your instrument?"
               He then briefly told me how, years and years ago, a manuscript had fallen into his
                  hands, in which was a very full account how to make an "enchaunted
                     tube," in which "divers wonderfulle sightes mighte be
                     beholdenne," and many other experiments that were truly astonishing;
                  telling also how the Froste Imppes might be seen.
               I interrupted him here.
               "Tell me," said I, "what you mean by Frost Imps."
               "I will show them to you presently," was his answer; and then he continued his
                  narrative, stating how he had commenced trying to make an enchanted tube, as it
                  was called, and after ten years' labor had at last accomplished his
                  undertaking.
               "You deserve praise, at any rate, for your perseverance," said I, "and now for the
                  Frost Imps."
               He slid in a slip of glass, and breathing upon it fitted his instrument as before.
                  There was then a scene exhibited that went far ahead of any thing yet beheld. The
                  surface of the glass became, in a second of time, veiled, as if with a sheet of
                  gauze, pure and resplendent, on which appeared indistinct forms, as if floating. I
                  looked on with astonishment. The forms grew more and more distinct, till at last
                  they were fully distinguished, and they were the most delicate conceivable, and
                  all created with the utmost skill, being perfect in every respect. And they were
                  in the form of cherubs, white as the virgin snow, with wings upon their shoulders,
                  by agitating which they were supported over the substance I have likened unto
                  gauze.
               "The Frost Imps?" said I.
               "Precisely," returned Alfred, who appeared as wondering as myself; "but look!"
               And then I perceived that each bore in its hand an object resembling a painting
                  brush, which they quickly used in tracing upon the cold surface of the glass
                  magnificent figures, like unto fir and cedar trees; and you might also there
                  behold likenesses unto castles, and giants, and dwarfs, and mountains, and in
                  fact, all that is fantastically beautiful.
               "Jack Frost's workmen!" said Alfred.
               "So I perceive; and your instrument is so powerful as to represent them!"
               "I believe it is. You now see it is they, with their quick work and skill, that
                  manage to form the beautiful figures you often behold on the window-glass, on a
                  frosty morning. Look! how quick they dash their brushes about! how nimble!"
               "It is so," answered I, gazing upon the imps, who verily appeared as if formed of
                  frost work; "and now, whenever I see the imagery on the windows, I will know, as
                  you say, how it is caused."
               Their work was quickly carried on, as Alfred remarked, and it would have continued
                  much longer, had not an unforeseen accident occurred, which was this: In
                  attempting to adjust the powers of the instrument, so that the figures might yet
                  be greater magnified, he accidently struck the tube, and caused it to fall with a
                  crash on the floor.
               The light poured in through the hole in the shutters; the cotton was hanging there
                  as formerly; and Alfred gazed, with clenched hands, set teeth, and staring eyes,
                  at the wreck, for the pigmy unknown, the industrious Frost Imps, had been lost to
                  view for ever.
            
            
               
               ZENO AND XARA.
               
                  I.
                  BEFORE.
                  ZENO and Xara walked arm in arm down the walk of a lovely garden. It is not
                     often that one beholds gardens of such rare excellence, for in it was every
                     thing that the heart of man could desire. There were gravel walks, so nicely
                     rolled that not even one stone did seem out of its place, and the grass was
                     finely trimmed, and the flowers were also in full bloom, and the air was filled
                     with their grateful odor, while many butterflies and bees were buzzing and
                     winging their flight from one bush to another, to gather the sweets from the
                     bursting buds. The view in many places was quite agreeable; and when the sun
                     made it too hot to walk with pleasure, there were trees of great grandeur in
                     abundance, and under these you might retire if you did not wish to seek refuge
                     in the numerous summer-houses, of whose light, fantastic shapes glimpses could
                     be had here and there. Several fountains added their murmur to the rejoicings
                     of the insect tribe, and no small number of statues, of the purest white
                     marble, looked with cold admiration on the scene.
                  Zeno and Xara walked arm in arm, and admired all things; but Zeno most admired
                     the beauty of Xara, and Xara most
                     admired the manly beauty of Zeno. What curious ideas arose in their minds! Zeno
                     lamented that he was not born with Xara's faultless form; and she wished, that
                     in place of her own weak body, she possessed the muscular and noble one of her
                     companion.
                  Zeno and Xara walked on together, at times addressing each other with some
                     amiable word, and then feasting their eyes on the delicious prospect; and they
                     felt happy in each others' company. As they passed onwards, forth glided across
                     their path a beautiful green and golden-skinned snake, with head erect and eyes
                     glistening like diamonds; then buzzed before them in the air a humming bird,
                     the sun causing its magnificent plumage to dazzle their eyes with its variety
                     of vivid colors; and then gorgeously-painted butterflies hovered about them—and
                     on they went.
                  They came to a lovely spot, being a dark pool overhung by bushes and trees, and
                     the eye could with difficulty penetrate to its farthest extremity. The dark
                     water gave forth a pleasing coolness, and the numerous flowers and waterplants
                     tended to make up a very pretty picture.
                  Long did the lovers stand admiring this scene and viewing the dark water, which
                     seemed to be intensely cold, and in which now and then a fish was seen to
                     glide. Of a sudden, there stood in the cup of a beautiful water-lily, that hung
                     over the pool, the figure of a female, of extreme smallness, who was dressed in
                     light robes and wore a crown of light, and carried in her hand a wand of great
                     brightness; she spake, and the burden of her speech was this:
                  "Xara, you desired to become a man, and lamented that the Creator had not in
                     the beginning made you such; what you wish even so shall it be granted; you
                     shall leave the form of woman and take that of a man."
                  Zeno gazed with astonishment upon Xara when he heard that was her wish, and the
                     poor maiden cast down her eyes to the ground, while the blush of shame mantled
                     her cheeks: but the fairy continued her speech.
                  "Zeno, you felt unhappy that you were not created in the lovely form of woman,
                     and it was your anxious desire to become a female; bear then the form of
                     one."
                  The fairy sank into the alabaster cup of the water-lily, while the two youths
                     gazed at each other in confusion. Their wishes had been granted, and they were
                     now to take the consequences. Zeno, as he contemplated the lovely girl, was
                     surprised to see her hair crisp and change in color, and her features harden
                     into the more harsh features of man, and the bloom forsake her cheeks; and he
                     noticed her voluptuous breast sink and disappear, and her limbs, that were not
                     hid by the flowing garments, strengthen and lose their roundness.
                  "Zeno, I am changed," spake she; but Zeno noticed that the soft musical voice
                     had given place to one of boldness and loudness.
                  Xara had become a man, and she saw with no less surprise her lover change into
                     a woman. She beheld his face soften, and the rosy tints of beauty lighting up
                     his cheeks, and his eyes become more brilliant, and his form change, and his
                     bosom rise, and his waist grow narrower and supple, while his clothes were not
                     sufficiently long to hide the bottom of a well-formed leg and enticing foot and
                     ankle. Zeno felt his hair resting upon his shoulders, and placing his hand to
                     his face, found it deprived of its hairy ornaments, while he beheld not the
                     cheeks and chin of his fair
                     companion, for they were hidden by the curling beard. And Zeno said he also was
                     changed; but he was startled when he heard how effeminate his voice had
                     become.
               
               
                  II.
                  AFTER.
                  WHEN the first emotions accompanying their transformation were past, and when
                     time had flown by, there arose in the young people feelings of dissatisfaction,
                     for they found their forms completely unsuited to their character. Zeno was
                     constantly desiring to follow the chase, and amuse himself with military
                     exploits, and yet found all forbidden him, by his being a woman; he desired to
                     bend the bow as formerly, but found his finely-modelled arm was unable to draw
                     the arrow to its head; in fact he was a man in his heart, though under the
                     outward resemblance of a woman. As for Xara it fared the same with her, for she
                     was delighted with the craft of embroidery, and needlework, and spinning, and
                     such like accomplishments, and yet her manly exterior forbade them, while the
                     chase and warlike exploits were to her objects of indifference. The appearance
                     of a man concealed, in reality, a woman.
                  The lovers—though transformed, were lovers still, though it was now the woman
                     that courted the man—were not pleased with the wish that had been so
                     unexpectedly gratified, and most ardently desired to be returned to their
                     former shapes, but no such good luck attended them, and they were forced to
                     abide under those forms given them; but the charm was broken by the Goddess of
                     Pity, who happening to behold their griefs, changed them into two stately
                     trees, and now they grow and intermingle their branches.
                  Poor Zeno!
                  Poor Xara!
                  Now let me tell the moral of this piece—do you mean to say there is none?
               
               
                  III.
                  THE MORAL.
                  YE men and ye women, stay in your own sphere; seek not to occupy that of
                     others; leave to the women their own occupations and to the men their
                     occupations; meddle not with each others' affairs; and above all things, be
                     content with the form that Nature has given unto you, whether it should be that
                     of a man or that of a woman, for if you should chance to desire to become man
                     if you are woman, or woman if you are man, peradventure the same occurrence
                     will happen unto you that happened unto the luckless Zeno and
                        Xara.
                  
               
            
            
               
               THE BENDING BRANCH.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Angels and ministers of grace defend us!
                           Be thou a spirit of health, or goblin damned,
                           Bring with thee airs from Heaven, or blasts from Hell,
                           Be thy intents wicked, or charitable?—
                        
                     
                     SHAKSPEARE.
                  
               
               IT is now more than a year since the occurrence I am about to narrate took place,
                  and strongly has it impressed itself upon my memory. It was during the month of
                  January, on a cold, windy, disagreeable night, that I can well remember with what
                  pleasure I bended over the brilliant flame that burned so cheerfully in the
                  fireplace in the little parlor, in company with a friend, cracking jokes, singing
                  songs, telling stories, and helping to empty a decanter of sparkling rosy wine.
                  Soon the old clock, that had ticked in the corner for many years, and which had
                  been in the family (so my host told me, for I was on a visit) for centuries, if
                  not ages (!) commenced striking. I counted the hours, one, two, three, and so on,
                  until it struck eleven.
               "What!" exclaimed I, "so late! really I had not the least idea of it."
               So, taking a candle that was dim and flickering, I hurried up the stairs that led
                  unto my sleeping-room, and went quickly, too, for the night was what is generally
                  termed bitter cold. I will pass over all the trifling details that followed, and
                  simply state that, ere long, I was snug
                  under the clothes, gazing through the window at the pale moon, and noticing the
                  swiftly-driven, stormy-looking clouds. I felt, moreover, in very good spirits, and
                  as I lay there, ran over in my mind the principal occurrences of the evening; and
                  when I recollected any joke that had been uttered, I burst into a peal of
                  laughter, which sounded strangely in that large, dismal, retired room, lit only by
                  my flickering candle, which, for greater security, I had placed in the fireplace.
                  Yet nevertheless I heeded it not.
               I again heard the clock strike. It was the mystic hour of midnight! and as the
                  last stroke died away upon my ear, I heard the door below loudly shut.
               "What could have caused this?" thought I.
               Ah, perhaps it was but the work of the wind; and so thinking in that wise, and
                  also that it was high time I was asleep, I turned on my pillow and wooed gentle
                  slumber.
               Now comes the strange part of my narrative. As I was thus trying to sleep, "tramp!
                  tramp!" sounded on the wooden staircase, which opened my eyes wide enough; "tramp!
                  tramp!" continued the noise.
               "Halloa!" exclaimed I, inwardly, "what's that?"
               "Tramp! tramp!" and the stepping was so solemn, so measured in its time, and so
                  unearthly withal, that a slight sensation—very slight—let me state, reader, I
                  always am a courageous man—that a slight sensation of fear entered my breast.
               "What is it? who the devil can it be?"
               "Tramp! tramp!" was my only answer. The steps sounded close to my door; I heard
                  the knob turn and the door slowly open, when—I dove under the bedclothes!
               I heard the door shut.
               "Ah! it is gone!" for although, as I have already said, I am a very courageous
                  man, yet I had not seen what opened it. Do not smile, most fault-finding reader,
                  for you would have done the same, if you were in my situation; that is, if you had
                  seen the object that met my astonished eyes when I drew forth my head from beneath
                  the sheet, thinking it had gone; yes, I am strongly inclined to think you
                  would.
               There stood in front of my bed a man apparently about seven or eight feet in
                  height, as lean as a lamp-post, dressed entirely in red; red coat, red pants,
                  shoes, face, hair, cap, and feather, all of a vivid red; never did I see such a
                  sight before, and never wish to again. But his eyes! I had nearly forgotten to
                  mention them; they both looked different ways; one out of the right corner of the
                  lid, the other out of the left; and such eyes! they appeared of a still more
                  brilliant scarlet than his coat. He stood as upright as if (to use a common
                  expression) he had swallowed a ramrod, and then, raising his arm, beckoned to
                  me.
               Now, it is to this day my firm belief, that the wine I had taken that night must
                  have had an effect, for although, as I have said, I am a courageous man, still it
                  is surprising how I did muster enough to speak to him in the way I did.
               "What do you want?" exclaimed I, in a bold tone of voice; "who are you?"
               He beckoned again.
               "What the deuce do you want?" I asked, in a still more bold manner.
               The third time he beckoned.
               "Do you want me to get out of bed?"
               The strange person bowed his head.
               "Do you want me to go with you?"
               His head bowed once more.
               
               "Well," I replied, "just wait a moment, and in less than no time I will be
                  ready."
               And so I was. The door opened of its own accord, and he commenced descending the
                  stairs. I lingered at the door, which he perceived (how, I could not tell, for his
                  back was towards me), and turned slowly as if he had been a statue, and bringing
                  the focus of his eyes to bear upon me, exclaimed, in a deep, solemn, sepulchral
                  voice, 'Come!"
               I followed him without saying a word.
               He went down step by step with the same dull, heavy, measured tramp that I had
                  before heard (it was surprising none of the family heard it), till he came to the
                  front door, which, like the one up-stairs, opened of itself, and when we were out,
                  slammed with a tremendous force and noise.
               "Am I awake, asleep, alive, dead, in this world, or in the next?" I asked myself,
                  for notwithstanding my being a very courageous man, still I did not wish to get
                  the anger of the walking red man in front by repeating the words aloud, as I
                  rubbed my eyes and gazed upon him.
               "Who the dev—. Stop! May it not be his satanic majesty? Never thought of that;
                  think there was a sulphurous smell when he was in my room. Yes, yes, it must be;
                  it cannot be other than him."
               And so, after a short walk, we came to the river, where was a small boat, painted
                  also of a bright red. He motioned me to get in; so I sat down in the middle, while
                  he taking hold of the helm, we glided onwards without either sail or oars, to my
                  astonishment, and increasing in speed, skimmed swiftly the surface of the
                  river.
               Soon we emerged from the peaceful stream into the turbulent ocean, and as we
                  dashed onwards the land sank beneath the distant horizon, and on all sides nothing
                  was to be distinguished but sky and water; at one time we were tossed high upon
                  the angry waves, and at another sunk deep between them; and it seemed as if the
                  billows would overwhelm us with their fury, and dash in pieces our fragile bark.
                  Never shall I forget, as long as my life endures, the horrors of that night. As we
                  continued advancing, I felt the air grow more warm and pleasant. Dark,
                  leaden-colored clouds swiftly arose, and they covered the vault of heaven, and out
                  of them dashed vivid streaks of lightning dazzling the eye, and terrific thunder
                  accompanying. Mine was a horrible situation; alone, without friends or companions,
                  save the mysterious being dressed in red (who, seated in the stern, turned neither
                  to the right nor left, but kept a solemn silence), in the midst of the tumultuous
                  ocean, with thunderings around me, and my only ark a light little skiff, which by
                  an unknown cause advanced without any visible means.
               The storm passed, and all was tranquil.
               A light streak ran along the edge of the sky, meeting the water, and as I gazed
                  upon it, faint rays shot up towards the zenith, and soon the monarch of the day
                  arose in all his splendor, illuminating the vast expanse of water around us, and
                  cresting their waves with flashing silver. Before us I distinguished a faint line
                  of blue color, which I supposed was land; but what land? Where were we? In what
                  part of the world? For what purpose was I undertaking this perilous voyage? These
                  were questions I was unable to answer. We neared the land, which bore the
                  resemblance of an island, and I saw nothing but craggy rocks of brownish hue, with
                  here and there a few stunted trees,
                  looking like pines and firs, growing where sufficient earth could be found to
                  nourish them. Dreariness was upon all.
               Our boat lessened its speed, and gliding upon the stony beach left us high and
                  dry. I sprang out; my conductor, also following my example, led the way to a
                  crevice in the dark rock, which he entered, motioning me to come after. As I am a
                  curiosity-loving, as well as a courageous man, I obeyed his motion, and entered a
                  sort of grotto or chamber, at one end of which hung a curtain of black velvet.
               "Where am I?" I enquired of my silent conductor.
               "In the Chamber of Death," he replied solemnly.
               "What do you mean? explain yourself."
               "Be courageous and I will."
               "I am always so."
               "Sufficient; notice; be still."
               "Proceed for I am ready."
               Solemn music now rose faintly on my ear, and the deep swelling notes, as of an
                  organ, filled the grotto. It grew louder and increased in sweetness. I was
                  entranced with the melody, and forgot the place, the occasion, and the company in
                  which I was; I thought of nothing, and heard nothing but those sweet strains, and
                  while I listened a ray of dim light was discovered behind the curtain of black
                  velvet, and slowly it raised itself—but oh Heavens! I started with fear, and a
                  shivering passed through my veins! What a sight mine eyes beheld! In vain did I
                  withdraw them from contemplating it, but as the serpent with his sparkling eyes
                  fascinates the trembling bird, so did this object fascinate me.
               It was a picture.
               This painting represented a female both young and divinely formed, who vainly
                  struggled to free herself from the arms of a skeleton, who as he grasped her
                  voluptuous form, pressed his fleshless, eyeless skull on her soft cheek, now
                  blanched with terror. She was in an agony of horror. It also represented an 
                     apartnent
                     apartment
                   at night, the light burning through a crimson shade, diffusing a faint
                  tint of that color, standing on the richly carved mantel, and the female a short
                  distance from it, while in the foreground and setting off the back group, lay a
                  man whose countenance gave token of his being dead. It was painted in the most
                  life-like manner; and I imagined uselessly, what it could mean and why it was here
                  exhibited.
               "What means this that I see?" I asked.
               He placed his finger on his lips.
               I was silent.
               The mysterious picture on which my gaze was riveted, now seemed to grow larger,
                  and as it thus expanded the music died away gently. The figures thereon painted
                  increased in size, but such was the effect, that as I looked upon it, it appeared
                  as if I were glancing into a room, the frame being the boundary of the scene. The
                  representation enlarged so that it occupied the whole end of the grotto, and the
                  forms became the size of life, and all the furniture in the room, composed of
                  burnished gold, was as if in reality; and the door swung half open, to which the
                  phantom was dragging his victim, when to my increased astonishment they received
                  life, and as the spectre with powerful grasp receded towards the door, the woman
                  writhing in his horrible embrace, frantically clutched first this article, then
                  that, the better to stay her progress, while the most shrill and heart-rending
                  shrieks filled the place.
               
               "Gracious powers!" I exclaimed, clasping my hands to my ears, "what sights! what
                  sounds!"
               The shrieking stopped—the picture returned to its former dimensions—the black
                  curtain fell, hiding it from view—and I was alone with my silent guide.
               He broke the silence by thus speaking—
               "I have brought you here to see that picture."
               "For what purpose?"
               "There is a moral shown in that picture."
               "There may be for aught I know."
               "There is."
               "Tell it me."
               "Seat yourself then, for I have not long to stay."
               I did as he requested, and he commenced.
               "You saw the woman?"
               "I did."
               "You saw in whose gripe she was?"
               "Yes."
               "That being was once her husband; you saw the man lying in front?"
               "Yes; he appeared as if dead."
               "He was, that man was her second husband; she, to-together with him (he being in
                  love with her), poisoned her husband, and then they married."
               "And the scene before us?"
               "Represented the end of their wicked union. I could give you an account that would
                  make the very hair of your head rise with horror; I could tell you how she carried
                  on her secret wicked enterprise; how an extraordinary event occurred as they stood
                  before the minister at the altar; and how her first husband, rising from the
                  grave, punished her as she deserved."
               "Why do you not?"
               "Because my time is come, I had not expected it was so late, and must away;
                  shortly I will return."
               "What time?"
               "I am called."
               "Who calls you?"
               "Listen!"
               "I hear nothing," said I, after having done as he wished.
               "Hark! the knell!"
               And as he spoke I heard a faint stroke as if of a bell—far, far off, yet becoming
                  louder and still louder. The man in red folded his arms, and standing straight and
                  motionless, the ground opened and he sank from my sight. Meanwhile the echoes of
                  the stroke I heard, vibrated through the grotto and died away—a faint dizziness
                  overspread my eyes—I fell motionless to the ground, and when I again recovered
                  found I was lying on the sand of the sea shore, the mighty waves dashing their
                  briny spray over me, the rising sun shedding his glorious light above me, and
                  alone, for the red boat had disappeared.
               I arose, and tried to discover the opening through which we entered the chamber in
                  which I had seen the picture, but could not; I examined the rocks attentively but
                  could find no aperture of any kind. "Surely," cried I, "I am laboring under a
                  dream; but I am awake—where am I? what is the land on which I stand?" I was
                  enclosed on one side by the flashing ocean, while perpendicular rocks and jutting
                  crags formed the two other, making a sort of semi-circle. At last seeing that
                  either I must stay where I was and most likely starve to death, or clamber the
                  sides of the rock, I came to the resolution of doing the latter, and after some
                  time, and with considerable labor, accomplished plished my undertaking; but with hands sadly
                  blistered, and a tired, exhausted frame.
               I raised my eyes, and were the number of years I am to live immense, never would
                  the recollection of the enchanting prospect pass from my memory; it realized my
                  idea of fairy land, and my heart throbbed quick with delight as I regarded what
                  words can hardly describe, and what ought to be seen to be appreciated.
               I stood upon a sort of promontory, the surface of which was composed of stony
                  soil, covered with furze, and here and there a green plant and a wide-branched
                  bush; it gradually sloped to the level of the island, and was carpeted with green
                  grass, profusely sprinkled with crimson flowers of great beauty. As I stood upon
                  the highest ground, I noticed the blue waters entirely surrounding the island,
                  which was, I judged, about nine miles in circumference. Below lay spread out, in
                  all its beauty, a magnificent plain, abounding in graceful trees, and one or two
                  small sheets of water, which could hardly be called lakes. Clusters of trees
                  surrounded, while beyond lay the hills wrapped in magical tints, bounding the
                  picture, and the whole under a sky of the finest azure, dashed here and there with
                  feathery clouds, and a glorious sun pouring down his golden rays; but when I had
                  descended and walked along the plain, I saw beauties of which before I had no
                  conception; such superb flowers, impregnating the air with their delicious
                  fragrance! groves and rustic bowers, together with sparkling brooks and cool
                  grottoes; all appeared as if it was some fairy home, and I expected at every
                  instant to see light and graceful forms floating through the perfumed air, or
                  behold them dancing on the velvet-like grass.
               The whole day was spent in wandering about this enchanted island, at times resting
                  my tired limbs beside the purling brook, and ascending some height to view the
                  delightful scenery, which changed at every point; appeasing my hunger with the
                  delicious fruit hanging in tempting display from the trees, and my thirst by the
                  cool fluid of the numerous waterfalls, whose silvery voices were distinguished
                  issuing from the lovely groves, uniting in harmony with the songs of the birds,
                  and whose gushing, sparkling waters fell on rocks rendered green by plants and
                  moss. Every thing was bathed in loveliness.
               The day declined.
               The sun set beyond the waves in inexpressible splendor, and the different
                  magnificent hues in which the clouds were thrown, defy description. As night was
                  shrouding the earth with her sable garment, I sought for a place of rest, and
                  resolved to take my habitation in a high tree, up which I therefore clambered.
               The night passed, but before the sun had risen, I was startled by hearing beneath
                  me a hissing noise, and on casting my eye in that direction, what was my horror on
                  perceiving an immense snake, glaring at me with its brilliant black eyes! I felt
                  afraid, although I had been a courageous man, and held tightly to the branch,
                  fearing I might fall into its power; but my senses nearly forsook me as this
                  serpent commenced winding his superbly-colored body around the trunk of the tree,
                  and slowly rise. I saw his jaws, loaded with the deadly venom, open, and beheld
                  his forked tongue dart in and out with the rapidity of lightning; and the sight
                  thereof made me tremble. Still higher did he raise his swollen head, till it
                  rested on the branch I sat, his neck curving gracefully; and he neared me, with his eyes still glaring at
                  mine. Summoning my fleeting courage, I retreated to the end of the branch, which
                  bent with my weight, and caused the reptile for an instant to stop. Seeing in what
                  position matters now stood, I let myself down, still supported by my hands, and
                  commenced raising and depressing it, for the purpose of stopping his progress, and
                  to get an opportunity of escaping. I was ready for the spring, when on looking
                  down, to measure the distance, my eyes encountered those of an open-mouthed,
                  monstrous lion. There he crouched, calmly awaiting my descent, to make me his
                  prey; and there I hung, on The Bending Branch, in agony. The branch
                  bent quite low, my courage had entirely gone—I confess it—I gave a shriek, and
                  loosening my grasp, fell to the ground, crushing beneath me the fragile plants,
                  when the lion, with an awful roar, bounded forwards, and—I awoke, finding myself
                  lying on the floor of the apartment, having fallen from my bed during my sleep. I
                  heard the clock below strike, but could hardly believe it was right; I glanced at
                  my watch, and then to my surprise found it was precisely twelve!
            
            
               ZELL.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           Her tresses loose behind,
                           Play on her neck and wanton in the wind.
                           The rising blushes which her cheeks o'erspread
                           Are opening roses, in the lily's bed.—
                        
                     
                     GAY's Dione.
                     
                  
               
               
                  I.
                  THE MAIDEN
                  THE sun was setting in his incomparable majesty, while high upon a mountain
                     side sat a youth calmly regarding the magnificent spectacle. He was in
                     appearance handsome; and by the crook he held, an observer would come to the
                     conclusion that he was a shepherd, and not far from the truth would he be
                     either; and, moreover, he would be convinced in his idea, were his glance to be
                     extended; for at a short distance lay peaceably many sheep, and numerous lambs
                     gambolled about, whose fleeces vied in whiteness with the summit of the
                     snow-clad mountain, on whose side they frisked. Green was the dress of this
                     youth, and his wide-brimmed straw hat was encircled by a ribbon of the same
                     color; light hair fell on his shoulders, and the glow of health was on his
                     cheeks. What a fine subject was there for the artist! He might throw with much
                     effect those heavy masses of dark and pointed rocks in the foreground; in the
                     center place the lambs, and the green grass, with the youth reclining on the
                     moss-covered stone, together with
                     the little stream, sparkling as it meandered; and in the background he might
                     represent the whitened mountains, like pile of clouds on clouds of dazzling
                     hue; and last of all, he might cast over all these subjects the magical effects
                     of the setting sun.
                  Zell—the name of the youth—was, as we have already said, handsome; is it not,
                     then, probable that he should cause in the breasts of the country lasses a
                     feeling stronger than that of mere admiration? To tell the truth, he held
                     captive the hearts of more than half the fair ones in the neighborhood; but
                     still he had not given his away; in fact, he paid no attention whatever to all
                     their advances, but acted as if perfectly unaware of the sensation he created.
                     Now, perhaps this might seem strange, but here is the reason—he loved, nay
                     adored, even to distraction, a fair girl whom he had never seen, except in his
                     dreams (for Zell was a dreamer), in which he had beheld a pretty damsel, and
                     fell sadly in love, but when he awoke, discovered to his sorrow that she was
                     the mere creation of his brain. Still he fondly hoped some day his vision would
                     prove true—that it would be changed to a reality. The neighbors thought every
                     thing was not right with Zell; that he was foolish—somewhat insane; but we will
                     leave all this, and return to him, as he still remains seated on the rock.
                  Well, the sun went down, and beautiful were the tints in which he had steeped
                     the surrounding clouds, when Zell heaved a sigh. He arose, and at a distance
                     beheld an object, causing the blood to diffuse itself in a crimson glow over
                     his face; he started, also, as one would do on seeing an unexpected sight. What
                     could it have been that caused his emotion? What? Now that shall be my pleasure
                     to tell you, gentle reader; harken, I pray you. From behind a projecting crag
                     he beheld a female advance, but as he often saw his neighbors' daughters, and
                     none being remarkable for their beauty, he at first, supposing it to be one of
                     them, paid no attention; but then he thought this fair maiden did not look like
                     those, greatly appearing like the girl of his dream; she also came from behind
                     a rock, wore the same description of dress, the short skirt, long boddice,
                     waving hair, straw hat with floating pink ribbons, all were the same. Could
                     this be in reality that phantom? The more he looked, the more he felt sure it
                     was, and on her nearer approach, he noticed that she bore the most precise
                     resemblance.
                  "Good stranger," said she, in a most musical voice, "could you give me
                     direction where I might obtain food and rest, for I am both hungry and
                     weary?"
                  "Would you confide in me?" answered Zell, with downcast eyes and cheeks
                     rivalling in redness those of the damsel. "I possess a cottage near by where
                     you might rest, and if good white bread and goats' milk would suit you, they
                     are at your disposal."
                  "Nothing could be better," replied she, with the same sweet tones.
                  "Have you travelled far to-day?" asked Zell, gazing upon her with
                     admiration.
                  "I have."
                  "Indeed! and on foot?"
                  "Yes—on foot."
                  "How strange. Will you not, sweet stranger, give me the reason for thus
                     undertaking the journey?"
                  "I will tell you my history when I get to your cottage."
                  "Very well."
                  "Is it far distant?"
                  
                  "Oh no! it is quite near, and a short walk will bring us there."
                  Then Zell whistled to the dog, and the dog gathered together the flock, and
                     then they all wended their homeward way. First slowly walked the sheep, with
                     the lambs frisking, and the dog running hither and thither, and loudly barking,
                     then came the lovely maiden, resting her hand for support on Zell's shoulder,
                     who had his eyes rivetted on her beautiful features. Soon the cottage was
                     reached, and having seen his flock safe in their fold, he rejoined the fair
                     stranger, who was resting outside on a stone seat, bringing with him an earthen
                     vessel filled with the warm milk of the goats; and having brought forth a loaf
                     of bread, placed it beside her. She removed her hat, permitting the breeze
                     slowly to wave her luxuriant hair, and Zell thought she was far more beautiful
                     than the maiden of his dream.
                  "By what name, my guest, may you be called?" he asked.
                  "My name is Lucillia."
                  "Then, most beautiful Lucillia, give me, according to your promise, a history
                     of your life; if not the whole of it, at least as much as is necessary to
                     explain your appearance here."
                  "My life," replied she, breaking off a piece of the loaf and trying its merits,
                     "is nearly void of interest, but as you have expressed a wish to hear it, I
                     cannot refuse you."
                  Then she told him, that she was the daughter of a shepherd, who lived many many
                     miles distant, and that having taken, when young, a great taste for that
                     species of occupation, had, when older, become a shepherdess. A youth saw her,
                     and fell deeply in love, and his passion was returned turned, and all would
                     have proceeded quite well, had it not been that her father was prejudiced
                     against the young man, and forbade the marriage; but what could not be obtained
                     by one way the lovers determined to obtain by another, and after stolen
                     interviews, one night came to the conclusion of eloping, and also determined
                     that the occurrence should take place the very next morning. The time came, and
                     the lovers were at the designated place, when the father discovered the affair
                     and determined to put an end to it; but they felt inclined to oppose his
                     purpose, and off they went. The steeds were soon swift advancing towards the
                     next village, where resided the person who was to perform the ceremony. On they
                     went, and on too came the angry parent, riding a swift-footed animal. Their
                     horses were driven to the utmost, and they congratulated themselves that all
                     would be successful, when as they whipped on their beasts, the father
                     discharged a firearm, bringing her lover's horse to the ground, and thereby, as
                     a matter of course, impeding his progress; but she, in the place of stopping,
                     gave full rein to her steed, hoping to escape, and very well knowing that if
                     she could do so, there was hardly a doubt but that she would ere long be
                     rejoined by her fallen friend. She did escape—the horse of her father also
                     meeting so severe an accident that he was disabled from proceeding—and after a
                     hard ride, arrived more dead than alive at the village, in which she knew not a
                     single person. She there learned that the person to whose house she was going,
                     had shortly before moved to the next hamlet, to which she directed her horse,
                     who was so tired that soon afterwards he fell exhausted, and she was obliged to
                     journey on foot. Having walked for many hours, and moreover perceiving Zell,
                        as he was viewing the setting
                     sun, she determined to ask him for help; and thus ended her history.
                  Lucillia having finished her narrative, silence ensued. Zell thought the story
                     probable enough, but some things rather perplexed him; for if she had undergone
                     the ride, and the adventures spoken of as having occurred that morning, was it
                     not likely her countenance would still bear some marks of excitement? But no
                     summer morn was ever more serene. If she had walked so far, her clothes would
                     have been dusty; if she were a shepherdess, her hands and her face would be
                     somewhat browned; but far otherwise was every thing. Her dress was as clean as
                     possible, her face and her hands were remarkable for their whiteness; and
                     moreover, if she were so exceedingly hungry, her present conduct contradicted
                     her words, for sparingly partook she of the humble repast.
                  We now skip onwards.
                  Zell and Lucillia became man and wife.
               
               
                  II.
                  STRANGE CONDUCT.
                  IF before, the neighbors thought Zell's conduct strange, how much more were
                     they surprised now; for at present he was seen to walk as if accompanied, and
                     to speak aloud, and bow as if to some person, and yet no person was visible;
                     his unheeded flock wandered at pleasure, and all the shepherd's time was spent
                     in walking about, and holding conversations with some imaginary person.
               
               
                  III.
                  THE MIDNIGHT SCENE.
                  TIME elapsed, and the cold autumnal evenings came. It was night, and the moon
                     showed how fast the skud was flying, and the roaring forest told how furiously
                     the wind was rushing through their leafless branches. Cold was the night, and
                     the door shook in its casement, and the windows rattled, and the wind whistled
                     with a roaring sound through the cracks and the keyholes, when Zell heard his
                     wife arise, and by the feeble light of a pine-knot gleaming in the fireplace,
                     saw that she was already dressed; a shawl was thrown over her head and drawn
                     around her form, and she held in her arms her yet young child. She opened the
                     door, and shuddered as the gust swept over her; yet summoning courage, passed
                     out.
                  "For what cause," murmured Zell, "can she thus leave the house, and during such
                     a time? The very idea of the wind and the cold is enough to freeze one's blood,
                     and why should she take the child?"
                  So he arose, dressed, and followed with such haste, that he caught a glimpse of
                     her waving dress in the distance. On he hastened, and was soon treading in her
                     very steps, but yet not so near as to be discerned, for that was not what he
                     wished; but he was very desirous to learn the cause of her departure. From one
                     path she went to another, and at last descended rather a rocky way, till,
                     arriving at a ravine, she stopped in one corner.
                  Zell crouched behind a crag, so as to be a witness, should any scene occur.
                     Lucillia drew forth a tinder-box, and with much trouble succeeded in setting
                     fire to a pile of dried leaves and
                     sticks which she had hastily collected. Throwing some substance upon them, and
                     uttering some words, they instantly flared up in a vivid flame, and as
                     instantaneously the air was filled with howlings and terrific screamings. At
                     first Zell wondered whence they came, but his astonishment was increased when
                     he beheld imps of every form imaginable, who were merry, or sorrowful, or
                     angry, or horrible, intermixed with witches, demons, and devils, who were
                     crouched or seated on the backs of loathsome toads, spiders, and other
                     reptiles, swollen to a gigantic size—they all formed an immense crescent before
                     the enchantress. Silence was upon every thing.
                  The fire now commenced dying, when suddenly a sound, resembling the stroke
                     given a mighty gong by the arm of a giant, broke the temporary quietness. The
                     motley group gave one long, shrill scream, and the fire also blazed brightly,
                     and then died. Again the same scene occurred, and so on till the crashing noise
                     was heard twelve times.
                  It was midnight.
                  Lucillia now applied a pinch of a certain powder on the red embers, and a
                     purple flame cast a hue of the same color on the myriads of grotesque features,
                     and then kneeling, cried thrice upon the name of Satan, each time being
                     chorussed by the company. The earth in the center of the crescent became
                     troubled, and broke, as if under the influence of an earthquake; divers flames
                     jetted forth with a whistling noise; strong sulphurous fumes abounded, and in
                     the midst of all arose a dragon with bright green scales. out of whose mouth
                     rolled flames of living fire, and on whose back sat a being terrible to
                     behold—a fiend, with a scepter of adamant, and fearful eyes. Tremendous were
                     the cries with which he was greeted, and still more did they increase in
                     loudness when Lucillia advanced, and kneeling, presented the being with the
                     child; but, before he could take it, Zell sprang forth, and shrieked rather
                     than spoke:
                  "Lucillia, stop in the name of God!" at the mention of which sacred name the
                     fiend vanished, and the ground opening, swallowed the dragon, its rider, the
                     child, and Lucillia, who, with outspread arms, called upon her husband.
                  Zell was astounded at the sight, and rushing like one that is mad to his home,
                     was about to end his days, when he beheld a sheet of paper lying on the floor.
                     Picking it up, he found it was written by his lost one, and read as
                     follows:
                  "Zell—Zell, pity me; pardon me. I am drawn on by Fate. In vain do I try to
                     swerve from my destiny, but alas! it is impossible. Fearing that evil may grow
                     out of the ceremony I am about to perform, I write these lines that you may
                     become aware of my misfortunes, and pity me for them. Zell, know that I am
                     Lenora, your neighbor's daughter. Start not, I beseech you. I was not possessed
                     of beauty, but I loved you, aye, adored you, but knew not how to become your
                     wife, which was my most ardent wish, for I knew too well that you would espouse
                     none but those that were blessed with the gift I had not, so I began to
                     despair. One afternoon, when I was wandering on my way, an aged man on a sudden
                     stood before me. His eyes were frightfully piercing. Without any prelude he
                     said, 'You wish to become the wife of Zell.' I 
                        acknowleged
                        acknowledged
                      I did. 'Then what would you give me, if I should bring that event to
                     pass?' 'In what manner?' 'By endowing you with great beauty.' 'I will give you all I have.' 'Will you give me
                     your first-born child?' In the excitement of the moment I agreed to the awful
                     contract. The rest you know."
               
               
                  IV.
                  DEATH.
                  ZELL, the next day, did not make his appearance, neither did he the next, or
                     the next, which excited the curiosity of the neighbors; they feared something
                     was wrong, and went to his habitation, and found the poor youth lying dead upon
                     the floor, grasping a blank piece of paper.
               
            
            
               OPIUM.
               
                  I.
                  BLISS.
                  OFTEN had I read of the drug opium, but the first time I ever perused an
                     account of the effects produced on the human system by its use, was during a
                     dark, rainy, dismal day. At such a time one does not feel disposed to leave the
                     walls of his house, but, if one be within his reach, obtains a book, and
                     settles himself for a long rest. With this view I entered the library of my
                     uncle and sought among his well-filled shelves for something to occupy my
                     leisure hours; there were books enough, it is true, to have satisfied a
                     regiment of readers, and the selection was thus made more difficult; but while
                     listlessly running over the names on the backs, I read one which attracted
                     especial notice. It treated of opium. It showed its effects upon the human
                     system. I was soon buried in the deep recess of the window, far gone in the
                     perusal of the uncommonly well written book, and to tell the truth, I now
                     longed anxiously to try the drug and see whether upon myself it would have the
                     effects described in the volume. I thought, however, long upon the dangers
                     attending its use; how a person's constitution would be greatly impaired, his
                     nervous system considerably shattered, and how, after a first trial, it was so
                     difficult to give up its frequent use, and at last, how a person son would meet a premature old age and grave;
                     but I cared not much for these reasonings, my wish was to try the experiment,
                     which I firmly resolved should not be repeated; so I bought the opium, and that
                     night, when at the tea-table, managed, unperceived by the rest of the family,
                     to slip the drug, which I had separated into as fine particles as possible that
                     it might the sooner dissolve, into my cup, stirred it up well, and then drank
                     it off quickly; a grain or two remained in the bottom, which I removed with my
                     finger.
                  The deed had been accomplished and all to be feared was the result. I had read
                     that the effects were quick when taken in small doses, and nearly instantaneous
                     when taken in larger quantities; mine was neither large nor small, but quite
                     enough for one who had never before seen the article; if the effects were swift
                     in following, it would not answer to let the family see my conduct when under
                     its power, therefore I pleaded indisposition and retired to my room, leaving
                     them to understand I should not again make my appearance that evening.
                  My apartment was situated in a distant part of the building, and as I ascended
                     the staircases leading thereto, I felt enlivened and merry. I cannot well
                     describe the sensation, but it was of a kind I never before experienced, and I
                     knew my dose was taking effect; so I shaded my flickering candle with my hand
                     and rushed along, for I would not on any account be left in the dark,
                     considering my present state, and I was also anxious to be safe within my room
                     before totally under the power of the drug. In accordance with my quickness of
                     speed, the inexpressible sensation increased, and I entered my chamber, placed
                     the light upon the mantel, locked and laid aside the key of the door, that I
                     might not be tempted to rush forth in the delirium which I had good reason to
                     suppose would follow, and sat upon my bed in a perfectly enchanting state of
                     mind.
                  I felt a thrill of delight stealing through my veins: my heart bounded quickly
                     as though it would break forth; my eyes I have no doubt shone with great
                     lustre—for I was fearful to consult the glass—and altogether I felt in a
                     blissful mood. I grasped at the air in my delirium, and laughed merrily, acting
                     as one bereft of reason. My eyes then became fastened on the flame of my
                     candle; I knew not how it was that I could not withdraw them, as I tried
                     unsuccessfully, but they received not the least dazzle, for the light appeared
                     as though far distant—now, indeed, the opium began to work.
                  The flame of the candle increased tenfold in splendor and in size, and there
                     appeared numbers of them, myriads upon myriads of sparkling jets of light, and
                     crystal drops shone magnificently, and golden chains appeared upon and around
                     about the same, while the whole chandelier mounted on high, being suspended
                     from the ceiling of the room, which also expanded to a great extent. I shut my
                     eyes for an instant, as one would do when an object is beheld which he imagines
                     is not real, and expecting, when he reopens them, the object would have
                     disappeared. Thus it was with me; when I saw the chandelier mounting, and the
                     room increasing in size, I closed my eyes for an instant, so that when they
                     were reopened, I might see whether the thing did in reality exist, but when I
                     did open them, I started back in amazement, for—
                  I saw before me an immense circular hall with a dome, from which hung in all
                     its brilliancy the already noticed chandelier, with its flaming jets and
                     sparkling crystals. The dome was in
                     color azure, studded with innumerable golden stars, that received fresh lustre
                     from the flood of light beneath; pillars of beautiful workmanship supported it,
                     glistening with the hues of the rainbow, the capitals exceeding in execution
                     and brilliancy of coloring any thing I had yet seen. Between these columns,
                     from the snowy marble floor to the dome, were plates of looking-glass,
                     presenting innumerable reflections of the ravishing scene.
                  In the forepart of this place appeared a throne surmounted by a canopy
                     inexpressibly magnificent; the art of man could never produce its equal, for it
                     seemed radiant with precious metals, and precious stones were in profusion; it
                     being one glitter of gold and silver, and rubies and emeralds, while showers of
                     sparkling light, here and there, led me to suppose they proceeded from
                     innumerable clusters of diamonds. On either side of this throne rested
                     pedestals of rare beauty, and on them stood specimens of female
                     loveliness—living beings dressed in robes of sheen, each holding in an uplifted
                     hand the end of a thick string of roses, which ascended to the top of the
                     canopy. The exquisite fragrance of flowers spread over the apartment, and I was
                     bewildered with viewing these enchanting things.
                  The throne was vacant.
                  Suddenly distant strains of music were heard, which came nearer and increased
                     in sweetness; then sprang forth on either side of the throne a number of
                     females, with diamonds encircling their waists and confining their soft
                     dresses, who commenced a most beautiful dance, joining their voices in charming
                     melody. Advancing towards me, they formed a vast ring, and briskly moved around
                     and around, till I was perfectly giddy in viewing so much beauty. Disengaging,
                     they laded me with the flowers they bore, and some, seizing me by the hands,
                     led me towards the throne, while the rest strewed flowers in my path. I
                     ascended the steps and sat upon the gorgeous seat, and then the females with
                     one accord kneeled before me, and those on the pedestals slowly waved the
                     strings of flowers—the air was impregnated with the fragrance, and as the music
                     gushed in rich melody, they joined in the cry of "Hail to our King!"
               
               
                  II.
                  FEAR.
                  A CLAP of thunder followed; there was a crash as if millions of gongs were
                     struck at the same time; the columns tottered and fell with tremendous noise;
                     the chandelier whirled fearfully through the air and sank on the pavement; the
                     ladies were changed to demons and fled howling, and the music gave place to
                     cries as if of the damned.
               
               
                  III.
                  AGONY
                  I WAS in the centre of space. I could for a moment see nothing, for darkness
                     was upon all; but by degrees I noticed my situation, as if in the interior of
                     an exceedingly spacious globe—in the centre of void—alone. A deadly fear seized
                     hold upon me, I grew giddy; I trembled throughout my frame, and commenced
                     slowly ascending to a great height,
                     and then as slowly descended. This was repeated many times, each flight being
                     quicker than the one preceding, till at last I shot up and down with the
                     swiftness of an arrow, and shrieking in agony, insensibility followed.
               
               
                  IV.
                  REPENTANCE.
                  I WAS lying on the floor of my chamber, oppressed with a most violent headache,
                     and my body racked with pains. The room was lightened, the candle had expired
                     in the socket, but through the windows poured the beams of the morning sun.
                     That experiment cured me entirely, for from that time I have never touched the
                     drug, and always recollect with horror my vision (the joy of the forepart of
                     which was forgotten in the terrors of the last) when I was so foolish as to
                     become an OPIUM EATER.
               
            
            
               MY LAST WALTZ.
               I ALWAYS have been passionately fond of the dance. From early boyhood I have
                  delighted in seeing persons pass through the mazes of the giddy waltz, and have
                  also as much delighted in passing through them myself. I am an advocate for
                  amusements of that description, and think that those who cry them down are
                  entirely in the wrong. We have Bible testimony as to the propriety of dancing, and
                  if one wishes for better authority than that, he will search long before he meets
                  it. Yes, dancing is an innocent and healthy amusement. Mind, things are often
                  carried into excess; too often. I am not speaking of this amusement in that wise;
                  but I mean, considering it to be performed with moderation. Dance, dance, dance,
                  say I; all the better for it; it will shake off your drowsiness; it will make your
                  blood chase from and return to your heart with redoubled life and quickness. Yes,
                  dance by all means, but if possible with the prettiest woman you can find; not
                  girls; I eschew girls, when the more old of the "porcelain of society," as Dryden
                  has it, can be obtained. If you find it impossible to find a pretty one, take an
                  ugly woman; if you cannot get any of the fair sex, why—then dance by yourself.
               I admire dancing—am fond of dancing—speak of it with pleasure—think of it with
                  delight—and practice it where-ever I can get a chance. I am not particular whether
                     the music is super-excellent, or
                  not, as long as they keep in time and tune, and am at times heedless whether my
                  partner is so handsome as to make the rocks dance with joy at beholding her, so
                  long as she has animation in her. I am also somewhat of a traveller, too—been from
                  the arctic to the antarctic circle, in both hemispheres, and have undergone perils
                  innumerable, both by land and by sea, simply to satisfy my passion for dancing,
                  for I delight in moving in the different national dances with the people of
                  different nations. I have danced every sort of movement, from the fandango of the
                  Spaniard to the Virginia break-down with the negroes in the South; every
                  thing—every thing have I tried; and let me tell you, I have so much delight in
                  these my wanderings and dancings, that were I to write an account of them, and
                  express to the reader all my adventures, he would set them down as the creations
                  of the brain, and myself as a scribbler—a scribbler whose word could not be relied
                  upon.
               But I have done with waltzing. No more will I face a partner and with my arm
                  encircling her waist, will dash off and whirl around to the sound of music. No; I
                  have done with waltzing. That was the favorite of all my pastimes. O, what
                  pleasure there is in it! Tell me of the waltzer who says there is not. The subject
                  of my present sketch will be an account of the event that transpired, which caused
                  me to abandon that recreation. I feel sure—in fact, I am sure—that the reader will
                  not believe it. I cannot help that, however. It is incredible, I will agree—vastly
                  astonishing; but how runs the proverb relating to truth? is it not to the effect,
                  that it is as strange, if not stranger than fiction? This is the case with my
                  narrative; it is stranger than fiction. Though bordering on the marvellous
                  vellous, I will take good heed, while penning it, that my pen does not wander from
                  the straight path of truth; but a truce to this preluding.
               I was a stranger in the city; I had only arrived in the morning; and being
                  notified that a ball would take place that evening, had determined to go; and so
                  taking from my trunk my full dress, accoutred myself, and at the right hour
                  started from my hotel, for the building in which was to take place the
                  merry-making. On my route, I fell in with an old friend, who passing his arm
                  within mine, walked me off to his room, as he said owing to the long time that had
                  elapsed since he had seen me, he wished to have a little talk, and then he would
                  whiff a few Havanas, and break a bottle-neck for my accommodation. It was in vain
                  I told him I would pay him a visit the next evening, and stay as long as he
                  wished, smoke up all his Havanas, and break all the bottles he could produce, but
                  that at present I had an engagement that it was almost impossible for me to break,
                  and that I must attend; he would not take a negative answer, but firing off a
                  dozen bon-mots in succession, quite overpowered me by his flash of speech, and
                  yielding, I was carried to his room, where we indeed had a right jolly time; but I
                  was extremely careful not to crack too many bottles, for I intended, after my
                  visit, to go to the ball, no matter what might be the time; I had that morning
                  purchased the ticket, and not caring to lose my money, also did not greatly desire
                  to lose the pleasure of mingling in the quadrille and the delicious waltz, the
                  dances I am most partial to, as I think I have before observed. My friend amused
                  me in his usual manner, his stock of anecdotes appeared inexhaustible, and his
                  tales were in number many. We had passed a right joyous ous time, and it was within a moment of midnight,
                  when I took my departure for the ball-room. When I arrived, all was life and
                  animation, the musicians were discoursing excellent melody, and there were plenty
                  of couples already engaged on the floor. I looked around to see if there was any
                  one present with whom I was acquainted, and who could introduce me to a partner,
                  for the next set. I made the tour of the room, and returned to my starting place
                  unsuccessful. The Master of Ceremonies, I noticed, was engaged in one of the sets,
                  he having performed his duty of providing partners, and therefore I was left to
                  search one myself. I had, during my ramble, discovered one solitary female, who
                  appeared like Patience, when on the tombstone, smiling at Grief; and though I
                  passionately loved the dance, yet I almost determined to forego the pleasure,
                  rather than ask her, for she was not only plain, but, in good English, she was
                  extremely ugly. I do not admire ugly ladies.
               The quadrille had by this time ceased, and therefore I was very anxious to see the
                  Master of Ceremonies, for him to select for me a partner; but though I used my
                  greatest agility in transporting myself to that portion of the room in which I had
                  seen him engaged in dancing, yet I had not arrived as soon as some others, and I
                  found him already engaged in making introductions, etc. Good fortune at last
                  favored me, and I had the pleasure of speaking to the all-important person, when
                  he told me that unfortunately I was late, for he had provided for every lady in
                  the room that wished to dance, and he must beg me to possess myself with patience
                  till the next commenced. I was angry and disappointed. I went away in somewhat of
                  a pet, and again my eyes fell upon the ugly woman I have before mentioned, who was
                  gazing over the gay company assembled, with anxiety and some despair; it seems no
                  one had yet invited her, and she imagined, so I suspected, that her chances for
                  sitting there the whole evening were greater than those of leaving. As she beheld
                  me approaching her eyes lightened, and her lips took the form as if expressing the
                  affirmative monosyllable, but as I struck off in a tangent, a side glance made me
                  aware of the melancholy picture her features presented. And again I made the
                  circuit of the room and did not see one female that I thought was not engaged. It
                  appeared to me precisely as if every one came provided with a partner. I never saw
                  a more even number of the sexes, and every one was laughing and chatting with her
                  companion, so I saw no hope of my figuring in that set. I never swear; but if I
                  was at all inclined to that pernicious and absurd habit, I have no doubt the lamps
                  and candles would have burned blue and gone out. I was really and truly angry and
                  disappointed. I had come for the express purpose of dancing, and saw no
                  possibility of my doing so. On went the cotillion. I am a man of strong passions,
                  and my vexation was so strong that could I have obtained drink of like quality, I
                  would have got drunk. In time the quadrille ceased, and I praised the Lord. On my
                  programme I noticed that the next in succession would be a waltz. By 
                     Geogre
                     George
                  ! cried I to myself, I will waltz if I have to do so with the hourie whom
                  I have more than once noticed. Do not let me have the trouble of repeating again
                  my vexations attending my search for a partner, my unsuccessful search; really
                  there never did exist a more unfortunate person than myself; the company was
                  complete, with the single exception of one too many, and that one was myself—every
                  one had a partner save myself—I was an odd one—no pun, upon my soul, reader— but hold! what am I thinking about, how
                  can I say the company would be complete without myself, for where was the
                  enchantingly, lovely, superb, magnificent, deucedly ugly woman I have before
                  mentioned. Heaven be praised for the skill shown in making her ugly; ye gods! was
                  there ever any thing more ugly. No! no! there could not be; it would be an utter
                  impossibility for the mind of man to conceive her superior in that respect. Ugly
                  in form, ugly in feature, and ugly I expected in movement. I am one who believes
                  that whatever occurs is by the Supreme Being foreordained. Now I firmly believe
                  that this enemy to beauty was ordained to be my partner in the waltz which, as has
                  been seen, was to be the next in succession. I could not help it; I would have
                  been more pleased had she been rather more good-looking; but I must resign myself
                  to my fate. I was determined to dance with her; I felt no fears whatever of a
                  refusal, for I knew she was in the same case as myself, and would be but too happy
                  to have me for a partner. I flatter myself on my good looks and my skill in dress;
                  I felt sure that I could bring her "squintefego" eyes—that word is from Dryden, do
                  not suppose that I manufactured it for the occasion—to bear upon me in pleasure;
                  and besides, I wished to let my figure be seen, for I know precisely the case with
                  women in general, and I felt certain that my lovely (!) partner would bring me
                  into notice, and afterwards I would have some chance of selecting one more
                  interesting.
               I went as straight as an arrow flies, to the "fair one with golden"-hued frock
                  with scarlet sash, short skirt, low neck and no sleeves—and—but there was not the
                  slightest use in my receiving the aid of a master of ceremonies, as I could
                  introduce myself—but then I did not even see the necessity of that; as long as she
                  could dance she would not stand about the name of her partner, and I imagine would
                  not care whether he had one or not; and so that I could "trip the light fantastic
                  toe" I cared as much; we would be both satisfied. The lady, when her eyes
                  encountered my worthy self again proceeding towards her, opened her mouth,
                  intending, I supposed, to smile, but Heaven save the sight—what a smile she gave
                  me!—there was one benefit resulting from it however, I was satisfied on one point
                  that I had my doubts of; her teeth were as even and as pearly-hued as was the rest
                  of her person, moulded in beauty's form—she was the ne
                     plus ultra of ugly women. I stood before her, made a bow, and
                  received a salutation of the head, and as if in modesty, she cast down her eyes,
                  and her long wiry yellowish hair fell over her face, simply permitting a hooked
                  roseate-tinted nose to be seen. I again flattered myself on the choice—but it was
                  no choice I had made.
               "Madame," said I.
               "Miss, if you please, sir," was my reply.
               "—hem!" said I.
               I'll take my—affirmation that the Miss sighed. I dodged the bolt, which flew
                  straight towards a young lady standing ten feet off, who thinking it came from her
                  beau, sighed in return, and I beheld the impudent fellow who was beside her and
                  heard the sound, tenderly press her hand, which brought colors to the young lady's
                  cheek, so that it rivaled the dahlia in redness.
               "Miss," said I.
               "Sir," said she again.
               "Engaged?"
               She blushed.
               
               "—for the waltz?"
               The blush departed.
               "No, sir."
               "Be my partner?"
               "Yes, sir."
               "I am ready."
               In an instant she was upon her feet. That was what I call doing business as it
                  ought to be done; no standing about introductions, etc. but just toe the mark, ask
                  the young lady, and if she reply in the affirmative or negative all very well.
               The waltzing commenced. Away bounded one—two—five—ten couples. There was a very
                  large circle made in which they performed, while those not engaged pressed around
                  looking on. I made my way with my adorable to the edge of the enchanted circle,
                  and at a sign away we went. For a moment there was, with the exception of the
                  music, a dead silence, and then a titter arose. I did not change in color nor did
                  I waver in my movements; I whirled around just as freely as I could, and looking
                  to see whether my partner enjoyed the "applause," noticed that she seemed to care
                  as much about it as myself. For myself I expected the laughter, and being prepared
                  for it did not pay to it any attention. I found a great deal to laugh at in my
                  partner, her long and bony arms were partially hidden by a very thin gauze, and
                  her frock was so short as to exhibit some distance above a pair of red silk shoes,
                  but the shape of her limbs was hidden by pantalettes with lace two inches wide.
                  When she moved in the waltz it really appeared as if she had no knees, for her
                  steps were short and jerking, and her long yellow-colored curls stood out in
                  horizontal glory, while in a smile her mouth extended from ear to ear. The music,
                  however, was sweet; the gaze of all quite pleasing, and I cared not two straws
                  whether we were laughed at or not.
               "Sir!" said she, when we had made half a dozen rounds.
               "Well?"
               "Can you go quicker?"
               I looked at her with astonishment. She had already commenced to puff most
                  lamentably, and I thought I would have to stop on her account; and now to think of
                  going more swift!
               "Certainly," replied I.
               We had made another circuit, when still, as we were dashing around, she
                  observed:
               "Sir!"
               "Well?"
               "Will you go more quick?"
               "Certainly."
               Our speed was increased. All looked at us with amazement; none others were
                  waltzing save us. I thought my partner did not appear so tormented with loss of
                  breath as formerly; but as for myself, I always pride myself on my length of
                  waltzing; I have never yet seen the woman who could tire me. I felt desirous of
                  seeing whether this one would conquer or yield.
               "Sir!" said she, for the third time.
               "Well?"
               "Will you go more quick?"
               "Aye, just as fast as you wish; like lightning, if you so desire."
               No sooner had I thus spoken, than she sprang forth with redoubled energy; her
                  stiffness of movement disappeared, and in an instant she was changed to a woman
                  whose beauty rivalled the sun in magnificence, and of whose praise no mortal tongue could do justice. The
                  yellow curls were transformed to auburn tresses, and her dress was changed into
                  texture such as fairies might decorate themselves with, and such another being it
                  were in vain to hope to see. Her soft and divinely-moulded arm was laid upon my
                  shoulder, while her small fingers reposed in my hand; her face was all smiles, and
                  her breath was like the breezes that blow with softness over the island of lovely
                  Ceylon. My arm encircled her slender waist, and our bodies met in tight embrace;
                  while around, and around, and around we flew with brain-exciting swiftness. All
                  was surprise and admiration. The circle was increased in size, and we passed
                  quickly around its borders, while the dress of my fair one floatingly, swept back
                  those nearest, till we had most of the room, and then, as the music (deliciously
                  beautiful) played yet more quickly than ever, we flew whirling around.
               My brain was on fire. I was tightly held. Her soft hair at times fell upon my
                  shoulder. Then she spake.
               "Let us depart," she cried.
               Suddenly, the end of the room disappeared, and in its place appeared a long
                  avenue, on either side of which fantastic arches sprung, joining overhead, and
                  painted of the most gorgeous hues, and jewelled, so that by the lights of
                  different colors that hung between each, it had a most novel and enchanting
                  effect. When we passed the room, the walls closed, and I was lost; I knew not
                  where I was, but that I was in the arms of a being to whom the fairest of Eve's
                  daughters was not equal, and we dashing swiftly down a most beautiful avenue, to
                  the sound of celestial music, lit by gorgeous lights, and nearly over-powered by
                  the fragrance of the flowers that clustered in abundance and rich confusion on
                  either side.
            
            
               THE VIOLINIST OF TOLEDO.
               
                  I.
                  HOW GERONIMO ARRIVED AT THE HOUSE OF DON LEVIDONO.
                  IN one of the most ancient cities of Spain, Toledo, there might have been seen
                     in the year 1625 a mansion built of stone, that had evidently seen its best
                     days. The upper part of this edifice seemed deserted, judging from the windows,
                     which were never opened by day, and from which at night no light was seen
                     proceeding; but the lower part was occupied by an old man and his still older
                     wife, living there together alone, completely retired from the world.
                  It was during the early part of an evening, when the old man, dressed in a
                     dingy brown doublet, pushed open the front door, and entering the room, which
                     served as bedroom as well as sitting and dining apartment and kitchen, laid on
                     a table a small basket containing the provisions he had bought; then perceiving
                     his wife to have the air of one possessing news, he inquired of her what had
                     occurred during the day.
                  "Shortly after you left me," was her reply, "a young man, having quite a sedate
                     appearance, called, wishing to know if he could be accommodated with lodgings,
                     and stating that he himself would furnish his provisions."
                  "And what did you tell him?" asked the old man, thrusting his hands in his
                     pockets, and gazing quietly at her.
                  
                  "That he might," replied the old lady.
                  "You did right," answered he, shaking his pockets, for the purpose of hearing
                     the money jingle, but no jingling being apparent, he continued, "Did you fix
                     upon the price of board?"
                  "No, for I thought you could manage that when he comes."
                  "And when will that be?"
                  "Soon; but here he is himself;" and as she spake the door moved slowly, giving
                     entrance to a tall, though rather thin young man, with a melancholy aspect.
                  "What have you done, Estefana?" said the old man, in a quick whisper.
                  "What do you mean?" answered she.
                  "Why, you have brought hither a person with the devil's countenance."
                  And, in fact, he came near the mark in thus expressing his ideas relative to
                     the young man, for the black hair of the guest, streaming beneath his peaked
                     sombrero ornamented with the sable plume, his eyebrows greatly arched, his
                     glaring eyes, and his long beard and mustaches, together with the suit of black
                     in which he was clothed, tended to make him as much a fearful subject of
                     contemplation as he was unprepossessing in appearance.
                  "Is this Don Levidono?" said he, addressing Estefana, and indicating him with
                     his pale, thin hand.
                  "It is, señor," replied she, dropping him a courtesy.
                  "Accept, then," he exclaimed, addressing with a low bow the astonished old man,
                     "my most hearty wishes for your welfare."
                  "And to whom have I the honor of addressing myself?" answered he, returning the
                     salutation.
                  "I am called Geronimo."
                  "And so, Señor Geronimo, I understand by my wife that we are to have the
                     pleasure of your presence as a boarder?"
                  "Yes, señor, although it may be you will see but little of me."
                  "How do you mean? Explain yourself."
                  "I meant, se or, what I said, that you would see but little of me, for that
                     article," pointing to an object in the corner, "will take nearly, if not all,
                     my time."
                  "And pray, what may that object be?" asked Don Levidono, who for the first time
                     perceived a long oblong-shaped box resting against the wall by the door, and
                     which the young man had brought with him.
                  "It is my violin," he replied.
                  "Your violin!" exclaimed the aged couple together.
                  Geronimo nodded his head.
                  "And can you play on it?"
                  "Yes, I am what people term an enthusiast; in fact, it is my only pleasure.
                     From a child I have taken a great fancy for the instrument, and even then used
                     to get a couple of sticks and imitate the playing thereof."
                  "Quite a curious idea that," remarked Estefana.
                  "Then you ought to perform, I think, pretty well on it by this time," added her
                     husband.
                  "I do not like to be vain, but I have been told my execution is very good."
                  "Then," said Estefana, "I suppose, since we will not hear your voice—"
                  "We will hear," interrupted her husband, "the voice of your violin."
                  
                  "Precisely," remarked the young man, smiling. And a silence followed.
                  "Estefana," said the old cavalier, "have you yet pre pared the room for Señor
                     Geronimo?"
                  "I have not, but if you will accompany him up stairs, we can soon put it in
                     order."
                  "Very well, lead on," said he, taking up the iron lamp, and handing it to her;
                     "we will follow."
                  "One instant, if you please," said the young man; "I believe you have not
                     fastened the door."
                  "I know that is the case, but there being no robbers about, I did not see the
                     use of so doing, and, besides, there is nothing to steal."
                  "You forget, señor, there is one thing," pointing to the violin
                     case.
                  "Oh, yes, I did forget," answered he, shrugging his shoulders, and winking at
                     his wife, as the youth shot the bolts of the heavy door. Having performed that
                     operation, he said:
                  "You may, perhaps, think it strange, my good people, that I should take such
                     care of my violin, but if you only knew how attached I am to it, no longer
                     would it appear so. Now, if you please, I will accompany you."
               
               
                  II.
                  HOW GERONIMO PLAYED ON HIS VIOLIN.
                  GERONIMO soon got established in his new home, and his hosts found his saying
                     proved true, for they saw him but twice a day, those times being quite early in
                     the morning, when he went out to purchase dinner and supper, and about dusk in
                     the evening, when he provided himself with his breakfast for the next morning.
                     Whenever he met them, he did but simply nod, and hardly ever did they hear him
                     utter a word.
                  On the evening of his arrival, he asked his host how much the price of the
                     board was per week, and when it was named, without a word he drew forth from
                     the pocket of his doublet a purse, from which he paid the amount, stating that
                     at the commencement of every week he would do likewise.
                  Notwithstanding the new-comer, the house appeared in the same condition as
                     before, and save at night, when a twinkling ray of light escaped from the
                     closed shutters of his room, would still have been thought uninhabited. But not
                     so with the aged couple; they were not of this opinion. They soon came to
                     regard the house as haunted, not only by Geronimo, but by spirits; for often
                     would they hear, proceeding from the ever-closed room, wild strains of music,
                     completely enchanting the hearer; seraphic melody would also rise on the
                     stillness of the night, possessing such thrilling sweetness, that they verily
                     believed their boarder was some unearthly being in human guise. No mortal, they
                     thought, could draw from a simple violin such powerfully stirring sounds.
                  The room that this extraordinary young man occupied had for its furniture a
                     cot, a broken-backed chair, and a three-legged table, on which was wrapped up
                     in paper his breakfast for the morrow. A small shelf, jutting from the wall,
                     served as a stand for his music. Before this the young violinist now stood. His
                     ancient violin had on its scroll an exquisitely-carved head, fantastically
                        grinning. He was dressed in
                     precisely the same manner as when he made his first appearance, and was
                     performing a most difficult passage with the greatest ease.
                  The passage continued to grow faster and more intricate. The arm of the
                     violinist worked quicker and quicker; his eyes stared more and more; his
                     fingers flew with tremendous rapidity over the finger-board; his violin fairly
                     yelled and screamed with anguish; the notes of the music seemed to dance before
                     his eyes; he grew pale with emotion. Suddenly he stopped, and stretching forth
                     his hands, staggered back, terrified at the sight he saw; for there, on his
                     right side, in shining green scales, with flaming red eyes and folded arms,
                     stood a being, who exclaimed, in an awful voice,
                  "Why did you call me from the realms of agony and woe by that infernal violin
                     of yours?"
                  Geronimo answered not.
                  "Speak!" continued the being, "do you want me?"
                  "No!" ejaculated he, gaining courage.
                  "Why then make me come, seeing you have no wish for me?"
                  "I do not want you—you may go."
                  "Then you seek to escape from your bargain. You agreed, if I would teach you to
                     excel all other players, to be mine. I have taught you a part—I gave you your
                     violin—and now you repent. Very well! Listen! Unless some one at midnight, when
                     the full moon shines, shall visit you, you shall play on till the Day of
                     Judgment!"
                  Geronimo felt himself, by an irresistible influence, drawn in front of his
                     music; his arms placed themselves in position; his violin fitted itself under
                     his chin, and his bow rested in readiness upon the strings.
                  "Commence!" cried the demon.
                  And Geronimo on a sudden commenced, in spite of himself, to draw his bow over
                     the quivering cords, giving utterance to a sorrowful theme.
                  "Faster!" screamed the demon, frightfully frowning.
                  And the bow danced and leaped with greater quickness thereon.
                  "Faster!'
                  And with frantic energy and madness expressed in his eyes, he played, while his
                     unearthly master beat with his foot the quickly increasing time.
                  "Now," shouted the demon, in a voice that rose far above the shrill cries of
                     the instrument, and which was distinctly heard by the miserable performer,
                     "hear my last command. Your light shall not burn out, your strings not break,
                     your bow need neither hair nor rosin, and you shall not die nor stop, unless,
                     as I have said, you have a midnight visitor, till the Day of Judgment!"
                  So saying, he raised one arm on high, and sank through the floor, while
                     Geronimo did not in the least stay his frightful performance.
               
               
                  III.
                  ONE HUNDRED YEARS AFTER
                  ONE hundred years sped swiftly by.
                  
                  Don Carlos was the handsomest man in all Toledo; at least that was the opinion
                     of all the beautiful ladies therein, and we ourselves will vouch for the
                     justness of their opinion. As Don Carlos was therefore a handsome caballero,
                      it was nearly a matter of course
                     that he had no small number of intrigues, and at this time, namely, in the year
                     1725, was deeply enamored of a beautiful lady, whose name, for certain reasons,
                     we will not disclose. The lover, one moonlight night, determined to serenade
                     the object of his affection. He soon arrived in front of her window, which, on
                     account of the balmy night, was open, and then accompanied by the tinkling
                     notes of the mandolin, sang, with his magnificent voice, to the best
                     advantage.
                  His song ceased, and hearing a stirring above, which he imagined was created by
                     the fair one, he threw, with great precision, his rope ladder, the hooks of
                     which, catching in the light lattice work of the balcony, formed quite a firm
                     support. At this instant he beheld the gleaming of a sword-blade, and
                     immediately found himself attacked by half a dozen men in short cloaks, who
                     with drawn swords dashed upon him.
                  Although the blade of the unfortunate serenader was instantaneously in his
                     hand, and though he laid about him with great quickness, and had the
                     satisfaction of seeing two or three of his oppressors fall, still he was too
                     sorely pressed to continue the fight; and, in parrying a blow from a gigantic
                     fellow, his sword flew from his grasp, leaving him defenceless.
                  Pressing his hat firmer over his brows, he darted quickly away, and after
                     running down a deserted street, escaped from their grasp, and sought refuge in
                     an old antique building, which appeared tenantless.
                  With his fatigue, and with the loss of blood from the wounds he received, he
                     was faint, and was about to throw himself on the floor, when he thought he
                     heard music, from whence proceeding he knew not.
                  He stopped and listened.
                  There could be no mistake, for it sounded near by, and was of a wild, unearthly
                     kind; so he ascended a rickety staircase in the corner of the room, and picking
                     his way by the moonlight, determined to find out if this strange music was in
                     the house. Though a little timid at thus finding himself at midnight in a
                     strange place, yet he continued his route, and arrived at the door of a room,
                     from which was heard the frightful notes of a violin.
                  He knocked.
                  No one came or replied, so he pushed open the door—
                  When, by the rays of the moon, he saw the skeleton of a man playing with
                     maddening phrensy on a violin. No music was visible, yet the bony arms played
                     on. Every thing around was in decay, thick with dust and corruption. Don Carlos
                     screamed with horror. Suddenly the skeleton stopped.
                  The hour of midnight sounded.
                  Dashing down the instrument and trampling it to pieces, the skeleton advanced
                     towards the spectator, who, shivering with horror as he saw the terrible
                     violinist approaching, fell insensible to the floor.
                  It was broad day when Don Carlos awoke, and the room of the old house was
                     empty. He thought, at first, he had dreamed, but then he recollected an old
                     legend which he had often heard: it was that a young musician, anxious to excel
                     all others, had made a compact with the Evil One, from which he had sought
                     afterwards to escape; and for which he had been condemned to play on until the
                     Day of Judgment, unless relieved by a stranger appearing at midnight, when the
                     moon was full.
                  And Don Carlos knew he had seen the Violinist of Toledo.
               
            
            
               
               THE GAME AT DICE.
               AND the night was one of those really uncomfortable ones that is often experienced
                  during the months of autumn and winter—one of those evenings when every thing is
                  disagreeable; when the fire that you have been so long coaxing to burn, still
                  emits no cheerful blaze; when the wind whistles with a dismal moaning through the
                  keyholes, and the windows rattle in their casements as the gust rushes by—that two
                  youths sat, facing each other, at a small round table covered with green baize,
                  having in the center, a candle feebly burning in the socket of a brazen stick,
                  amusing themselves with playing at dice; and they were a handsome couple, those
                  youths; and the bloom was upon their cheeks, and the sparkle in their eye, and
                  their dress was of the latest fashion, and all bespoke them at least to be in easy
                  circumstances; and there they sat, intently watching the little squares of dotted
                  ivory, and staking small sums upon the throws thereof, when there occurred a rush
                  of wind that shook fiercely the window, and the rain beat mercilessly upon it, and
                  the storm cried in anguish; and there stood a being on one side of the two young
                  players, but they saw him not, and neither did they know the effects of the storm,
                  for their very souls were wrapt in the contemplation of the dice, that fell
                  merrily upon the green cloth; and little piles of silver, and now and then of gold, passed from one side of the table
                  to the other; but the being was Time, and his long and white hair fell upon aged,
                  stooping shoulders, graced with a pair of venerable wings, and mingled with his
                  lengthy beard; and his eye grew bright as he watched the players, and he hearkened
                  unto the clink of the metal, and he was interested in the game, wishing, no doubt,
                  to take a part, when it happened that the glance of the elder of the players fell
                  upon the aged figure by his side, and upon the sharp, glittering scythe, on which
                  he leaned; and as he looked, his brow grew troubled, and he could not move, but
                  with his foot touched that of his companion; and his companion saw and trembled,
                  and asked him who and what he was, and the phantom said he was Time; and then a
                  most curious freak entered the young man's brain, and he asked him if he would
                  take his place and with them try his luck; and he agreed so to do; and they
                  played, and Time lost; and the young men played silently, and their staking was
                  fearful, for they waged their lives against a long existence; if the grim man
                  should win, so many and so many of the number of the years of their life was to be
                  taken away, but if otherwise, so many and so many were to be added; and they
                  played long, and the young men won, and won, and won, and hailed the morning's
                  light with an indescribable joy, for that light brought unto them freedom from
                  their unearthly companion at dice; and the game was at an end; and as long as the
                  world exists, so long will these two young men live, for—they are
                     immortal.
               
            
            
               THE ELIXIR OF LIFE.
               
                  I.
                  WHAT OCCURRED IN THE STONE ROOM OF THE TOWER.
                  IT was night.
                  Grand and awful was the night, for the elements were at war with each other;
                     dark clouds were piled together in great grandeur; and as the vivid flashes of
                     lightning rent them asunder, tremendous peals of thunder followed, which seemed
                     in its fury to shake the very universe, and cause the hearts of men to tremble
                     and quake at the mighty artillery of heaven. As flash followed flash in rapid
                     succession, an almost continuous light glared upon the face of the earth,
                     bringing each object to view, and casting a strange, unearthly hue over
                     them.
                  Situated on a rocky height, commanding on one side a view of a vast marsh,
                     dotted here and there with a small, stunted bush, or a ghostly cedar, and
                     intersected by a river which, winding its course in a serpentine manner,
                     resembled a stream of polished steel, and on the other, an immense forest,
                     consisting of pine and fir-trees, stood a castle of great size, of great
                     strength, and of great antiquity. At one end, there sprang to a considerable
                     height a round tower, having a balcony encircling it near the top, from which
                     place a good view could be obtained of the surrounding country; and from one of the long, narrow, lancet-shaped
                     windows below were distinguished rays of light proceeding, which, when the
                     lightning did not flash, resembled those of a candle, while the rest of the
                     house was wrapt in total darkness.
                  This room, containing the light, was quite small, and built of rough masses of
                     stone, on which the dust had plentifully collected, and in the corners of which
                     the spider had wove his web; also had he spun it in graceful festoons across
                     the dingy ceiling. Various instruments, of curious form (the use to which they
                     were intended to be placed would no doubt have puzzled many a man renowned for
                     his wisdom) were scattered around, together with telescopes, and various
                     articles pertaining to the science of chemistry. On the floor were strewed
                     crucibles of different sizes, and phials of fanciful shapes, some of which were
                     full, some empty; and there were also intermixed tongs, pokers, shovels,
                     manuscripts of dingy appearance and musty in smell, together with two human
                     skulls; and, moreover, all these articles were thrown in the greatest
                     confusion.
                  In one corner stood a long-legged desk, formed of dark wood, supporting an
                     immense manuscript book of antique shape and illuminated pages, the cover of
                     which was bound with brazen clasps. Over it swung an iron lamp, shedding its
                     faint rays on the ancient parchment, which was pored by a young man of two or
                     three and twenty, enveloped in long robes of black velvet, which entirely
                     shrouded his figure, and wearing a cap of the same material upon his long,
                     black, elf-like locks, which bordered a visage pale and haggard, and eyes of
                     wild expression.
                  The name of this person, the hero of our tale, was Phazzo.
                  One side of this curious chamber was occupied by a large blackened forge of
                     brickwork, in which flames glared and flared, caused by a bellows of ponderous
                     dimensions, worked by an ill-imaged, swarthy youth, dressed in a red flannel
                     shirt, and breeches of like material, who, to amuse himself as he thus passed
                     his time, chanted forth the following lines to a dismal tune, which was in
                     accordance with all around him:
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              THE CHANT.
                              
                                 The moon in majesty did rise,
                                 Amid the night-bird's doleful cries,
                                 And far o'er lovely nature threw
                                 Her mellow rays of golden hue.
                              
                              
                                 There issued now from castle gate
                                 A knight, who rode at rapid rate,
                                 Who, as he spurred his charger black,
                                 Did at times with fear gaze back.
                              
                              
                                 Of slender form, he yet was tall,
                                 His limbs well made and strong withal;
                                 His visage was of beauty rare,
                                 Though terror now was painted there.
                              
                              
                                 He was inclosed with breastplate bright,
                                 And grasped a sword both long and light;
                                 From helmet cleft by heavy blow,
                                 Thick-clotted blood did slowly flow
                              
                              
                                 Now after him there quickly rode
                                 A fiendish monster, who bestrode
                                 A steed, in color black as night,
                                 With fiery eyes, that gleamed bright.
                              
                              
                              
                                 His mouth with foam was whitened o'er,
                                 His neighing sounded like a roar,
                                 And when his hoof did meet the ground,
                                 Glitt'ring sparks were seen around.
                              
                              
                                 After him the fell fiend flew—
                                 This knight's pale visage paler grew—
                                 His spurs did gore his charger's side,
                                 And with the blood his heel was dyed.
                              
                              
                                 The demon with great glee did yell,
                                 As, stumbling o'er a stone, he fell,
                                 Sending his rider, with a bound,
                                 Over him, headlong to the ground.
                              
                              
                                 From off his horse he did alight.
                                 And picked up the wounded knight;
                                 Then seizing hold of his steed's mane,
                                 He on his back did spring again.
                              
                              
                                 With increased fury then did fly
                                 Towards his castle, with a cry
                                 So shrill and awful, it did make
                                 The captive's senses him forsake.
                              
                              
                                 Ent'ring the court, the gates closed fast,
                                 And it is told, as years roll past,
                                 How lights and cries, at midnight hour,
                                 Are seen and heard from its high tower.
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  
                  "Nadalt!" exclaimed Phazzo, in a faint, melancholy tone of voice.
                  "Well?" replied the worker of the bellows, whose name, it appears, was Nadalt.
                     "I am here."
                  "What is the hour?"
                  "Nigh unto twelve."
                  "How nigh?"
                  "Two or three minutes," said the young man.
                  "Two or three minutes! Jove! work brisk, blow strong!"
                  "I am so doing," replied the youth.
                  Phazzo commenced again searching his manuscript, which (be it known) was a rare
                     treatise on magic, but was interrupted by Nadalt. "Master! here, quickly!" he
                     exclaimed.
                  He went as requested, and applying a pinch of a certain yellow powder in the
                     heated dish, which was placed on burning coals, it flared up brightly, casting
                     a yellowish hue around, and emitting a fragrant perfume. Then seizing a green
                     phial, he poured therein the contents, awaiting the success of his
                     experiment.
                  "It burns well, Nadalt," remarked he, gazing on the burning fluid. "It burns
                     well; the charm works;" and at this moment the clock struck twelve.
                  As the sound of the last stroke melted away, Phazzo cast into the brazen dish a
                     small ball of wax, pronouncing at the same time a certain mystical word. The
                     pellet gradually dissolved, filling the apartment with a thick, suffocating
                     smoke, and when this in some measure had dispersed, he beheld standing, where
                     Nadalt stood, a young man of commanding appearance; but Nadalt he saw no
                     more.
                  "Who art thou?" exclaimed he, bending low his knee. "Speak!"
                  "I am Nedin," replied the being.
                  "He for whose appearance I have worked day and night?"
                  "The same."
                  "Then could you grant my desire—will you give me that for which I have
                     labored?"
                  
                  "What is it you wish?"
                  "The Elixir of Life."
                  "I can give it you, but first there are obstacles in the way—certain
                     conditions; firstly, all objects on which you have set your affections are to
                     be removed; secondly, I am to accompany you, from the time you agree to the
                     proposition, forever, although invisible to every other person."
                  "As to that I am perfectly willing, but why are the objects of my affection to
                     be removed?"
                  "Such is the condition, and you cannot obtain the Elixir without it."
                  Phazzo mused for an instant.
                  "Will you agree to it?"
                  "I will."
                  "You are, then, willing to have them removed?"
                  "I am," replied he, not understanding in their proper sense the words of Nedin.
                     "I am willing."
                  "And for me to accompany you?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Then place your hand on my forehead."
                  He did as he was bid, but quickly drew it back, uttering an exclamation of
                     pain, for the touch was burning.
                  "Now, hold here thy head," said Nedin.
                  "For what purpose?"
                  "That I may mark thee."
                  "Mark me!" he ejaculated, with surprise; "mark me! for what reason?"
                  "Unless that takes place you cannot have the Elixir—it is forbidden you."
                  "Am I, then, come to this?" said Phazzo; "to be marked! to be branded as a
                     slave! and by whom? By the Evil One. Marked! never!"
                  "Consider," said Nedin.
                  "I have so done."
                  "Then do as I request you."
                  "Never!"
                  "Are you, then, so blind to your own interest? Are you ignorant of the favor
                     you ask me?"
                  "I am not."
                  "Are you not aware of the properties of this famous Elixir, for which men have
                     toiled and labored all their lives?"
                  "I am."
                  "This magic fluid, that confers on the drinker of it immortality, you are on
                     the eve of possessing! How great, how enviable is your situation! Drink of it,
                     and you will never die—your fellow-men will bow to you the knee as they would
                     to a god, for with it I will add the celebrated philosopher's stone. Then you
                     will be extremely rich, of young appearance, and free from all disease! And all
                     this you will not have, but thrust it from you; other men would have passed
                     through fire to possess it, but you—you decline the inestimable gift! How can
                     you refuse it?"
                  "Your words are true," replied the now wavering youth.
                  "Will you accept the magic draught?"
                  "I will!" exclaimed Phazzo, "yes, I will!"
                  "Let me pass my finger across your brow," and as he bent towards him, Nedin
                     drew it across his forehead and a crimson streak followed, while Phazzo
                     groaned, and then he writhed beneath the intense heat thereof.
                  "Phazzo," said Nedin, when the operation was ended.
                  Exclaimed he, "You know then my name?"
                  "I do—from this moment the contract commences."
                  "What contract?" said the surprised youth.
                  
                  "Our contract."
                  "I know of no contract, I promised to accept the Elixir on condition that the
                     objects of my affections should be removed, and that you forever should be my
                     companion, but I know of no agreement, I have signed no bond."
                  "But I have," significantly replied the other. "I have! have I not marked you?
                     You bear my signature and are my property, with which I can do whatever I
                     wish."
                  "Till I get the Elixir, and no longer."
                  "Afterwards also, forever!"
                  "Yours! I belong to you?"
                  "Yes," interrupted Nedin, "you are mine."
                  Phazzo shuddered.
                  "And also the objects of thy affections," continued the being in a triumphant
                     tone, "also thy friends—all—they all belong to me."
                  "How so? they have entered into no agreement."
                  "By that mark." And he pointed to the crimson streak on his forehead.
                  "What will you do to them?"
                  "Remove them."
                  "What! In what manner, by what means? Explain yourself."
                  "I will; your uncle, I believe, sleeps below, does he not? descend to his room,
                     enter and gaze on the scene before you."
                  "Tell me, what will I see?"
                  "You will see one of the modes I have to remove the objects of your
                     affections."
                  "Gracious powers!" ejaculated he, trembling; "you will do him no hurt?"
                  "Go and see," simply answered Nedin, and uttering these words, he disappeared
                     in an instant amidst the smoke.
               
               
                  II.
                  THE SCENE IN THE BED ROOM.
                  HARDLY had the demon vanished when Phazzo fell motionless into a chair, and
                     buried his face in his hands. It was now clear to him that he had sold himself,
                     together with his friends, to the Evil One. But what were the intentions of the
                     being who called himself Nedin? Did he intend evil towards his uncle? How was
                     he to remove him? These questions perplexed him. What had become of Nadalt? He
                     could not tell—it was wrapt in mystery!
                  He mused long and deeply, and at last rising to his feet, determined to visit
                     his uncle's room, and see what would there occur; so he unfastened the iron
                     lamp, and opening the massive oaken door, descended the spiral stone steps,
                     shading the flame of his lamp from the draught of air by placing his hand in
                     front.
                  Having arrived at the door, he opened it and entered. The room was
                     magnificently furnished, lighted by candles of red wax, supported in silver
                     branches, jutting from the tapestried walls; but how great was his surprise,
                     when he saw Nedin standing in the center of the apartment! "And yet," thought
                     he, after a moment's consideration, "why am I astonished to see him here? Did
                     he not bid me to come to see his performances? Nedin advanced towards the
                     bed.
                  "Nedin!" Phazzo exclaimed quickly.
                  "I am here," answered he, turning towards him, "what do you wish?"
                  
                  "What are you going to do?"
                  "I have already told you."
                  "Are you going to kill him?"
                  "I am about to remove him," and he pointed to the bed, towards which he again
                     moved.
                  "Nedin," cried he, rushing towards him, "for Heaven's sake desist."
                  "Back! back! remember the Elixir," cried the demon, "remember the
                     contract!"
                  "I do remember them," replied the other, "but I wish not the gift—take it—take
                     it back—I shall save him!"
                  "Not now!" cried he, with a horrid laugh, "too late! away! back!"
                  And waving his hand, Phazzo found himself as it were glued to the floor. He
                     tried to speak, but his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth, and he was
                     unable so to do! He could move no part of his body, and resembled a statue,
                     with body bent forward, with face white as marble, expressive of fear and
                     anxiety, with the left hand in the position of terror, and with the right
                     bearing aloft the iron lamp!
                  Meanwhile the demon proceeded to the bed, and touching the light though rich
                     curtains that covered it, they slowly, without any visible agency, moved aside,
                     giving the motionless young man a view of his uncle, lying there, wrapt in
                     sleep, and also of the operation about to be performed.
                  He essayed to close his eyes against the ensuing spectacle, but he found they
                     would not, and remained open, so he was forced to become a witness.
                  Nedin, standing at the foot of the bed, folded his arms and commenced gently
                     blowing upon the slumbering person, to the perplexity of Phazzo, who could not
                     divine for what purpose pose he was so acting, but soon he saw a faint smoke of
                     purple hue escape from his lips and hover over the sleeping man.
                  The blowing continued, the smoke increased in quantity and in denseness of
                     color, till the whole bed was filled with it, and still Nedin kept blowing. And
                     Phazzo smelt a strange perfume, the most fragrant he had ever before
                     experienced. At last he perceived his uncle turn in his bed, and stretch out
                     his arms, as if he were about awaking, and drew long breaths, as if
                     suffocating! His breathing grew louder and still louder, and he gasped for want
                     of air, struggling, as if to free himself from imaginary bonds! He awoke and
                     sat upright, gazing around him, and endeavored to escape the pestilential air,
                     but not succeeding, sank again on his pillow, and writhing and tossing about,
                     at last was motionless!
                  No sooner did Nedin perceive this than he ceased blowing, and waving his hand
                     once or twice, the purple smoke dissolved away.
                  "This, your first object, is gone," said he to the still motionless Phazzo,
                     "and you have seen in what manner. Was it not easy done?"
                  The power of speech returned to him again.
                  "It was terrible! horrible! awful!"
                  "You will yet see more terrible things than that."
                  "Heaven forbid!" exclaimed Phazzo, casting his eyes upwards.
                  "Phazzo, Phazzo," said Nedin, "what are you saying? You have nothing to do
                     there, now," continued he, gazing at him, and pointing upwards, "nothing
                     there."
                  "Why have I not?"
                  "Do you forget?" and he passed his finger across his brow, "do you forget this on your
                     forehead? You have nothing to do there," continued he, pointing upwards, "but
                     you have something to do there," and he pointed downwards, as a smile, horrible
                     to view, played over his features, for although his face was handsome, yet at
                     times the expression it bore was fearful.
                  "The next object of your affections," continued Nedin, "is to be—"
                  "Who?" ejaculated Phazzo, bounding forwards (his limbs having been loosed),
                     "who, who is it—not Elverina?"
                  "The same."
                  "What you say," cried he, clutching him by the arm, "is it true?—speak!"
                  "What I say is true—it is she."
                  Phazzo trembled.
                  "Spare her, Nedin, spare her."
                  "Impossible! remember the contract."
                  "Cursed be the hour I ever touched the forge, or thought of that most accursed
                     Elixir!" and the young man groaned, staggered back, dropped the lamp, and
                     buried his face in his hands.
                  "Phazzo," said Nedin, "I have something to tell you; she of whom you
                     spake—"
                  "Name her not," replied he.
                  —"Will be removed by your hand."
                  "By my hand! You speak what is not true. I kill Elverina—never! I die
                     first."
                  "Death, by my commands, from this moment shall not touch you."
                  "Leave me, I beseech you; I cannot bear your presence; leave me," and he waved
                     him off.
                  "The contract was that I should accompany you always."
                  "I know it; but leave me, leave me."
                  "I am willing to gratify you," and so saying, he disappeared.
                  As soon as alone he proceeded to the bed, and gazed on the face of his uncle.
                     It was expressive of great agony, and the hands were tightly clenched together.
                     He turned aside from viewing the melancholy spectacle, and in so doing his eyes
                     fell on a sword hanging by the bedside. He took it down and drew it from its
                     sheath. Suicide entered his thoughts! He had sold himself to Satan, and was by
                     him condemned to slay his wife, the dearest of all friends he ever possessed.
                     Could this not be prevented by destroying himself? The idea caught like
                     wildfire, and he determined to fall on the keen point of the glittering weapon
                     he held; so he placed the hilt on the rich carpet, and steadying the blade,
                     gave one last thought of Elverina, and fell upon it. But the blade was supple,
                     and bending beneath his weight as if it had been a willow wand, he lay extended
                     on the floor!
                  Rising in his fury, he seized the sword and dashed it across the room, when
                     meeting in its course a heavy piece of furniture, it shivered into a thousand
                     pieces, as if it had been of glass!
                  "The work of the fiend," muttered Phazzo; "he told me death should not visit
                     me, and his saying has so far proved true, but I will again try and see if I
                     cannot succeed," and leaving the room, he proceeded to his chamber in the
                     tower, when procuring a deadly drug (the effects of which he knew were
                     instantaneous), mixed a goodly quantity in a glass with water and drank it off;
                     but having waited a considerable time, did not feel in the least affected.
                  "Once more." cried he, "I'll try the pistol."
                  
                  He loaded one with considerable calmness, placing therein a very heavy charge,
                     then walking to a large mirror, applied the muzzle near his right temple—pulled
                     the trigger—and the ball fell harmless at his feet!
                  "Ten thousand devils!" screamed he, dashing down the weapon, and seizing with
                     both hands his long hair, "I'm lost! I'm lost! Oh my Elverina! my Elverina!"
                     and carried away by his grief, fell motionless on the floor, amidst the various
                     articles there scattered.
               
               
                  III.
                  THE LADY ELVERINA.
                  MORNING appeared 'ere Phazzo arose from the floor, and gazing around in the dim
                     light, tried to recollect where he was. At last he remembered the proceedings
                     of the preceding evening; how he had succeeded in his operations, and how he
                     had raised an evil spirit, together with the awful scene witnessed, and the
                     dire intelligence the demon had imparted to him. "But was this true? Did these
                     things in reality occur, or were they only the workings of my fevered brain?"
                     thought he, "Alas! would to Heaven they were but my own imaginations! But if
                     so, am I not marked; did not the spirit leave his fiery streak on my forehead?"
                     and arising, proceeded towards the mirror, but treading on something, found it
                     to be the pistol, which caused him to become pale, for this was an evidence it
                     was not all a dream.
                  The mirror reflected his ghastly features, and then he perceived a crimson line
                     running across his livid forehead. He felt sick and dizzy.
                  Leaning against the forge for support, a step was heard without, and the door
                     slowly opening, there entered a female. Phazzo sighed, for it was Elverina.
                  "Thank Heaven! dearest Phazzo," said she, advancing towards him, "thank Heaven,
                     you are safe."
                  "From what, Elverina, were you wishing I was safe?"
                  "But, good gracious! why are you so pale; are you unwell?"
                  "A little; only a very little."
                  "What caused it?"
                  "I was affected by the burning of a drug."
                  "Oh, Phazzo! when will you leave off your chemical operations?"
                  "I have now done with them."
                  "For ever?"
                  "For ever."
                  "Right well pleased am I to hear it; but, Phazzo, I have such bad news?"
                  "What are they? has any thing happened?"
                  "There has: your uncle is dead."
                  "Dead!" exclaimed he, with feigned surprise."
                  "Yes. And it is very curious, moreover, what has killed him, there being no
                     symptoms of disease or violence, and he looks as if alive, he rests so calm and
                     tranquil."
                  "But why did you exclaim, when entering, just now, that you were glad I was
                     saved?"
                  "I had fearful dreams, the past night. Oh! very fearful. I thought you dead.
                     Was not that awful? But I will not speak of that now; I am so pleased to see my
                     fears prove false;" and she raised her beautiful face to his, and gazed
                     tenderly on him.
                  
                  "My dear, dear Elverina," replied he, folding her in his arms, and imprinting a
                     kiss upon her rosy lips.
                  "But, my Phazzo, why did you absent yourself all night?"
                  "My experiments lasted till late, and—"
                  "I see a crimson line on your forehead; what is it?" interrupted she
                     hastily.
                  "A what?"
                  "A faint crimson streak there," said she, touching his head.
                  "Oh," answered he, consulting the mirror, "that's nothing. I expect it arose
                     from my fainting; for the drug I burned overpowered me, and I fell, no doubt
                     hitting at that time my forehead; but let us go to my uncle's room."
                  "I am willing to please you, although I like not to see such sights."
                  "But how found you out he was dead?"
                  "My dream showed me the fact.
                  "What! dreamt of him also?"
                  "Yes. It was a fearful vision, although but now I can indistinctly recollect
                     it; and so strong did it work upon me, that I arose quite early, and proceeding
                     to his door, knocked, but received no answer. He may be asleep, thought I, and
                     so returned and told my brother (whom I found in the library, he being a very
                     early riser) my dream, begging him to go and see if it was true. He laughed at
                     my girlish fears, as he called them, but at last went, and found
                     him—lifeless!"
                  Phazzo listened, and trembled as he listened. And as they entered the room, the
                     first object his eyes fell on was the splintered pieces of the sword he had
                     shivered the evening before.
                  "Ah!" said Elverina, "I had not before seen this; who broke the sword? And
                     could not this throw some light on the subject?"
                  But no light was thrown, and the affair remained wrapt in mystery. Phazzo
                     regarded the motionless form of his uncle, and found all the previous marks of
                     agony gone; he appeared as if in deep slumber. Turning aside from the
                     spectacle, he wept.
                  His uncle was buried shortly afterwards, and melancholy reigned in the
                     castle.
               
               
                  IV.
                  BUT A DREAM.
                  DAYS, weeks, and months rolled slowly by, yet Phazzo saw not the demon Nedin.
                     He began to think that all was but a dream, and that his uncle had expired from
                     some sudden stroke of disease. As for the mark on his forehead, it still
                     remained, as vivid in appearance as before, but he did not mind it at all,
                     although it was the only thing that reminded him of those awful words, "She of
                     whom you spake will be removed by your hand."
                  The promise he made Elverina, of not meddling any more with chemistry, he
                     strictly kept; and although the room at the top of the tower remained in the
                     same state, it was unvisited.
                  The disappearance of Nadalt caused all to wonder what had become of him. But by
                     not making his appearance for so long a period (for Phazzo could give no reason
                     for his absence), no more was said on his account.
               
               
                  
                  V.
                  SUNSET.
                  IT was evening.
                  Three months had elapsed since the period of our foregoing narrative.
                  The air was as clear as crystal, and the sun set with a magnificence rarely
                     seen. Over the sinking monarch a belt of clouds, quite vast in width, extended
                     the whole length of the horizon, of superb orange and purple hues, dashed and
                     tipped here and there with brilliant carnation and golden tints; while o'er the
                     rest of the azure vault of heaven, light crimson clouds were floating by. No
                     painter could transfer the scene to his canvass; for although he might have the
                     colors, still he could not obtain the vivid light, and the effect without it
                     would therefore be lost.
                  Phazzo sat by the window of the library (which room was in the tower already
                     spoken of, situated immediately under the chamber in which he acted the
                     magician) regarding the superb spectacle; and as he gazed, his eyes fell on a
                     dark object, lurking beneath a small grove of pine trees, growing near the
                     castle walls. "Who can it be?" thought he, catching a glimpse of a man's
                     habiliments. "What brings him here? and why does he lurk beneath the
                     trees?"
                  His eyes wandered over the castle (the tower projecting from it a short
                     distance), and he beheld a female looking out of the window, and discovered it
                     was his wife.
                  Soon the man emerged stealthily from the pines, and gazing around to see if
                     discovered, what was Phazzo's amazement to behold him raise his hand,
                     gesticulate, then press his fingers to his lips, and wave an adieu; at which
                     moment Elverina retreated from the open casement. Phazzo thought that was a
                     pretty situation for him to be in—to see a man lurking about and making signs
                     to his wife. He went to her apartment and opened the door hastily, and shutting
                     it, advanced towards her, as she was reading by the window. Glancing from the
                     book, to see who was the intruder, she arose, and exclaimed, "Why, dear Phazzo,
                     why so agitated? has any thing annoyed you?"
                  "Curse your fondness!" muttered he; and then, speaking aloud, continued, "there
                     has. You were standing by the window a few minutes ago; I wish to know for what
                     reason?"
                  "Why, Phazzo, what a curious question to ask!"
                  "It makes no difference whether it is curious or not. I want an answer."
                  "Why, Phazzo, what is the matter with you?"
                  "Do you see any thing the matter with me?"
                  "You appear troubled; sit down."
                  "No; I will stand up, and wish an answer to my question, as I said once
                     before."
                  "And you will have it, I was looking at the sun."
                  "Indeed! at the sun?"
                  "Yes; but why are you in such a disposition? Never did I see you so before,"
                     said the surprised female.
                  "Let me tell you, you were looking at that pine tree."
                  "Which pine tree?"
                  "That one," and he went to the window, and pointed with his finger in the
                     direction; "at that one."
                  "I might have glanced hastily at it."
                  
                  "More than that, your glance was fixed."
                  "My eyes were fixed only on the splendid clouds that surrounded the sun."
                  "Not so," angrily replied Phazzo; "it was at that tree."
                  "Then you know better than I."
                  "I saw the whole transaction, from the beginning to the end."
                  "What transaction? Pray tell me what transaction you beheld."
                  "I'll gratify your desire. I saw beneath that tree—" and he stopped to see if
                     any mark of agitation was visible on her countenance; but perceived none.
                  "What did you see?" said Elverina, with a serene face.
                  "I saw—what you say you saw not."
                  "And that was?"
                  "A man;" and he narrowly watched her.
                  "A man!"
                  "Yes, it was a man, and you saw him."
                  "I saw him not, Phazzo."
                  "And this man," continued he, "crept slowly out from the pine grove, silently
                     and softly and gazed up to your window; and you saw him."
                  "Heaven forbid!" ejaculated the maiden.
                  "And you, standing by the window, gazed down upon him; he raised his hand,
                     waved an adieu, sent you an imploring glance (I wish to Heaven I had had a
                     pistol with me at the time), and crept back again to the woods."
                  "I swear, by all that is great and good," replied she, greatly agitated, "I
                     swear, Phazzo, I saw no man."
                  "Do you think my eyes deceived me?"
                  "They have this time."
                  "Why contradict me?"
                  "Because I do not wish you to remain in error."
                  "I am in the right. Now, Elverina," exclaimed he, advancing nearer, and folding
                     his arms, "I wish to know who that man is."
                  "Phazzo, your mind wanders. I tell you I saw no living being, and have seen
                     none, except yourself, the whole afternoon."
                  "And I tell you, you are speaking false."
                  "You rave! Heavens! you have lost your senses!" exclaimed she, bursting into
                     tears; "never, never have I been treated so before—and by you, Phazzo! you who
                     have loved me so. I fear my saying is true; you are bereft of reason."
                  "Ha! ha! bereft of reason! I have rather more than you think. Let that man come
                     around again, and I'll shoot him as I would a dog; and you," he nearly yelled
                     in her ear, "Heaven alone knows what I'll do to you."
                  "Leave me!" cried the half-distracted woman; "for the love of that sacred
                     place, leave me."
                  "I will, but remember my words!" and he disappeared, the door slammed loudly,
                     and Elverina, falling into a chair, wept long and bitterly.
               
               
                  VI
                  THE SERENADER
                  IT became night.
                  As Phazzo reclined upon his couch, thinking o'er the incidents of the day, and
                     wondering who it could be that had been prowling around the castle, he fell
                     into a sort of doze.
                  
                  The night was deliciously balmy; the window thrown wide open, permitting the
                     pale rays of the moon to rest on the richly-colored carpet, and the distant
                     croaking of the toad, and now and then the melancholy notes of the night bird,
                     to be heard distinctly, when the soft, delicate notes, as if of a guitar,
                     sounded beneath the window. He was nearly asleep, and thought it was but in his
                     own imagination. Soon, however, a song commenced—the song of reptiles, together
                     with the cries of the birds, ceased, and all was of a deathlike silence, save
                     the voice of the singer, which sounded exquisitely beautiful, in harmony with
                     the accompanying instrument.
                  Phazzo was entranced.
                  At times the song would swell richly, then melt gently away, till it sounded
                     far distant; then again return with renewed sweetness. It was enchanting to the
                     ear.
                  "But who is this?" thought Phazzo, as he rose from his couch and listened; "may
                     it not be the man I saw beneath the pines?" He took down a loaded pistol, and
                     went towards the window (keeping in the shade), and glanced out, to see if he
                     could distinguish the serenader. He beheld him leaning against a tree, with the
                     instrument of music beneath his arm, and gazing upwards with an expecting
                     countenance.
                  Rage and jealousy were in his bosom, and stooping down, he rested the barrel of
                     the weapon on the sill, then taking a steady aim, pulled the trigger; but the
                     pistol flashed in the pan.
                  The serenader heard the slight noise, and glanced alarmedly around; perceiving
                     no person, however, and not distinguishing the thin smoke caused by the burnt
                     powder, he continued his love-inspiring song.
                  Meanwhile Phazzo, muttering sundry oaths, pricked the touch-hole, primed his
                     weapon, examined the flint with the greatest care, and took his station once
                     more by the window. He aimed and fired. The ball penetrated the tree,
                     immediately above the singer's head, who, gliding into the dark forest,
                     disappeared from sight. Phazzo, with a smile of satisfaction, closed the
                     casement, and retired to his couch.
                  During the afternoon of the next day, as Phazzo sat by the window, he perceived
                     Elverina walking along at a short distance, in a musing attitude. Being
                     desirous of knowing for what purpose she thus left the castle, he arose,
                     buckled on his sword, took up his hat, and descended to the court-yard, then
                     hastening out, was soon acting the spy on his wife's movements, who was
                     unconscious he was near. But what were his feelings on seeing, issuing from
                     behind a noble tree a short distance in advance, the figure of a man, whom at
                     first glance he knew to be the serenader of the preceding evening, and he
                     beheld him walk by the side of his wife, who still acted as if unaware of his
                     presence. Drawing his sword, and gliding softly behind the couple, he darted it
                     up to the hilt in his body.
                  He fell without a groan.
                  Elverina heard some one approach, and turning, saw her enraged husband, and
                     perceiving he had in his hand a glittering sword, gave a loud shriek, and
                     nearly fainted.
                  "Elverina!"
                  "What do you wish?" she faintly replied.
                  "Here are your falsehoods brought to light."
                  "Falsehoods!"
                  "Yes, falsehoods. Do you see the bloody corpse lying beside you?" and he
                     pointed with his sword.
                  
                  "Bloody corpse! Good Heavens! I see none, Phazzo!" she cried, gazing around
                     with astonishment.
                  "See none! By Jove! you play this game no longer! You have been deceiving me,
                     and then with the body of your lover before your eyes face me down with your
                     falsehoods."
                  "A lover!"
                  "Yes, a lover! And as his reward was the sword, so shall yours be," and he
                     raised his weapon.
                  "Heaven! Phazzo! Mercy!"
                  "None!" and he was about to give the fatal thrust when she fell swooning to the
                     ground. His anger was for a moment appeased, and he was about raising her up,
                     when a curious scene passed before his eyes. The body of the stranger now gave
                     signs of life—the arms opened, as also did the eyes; he sat upright, then arose
                     and advanced towards the amazed Phazzo.
                  "Who art thou?" cried he, placing his glittering weapon to the stranger's
                     breast.
                  "Who am I? Try and recollect," and his features underwent a change.
                  "Nedin!" ejaculated the astonished person, dropping his weapon, and staggering
                     backwards, "Nedin!"
                  "The same. My words, you see, have proved true."
                  "Not yet; she is not yet dead; she has but fainted."
                  "Fainted! There is not a breath of life in her; she has expired, and you were
                     the cause of it."
                  "True! true! true!" despairingly cried he, "you are right! you are right!"
                  "The objects of your affections—those that are your true objects, are removed.
                     I am now ready to give you the—"
                  "Nedin," interrupted Phazzo, "tell me, did she not see you? Did she speak the
                     truth?"
                  "She did. I was at no time visible to her; the serenade was only heard by you,
                     and the afternoon when the sun set so beautifully I was not seen by her."
                  "Then it was only your manœuvering, that I might kill her?"
                  "You are right."
                  "Then I have killed her without a cause?"
                  "You have. My words that she was to be removed by your hand have proved true,
                     and now I am ready to give you the Elixir of Life."
                  "The Elixir of Life! I want it not. Strike me dead, Nedin, and I will bless
                     you. Life now, with the remembrance of her would be a curse. Oh, my Elverina!
                     Oh, my Elverina!" and he groaned and wept.
                  "By partaking of the Elixir all remembrance of her will pass away," quietly
                     observed the other.
                  "I want it not, but I implore you to kill me."
                  "You remember my former praise of the Elixir; how it will immediately give a
                     youthful appearance, and besides, as I have already told you, it will remove
                     all remembrance of her."
                  Phazzo hesitated.
                  "Well," cried he, "be it as you wish: give it me."
                  "I am willing."
                  And waving his hand, the scene grew dim before his eyes, he sank into a stupor,
                     and awaking, found himself seated in the chair, in the stone chamber of the
                     tower, and Nedin standing before him.
               
               
                  
                  VII.
                  THE ELIXIR.
                  "HAH! how came I here?" cried he, starting.
                  "How came you here," answered he, laughing; "permit me to tell you, you have
                     not stirred from the chair you are now sitting in."
                  "What are you talking about? Do you mean to say I have been here all the
                     time?"
                  "I do."
                  "You jest, surely."
                  "I do not; but am in earnest."
                  "Is not my uncle dead?"
                  "Dead! No."
                  "And have not I killed my wife?"
                  "No. She is sleeping in her room."
                  "Then, how has all this occurred? I saw you kill my uncle by your poisonous
                     breath."
                  "Really that is a curious way. But how did your wife die?"
                  "You played the part of a lover."
                  "And you became jealous, no doubt."
                  "Yes; and I was about to strike her with my sword, when she fell lifeless to
                     the ground."
                  "It is all simple enough; the fact is, you have been asleep; yes, asleep, and
                     dreaming."
                  "So you did not tell me that the objects of my 
                        affec-
                        affection
                      were to be removed?"
                  "No."
                  "I'm glad it was not reality; but give me the Elixir."
                  "Here it is."
                  And he produced a small curiously-shaped phial of crystal, containing a fluid
                     resembling liquid diamonds, at the same time saying, "Drink this, and you will
                     gain immortality."
                  "Jove!" exclaimed Phazzo, as he seized the phial, "I have now that for which I
                     have toiled many years. Farewell to disease and old age. Death! I have cheated
                     thee of a victim," and so saying, he drew forth the stopper, and applied the
                     flask to his lips. But his hand was stayed.
                  "Hold!" exclaimed Nedin, "one moment. Come to the mirror, and see the effects
                     of the draught you are about to take."
                  "With pleasure," answered Phazzo.
                  So they went to the glass, and Nedin caused it to extend greatly in size, so
                     that it took in and reflected both their figures.
                  "Now, my brave man," said he, clapping him on the back, "apply the phial to
                     your lips, and quaff."
                  He drank the sparkling fluid, but it felt as it were an icicle he had
                     swallowed. A chillness spread over him, freezing the blood that circulated in
                     his veins; his feet stiffened with cold, his hands grew white as marble; and as
                     he gazed upon his reflection in the glass, instead of seeing himself grow
                     young, his face remained as it was before, only of a livid hue; and his teeth
                     chattered together.
                  "You have deceived me, Nedin," gasped he.
                  Nedin laughed.
                  "This is not the Elixir of Life."
                  "You are wrong there; it is the Elixir."
                  "Then it will not confer immortality?"
                  "It will, but not here."
                  
                  "Not on earth? where then?"
                  "Below!" and he chuckled with much glee, which sounded horribly to
                     the wretched Phazzo.
                  "Then I am dying?"
                  "You are."
                  "And the Elixir of Life?"
                  "Is—the Draught of Death!"
                  And as he gazed upon the mirror, the appearance of Nedin underwent a horrible
                     change: vast wings, as those of the midnight bat, sprang from his naked
                     shoulders, (which, together with his body, were of a dusky hue,) waving slowly
                     to and fro; his white and delicate hands were turned into long, black,
                     spider-like fingers, ending with sharp, hooked nails; and his lovely
                     countenance was transformed into the visage of a demon, with fiery, glaring
                     eyes, having on his head a crown of polished steel, surmounted in the front by
                     a small glittering light, resembling a tiny star!
                  "Come!" shouted he, as he clasped his arms around the miserable man;
                     "come!"
                  "Yet awhile," writhing with agony.
                  "Come!" and Phazzo, sinking into the arms of the demon, felt a withering blast
                     of hot, sulphurous breath, and became insensible.
               
               
                  VIII.
                  THE STORY ENDS.
                  HIS eyes opened once more.
                  He found himself supported in the arms of Nadalt, who was fanning him with his
                     hand.
                  "Nadalt," faintly uttered he, "where am I?"
                  "Here, where you have been—in your room."
                  "What, am I still here?"
                  "You are."
                  "Has nothing happened to me?"
                  "You fainted as you dropped the wax ball into the chafing-dish; the smell, I
                     suppose, was too strong for you.
                  "Have I, then, been dreaming?"
                  "If you have, a short time you had for it—five minutes—that's all."
                  "Only five minutes! you surprise me, Nadalt."
                  "That is all."
                  "Then, gracious Heaven!" exclaimed he, falling on his knees, and joining and
                     raising his hands, "I thank thee for it." He arose, and said unto Nadalt, "I
                     have done searching for the Elixir."
                  "May I ask why?"
                  "I have beheld too much in my dream, and passed through too many trials, to
                     cause me to attempt the discovery any more."
                  "I am willing to stop, for I knew the search would be useless," returned the
                     swarthy youth, with a grim smile.
                  "Help me down stairs, Nadalt, for I can hardly walk."
                  He did as requested.
                  Phazzo now enjoys his life much better than before. His uncle married soon
                     after, and seeing that he (the uncle) would not be lonely without him,
                     accompanied by Elverina, who was more dear to him than ever, he removed to a
                     lovely region of country, where, in the company of his dear partner, and a
                     numerous flock of smiling youngsters, with which she blessed him, he now lives,
                     happy and contented, not having the most remote wish for THE ELIXIR OF
                     LIFE.
               
            
            
               
               THE STATUE OF MARBLE.
               
                  I.
                  THE SMOKE OF THE CIGAR.
                  THE occurrences we are about to relate commenced in the attic of a house, when
                     an autumnal day was drawing to a close. The weather had been very disagreeable,
                     being cold and windy; therefore it rendered a cheerful fire extremely
                     gratifying. A young man was seated on a rough wooden bench, engaged in the
                     occupation of a sculptor. Before him was a block of marble, which, by dint of
                     hammer and chisel, he was essaying to assume the representation of a human
                     form, although no sign of it was yet perceptible, while beside him stood the
                     plaster-cast of a nearly naked female, the size of life, and of great beauty.
                     It was a statue of a heathen goddess.
                  The room was without any ornament, and the dismal prospect obtained from the
                     two windows was made up by a more pleasing one (taking the sort of weather into
                     consideration) of a stove, the lower part of which, still bearing a reddish
                     appearance, emitted a gentle heat. The floor of the apartment was covered with
                     instruments, chips of marble, bits of plaster, and plenty of rubbish of all
                     sorts.
                  The young man seemed to be an enthusiast, for his whole mind was bent upon his
                     work; and although the day began rapidly to decline, and twilight was fast
                     approaching, still the blows of the hammer fell as quickly as before, and still the small chips of pure white
                     marble fell among their fellows on the floor. His eyes at last began to fail,
                     and laying down his tools, he stripped himself of his coarse white overalls,
                     displaying a well-formed, neatly-dressed figure. Opening the small door, he
                     descended the stairs, and arriving at the parlor, entered therein.
                  This room was rather large and handsome. The mahogany folding-doors were shut,
                     that opened into the front one. A largee square table, covered with a
                     yellow-fringed blue cloth, with tassels of the same material, stood in the
                     center. On the Egyptian marble mantel, supported by two finely-carved pillars,
                     were three figures of clay, under glass cases, but so finely moulded that they
                     would bear the closest scrutiny, and were made in Spain, representing people of
                     that lovely country. The one in the center, which was the largest, was a
                     horse-breaker, seated on a steed remarkable for his beauty. He was habited in
                     his holiday dress, of gaudy colors, and decorated with no small quantity of
                     ornaments. On the right was a lady, or senora, on her way to the cathedral,
                     with the short frock, peculiar to them, showing the well-formed foot and
                     neatly-laced shoe, and with the beautiful mantilla thrown lightly over her
                     head. On the left, the contrabandista, or smuggler, likewise clothed in his
                     holiday habiliments, rested gracefully upon his long gun. Paintings of a
                     landscape and a skating scene hung on the wall, one on each side of the mantel,
                     the works of a Dutch artist. Two jars, containing flowers of shells, executed
                     by the nuns of Grenada, rested on a pier-table, while rich crimson curtains hid
                     the windows from view. We have now finished describing this apartment: the
                     reason for being so minute, the reader will see anon.
                  The young man who bore the name of Blesston, first rang the bell, then fitted a
                     candle in a candlestick; lit the candle, placed it on the table, near which he
                     drew up a large, well-stuffed, leather-lined rocking chair (into which he threw
                     himself, resting his feet on a small cushion), and placed by his side a
                     spittoon. At this moment the servant answered the bell, by making her
                     appearance; she was a tall, raw-boned Irish woman, with a bright red head of
                     hair, and with a nose very retroussé! She stared at Blesston, and Blesston
                     stared at her.
                  Said she, "Did you ring, sir?"
                  "Yes, I did. Get some coal."
                  She gave another stare, first at him, then at the fire, and then
                     disappeared.
                  "What a figure," thought he, "that would make for my Juno!" and a smile played
                     o'er his features as he compared her to the beautiful creation of his own
                     hands, the plaster cast above. "I hope to Heaven I may succeed in my
                     undertaking, and would give any thing were I sure of it." A great noise brought
                     him from this train of reflection; a rattling was heard outside, and then the
                     voice of the beautiful servant girl, uttering an exclamation of surprise.
                     Blesston sprang from his seat, and opening the door, asked what under the sun
                     it was that created such a racket. "Och!" said she, in tones of sorrow, "and
                     sure yer honor will pity me—it weren't my fault." It turned out, that having
                     arrived at the staircase with her burden, she missed her footing, and fell,
                     when clutching at the bannister, saved herself but not the coal, which with the
                     scuttle rattled down with great fury.
                  Having given her some orders, the young man re-entered the parlor, and once
                     more occupied his seat by the fire,
                     then producing a cigar, lit it by the candle, and commenced smoking. The coal
                     was brought. The servant departed. All was still.
                  Blesston was in a dreamy mood that evening, and at intervals he drew a gentle
                     whiff of smoke; that whiff seemed to produce an effect; for his eyes would
                     shut, and for some time he would continue motionless. His cigar at last (for
                     want of encouragement) went out, but yet he continued to suck it as formerly,
                     and I suppose that it was only on account of the rank taste which now it had,
                     that he became aware of the fact; howbeit, he relit it, and continued in the
                     listless state, as before.
                  Time flew on—the candle sank lower and lower, when on a sudden he gave signs of
                     returned consciousness, for his cigar had burned so low, that it was rather
                     uncomfortable for his lips, and dropping it hastily (somewhat in the same
                     manner that a person said a monkey did a hot potato) into the spittoon, brought
                     forth another, and wished to light it, but was unable, on account of the long
                     snuff of the candle. Soon, however, the snuffers remedied the evil, and his
                     wish was accomplished.
                  His mind now wandered to the labors of the past day, and recollected how he had
                     toiled, and how anxious he was to produce a beautiful statue. Some how or
                     other, as he reclined there, he wished the days of yore would return, when, by
                     the aid of incantation, he might raise a being who would bestow success on his
                     undertakings, and ending by expressing half aloud a desire that no less a
                     personage than his Satanic Majesty would pay him a visit!
                  The fire had now got reduced to a bed of dull red coals (for he had been a
                     considerable time sitting there), and the candle flared up preparatory to
                     expiring, which was its fate the next instant. Blesston was not aware he was
                     left in darkness, for his mind was elsewhere. His cigar, which he had been
                     forced to light many times, was drawing to an end, and awaking, he dropped it
                     beside the other, in the receptacle at his feet, and listlessly leaning on the
                     arm of the chair, watched it as it sent up little wreaths of white smoke. Soon
                     these began to grow larger in size, deeper in color, and instead of ascending
                     to the ceiling as aforetime, would just rise from the cigar and curl inside the
                     box. The smoke grew higher and higher, still pursuing its circular form, till
                     it had risen a foot; and it was so dense that he could not see through it.
                     Thinking this extremely odd, he blew, for the purpose of having it dispelled,
                     but such was not the case; it vanished not, in spite of the current of air!
                  The column continued steadily rising, till the height of six feet was attained,
                     then, and not till then, did it increase in width. Rapidly evaporating, it
                     showed in the midst a diminutive, hump-backed, one-eyed, red-haired,
                     long-nosed, large-eared, enormous-mouthed, crooked-teethed, one-armed,
                     lame-legged man, who immediately winked with his one eye, wagged his large
                     ears, laughed with his enormous mouth, and supporting himself on his sound leg,
                     shook with his only arm his crutch at our astonished hero, who could not
                     believe but that his eyes deceived him.
               
               
                  II.
                  THE FEATS OF WONDER
                  "WHO the devil are you?" exclaimed Blesston, starting back in his chair.
                  
                  "The same."
                  "The devil himself?"
                  "Yes."
                  "And what do you want?"
                  "Nothing at present."
                  "What did you then come for?"
                  "Because you expressed a desire to behold the light of my countenance."
                  "I believe I did have a little wish that way."
                  "I believe you did—now I'm here; what do you want?"
                  "I want you in the first place to change yourself into such a being as I can
                     look upon, for I'll be blessed if ever I saw an uglier animal."
                  His Satanic Majesty burst into a loud laugh, that sent the marrow freezing in
                     his auditor's bones, and then in a most horrible voice exclaimed, "I will
                     change, to please you—what would you like me to be?"
                  "A gentleman, if that were possible."
                  "You will see." And in an instant a fashionable person stood before him,
                     dressed in black, with long hair, eyebrows, whiskers, moustaches, and beard, of
                     the same sombre color.
                  "Now, what would you like me to do?" said he, in a soft, insinuating voice.
                  "Let me see, can you do any thing?"
                  "Certainly, I can perform every thing."
                  "That's modest," answered the other; "at any rate, display your powers."
                  "You see that?" pointing to the table-cloth, on which could just be
                     distinguished by the pale light afforded by the fire, the sperm that had melted
                     from the candle. "Well, I will show you how to remove it—pay attention."
                  Stretching out his hand, it became of a red color, and Blesston being near
                     could feel the heat thereof. Then the stranger holding it over the sperm
                     drippings, they rapidly dissolved and disappeared.
                  "Was your hand hot?" demanded Blesston, when it had regained its natural
                     color.
                  "It was of a red heat."
                  "Then that performance I myself can do, not exactly with my hand, but with a
                     red-hot poker."
                  "Are you convinced?"
                  "Not yet. But tell me by what name I may call you?"
                  "My name is Satan."
                  "So I thought. Well, Mr. Satan, let me see some more of your experiments."
                  "I have no objection; but suppose we have some light."
                  "I have no candle near, and if you want any light I'm afraid you'll have to
                     make it; but there's a fine subject to test your powers; come, create a
                     light."
                  "With pleasure; pay attention again, for I do not believe you can do
                        this."
                  Satan drew a chair to the table beside Blesston, and placing by his side the
                     candlestick, held over it his hand, keeping it there for a few seconds, while
                     this time it did not change color.
                  "Well," said Blesston, "where's the light?"
                  "Coming," replied Satan.
                  "I see it not."
                  "Look! do you not see a flame?" And, sure enough, from his open palm a pale
                     blue light burned slowly downwards. He softly raised his hand, and the flame
                     increased in size. He softly lowered his hand, and the flame entered the vacant
                     socket of the candlestick. Raising it again, it still adhered, burning as freely as before,
                     and depressing the same, it re-entered the socket. This operation he performed
                     several times. At last the point of the flame remained in the candlestick, the
                     end yet attached to his palm. Now he commenced moderately raising and lowering
                     it, steadily, as if the fire had been a piece of India-rubber, till it had
                     increased in bulk, and was so intense in brightness, that Blesston had to
                     withdraw his eyes. Stopping gradually, at last by a sudden jerk, his hand was
                     liberated, and lo! a flame of two inches in height blazed up from the
                     candle-bearer.
                  "There!" said he, in a tone of triumph; "can you do that? Can you make a better
                     one?"
                  "I must confess I cannot."
                  "You see it is not so expensive as yours, for it requires neither oil nor sperm
                     to keep it alive. You cannot blow it out, neither will it melt the
                     candlestick."
                  "Did you say that it could not be blown out?"
                  "Yes; I'll try to extinguish it to gratify you;" and taking hold, he swung it
                     quickly around in a circle, but still it was, when he had finished, as
                     brilliant as before. "And when you wish it dark," continued the strange man,
                     "all you have to do is to place something over the flame, thus," taking a book
                     and doing as he said, "and when you want it light, remove the obstacle. It is a
                     curious fire, and will not burn what is laid on it."
                  "How can you extinguish it, then?"
                  "By putting it in water."
                  "All that I can say about that is, that it is rather a light feat;
                     suppose you try something else."
                  Satan took his new creation, and placed it on the mantel, leaving the table
                     free from every thing.
                  "Help me smooth down the cloth," said he to the yet seated Blesston.
                  He did so.
                  "Now you will see the dancing girl of Spain. I will commence with that figure,"
                     and he pointed to the Spanish lady, which he uncovered and brought to the
                     table, setting it in the middle thereof, and then seated himself in his chair,
                     opposite Blesston. Waving his hand, what was the astonishment of the
                     latter-named person to see the figure, which was not more than a foot in
                     height, show signs of life. She glanced over her shoulder, and using the fan
                     she held in the way that no one but a Spanish lady can use it, commenced
                     walking with the beautiful, majestic, undulating step for which those females
                     are so renowned. Having walked around the table, as if going to church, Satan
                     thought that she had enough of that, and had better display to the observer
                     what in reality she was, a dancing girl; so waving his hand once more, her
                     sombre dress was shortened in the skirts, becoming of a light, gauzy texture,
                     and of fanciful colors. Her mantilla disappeared, and in the place of the fan
                     she held the castanets. Then skipping to the centre of the table, she lightly
                     struck them together, and bounded off to the sound of music (from whence it
                     came Blesston knew not), in a most beautiful dance. The cachucha drew to a
                     close, the castanets were clapped for the last time, the dress of the stage
                     changed to the more sedate one of the church, and the figure became as before
                     motionless!
                  "There! what do you think of that?" inquired his majesty; "are you yet
                     convinced I can do any thing?"
                  "Yes, but it is yet early; I should like to behold some more of your feats—have
                     you any objection?"
                  
                  "None at all," replied he, replacing the figure on the mantel.
                  "Then afterwards we will to business."
                  "Well, but I will have to remove the table, for then we will have more room."
                     So he opened the folding-doors, and taking it up with the greatest ease,
                     removed it into the front parlor, and returning, also did the same to the
                     chairs, there remaining then but the pier-table, sofa, and rocking chair, in
                     which sat Blesston. Then placing the figure of the lady in the centre of the
                     room, that of the smuggler near the fireplace, and that of the horsebreaker in
                     a remote corner, he said, "Permit me to remove your chair, Blesston, for my
                     little people want as much space to turn about in as possible." He thought it
                     not at all strange that his name should be known (for who was he dealing with?)
                     and arising, acquiesced with the request.
                  The figures were soon set in motion, and the lady commenced slowly walking as
                     before, drawing her mantilla gracefully about her beautiful form. The gay
                     smuggler soon perceived the lovely creature, and hastily followed. Being aware
                     of his presence, she gave him a mark of recognition as he passed, and stopping,
                     they entered into conversation, finally walking slowly on together. The
                     horsebreaker had now been caracoling swiftly about his end of the room, now
                     setting his horse into a hard gallop, then breaking him into a trot, which
                     evolutions were extremely beautiful to witness. As he beheld the lovers he rode
                     up towards them. Now he appeared to grow very angry, and Blesston saw him place
                     his fingers to his mouth as though he were pulling his tooth, and then turning
                     his head as though spitting; still (no doubt from his extreme smallness of
                     stature), he could hear no exclamation; but it was his firm belief that if he
                     could, he would have heard a tremendous oath—perhaps the greatest the
                     horsebreaker knew! The lady looked troubled, raising her hands as though in
                     fear; the smuggler stepped forth and held a conversation, when not coming to
                     very amicable conclusions, he set his horse rearing upon him; the lady started
                     back in terror, while the apparent victim, darting on one side, brought his gun
                     to a level and fired! A thin puff of smoke was seen, a light report heard, the
                     horsebreaker fell toppling from his steed, and the lovers fell into each
                     other's arms!
                  "Now," said Blesston, "I believe you can in reality do what I require of
                     you."
                  The other person simply smiled, and replacing the figures in their original
                     position, set over them their cases.
                  "Now, one more favor to ask before business."
                  "What is it?"
                  "Can you make the figures in those paintings move," pointing to them as they
                     hung on the wall.
                  "Yes."
                  The right hand picture, representing a skating scene, was soon in activity, and
                     in an instant all represented thereon was life and merriment. The skaters
                     glided swiftly o'er the smooth ice, now and then meeting comical accidents; the
                     young woman, seated in the chair on runners, pushed by a young man on skates,
                     passed merrily on, the smoke curled out of the chimney of the house on the
                     left, the old man briskly rubbed his hands as he moved up towards the same, the
                     beer-drinkers around their stands on the ice pledged each other and smoked
                     their pipes, the lookers on enjoyed the scene, and the windmills in the
                     distance moved their ponderous sails.
                  
                  "That is all very well; now for the other," said Blesston, when the scene had
                     ended.
                  The Dutch landscape did not admit so much variety as the former; yet, the
                     countryman drove on his cows and bulls with repeated strokes of the whip; yet,
                     the cattle slowly jogged along, wagging their tails to keep off their enemies,
                     the intrusive flies; yet, the youth on horseback following paid more attention
                     to a female seen in the background (who was wending her way to the house, the
                     roof of which was just visible among the trees) than he did to the cows; and
                     yet, the dog quickly lapped up the cooling water of the brook to stay his
                     ardent thirst. On jogged the cattle till they came to the foreground, and then
                     turned to the left (for to the left turned the road); on walked the countryman
                     after them; on trotted the dog; on slowly proceeded the youth, gazing
                     backwards, and—in an instant they were in their respective places again, and
                     the piece was finished!
               
               
                  III.
                  THE CONTRACT.
                  "NOW," said Blesston, "I will tell you for what purpose I wished you. You must
                     know I am a sculptor, and am at the present moment engaged upon a statue which
                     I intend shall eclipse in beauty all that have preceded it."
                  "Not so easy done as you imagine," interrupted Satan.
                  "Well, that was my intention, but fearing I might not succeed, I was wishing a
                     while ago that the olden time might again come, when help might be given by
                     some unearthly being. You appeared, and the rest is well known."
                  "I will agree to furnish you one."
                  "A statue?"
                  "Yes; one that has never before seen its equal."
                  "Do so, and I will ever be under obligations to you."
                  "Stop! There is something I must have in return."
                  "And what may that be?"
                  "Yourself."
                  "I?"
                  "Yes; you, yourself, after life has passed from you.
                  "Oh! I can never agree to that."
                  "Recollect, your statue will have no equal."
                  "My mind is made up."
                  Then my presence is needless; good evening."
                  "Stop! Give me a short time to consider it."
                  "Always ready to oblige you; but let me see your statue."
                  "Come up stairs, and your wish will be gratified."
                  So taking the candle he opened the door, and followed by his unearthly visitor,
                     ascended to his workroom.
                  "And is that your wonderful piece of workmanship," said he, nearly
                     screaming with laughter.
                  "It is."
                  "Why, my man, that's but child's work."
                  "Child's work, indeed. I'll let you know there's no living sculptor goes a-head
                     of me."
                  "I don't know about anybody going ahead of you, but here goes your lump of
                     clay," and seizing a hammer, he dealt a heavy blow upon the head of the unlucky
                     statue, which broke it in many pieces; and then, before the affrighted man
                     could stay his arm, he gave another one on the breast, staving it in, and
                     overturning the whole image, trampled on it, to its utter destroyal.
                  
                  "Now I have got you!" laughed he; "your labor is demolished, and you will
                     either be forced to accept my proposition or try again your luck, which,
                     perhaps, will not another time smile on you."
                  "Most cursed fiend!"
                  "Ah! you flatter me; but come! what say you—will you sign the contract?"
                  Blesston hesitated.
                  "Remember, you will receive a most magnificent piece of workmanship, that will
                     do you credit."
                  Blesston wavered.
                  "And your fame will be spread abroad, and—"
                  Blesston yielded.
                  "If I should sign, when could I get the statue?"
                  "To-morrow morning, at sunrise."
                  "So soon?"
                  "That is not soon; if I wished, I could create one this instant; but will you
                     sign?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, then, read this paper, and see if it is all right;" and he drew from the
                     pocket of his great-coat a roll of parchment, tied with black tape, which
                     unrolling he gave him, and then producing a quill, by the aid of a small knife
                     commenced making a pen. Blesston, by the light he held, perused the manuscript,
                     and found it to be a deed, making over his body to the Evil One when he died,
                     on condition that he should receive a marble statue, of the size of life, and
                     of superior workmanship and beauty. His face grew pale as he read, yet when the
                     devil asked him if it was satisfactory, he answered in the affirmative.
                  "Now for the signing—have the kindness to bare your arm." He bared it. Taking
                     from his waistcoat pocket a lancet, he slightly pricked it, and a drop of blood
                     oozed forth. Dipping the pen in the red fluid, he presented it to him, and
                     holding the parchment, bid him write his name, indicating the place. With a
                     trembling hand he acquiesced, and the strange visitor taking it, breathed upon
                     the writing, which instantly was dried, then rolling up the scroll, said:
                  "Go down now, and take care not to come to this room before to-morrow morning,
                     at sunrise."
                  Blesston sought his bed, but sleep visited him not that night, except at
                     intervals, and then it was accompanied by fearful dreams.
               
               
                  IV.
                  THE STATUE.
                  THE next morning he arose, and with trembling hands slowly dressed himself;
                     then went to the room in which he was to receive the payment for himself.
                     Trying to open the door, he found it fastened, which, at first he knew not the
                     reason of, but at last recollected that it was not permitted him to enter till
                     the sun had risen, and that event had not yet occurred.
                  Time flew on, and he again essayed. He entered; and there, in the place of his
                     rough block of marble, stood an image of surpassing beauty. His heart throbbed
                     with admiration in the contemplation thereof, for it was, in reality, a
                     masterpiece, and represented a female figure, exceedingly magnificent and
                     lifelike. He walked around and examined the work with great attention, finding
                     that the more he gazed the more he was pleased.
                  
                  A low, chuckling laugh was now heard, that seemed to proceed from a farther
                     corner of the room behind him, and on turning, Satan presented himself.
                  "Ha! ha! are you pleased?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Did you ever see its like before?"
                  "I must confess I did not."
                  "And you are well pleased with your bargain?"
                  "Well—yes!"
                  "Don't you think your name will be spread about now?"
                  "Very likely."
                  "Now examine the breast of the figure, and tell me if ever you saw superior
                     workmanship."
                  Blesston commenced scrutinizing it.
                  At this moment Satan gave a scream so shrill and piercing, that it nearly
                     deafened him, and at the same time the statue flung out its arms, and clasped
                     the horror-struck youth to its marble bosom.
                  "You have now had your share of the agreement; it is time I should have mine,"
                     cried he, in great merriment.
                  "What do you mean—why am I thus held?" cried he, as he writhed.
                  "What do I mean? Did I not give you, by agreement, the lovely being that now
                     holds you in her embrace, on condition that you should belong to me after
                     death?"
                  "Yes."
                  "Well, then, do you think I am going to wait some twenty or thirty years for
                     that event to happen? My lovely Venus," said he, addressing the statue, "give
                     the delighted youth one of your tender hugs."
                  "Mercy! mercy!" cried he, in agony, "spare me! spare me!"
                  "No, no; I have you now, and in a few minutes you will be completely in my
                     power."
                  "Have mercy! spare me!"
                  "Never! You entered into an agreement with me, the devil, and you must expect
                     to receive a devil's treatment."
                  "Heavens! mercy!"
                  "I will gratify your desire, and will spare you."
                  "Do. I will bless you."
                  "I will liberate you from your present state." Then folding his arms he frowned
                     frightfully, his eyes appearing like globes of fire beneath his shaggy
                     eyebrows, and in a horribly solemn tone he slowly addressed the statue.
                  "Venus! crush him!!"
                  But before the marble goddess could obey this last command, a female suddenly
                     appeared, clothed in bright robes, at whose sight Satan resumed his original
                     appearance, and ran howling away, and the statue unloosed her arms, leaving our
                     hero free. The statue stood as formerly. The fairy raised Blesston, who had
                     fallen on his knees at her feet, and spake as follows:
                  "Rash mortal! had I delayed one instant to render the proper succor, life would
                     have been extinct, and you would have been in the power of the fiend; but now
                     being liberated, act with righteousness, as you ought, and be not led into any
                     more temptations." So saying, she disappeared.
                  Blesston gazed bewilderingly around him, so overjoyed was he at his liberation,
                     and at last, having cast his eyes on the floor, beheld a roll of parchment,
                     which in an instant he knew was the contract between him and the devil, and which he had, no doubt, let fall
                     at the appearance of the fairy. Seizing it, he thrust it in his bosom, and
                     giving thanks to the divine being that had freed him from eternal agony in the
                     realms of woe, placing him also in possession of such a magnificent statue, he
                     descended to the parlor, and throwing the parchment in the blazing fire,
                     stirred not from the place till he had seen it reduced to ashes.
               
            
            
               EUGENE.
               IN the upper part of a large building, built and used as a university, was a room,
                  in the center of which was a table, and around it were six young men, whom, if we
                  were to judge by appearances, we would not in the least hesitate to say were
                  ardent worshippers at the shrine of that jovial god well known in mythology by the
                  name of Bacchus. Did they not possess haggard and bloodshot eyes? And were not the
                  bloated faces of one or two evidence enough? The round table before them was of
                  highly-polished mahogany, while a pile of black-covered books of different shapes
                  rose in the center, supporting two flaming candles, and collected around them were
                  numerous bottles, whose appearance would lead one to suppose them of antique date
                  (we will not however dispute the fact), and two big-bellied decanters, through the
                  cut-glass sides of which sparkled the rosy juice, were stationed on each side
                  thereof.
               The room itself belonged to one of the students, and all the furniture, books, and
                  so forth, were piled up in one corner, which, together with the bed, were hid from
                  sight by a green baize curtain suspended from the ceiling. Sitting at this festive
                  board, facing the entrance of the apartment, was a young man, the proprietor of
                  the room, who turning to his neighbor on the right, said—
               "Ned—a song."
               
               "Impossible! my genius does not run in that line," replied Ned.
               "Can't you try to give us one?"
               "Would you wish me to perform an impossibility?"
               "Then, Arthur, I'm sure you will."
               "Yes, yes," observed Ned, "I know you are a perfect musical character; come, let
                  us have 'Life let us cherish,' or some other song of the same sort."
               "We are extremely sedate this evening," remarked the former speaker, and nothing
                  would so enliven us as the effect of your melodious voice."
               "Humbug!" remarked Arthur.
               "No, no, there's no humbug at all," again said Ned, "what Eugene observed is
                  perfectly true, and knowing how you would please the assembly, I cannot see why
                  you even hesitate to comply with the wish."
               "Nor I either," said a fourth, remarkable as having a nose quite retroussé.
               "Nor I," added a fifth, who, possessing no peculiarities, is unworthy of
                  notice.
               "Nor I," said the sixth of this select company, thumping the table with his fist,
                  as if to give greater force to what he 
                     utttered
                     uttered
                  .
               "Now, gentlemen," said Eugene, gazing around, "what say you, a song or no song,
                  that is the question."
               "Bravo!" cried Ned.
               "A song! a song!" shouted the rest.
               "It's impossible," quietly remarked Arthur, who was an interesting young gentleman
                  of eighteen or nineteen years of age.
               "I would not press you," said Eugene, "seeing you feel a little bashful in giving
                  us a sample of your vocal powers, but as the majority is in favor of one, and as
                  the majority always govern, drink a glass of this wine to clear your pipes, and
                  without any preluding commence."
               "Or I," spoke another student, who was called Harry, and who was a tall, lean
                  personage, "had it not been that Dame Nature, that great dispenser of good and
                  evil, has not given me the power of making my voice harmonious, would have trolled
                  forth a song without more ado."
               "Now, gentlemen," answered the subject of this animated discourse, "the fact
                  is—the reason why I don't sing is—"
               "Hear, hear!" cried one.
               "The fact is, I would sing, if possible; but it is not in my power."
               "Why?"
               "To tell the truth, I have caught a cold, and am really too hoarse."
               "Nonsense," said Ned.
               "A song and nothing but a song," said the rest.
               "Young ladies," observed Eugene, "when asked, nearly always have the same
                  complaint."
               "But they get cured very easily, however; at least I saw the remedy in the
                  newspaper," replied Ned.
               "What was it?"
               "To ask their sisters (if they have any) to sing."
               "I tell the truth, Eugene. I am no young lady, and besides, for so trifling a
                  cause I would not utter a falsehood, but since I can't sing, I can drink to your
                  toasts and applaud your songs."
               After some more conversation of the same kind, Eugene, at the earnest request of
                  those present, agreed to take Arthur's part, and show his vocal talent, but as the
                  words and music were of his own
                  composition, we have been unable to obtain a copy to place before the reader;
                  however, let this suffice, it will be some consolation to know, as a compensation
                  for its loss, that neither the one nor the other did him much credit.
               The decanter and bottles slowly began to circulate; in like manner toasts and
                  jokes, laughter and repartee, arose among them. The various topics of the day were
                  brought forward, discussed, and placed aside, and at last the wine they had so
                  frequently quaffed was presented on the tapis.
                  It seemed to be the general opinion that it was good, nay, very good, and one went
                  so far as to say it was excellent, and that one was Eugene.
               "Yes," cried he, this juice is what I call prime."
               "It is so indeed," replied Ned.
               "Never did I taste better, and I doubt whether any of you did either."
               "There you mistake," answered the other, "for I have."
               "And I," observed one, "but nevertheless, I must confess that it is very
                  good."
               "So good," remarked a chubby, rosy-faced person opposite the speaker, "that I
                  could drink a dozen of those bottles without stopping."
               "Bravo! and so could I."
               "If there were such in the Good Place, where I expect to go some of these days, I
                  don't care how soon I get there."
               "Or I," laughed a merry youth, with his nose flushed greatly.
               "Neither would I have any objections," cried another, emptying a glass for the
                  purpose of showing that what he said was true.
               "Well," said Eugene, "whether you could drink the contents of twenty of these
                  bottles, or whether you would go to Heaven, or not, I don't know, but one thing I
                  do know, and that is, that I will lay a wager, I can drink more than any one of
                  you here."
               "To what amount will you lay it?" said Ned, "for if it is any thing worth gaining,
                  perhaps I will take it up."
               "You know that this entertainment cost something?"
               "Perfectly well."
               "That something has to be paid from the pockets of every one of us."
               "Precisely—all contribute to defray expenses."
               "Now would it not be particularly gratifying to the rest, if the loser wipes off
                  the whole expense?"
               The rest agreed it would.
               "You hear their answer, and mine is, that I agree to the proposition," said
                  Ned.
               "Have any of you a pen, ink, and paper—stop, I have the ink and paper, but no
                  pen."
               "Yes, yes, book it—there can be no harm in placing it in black and white."
               "None in the least."
               The desired articles were produced from behind the green curtain, and soon the
                  signatures of the contending parties were affixed to the writing. Bottles were
                  also produced, cork-screws commenced their business, and two of them were ready
                  for the consumer. Each young man taking his bottle, part of the contents were
                  poured into a large-sized goblet, which being quickly turned bottom upward, was
                  replenished, and in a short time the bottles were empty.
               "Ned," said Eugene, throwing his across the table, behind hind the green curtain, "do you feel strong enough
                  to drink another?"
               "Do you?"
               "Certainly, a number yet before I yield."
               Bottle number two was by each finished, and sent behind the suspended baize—for
                  the students kept an account, and the empty articles were in the way.
               "Eugene," said Ned, "what is the state of your thirst?"
               "Prime."
               As the third bottle was commenced the contest grew rather interesting, and the
                  remaining students drew still nearer to them, and during the silence that
                  followed, they rested their elbows on the table, and their chins in their hands,
                  watching the proceedings with the deepest interest. Instead of pouring the wine
                  first into the goblet, as aforetime, Eugene now placed the uncorked bottle to his
                  mouth, and in two draughts emptied it, while his antagonist advanced rather more
                  slowly.
               As Ned held in one hand the fourth bottle, and in the other a corkscrew, the
                  spectators saw that his glance was vacant; that he muttered; that he could not fix
                  the point of the screw in the cork; and that moreover, he could hardly keep his
                  balance in his chair; all of which signs tended to show, that he was about losing
                  the bet; this conclusion was quickly verified, for in less than a minute he
                  toppled from his chair, and fell senseless on the floor, while Eugene, with an
                  exulting laugh, severed by a well-directed stroke, the head from the bottle, and
                  elevating it, opened his mouth, into which, in a gentle stream, he poured the rosy
                  wine.
               The four students (whether it was from the knowledge that now there was hardly any
                  doubt that they would have to contribute towards the entertainment, or whether it
                  was simply from honor of the victory gained, I know not) raised a shout, and
                  placing a chair on the table, sat the conqueror thereon, then crying, "we bend the
                  knee to thee, O! thou second Bacchus!" emptied goblet after goblet of the pure
                  juice on his head, which like the ointment of Aaron, of which we read, ran over
                  his person, and dripping on the floor, cast around a strong fragrance.
               Great was now their mirth, and after the applause, the kingly occupier of the
                  chair made what he intended to be a speech, but which was nothing but unconnected
                  phrases and unintelligible words.
               The oration was finished, the glasses were thumped on the table, hands were
                  clapped, and bravos were raised, but when these subsided a sound was heard, that
                  instantly had the effect of silencing those who were not too far gone—it being a
                  knock at the door. No answer was returned, and to open it no one arose.
               "Boys," exclaimed one, "what had we better do?"
               "Who knows?" answered another, shrugging his shoulders.
               "Let him knock," said a third.
               And the knocking again commenced.
               "Perhaps that noise is made by the principal."
               "The devil!" ejaculated Eugene.
               "No doubt," continued the former speaker, "he wishes to discover what we are
                  doing."
               "And we haven't got any time to hide any of the things," observed his
                  neighbor.
               "And if we had," rejoined another, "what the deuce could we do with Ned?"
               "That's the question."
               
               "His snoring would betray his presence;" for at that moment he breathed so loudly,
                  that it sounded as if he was snoring.
               "Now, hear me," cried Eugene, from his throne on the table—"hear me."
               "Hear the king!" exclaimed the youth who declined singing, and silence was
                  obtained, for they had been all giving their different opinions on the
                  subject.
               "My idea," continued he, in a theatrical voice, "is of a sudden to open wide the
                  door."
               "And be discovered?—that's a bad idea."
               "It is not by any means a bad idea."
               "Prove it, then."
               "If it should be the principal, we are already discovered, for can't our voices be
                  heard through—the—the—through the door?"
               "True—never thought of that."
               "And don't you be—lieve, if it is him, that—that—he has been listening this half
                  hour?"
               "Very probable, I dare say."
               "And—and if it should prove otherwise, we can have the sat—is—fac—tion of letting
                  our grandeur be seen."
               Having finished this high-flown speech to the general satisfaction, the door was
                  swung open.
               "By Styx! a prince of darkness, by Jove!" exclaimed one, and a burst of merriment
                  followed, for an astonished negro gazed at the merry-makers.
               "Gentlemen," spake he, dazzled by the flare of light, and confounded by the
                  noise—"gentlemen."
               "Well, you sooty-faced rascal!" cried one, "spout away, we're all attention."
               "Gentlemen, Mr. Smith—"
               "Confound him!" interrupted another.
               "Mr. Smith told me I would find Mr. Eugene here."
               "Glad to hear it," spake the person in question, in a husky voice."
               "Is he present?" for he did not distinguish at that moment our hero, in the form
                  of the drunken student.
               "Aye, Cuff, is he," replied the opener of the door.
               "Where is he, gentlemen?" resumed the black; "I do not see him."
               "Behold him!" continued the youth, pointing in his direction; "behold him on his
                  throne of state, crowned with majesty, and wrapt in dignity," and another burst of
                  merriment followed.
               "Is it possible!" for he now recognized his features through his hair matted over
                  them, and below his wet and soiled clothes.
               Eugene's memory now stole slowly upon him; he thought he remembered the face of
                  the negro, but could not for the instant tell where he had seen him; then his
                  ideas grew somewhat clearer, and he knew the voice; then the whole man; and then
                  exclaimed, "As I'm—a liv—ing being, Scip—i—o—that you?"
               "It is, Mr. Eugene."
               "Whar did you come from?" sang the rest in chorus, going through the whole of that
                  admirable production.
               "Silence!" cried Eugene, stamping loudly, "silence!—Sip—want a glass of wine?"
               "No, Mr. Eugene."
               "Do you want to see me?"
               "Yes, Mr. Eugene."
               "What—did you—want to see me for? Here I—am!" cried he, descending from the table, and advanced
                  towards him; "come—sp—p—peak out!"
               "I have news."
               "News! out—with them; but are they good—or bad?"
               "Bad, I'm sorry to say."
               "Oh, then—Sip—don't t—tell them, I conj—j—jure you; don't you see mir—mirth reigns
                  here?—we're all happy; s—o—o am I. I'm king—did you know it? Sip, I'm king—been
                  crowned—don't you sm—e—e—ell the perfume of the wi—ine?"
               "Mr. Eugene, my news is very bad."
               "Don't—want to—hear it, I tell—you!"
               "But come into another room, where we can be in private. I must tell you, for
                  there is no time to be lost;" and so saying, Eugene saw that his voice was
                  tremulous, and that his countenance expressed grief.
               "Well, old boy, s—e—eing its so—very important—I don't care if I do—go—with you;"
                  then turning to his companions, exclaimed, as he waved his hand, "F—a—re-well, my
                  subjects!" after which, steadying himself as much as lay in his power, by grasping
                  the negro's arm, he slowly left the room.
               But there was hardly any use in thus bidding them adieu, for even during the short
                  space of time occupied by him in his interview with the visitor, a dispute arose
                  between two of the interesting and promising young students, about some trivial
                  subject, which drew in its meshes the other two; the controversy grew stronger and
                  stronger, the gestures more energetic, and the end of the affair was, that 
                     eighht
                     eight
                   clenched fists flew with repeated and heavy strokes at four human faces,
                  and in a few minutes the like number of human beings fell in a mess together,
                  rolling at length upon the floor.
               "Yes, Henry," said, in a feeble voice, a man, who lying in a handsomely decorated
                  bed, addressing a powerfully built person, bearing the appearance of a seaman,
                  standing by his side, "yes, Henry, I own nothing—am beggarless."
               "You who were so rich!—oh, cousin, the reverse of fortune is great."
               "It's terrible to those who are unprepared for the change—but, Henry, I care not
                  for myself; why should I? shortly my spirit will depart, and I hope will be free
                  from all care and trouble; but the idea is painful, to think that my son, my only
                  son, my poor Eugene, will be left penniless."
               "Do not think of that," replied he earnestly, "I promise that the youth shall be
                  taken care of by me, but how grieved I am to see you thus extended on the bed of
                  sickness."
               "On the bed of death, Henry, for never more shall I rise from it."
               "Do drive away those thoughts; why always bring it to remembrance?"
               "The hour is fixed, Henry, for my departure."
               "I hope not."
               "The doctor gives me but little hopes of recovery."
               "Try to sleep, I'm sure it will do you good; and I will stay here to give any aid
                  that may be needed."
               The sick gentleman had once possessed beauty and riches, but speculations had
                  deprived him of the latter, and care, anxiety, and numerous troubles, of the
                  former, leaving him a perfect wreck. The loss of his wealth had affected his
                  health, matters grew from bad to worse, and now he was stretched upon the couch of
                  sickness, perhaps never more to rise.
                  Many years previous his wife died, and of numerous children only one was spared,
                  whom we have already introduced to the reader, by the name of Eugene, when being
                  determined to give him a good education, he sent the youth to college—but as we
                  have seen, he learnt more of dissipation, and how to please boon companions, than
                  he did of the lore of books.
               The room in which were the two persons, was quite elegantly furnished, but a
                  death-like stillness reigned, broken only by the hard breathings of the invalid:
                  and though a couple of candles burned on the mantel, they served only to heighten
                  the pervading solemnity. Captain Henry (for that was his rank) had thrown himself
                  in an easy chair, and was gazing vacantly at the fire, feebly burning in the
                  grate, when he was aroused from his melancholy reflections, by the voice of the
                  sick man.
               "Henry, what time is it?"
               The hour was named.
               "Is it not yet time for them to arrive?"
               "I hardly think they could have got here yet."
               "How I wish they would come; I fear that never again shall my eyes see my dear
                  Eugene."
               "Hark! was not that a carriage?" said the seaman, and arising, he went to the
                  window, and softly opening the shutter, glanced out.
               "Is it he?" feebly asked the invalid.
               "A gig—man alights—ascends the stoop—no, there is only one person.
               "It is the doctor."
               The door of the apartment soon opened, and there entered a tall man, wearing green
                  spectacles; who advancing to the bed, nodded his head to the visitor, and asked
                  the patient the state of his health, at the same time feeling his pulse. His
                  countenance fell, and 
                     relinguished
                     relinquished
                   his wrist, he spake somewhat; then went to the silent spectator of the
                  scene, who stood apart:
               "Has any thing happened that is alarming?" he asked.
               "I find he is extremely low, and would not vouch for his existence long."
               "Is it possible?" replied the captain, in the whisper that the conversation had
                  been carried on in.
               The physician again shook his head, but said nothing.
               "Doctor!" exclaimed the invalid.
               "I am here"
               "Tell me, truly, how long may I—may I expect to live?"
               The hour of your departure," replied the doctor, in a solemn though unsteady
                  voice, "is, I am sorry to say, my dear friend, near—near at hand."
               "Henry—Henry—when will he come?"
               "I hear a carriage—it is them!"
               Steps were now heard on the staircase, the door opened, and in rushed Eugene,
                  quite pale! The next moment he was in his embrace. The two men stood beside the
                  bed—the candles burned still more feebly—and the father of Eugene still lay on the
                  bed, but to Him who gave it, had flown his spirit.
               The deceased, free from all the cares, troubles, and anxieties of this turbulent
                  and selfish world, was carried to his last resting place, and Eugene was left an
                  orphan. But Captain Henry fulfilled the promise made his dying cousin; and as the
                  vessel of which he was the commander, was about sailing in a few days, determined
                  to take Eugene along, as the voyage might be beneficial, and perhaps at the end thereof, something advantageous might
                  be presented. Having, therefore, arranged his affairs, on the morning of a bright
                  spring day the vessel swept gayly down the lovely harbor of New York, and our hero
                  leaned listlessly on the taffrail, and regarded the fast disappearing city.
                  Although for a few days he was a victim to the deathly sickness that affects
                  nearly every person on his first voyage; yet, when that had passed, he was quite
                  pleased with the new scene he was in, and it may be from having given up his
                  dissipated habits; though so short a time had elapsed, his health had improved,
                  and he was fast gaining in every respect. Among the passengers (for there were
                  several) one person, a middle-aged gentleman, of attractive appearance and
                  pleasing disposition, whose name was Mr. Swanly, interested our hero, and the
                  feeling was mutual; for the gentleman kindly noticed the lad, and often held
                  conversations with him; familiarity ensued to such an extent, that sometimes hours
                  would glide away unperceived by either, while in each other's company.
               It was a calm afternoon.
               The wind was just powerful enough to fill the sails of the noble ship, slowly
                  propelling it onwards, when Mr. Swanly and his young friend Eugene were sitting on
                  the taffrail, silently regarding the magnificent spectacle of a setting sun. The
                  monarch of the sky was increasing in size,,in splendor, and in deepness of color,
                  as he sank behind the vast expanse of silvered and gilded waters. The blood-red
                  orb had dipped and disappeared, and Eugene, with eyes riveted on the place where
                  he had vanished, heard a splash in the water, and turning, missed his companion,
                  when glancing downwards discovered the gentleman struggling with the billows.
                  Instantly springing overboard, he swam to the place where he had disappeared,
                  anxiously awaiting till he should arise, expecting, without any doubt, that
                  occurrence would take place; and in fact he was not disappointed, for soon the yet
                  struggling form of Mr. Swanly was perceived, a few feet distant. Three strokes and
                  he was by his side, and seizing him by the arm, succeeded in keeping his head
                  above water, though at the peril of his own life, for, as it is very well known,
                  drowning men will grasp even at straws, so, as soon as the rescuer appeared, was
                  he quickly clutched, and it was only with great efforts that he managed to free
                  himself from the frantic seizure. A boat, manned by four seamen, now arrived, the
                  two were taken therein, and in a few minutes stood dripping on the deck; when, on
                  proper treatment being rendered, in a short time they had nearly recovered from
                  their cool bath. It seems, as Mr. Swanly was sitting on the taffrail, the vessel
                  made a sudden lurch, which depriving him of his balance, toppled him
                  overboard.
               After this occurrence, he and the young man were together more than formerly, and
                  among other topics of discourse, he asked our hero the history of his life, who
                  without hesitation gave its narration.
               "Eugene," said he, when it was finished, "I have long liked, nay may even say
                  loved you. You are alone, you say?"
               "Yes, sir, I said so."
               "And without friends, save the master of this vessel?"
               Eugene replied in the affirmative.
               "You have no one except him to look to for support—no home—no relations. Now,
                  Eugene, hear me; I am rich, and a widower, but have no friend to whom I could wish
                  to leave my wealth, when the Supreme Being thinks fit to take me away. As I have said, I admire your
                  abilities and disposition; will you be that friend? Have you any objection to be
                  my son?"
               "You said," replied Eugene, after a moment's thought, "that you were a widower;
                  have you no child?"
               "Yes; but oh Heaven!" replied he, pressing his hand to his forehead, and slightly
                  changing color, "I did have one—a son—but—let that pass."
               "Is he still living?"
               "Yes; at least I know not whether he is alive or dead; it is a long, long while
                  since I saw him, and though I have made every exertion for the purpose of hearing
                  of him, yet have learned nothing; but, Eugene, will you answer my question?"
               He again fell in deep thought.
               "Mr. Swanly," at last said he, taking in his the kind gentleman's hand, and
                  speaking with tearful eyes, "Mr. Swanly, I once had a father, but—he is gone.
                  Heaven has seen fit to bless me with another. Father, I will be a dutiful
                  son."
               "My dear boy, exclaimed the gentleman, tenderly pressing his hand, "this is real
                  happiness. I know you will be what you say."
               Silence followed, and shortly after they separated.
               "Father," said he one day (for he now called him by that title), "father, tell me
                  of him of whom you spake the other day."
               "Of whom, Eugene?"
               "Of your son; I would know more about him."
               "Know, then, that I was once the happy parent of a promising boy, who, when he had
                  attained the age of manhood, was dazzled by the alluring charms of
                  vice—bewildered— fascinated. I entreated him to leave off his evil habits. For a
                  time my counsels had a good effect, but he fell again in his old course; vicious
                  young men opened the snare, and my boy fell therein! My son, my darling boy, my
                  fondest, brightest hope was led on, step by step, till in the end a robbery was
                  committed. He, the principal actor, was forced to flee from the grasp of justice,
                  since which time I have not seen him: it may be he is dead, but still I would
                  desire once more to behold him before I die."
               "How long ago was that, when he was forced to flee?"
               "Ten years have elapsed since the melancholy occurrence."
               And the conversation ceased.
               The remainder of the voyage passed without any incident worth recording. Eugene
                  grew daily in the affection of his adopted father. The vessel arrived at Havre,
                  and as Mr. Swanly was at this place to leave for the French capital, our hero
                  shook hands with and bid adieu to his relative, who was quite contented his ward
                  should meet with such good fortune, for the gentleman was one of his old
                  acquaintances, and moreover one whom he highly esteemed.
               Eugene had greatly improved, both in appearance and in health. It would be almost
                  impossible to know him now, compared to what he was formerly; the pale, thin,
                  haggard, dull-eyed boy had disappeared, and in his place was a fine-formed,
                  robust, sparkling-eyed lad. To tell the truth, he was, in reality, a handsome
                  youth, with his thick curls clustering around his brow, and even the scorching sun
                  had added to his beauty, by imparting a brownish hue to his rosy complexion.
               Paris, that place of pleasure, was reached, and when the business that called them
                  thither had been settled, they visited
                  nearly all the principal cities in France, and thence to Italy, where several
                  months were pleasantly spent in the beautiful city of Florence. After the lapse of
                  more than a year, they set sail for their native land; and it was with no little
                  pleasure that Eugene again saw the city that gave him birth rise slowly from the
                  water. They took rooms in the upper part of the city, and spent their time in
                  innocent enjoyments. Mr. Swanly was rich, and therefore there was no use in
                  working. He was a lover of books, and Eugene having taken the good advice of
                  forsaking his old companions, found much pleasure in cultivating his talents for
                  music and painting, in which last beautiful accomplishment he excelled.
               Shortly, however, was this quiet life to be disturbed, for Mr. Swanly having taken
                  a violent cold, it settled on his lungs, and notwithstanding the efforts of the
                  physician, he rapidly sank, and to the unutterable sorrow of our hero, died,
                  leaving him, for the second time, friendless; and though, when the will was
                  opened, he found himself sole heir to all his property, he would willingly have
                  sacrificed all, could he have recalled life to his dear, departed companion.
               As he sat one evening in his room, illumined solely by the feeble glare of the
                  half-dead fire, all the chief incidents that had occurred in his life for years
                  back, rushed upon his memory. He recollected his father—the drunken scene in the
                  university—the arrival of Scipio, and the dying scene—then the occurrence at
                  sea—how he had rescued his future adopted father—and, at last, thought what he
                  would do now, seeing he was alone in the world. As his eyes wandered over the
                  oft-beheld pictures hanging about the room, and the various other articles, they
                  rested on a piece of furniture which the deceased had used as a writing-desk and
                  book-case, when remembering he had wished him to destroy all his papers, he lit a
                  candle, and drawing near to the desk, opened it, and overhauled its contents.
                  Letter after letter relative to past business found its resting-place in the now
                  blazing fire, and the searcher, though sorely oppressed by the hand of affliction,
                  could hardly prevent a smile flitting over his features as he beheld a small
                  packet, labelled so curiously that he opened it, finding it to be love-letters,
                  but not feeling so disposed, did not stop to read them, and soon they were reduced
                  to ashes. As he drew forth some loose papers from a pigeon-hole, one fell on the
                  floor, which, on examination, proved to be a piece of poetry, but whether written
                  by the deceased, he knew not; however, it had no particular merit. Thus it
                  ran:
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE WILL O' THE WISP.
                           
                              Dost thou behold you glimm'ring, flick'ring light,
                              Feebly shining across this vast, dreary marsh?
                              Now gently rising, though advancing still,
                              Then swiftly dashing onwards, as before—
                              Now hov'ring o'er the dark and dismal pool,
                              On whose black surface it reflected is?—
                              A strange, unearthly light!
                           
                           
                              Behold, how now
                              On tops of reeds it's lightly resting, and
                              Again once more goes dashing, skipping on,
                              Till in the far distance it doth vanish.
                              Dost thou know this mysterious fire? 'Tis the
                              "Ignis Fatuus," leading far
                                 astray
                              The unwary traveller, who from his path
                              Doth wander, thinking he a house has found,
                              In which he might seek shelter.
                           
                           
                           
                              So it is
                              With youth. Lured by the uncertain light of
                              Evil, they the right way do forsake. On,
                              And still on, are they drawn, till at last, deep
                              Are plunged into vice, which still lower
                              Sinks them down, and then—their doom is fixed!
                           
                           
                              Shun the paths of evil. Hold not converse
                              With workers of iniquity. In ways
                              Of virtue walk thou; and then most surely,
                              When thy time does come, in the Blessed Place
                              Thou wilt receive thy just reward.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               
               Eugene missed Mr. Swanly. In fact, he was, as might be expected, extremely lonely
                  without him. No more did he hear his sweetly-toned voice, but all was silent in
                  the once happy room; the books lay scattered around; the painting easel and piano
                  stood as when last he had used them; but now they were no more touched, and much
                  of the day was spent in silent meditation. At last, thinking to wear off the
                  melancholy that had gained the mastery of him, once more he mingled in the merry
                  society he had so long forsaken, and was again a frequenter of theatres, balls,
                  and other places of amusement. This course of conduct had, in some measure, the
                  desired effect, for during the exciting scenes enacted on the boards of the
                  playhouse, his mind was deeply engaged, and his bereavement and sorrow were
                  recollected no more. But if his evenings were thus spent, a vacuum presented
                  itself during the day, to remedy which the mornings were occupied in some bar-room
                  reading the papers, in billiard saloons, or in bowling alleys, which may be
                  expected to have caused him to fall in his old way, and in the company of doubtful
                  characters.
               One night, at the Park Theatre, when the tragedy of Richard the Third was
                  finished, he left the boxes, for the purpose of "smiling," when meeting one of his
                  bar-room acquaintances in the lobby, entered into conversation, and was introduced
                  to a person of about thirty years of age, who was called Mr. Guy Sea, or as he was
                  more familiarly termed by his companions, Guy. This gentleman was dressed in the
                  very height of fashion—no pantaloons displayed in Broadway could boast of larger
                  checks; his patent leather boots were as bright as could be possibly made; his
                  dress coat and flashy waistcoat were extremely long in the waist; his eye-glass
                  was bounded by a rim of gold; a cataract of figured satin fell down his bosom,
                  supporting three or four fierce looking pins; his hair was long and inclined to
                  curl, though that inclination was aided by the barber's tongs; a budding moustache
                  had the appearance of smut on his upper lip, while a small tuft of hair, called an
                  "imperial," gave the finishing touch to quite a good-looking face. When he walked,
                  he was as if upon wires, and carried between his forefinger and thumb a small
                  whalebone cane, having at the top a carved leg, of mother-of-pearl, which
                  miniature limb was continually between his lips.
               "Ah! Mr. Eugene," exclaimed this original, withdrawing the foot from his mouth,
                  and displaying his white teeth, at the same time offering one of his delicate
                  hands, small as any lady's, on the little finger of which glistened a diamond of
                  the finest water, "how do you do?"
               "Prime," answered our hero, smiling and accepting the jewelled fingers.
               "I'm glad to hear it."
               "And you?"
               
               "Oh, I am extremely well—never better in my life."
               "The information gratifies me."
               "Precisely," answered the dandy, smoothing down his moustaches, although they by
                  no means needed the operation, "but what do you think of the tragedy?"
               "Very good—it's one of Shakspeare's best."
               "Yes—but how do you think Kean personifies the humpbacked rascal?"
               "Admirable."
               "Devilish fine—eh?"
               "It was very well done indeed."
               "It's a pity he's got such a—ah!—such a deuced rough voice—eh!"
               "It is really as you say—did his father Edmund have the same tone to his?"
               "Don't know—never had the fortune of hearing him."
               "Are you going to wait for the after-piece? I see they are about raising the
                  curtain."
               "Well, I don't care if I do—come in, and then when the piece is ended we can walk
                  part of the way home together—I suppose you go up town?"
               "Yes, and would be happy of your company."
               When the curtain fell, the two persons walked homewards arm in arm, discussing the
                  merits of two mild Havanas, and so much did they please each other, that Guy Sea
                  invited our hero the next evening to pay him a visit, giving at the same time the
                  direction where to find his place of residence, which invitation was cordially
                  accepted, and they soon after took their departure.
               The next evening came, bringing with it our hero to his friend's door, who having
                  pulled the bell three different times, first gently, then roughly, then furiously,
                  had it opened, meeting face to face a daughter of Africa, with a broad grin on her
                  countenance.
               "Is Mr. Sea in?" he asked.
               "He is," replied the dark woman.
               "Can I see him?"
               "Oh, I suppose he has no objections."
               "Will you tell him I'm here?"
               "He lodges up stairs."
               "Indeed! where—which room?"
               "There," continued she, pointing upwards, when bolting the door, she wheeled
                  quickly and departed, leaving our hero in a curious predicament; howbeit, having
                  received this very definite answer, he determined to ferret out the object of his
                  search, so by the help of a tallow candle, resting on a chair hard by, groped up
                  stairs, and knocked at the first door to which he came.
               "Come in," cried a female voice.
               "Wrong box," muttered our hero, and he knocked at the next.
               "Who the deuce is that?" shouted a gruff voice from within.
               "Still in the dark," thought he, and door number three felt the weight of his
                  knuckles.
               "Enter," whined a dismal voice.
               The door was opened, but hardly had he thrust in his head when a melancholy voice
                  was heard, uttering volumes of French oaths, and our hero just escaped in time to
                  save his head from a bootjack, which thundered tremendously against the then
                  closed door.
               "Come, come," whispered Eugene to himself, "this is curious, but I will not yet
                  give up the search," and had hardly thumped at the next in order, when it
                     suddenly swung open, and a stout
                  man, enveloped in a bear-skin coat, met his view.
               "D'ye want me," he exclaimed.
               "I do not."
               "What are ye here then for at my door?"
               "I am looking for my friend."
               "Who's he?"
               "A person named Sea—Guy Sea."
               "Oh, he's third story—second story above—there's the stairs."
               Having thanked his informer, he quickly ascended the uncarpeted steps, and when at
                  the landing-place heard from a room near by the singing of a popular tune, then
                  much in vogue among the cheap theatres and "free and easys" about town. Having
                  performed the usual ceremony, the voice of his friend was heard bidding him enter;
                  so enter he did, but saw nothing, for a screen covered with green baize hid all
                  from view.
               Emerging from behind this, he was perfectly astonished at the sight he beheld, and
                  while he stands wrapt in surprise we will seize the opportunity of describing what
                  he saw.
               The room was a perfect museum, of large size, and lit by many gas jets. Over the
                  windows were immense golden arrows, from which hung, hiding them completely, green
                  silk curtains, with yellow tassels and trimmings, while the carpet of rainbow hues
                  was rendered still more vivid in appearance by a brilliant fire of Liverpool coal.
                  In the centre stood a table, on which was a salver containing bottles of wine,
                  decanters of brandy, and numerous glasses and tumblers, while with prints, colored
                  and uncolored, books, and various small articles, it was completely laden.
               The inside of the screen was covered by engravings and one or two Chinese masks;
                  the walls were filled by paintings of all kinds, but mostly representing female
                  figures, some in a state of perfect nudity, others decently clad; the table that
                  stood at one end was heaped with curiosities from all parts of the world; swords
                  of antique date, helmets, shields, banners and spears, battle-axes and swords,
                  were laying in the corners; all kinds of modern equipments were literally piled
                  together, while among this motley collection strangely appeared plaster casts of
                  Cupids and Psyches, Adonises, Venuses, and Dianas, and nymphs ad infinitum, together with a host of statuettes, and
                  small busts were resting on little pedestals between every picture. On a sofa,
                  placed on one side of the fire-place, lay extended at full length the occupier of
                  this curious apartment, dressed in a long black robe and cap of shaggy black
                  cloth, trimmed with scarlet bindings and "frogs," amusing himself with sucking the
                  amber mouth-piece of his pipe he applied to his lips, while the carved and
                  jewelled bowl at the end of the long elastic black body was supported by the
                  figure of a dwarf in bronze, on the other side of the room.
               No sooner did Guy Sea behold our hero than he sprung up, dropped his mouth-piece,
                  kicked out of the way a small lap dog who was lying on the rich rug (and who, by
                  the way, yelped most horribly at the cruel treatment), and seized him by the hand,
                  nearly shook it off, enquired anxiously after the state of his health, expressed
                  his pleasure at seeing him, asked him how he liked the room, laid his overcoat and
                  hat out of the way, conducted him to the sofa, poured out a glass of wine, handed
                  it to him, and poured out another, drank his health, and then talked on divers
                  topics.
               Eugene expressed his astonishment at the contents of the room, when his companion arose and pointed out
                  all the beauties of the different pictures and curiosities, giving a hasty
                  description as to what they meant, and the artist's name.
               Time wore on, and after an evening spent very agreeably, our hero left, accepting
                  the invitation to call again.
               When our hero had departed, Guy threw himself on the sofa, relit and smoked his
                  pipe, patted the lap dog, and fell in the following train of reflection, which
                  lasted exactly five minutes, and which, moreover, was thought aloud.
               "Here I have been these many years, existing between wealth and poverty;—(puff at
                  his pipe)—like Mahomet's coffin between two loadstones, so am I between opulency
                  and beggary;—(puff)—what riches I see about me! but none, none are mine—not a
                  single object is my lawful property.—(Puff.)—Between gambling, drinking—(puff)—and
                  ladies—(puff, puff)—my purse is pretty low; there is not that joyful sound now
                  that once it gave forth—nothing in it! By Jupiter! done!—(giving the unfortunate
                  dog a kick, sending him against a smiling Venus, upsetting and breaking its
                  arm)—What the Old Harry am I to do to keep on my legs?—(Puff, puff, puff)—I can't
                  gamble, for what can I gamble with? But let me see how I can manage this
                  unfortunate affair.—(Here followed a long succession of puffs.)—Who has been here
                  this evening; who? a youth with more money than brains; why can't I ease him of
                  the former commodity? Certainly I can.—(Puff, puff.)—But how shall I manage it?
                  Ten to one if I ask him to loan me a small sum he will be excessively polite and
                  present me with—nothing! No, no, that's not my rôle;—(puff)—can't I get him to try
                  his hand at the green-covered table? Brilliant idea!—(striking his hand on the
                  table)—magnificent idea!—superb idea!" And so taken up was he, that he arose, and
                  catching the little dog in his arms, hugged and patted him, then laid it down on
                  the sofa, drank in quick succession three or four glasses of brandy, and skipped
                  about the unlumbered part of the room. At last he again resumed his seat and pipe,
                  and continued his meditations. "What a lucky fellow am I. Fortune smiles now. All
                  along she has hid her lovely face. There is a prospect of my now becoming a
                  millionaire; who knows? Now let me slowly run over the means I am to employ to
                  bring about this happy occurrence. First of all, he thinks I am his friend. Is he
                  mistaken? No! I am his friend in one sense of the word, and will shortly, I hope,
                  prove myself such. He has paid me a visit, and by every glance I found he was
                  pleased with me, and surprised, I may say, with the room. Now the thing for me to
                  do, is to get in his good graces; not by being too familiar, for familiarity might
                  breed contempt; but I will do my very best to be agreeable, and the next time he
                  comes, in a night or two, I will show him a host of prints and engravings in which
                  he takes delight, then get into conversation, and using my skill, will turn it on
                  the subject of making money, and bring it to the point of gambling; then by
                  working up his ideas, not to play on the first night, but only be a looker on, to
                  accompany me to one of the 'hells,' and then—(puff)—and then—(puff)—and then—the
                  tables will be turned!"
               A curiously-carved and decorated clock now struck the hour, and he found it was
                  midnight; so locking the door, he put out all the gas-lights, lit a small taper,
                  and retired into an adjoining room, where soon he was wrapped in slumber, with golden visions dancing night long in
                  his head.
               Eugene again called to see his friend, who, acting as premeditated, induced him to
                  accompany him to some of the numerous fashionable "hells," with which the good and
                  populous city of New York abounds. From a distant church spire eleven o'clock was
                  sounding, as the two friends walked down Broadway, leaving behind them clouds of
                  smoke, proceeding from the mild Havanas, when, in due course of time, they turned
                  to the left into a cross street, which soon brought them to a rather secluded
                  alley, down which lay their course. The pale yellow rays of the cold moon fell
                  cheerlessly on a dreary-looking brick house near the end thereof, illuminating the
                  panes of glass in the windows, and giving the whole edifice an appearance as
                  though it were occupied by the dead.
               "Guy," said Eugene, "where are you leading me?"
               "Into no danger."
               "But how long before we get to the place?"
               "That is it."
               "Where? I see no house that I should suppose is the place of all those interesting
                  scenes you were telling me of a while ago, except it is that deserted building
                  yonder."
               "And that deserted building is the place."
               They ascended the stoop, and the rusty bell-pull was jerked, when, after some
                  time, the door was opened, and a negro appeared, who, letting them in, asked a
                  question, which, with the answer given, was perfectly incomprehensible to our
                  hero, who nevertheless followed his conductor. The door was then locked, and the
                  negro disappeared. Groping to the other end of the entry (for the black had left
                  no light), Guy opened a small door (seeming ing perfectly acquainted with the
                  place), and they threaded a dark passage, till their progress was stopped by yet
                  another door, which, when pushed open, the sight that Eugene saw was perfectly
                  astonishing. It was a circular room, having a dome of blue ground, studded with
                  golden stars, and from the center of which was suspended a magnificent chandelier,
                  with myriads of flaming jets and sparkling crystal drops, while columns, painted
                  of a dazzling white, ran around the walls. A bar, well stocked with liquors,
                  cigars, and, in fact, all that such an establishment ought to be provided with,
                  was on one side; splendid sofas and ottomans, covered with rich damask, occupied
                  the others; while in the center stood a large table, covered with green cloth,
                  having around it the players, seated in every variety of position, whom Guy had
                  brought his friend to see. Eugene noticed the faces of these gamblers, and saw
                  despair, malice, rage, anger, and jealousy depicted thereon; never was he so
                  struck before; but when the playing commenced, growing deeper and deeper, and he
                  beheld the ungovernable signs of Agony and Expectation expressed on their faces at
                  the throws of the dice, he became perfectly wrapped in interest, and Guy saw that
                  he was beginning to grow fascinated. This was the effect he desired, and producing
                  a couple of cigars, presented one, and they smoked together, meanwhile watching
                  the issue of the game; but so interested was our hero, that several times his
                  cigar went out, and at last, tossing it from him, he gazed intently upon the
                  performance.
               Guy now ventured, in his usual adroit way, to propose trying his luck at some
                  trifling stakes; Eugene assented, and they joined themselves to the worthy
                  company. Fortune, however, smiled not this time, for in less than ten minutes they had the consolation of
                  finding themselves less all their loose change; and running in debt with the
                  bar-keeper, to the extent of two glasses of something hot, taken for the purpose
                  of keeping up their spirits, they left, intending to come again next night.
               The sun, the next day, withdrew from mortal gaze; the shades of night arrived; the
                  face of the earth was wrapt in darkness; the clock struck eleven, and our heroes
                  once more entered the celebrated gaming-house. They were recognized by the
                  players, who were the same company as on the previous evening, and invited to
                  again try their luck, which proposition was accepted. Eugene grew again
                  interested, and staked high sums, which were quickly gained by his antagonists.
                  The little dotted bits of ivory fell merrily on the green cloth, and the gold
                  passed in like manner from hand to hand.
               Fortune, however, that evening showed two faces, for our hero, after losing much,
                  commenced slowly to regain, and soon had before him a pile of glittering gold,
                  while so excited was he with his great success, that the conduct of his friend
                  passed unnoticed, for it had, in reality, changed. Now he was in his true
                  character; formerly in his assumed; and any observer might see that envy was
                  highly painted upon that frowning countenance, and desire depicted in those
                  fingers continually grasping at some imaginary substance. Eugene having at last
                  become possessed of nearly all his antagonists' riches, called the bar-keeper.
               "Gentlemen," said he to his companions, "what would you like to drink?"
               "Brandy smasher," said one.
               "Gin cocktail," said another.
               "Sherry cobbler," said a third.
               "Rum and water," said a fourth.
               "Tom and Jerry," said a fifth.
               "And you, Guy," continued our hero, "what would you like?"
               "Nothing," muttered he, clenching his teeth and hands, though both movements
                  passed unnoticed. The drinks were furnished, and drank with approbation, when,
                  after this refreshment, the playing again commenced, and two o'clock had struck
                  from the marble clock over the door, at which stroke, an unlucky throw deprived
                  our hero of one third his riches, while Guy Sea was the winner.
               "Ah, Guy!" exclaimed he, with a fallen countenance, "you are in luck."
               "The chances have been against me; but would to Heaven I could make up what I have
                  lost!"
               It was surprising how Chance will sometimes act, for in less than six throws the
                  whole of Eugene's riches was in his friend's possession! The other players now
                  departed, and our two friends played together, and so infatuated was Eugene, that
                  he continued to stake, first his diamond pin, then his ring, then his gold watch,
                  which were successively won, and the affair terminated by his giving the lucky
                  possessor of his riches a note, making over to him all his wealth, leaving him a
                  complete beggar.
               Guy very quietly folded up the paper and thrust it in his waistcoat pocket, then
                  spreading out his handkerchief, placed therein his winnings, when afterwards tying
                  it, grasped and placed it in his breast, nodded to our horror-struck hero, and
                  left the place. For an instant, Eugene stood motionless, being perfectly
                  petrified, then taking his hat, pressed it tightly on his brows and left. Awful
                  indeed were his meditations—in vain tried he to keep them down, but notwithstanding all his efforts, they would rise.
                  Murder was uppermost in his thoughts.—An invisible hand pushed him on! He hurried
                  onwards, and before long saw the form of his despoiler.—He drew forth his
                  knife—glided up—gave one blow, using all his strength—and lodged the blade deep in
                  his victim's body! After the horrid act was committed, a shivering passed through
                  his frame as he saw the unfortunate person sink on the pavement; but no time was
                  to be lost, so stooping down, he took the fatal note, his watch, and other
                  trinkets, and grasping the bundle, darted quickly onward through the gloom of the
                  night, till he reached his lodgings, when opening the door with his latch key, he
                  went to his room, and instantly lit a candle, and set about preparing for his
                  flight; for he could not stay in the city with any safety, a moment longer.
               Producing a portmanteau, he placed therein his wealth, and throwing his
                  handkerchief in the fire-place, set fire to it, together with the note, both of
                  which were quickly destroyed; then stripping himself of his clothes, put on new
                  ones, also burning the discarded ones. Thinking after this that he might further
                  disguise himself, he shaved off his whiskers, cut close his long hair, and with a
                  sort of preparation stained of a brownish hue his rosy complexion. Staying in the
                  house till sunrise the next morning, he left, not being aware, in fact, whither to
                  direct his steps. At last, knowing that it was probable he might get caught, he
                  went down to one of the wharves and took passage in a ship, which he found was
                  bound for Calcutta, thinking that by the time he returned, no doubt the affair
                  would be pretty well blown over.
               He arrived there, became acquainted with a gentleman, at whose house he resided
                  for some time, and at last he set out for his distant native land, in company with
                  a Mr. Stonemoss, who invited our hero, whenever he found an opportunity, to pay
                  him a visit at his residence, in O——,a village not far from the town of Newark, in
                  the State of New Jersey.
               Some time passed. It was an afternoon in the commencement of summer, and the
                  golden monarch was throwing his last rays over the tranquil landscape, as he sank
                  calmly behind the dim range of mountains, at the foot of which is situated the
                  beautiful village of O——. This is a village somewhat different from all else to be
                  seen—not in size; for although it is long, extending about two miles, yet it is
                  not wide; not in the number of its population, not in the wealth of its
                  inhabitants, but, in its beauty and its cleanliness. The houses are all neatly
                  painted of a pure white, with green blinds or shutters; many are overhung with
                  magnificent trees, creeping vines, or bushes, and the roads are so smooth, the
                  sidewalks so clean, every thing so neat and cheerful, that as the traveller
                  passes, he gazes on all sides with admiration.
               It was as I have said, sunset. The clouds were deeply tinged with golden and
                  crimson tints, and the spires protruding here and there above the level of the
                  village, were illuminated by its glory. All was still, not a sound being heard to
                  break the evening hour, and Peace alone did reign. The labor of the day was
                  finished; while here and there could be distinguished, persons returning from
                  their work.
               A horseman having descended the mountain, was slowly entering the upper part of
                  the village. His animal was also as perfect a beauty as could be; being of a milk
                  white, with ears, lower part of the legs, mane and tail, of jetty black, while his
                  noble eye literally flashed fire. The
                  youth, for youth he was, wore a small straw hat, with a long black ribbon, under
                  which lay, in abundant curls, his glossy hair. Bare was his throat, and his shirt
                  collar was turned over a dark silk handkerchief, possessing that peculiar tie, for
                  which sea-faring persons are so noted, while a short-skirted coat and loose
                  pantaloons completed his attire.
               He passed the Episcopal church, with its wooden spire painted brown, so as to
                  imitate stone (of which article the rest of the edifice is composed), and after
                  ascending the rising road, obtained a fine view of it for a considerable distance
                  in advance, lined by the neat dwellings, down which he proceeded at a slow trot.
                  Soon, however, the animal began to show signs of restiveness, which was found to
                  be owing to a little girl who ran a few yards in front, and thinking that a few
                  marks of kindness would suffice to pacify him, his rider patted his neck, using
                  sundry gentle words, but being exceedingly skittish, he pricked up his ears and
                  shied, causing the young man to use a little switch and tighten the rein. But the
                  horse kept backing, till he had nearly got on the elevated sidewalk, when by dint
                  of whip and skillful management, he succeeded in getting him once more in the
                  right track; and all went on well till he came opposite a public house, in front
                  of which were a party of men and boys, buying, or seeing the process of selling
                  fish, the latter operation being performed by an odd-looking genius, in a red
                  flannel shirt, seated in a low wagon, attached by cords, straps, sticks, and
                  ropes, to a lean quadruped, bearing some resemblance to a horse. Having effected
                  sales, and there being a "lull," the odd-looking genius set to his lips a
                  queer-looking, long, tin horn, blowing a tremendous blast, causing the stranger's
                  horse to rear. Then followed a beautiful display of horsemanship, which was ended
                  by the rider wheeling in front of the group, and enquiring if any blacksmith lived
                  near, as his horse had cast a shoe. The information was given, and he trotted off,
                  to the admiration of all beholders.
               A low, shed-like building was the workshop of the modern Vulcan, who, in the shape
                  of a fat, good-humored man, dressed in a leathern apron, and sleeves rolled up to
                  the shoulder, was standing in the doorway, having a sledgehammer resting near him;
                  while his apprentice, a sooty-faced, ill-dressed fellow, was working the ponderous
                  bellows with one hand, and wetting with the other the coals newly placed on the
                  blazing fire.
               "Jem," cried the smith, turning to the sooty-faced youth.
               "Sir," answered the apprentice, leaving the bellows, allowing the fire to die
                  away.
               "Do you want to see a sight?"
               "Yes, sir," cried he eagerly, "what is it?"
               "Come here then."
               Jem came.
               "Did you ever see a handsomer horse?"
               "No, sir, I never did; never in my life before."
               "Or a handsomer rider?"
               "No, sir."
               "He sits well, don't he?"
               Jem coincided with the opinion of his master respecting his posture.
               "I see he's coming here," said the smith.
               At this moment the horseman rode up and said, "Can you shoe my horse?"
               "I expect I can."
               The young man dismounted.
               
               "But," continued the smith, "have you the shoe?"
               "No; I lost it about an hour ago; but why do you ask such a question?"
               "Because I don't think I have one in my store to fit."
               "That is strange," murmured he, "a blacksmith's shop without a horse-shoe."
               "Not at all strange, not at all; because the horses about here do not generally
                  have such small feet."
               "Could you, then, make me one?"
               The smith answered in the affirmative.
               "How long would it take?"
               "About ten or fifteen minutes."
               "I'll wait then."
               "He fastened the bridle to a small hook in the door-post, and commenced a
                  conversation with the smith, who began with a piece of iron to fashion a shoe.
               "Beautiful animal that of yours."
               "So, so; but rather unruly."
               "A handsome horse, in my opinion, ought to be a little inclined that way, because
                  it gives him a better appearance."
               "I agree with you there."
               "Now the only horse here that comes any where near your's in beauty is Mr.
                  Stonemoss's."
               "Mr. Stonemoss?"
               "Yes; he is the possessor of a really beautiful animal."
               "Are you acquainted where he lives?"
               "Yes."
               "Be kind enough, then, to direct me to his house."
               "It is about a mile from here. You follow the main street till you come to the
                  brick church, and then take the road on the right of it."
               "But how can I distinguish his residence?"
               "Oh, you will easily find it; it has a veranda, I think it's called, in
                  front."
               The shoe was at last made, fitted, and nailed to the hoof; our hero once more
                  sprang into the saddle, and was about proceeding, when the vender of fish happened
                  to pass; the skittish animal once more heard the horn, startling him so that he
                  reared madly in the air, sending his unwary rider backwards to the ground, where
                  he lay senseless, and then galloped away down the village, with a troop of boys
                  after him.
               An elderly gentleman, clothed in dark garments, was reclining in an easy arm chair
                  in a library, reading an ancient volume. Long shelves, loaded with books,
                  surrounded him, while here and there stood busts of distinguished literary
                  characters, and in the centre was a good-sized table, supporting folios, papers,
                  and maps. The door was heard to open, and turning to see the intruder, a smile
                  appeared as he beheld a tall, well-shaped, beautiful girl, having her sun-bonnet
                  swinging on her arm.
               "Come, father," said she, in a merry voice, "come, father, are you ready?"
               "For what, Sophy?" replied he, smiling.
               "For that walk."
               "Why, did I promise you one?"
               "Oh, yes."
               "I don't remember it, Sophy."
               "Don't you recollect this morning, when we were in the garden?"
               "Well, I believe, really, this time you are right. I think I did say something
                  about it."
               "I know you did, father."
               
               "Well, well, I'll be ready in a moment."
               And rising, he placed a slip of paper in his book to mark the place, and getting
                  his hat and cane, was ready.
               "Now, father," continued Sophia, "can you have a more fitting opportunity to tell
                  me that little adventure of yours which you mentioned at the breakfast table?"
               "I suppose you mean the snake story."
               "Precisely."
               "I have no objections."
               "But how comes it that I have not heard it before?"
               "I thought it hardly interesting enough."
               And as they walked, the gentleman spake as follows:
               "You know, Sophia, that some time ago I was called by absolute necessity to make a
                  voyage to Calcutta, which you very well know, is an important place in India. If
                  the business had not been so very pressing, you may rest assured, that never would
                  I have undertaken it; for it was something like leaving the world, to part with
                  all my friends, and especially with you; but it was required, and I left. The
                  incidents of the voyage were not remarkable, and in due course of time we set foot
                  on the famed land, where my affairs were soon settled; but I could not as soon get
                  away, as for some time no vessel would leave for America, and such being the case,
                  I accepted the invitation of a friend, and spent a few weeks with him, at his
                  country residence, the only drawback to my pleasure being, the remembrance of the
                  dear one I had left behind. But I will to my story—"
               "All that you have said," interrupted she, "serving, I may suppose, as a
                  prelude."
               "Yes, you are right. Well, one hot, disagreeable, sultry afternoon, I was laying,
                  exhausted by the heat of the weather, in a sort of tent, a short distance from the
                  house, enjoying the fragrance of the flowers, and the handsome scenery obtained
                  from the entrance, when oppressed greatly, I fell into a dose. How long I
                  continued thus I know not, but I was brought to consciousness by something feeling
                  cold and slimy lying on me. Not a muscle did I stir, but anxious to find what it
                  was, I opened my eyes—"
               "And you saw?"
               "And I saw—"
               "What?"
               "A serpent."
               "A serpent!"
               "Yes, a monstrous one, by the way, who had curled itself upon me."
               "When I discovered myself in the power of this loathsome reptile, my first impulse
                  was, to free myself; but recollecting if I should startle it (for it appeared
                  asleep) my life would no doubt soon come to an end, I lay quite still, uncertain
                  what to do, and in a cold perspiration. His head was resting on my breast. and I
                  could nearly feel his poisonous breath. So you may imagine, Sophy, my situation
                  was far from being enviable. Soon, however, I heard steps approach, and found they
                  proceeded from a young man who came out in the same ship with me, and was on a
                  visit to the same place, who no sooner saw my situation, than placing his finger
                  on his lips, returned, leaving me over-whelmed with anxiety. Should the serpent
                  awake, I was lost; should it lay quiet till the young man returned (which I had no
                  doubt he would), I might be saved. At last he came, bearing a double-barrelled
                  gun, with which he glided stealthily and noiselessly towards me, softly presented
                  the muzzle in a horizontal manner to the serpent's head, and while my heart
                  throbbed so loud that I could almost hear it, pulled the trigger!"
               
               "And what happened?"
               'I felt the snake in an instant uncoil itself, and springing to my feet, found the
                  charge had shattered its head."
               "It was a hairbreadth escape, was it not, father?"
               "It was indeed. For some time afterwards it so strongly affected my nerves, that I
                  continually trembled, and at night imagined I saw those glaring-eyed reptiles
                  gazing at me through my mosquito nettings."
               "Well, really, father, I had no idea that ever such an adventure happened
                  you."
               "It was hardly worth the while relating, but since you wished it, there you have
                  had it."
               "Thank you—but look! what a handsome horse that is!"
               "Beautiful!"
               "He's ran away."
               "So I perceive."
               "See! there is a crowd around the blacksmith shop, perhaps they can tell you what
                  has happened."
               "Walk on a little, and I will enquire, and soon come up to you."
               And the maiden walked slowly onwards, while the gentleman went to the crowd,
                  enquiring what was the matter.
               "Oh, sir!" replied a shoemaker, that had, in his hurry to see the affair,
                  forgotten to lay down his last, "oh, sir! it's a poor lad that's got thrown by his
                  horse yonder."
               "Indeed! is he much hurt?"
               "I don't know; is he, Pete?"
               "Yes," replied Pete, turning around, "at least I suppose so—but! Mr. Stonemoss,
                  the blacksmith would like to see you."
               At this moment the smith came up in person, and said:
               "The young man was making enquiries about you, and I did not know but you were
                  acquainted with him."
               Mr. Stonemoss went to him as he was rising from the ground, and at the first
                  glance exclaimed, in an astonished voice—
               "Why, Swanly, is it you?"
               "It is, sir—ah, Mr. Stonemoss, how happy I am to see you!"
               "But, are you hurt; they told me you were thrown?"
               "Trifling, my dear sir; simply stunned for an instant, but it is now all
                  over."
               Mr. Stonemoss, after having offered a reward to any one that would bring the horse
                  (now out of sight) to his house that evening, he and his young friend walked on
                  together.
               "Sophy," said he, when he had rejoined his daughter, "I introduce to you Eugene
                  Swanly, the young man that, in the story I have just told you, saved my life.
               Mr. Stonemoss was a widower, but had residing with him a maiden sister, who was a
                  companion for Sophy, and also helped her in keeping house, and with James, who was
                  a man of all work, his household was completed.
               Eugene was proceeding on a visit to Mr. Stonemoss, in accordance with the
                  invitation received. It seemed strange to him, being welcomed back by all his
                  former friends, and being in as much society in New York as ever, that he had
                  heard nothing of Guy Sea. Neither did his friends know where he was. He had
                  suddenly disappeared, no one knew whither, and though efforts were made and
                  rewards offered, still the cause of his disappearance remained a mystery.
               So Eugene paid the visit; was thrown from his horse, and now we find him walking
                  with his friends to their house, there to pass two or three weeks. However, the
                  time flew much quicker than either of the party anticipated, and the day fixed
                  upon for his departure came—and passed, he remaining ing still; for was he not admired by the maiden
                  sister, beloved by the father, and loved by the daughter? And is it necessary for
                  us to state that he loved in return.
               Mr. Stonemoss saw how the young people felt towards each other, and was pleased;
                  and to tell a long story in a few words, the day was fixed when the holy knot
                  would be tied. Little did that happy father know the awful crime with which his
                  intended son-in-law was stained. Little did he imagine that the hand that was to
                  place the wedding-ring on his daughter's finger, had once raised a knife and with
                  it dealt death.
               How uncertain is every thing in this world! How little can we rely upon any thing!
                  One week before the day appointed, Sophia was stricken by sickness, and the
                  physician pronounced her in a very critical situation. A gloom was cast on this
                  once happy family by the sad occurrence. No smiling faces were seen; no merry
                  laugh heard; no evening walk taken as usual, but the voices and steps were hushed.
                  Melancholy was imprinted on every face, and Melancholy reigned. Sophia's sickness,
                  instead of amending, grew from bad to worse, and to the sorrow of all, it assumed
                  a more alarming character; physicians had consultations; and Sophia, the once
                  merry, the once gay Sophia, was pronounced in a hopeless state; her recovery was
                  unlooked for; she was given over to death.
               
               Not far from the village there is a beautiful spot of ground laid out as a
                  cemetery. Shady walks, romantic and delightful retreats abound, while in one part
                  is a young lake, shadowed by tall and magnificent trees. There, in this retired
                  spot, may be seen on Sunday afternoons nearly the whole population of the village
                  walking about; some may be distinguished planting or trimming the flowers, shading
                  the graves of loved ones, and groups linger, reading the inscriptions on the white
                  tablets.
               It was a calm morning that a procession trod, with solemn steps, the walks of this
                  burial place, and soon the bearers sat down the coffin, covered by the velvet
                  pall, at the head of the grave. The service was read, and the mourners gazed upon
                  the melancholy spectacle, for it was the funeral of Sophia Stonemoss. Eugene stood
                  by, while the tears rolled slowly down his cheeks, and when the labors of the men
                  were done, he turned aside and wandered away. Hours passed, and yet he continued
                  his solitary ramble, when at last he came again to the place; no one was nigh, and
                  not being able to contain his grief, fell upon the yielding sod, and wept long and
                  bitterly.
               Some time elapsed, and at last arising, he proceeded slowly homewards, where he
                  arrived, but took no part in the conversation that the bereaved father had with
                  one or two friends who came to condole with him for his loss. The hours flew by,
                  and never did a moon shine upon a more tranquil, lovely evening. About the middle
                  of the night, James, the man of all work, who happened to be awake, heard some one
                  walking slowly towards the door in the entry, when not knowing who it could be in
                  that part of the house, that could thus be stirring at this unseasonable hour,
                  opened the door, and saw the young man completely dressed, advancing, bearing in
                  his hands a lighted candle; but his eyes gazed vacantly, and the surprised
                  beholder imagined he was asleep. At one time he intended waking him, and bringing
                  him to a sense of his situation, at another he resolved to let him proceed, and by
                  following, see what he was about doing. He pursued the somnambulist down stairs to
                  the hall, where the light was accidentally extinguished; but no attention was
                     paid to this occurrence, and by the
                  rays of the moon streaming through the fanlights, James saw him lay the
                  candlestick on the table, undo the fastenings of the door, open it, and go out,
                  and so likewise did he. The hatless young man now directed his course across the
                  fields, and through the woods, till he came to the gate of the cemetery, which he
                  opened, and tried to open the door of the house where the tools, etc., are kept,
                  but finding it fastened, picked up a large stone, lying hard by, and burst the
                  lock. James stood at a short distance, and with extreme surprise saw him enter and
                  come forth bearing on his shoulder a spade, and then directed his steps towards
                  the new grave. The place was gained, when driving his spade in the ground,
                  commenced briskly shovelling out the loose earth. The coffin was at last reached,
                  and taking it out he laid it upon the green grass, and with the help of the spade
                  burst open the lid, and gazed upon the face of the occupant. James now advanced,
                  and was about interfering, when the somnambulist lifted the box upon his shoulder,
                  and leaving the hole open and the spade therein, walked quickly home, followed
                  with equal rapidity by the wondering spectator. He arrived there, and resting the
                  coffin in the parlor, ascended the stairs, went in his own room and locked the
                  door, and although James went not to his rest that night, he did not see him
                  again.
               The news like wild-fire spread through the village, that the beautiful Sophia had
                  been raised from the grave, for a person had told how he saw two men coming from
                  the cemetery, one having something across his shoulder resembling a coffin; and
                  having described the people, it was the conclusion that they were neither more nor
                  less than Eugene and James; so about noon a meeting took place, and two or three
                  persons went to Mr. Stonemoss to see if such was the case. They met the worthy
                  gentleman at the door, who, in answer to their enquiries, told them that such
                  indeed had happened, and moreover he was happy enough to add that she was alive,
                  and by the physician's word, gave hopes of entire recovery. This, as might easily
                  be expected, raised their increased curiosity, and to comply with their earnest
                  request, he told them the whole story, to the effect that he had learned from
                  James how Eugene had risen in his sleep, and in the same state gone to the
                  cemetery and raised the coffin; how he had returned with it, and how to his
                  astonishment James came to his room at daybreak, and by degrees imparted the whole
                  affair; how he had gone down and found his dear child, lying in her narrow
                  receptacle; but to his surprise found she was still alive; and a doctor being
                  called, it was found she had been buried during a trance. They expressed their
                  pleasure at this new turn of fortune, and took their departure, while this second
                  and more pleasing news was in a short time possessed by every one in the village.
                  But if this was the astonishment of the inhabitants, what must have been that of
                  Eugene, when coming down the next morning he beheld the form of her he so ardently
                  loved, lying in her bed, which was in the room adjoining the back parlor. He could
                  hardly believe his eyes. Was not she the one he had so mournfully followed to the
                  cemetery? How came she here? Had he been dreaming about the burial, or had she
                  risen from the dead? He could in no way account for it, and when his friend, the
                  now overjoyed father, told how he had been the means of bringing her to life, he
                  thanked his Creator for that blessing, for, as he told the gentleman, it was the
                  first time in his life that ever he had acted the somnambulist. As for Sophia, of
                  course she knew not, and ought not to know any thing about the affair, while her
                  father, thinking ing that some time or
                  other the secret might be betrayed, removed, as soon as the state of her health
                  would allow, to New York, where she was more secure, and comparatively unknown. In
                  time she became perfectly well, and once more our hero entertained hopes of
                  calling her his own. The day was again fixed, and the party were collected in the
                  church. They joined hands, the minister gave the blessing, and Eugene and Sophia
                  were man and wife. Sophia saw her husband on a sudden turn deadly pale, and
                  stagger as if fainting, having his eyes fixed upon a person among the number of
                  spectators; he fell, but was caught and supported by Guy Sea!
               "You here!" exclaimed Eugene, when he had recovered, "you!"
               "Yes," replied the other, "yes, Eugene, I am here."
               "How came you here—I thought—I thought—"
               "No matter at present. Come to my lodgings, number—, Broome-street, I will then
                  tell you all. Come any night you like, for I am always at home."
               "I will."
               And they parted; Guy to his home, Eugene to his bride, who stood speechless with
                  the other spectators, at the scene that had transpired. But she now perceived a
                  wonderful change had wrought itself in him—more lively and cheerful did he
                  seem.
               A day or two passed, and our hero had almost forgotten his friend who had so
                  mysteriously appeared at his wedding; however, at last, having an opportunity, he
                  determined to visit him, hear what was to be said, and have the mystery
                  explained.
               It was rather an unpleasant evening. Cold was it, and yet still colder when the
                  wind blew down the streets in hurried gusts. The moon shone cheerless, and on the
                  whole, the evening strongly reminded him of that time when he was first induced to
                  visit the gambling house. Buttoning his overcoat to his throat, and pressing his
                  hat firmly over his brows, he left his elegant mansion in the upper part of the
                  city, and wended his way to the place designated. At last he stopped before a
                  dismal-looking, two-story house, and by the light of a still more dismal,
                  flickering light, he read on the door the letters "BOARDING," engraved on an
                  immense plate of brass, that the weather had nearly changed into bronze. He looked
                  for a bell-pull, but none was discernible; a knocker was sought, but that article
                  also was missing. No light was visible from any of the windows, but still he would
                  not depart, and rapping with his knuckles awaited an answer; when getting
                  impatient by the delay, and cold by the wind, he used his heels against the
                  imitation oak. A light now streamed through the fanlights, a bolt was pulled back,
                  a lock turned, and a head was seen behind the half-open door, enquiring what was
                  wanted. His business was explained, and he was suffered to enter, when also
                  entering a small room, boasting in the way of furniture two chairs, a table, and a
                  bed, and illuminated by a tallow candle, he faced a person sitting on one of the
                  aforesaid chairs, who immediately pointed to the other one, but spake not a word.
                  Eugene shut the door and sat down.
               "Guy, your appearance has removed from me a heavy load," for it was Guy Sea with
                  whom he was.
               "Ah, Eugene, I wish that evening had been my last, for perfectly miserable am
                  I—perfectly miserable."
               "What do you mean? Is it the reverse of fortune, for the aspect of this room is
                  rather different from that in which I first met you?"
               "Partly so; but if you have any patience and any desire sire to hear my history, I will in a brief manner
                  give it you."
               "Yes, I should like to hear it."
               "Know, then, Eugene, that at an early age I became dissipated, and fond of low
                  company and the midnight carousal. Now, had I proper guidance, it is my firm
                  belief that never would I have so erred; but being sent from home, I was my own
                  master, and fell in debt, and wrote letters to my father, from time to time,
                  advising him of them, with a wish to have them paid. At first they were paid, with
                  a hint, now and then, not to raise them so high, but instead of lessening they
                  increased, and, as I had expected, letters of advice and letters of censure came,
                  with a threat that no more money would be forwarded. What should I then do? Deeply
                  in debt, much more so than I dared even tell, I had not wherewith to get rid of
                  them. I was not the only person thus fixed; another youth, whose name I forbear to
                  mention, was as much, if not more, involved, and so we came to the conclusion of
                  retrieving our lost fortunes by robbery. Robberies were committed, and soon,
                  little by little, our debts were cleared off, for had we at once settled them,
                  suspicion would have been aroused. Once more we were penniless. I dared not write
                  my parent, for I understood from a private source that, by some means or other, he
                  had become acquainted with my deeds of wickedness; so another robbery was
                  concocted, and carried into execution with such skill, too, that it baffled the
                  vigilance of the police. Having thus acquired a respectable sum, and being aware
                  that if we ventured again into that adventurous line of business, we might be
                  caught, we turned our attention to the gambling-house, and there night after night
                  was spent gaining and losing money, for we ventured low at first. My companion one
                  evening, to my envy, swept the entire board, and gained, before the night had
                  passed, immensely, but against my advice embarked again, and lost the whole. So
                  strongly did this affect him, that he drew from his pocket a pistol, and the next
                  instant a report was heard; the smoke cleared away, and my friend was lying on the
                  floor lifeless. Scenes like those rarely occurred in the place, and, of course, it
                  so warned me, that for a long time I kept away from the alluring place. Poverty,
                  however, and the pangs of hunger drove me, at last, again to the green-covered
                  table, and having borrowed, such was my luck, that I departed a rich man. I then
                  assumed a new name, disguised myself so that hardly any of my old acquaintances
                  would know me, and removed to New York, where I lived like a fighting-cock.
                  Fashion was now the shrine at which I worshipped, and I moved in its circles; but
                  as my expenses increased, my funds grew less (I had borrowed some small sums, and
                  given as security all my effects), when one evening at the theatre I got
                  introduced to you. That introduction, Eugene, was not, as you might have imagined,
                  purely accidental. By no means. For a long period had we thought upon it, and as I
                  saw you only during the evenings, I could never have the opportunity I desired. At
                  last, however, we got introduced, as you know. You were rich, I was poor, and it
                  was my determination to possess your wealth. I had so done, but it was wrested
                  from me by the hand of my victim. Eugene, I have looked upon the stroke you gave
                  me as the visitings of Providence. Since then I have become a new man, and have
                  thought deeply on my past life. I see that my sins are numberless, and I am sorely
                  oppressed. Money I have not, it is true; but still I wish it not. Eugene, the
                  memory of the best friend I ever had, and the way I treated him in my letters,
                     hang heavily upon me; but I know not
                  where he is. Eugene, have you a father?"
               "I have not, for he died long ago, and my adopted father also has been taken from
                  me."
               "You had an adopted father?"
               "Yes."
               "How did that happen?"
               Eugene told him, as we have already told the reader.
               "And what was his name?"
               "His name was Swanly."
               "Almighty God!" cried Guy, springing from his seat, and seizing with both hands
                  his hair, "he was my father!"
               "And is your name Swanly?"
               "It is."
               Silence followed.
               "Oh, Father of Heaven!" cried the sorrowful youth, raising his hands, "take away
                  my life, for I am not worthy to live."
               "Be calm; be calm, my friend."
               "Pardon me, Heaven, for the deed I am about to commit; life is a burden to me—I am
                  utterly unworthy to live;" and he proceeded across the room, and drew forth a
                  pistol, which he cocked.
               Eugene rushed, and stayed the murderous purpose, wresting the weapon from him.
               "Eugene," spake Guy Swanly, "you have done that action with a good motive, but it
                  is lost. Why should I want to live? Is not my friend—the only friend I ever
                  had—dead? has he not bitterly wept for my sin? can I rest here, with that
                  remembrance?—no! Eugene, farewell! Soon will I be judged for my
                  sins—farewell!"
               And before he could stop him, he had left the room, leaving our hero standing
                  motionless with horror.
            
         
      
   
