
    ----CITATION----
        Brown, E. E. (b. 1847). From Night to Light .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5905 wright2-0378
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               
                  Then turning to those ominous words his voice thrilled every heart as he read. P. 63.
               
            
         
         
            
               FROM NIGHT TO LIGHT.
            
            BY B. E. E.
            
            
               Boston:
               Published by D. Lothrop & Co.
            
         
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1872, BY D. LOTHROP & CO., in the Office of the Librarian of Congress at Washington.
            
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               CHAPTER I. DOWN THE RIVER, 5
               
               CHAPTER II. WHAT'S THE NEWS, 11
               
               CHAPTER III. NEW SCENES BRING NEW TRIALS, 23
               
               CHAPTER IV. MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN, 46
               
               CHAPTER V. UP RIVER AND BACK AGAIN, 69
               
               CHAPTER VI. WIDENING RIFTS, 92
               
               CHAPTER VII. ZIONWARD, 107
               
               
               CHAPTER VIII. BEGINNING OF THE GREAT WORK 171
               
               CHAPTER IX. FLITTING SUNBEAMS AND DARK SHADOWS, 190
               
               CHAPTER X. BLUE RIFTS AGAIN, WITH JUST ONE PASSING SHADOW, 224
               
               CHAPTER XI. THE LOWERING CLOUDS SHOW SILVER LININGS, 245
               
               CHAPTER XII. INTO THE BROAD SUNLIGHT 259
               
            
         
      
      
         
            From night to light
            FROM NIGHT TO LIGHT
            
               CHAPTER I.
               DOWN THE RIVER.
               GOLD! To the right there, Naphtali! Are you dreaming? A watchful eye, boy, would better become your post than a woman's voice!"
               Instantly the sweet chant ceased, and a bright flash kindled in the young Jew's eye as he caught the sneering look of his master.
               The sharp words bore a double edge of ridicule and unmerited rebuke, for Naphtali knew he had not neglected duty; his song, as it chimed with the dipping oars, had helped, not hindered, his busy eye and hand.
               But now the heavy cloud of captivity hangs low again, and he can no more sing with grateful love, "I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people; and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations!"
               Sadly musing, the young boatman guides his frail craft now east, now west; till, suddenly, it strikes the rapid current and glides swiftly down the stream.
               Dimmer grew the snow-clad hills to the north; wide and yet wider swells the beautiful Euphrates, and now, like slender needle points, the turrets of Babylon rise in the blue distance.
               The curious willow boat with its leathern covering, seems a mere basket on the broad river; yet its cargo is safer now than when it started. For the pointed rocks along the shore, that threatened imminent danger to the frail lining, are far removed, and the guiding oars need scarcely to be stirred.
               So, while his companion at the bows idly toys with his floating oar, Naphtali takes from his girdle a well-worn parchment, and silently finishes the Psalm that his lips had begun, "Through God we shall do valiantly, for He it is that shall tread down our enemies."
               Naphtali's face brightened, and forgetting himself for the instant, he repeated, half-aloud, these cheering words of patient hope.
               The wily Assyrian stood close by, and, with his accurate knowledge of the Hebrew tongue, quickly comprehended the earnest words.
               "Ha! You Hebrew dog! A traitor's song, is it?" he cried, white with rage. Then, snatching the roll from the boy's hand, he flung it far out into the river.
               "Oh my lord!" pleaded Naphtali, you—"
               "Not a word, young rebel! Attend to your duties. But stop! Have you any more of those vile songs in your girdle?"
               "That was my only copy of King David's Psalms," said Naphtali, as he gazed respectfully at the floating fragment.
               
               "And that was one too many! But here—give me your girdle, boy, that I may see if you speak the truth."
               Satisfied, at length, of the boy's honesty, the tyrannical master left him with threatening words; and soon the same rough voice was heard giving orders at the bows.
               But a wild tumult had been aroused in the breast of the young captive—grief for his lost parchment, wounded pride and fierce resentment were each struggling for mastery there.
               Suddenly, wafted down as it were on the wings of the wind, came these words to his troubled soul: "The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed." As the voice of a loving friend, they rebuked his angry passions, soothed his wounded spirit, and awakened the happy thought, "The parchment is not wholly lost to me—I have nearly all of it now, written deep down in my heart!"
               And yet Naphtali could not keep his eyes off the precious roll, now a tiny white speck in the wake. Ever since the aged Ithamar had placed it in his hand with a dying blessing, it had seemed a sacred thing to him; and, of late, as he had become more familiar with its contents, it had grown yet dearer to him.
               But see! The little craft is floating now into the very heart of Babylon—mighty Babylon, with all its far-famed wonders! Naphtali rouses from his reverie, and, with steady hand, vigorously turns the paddle till the bows point to the gateway where the boat is to land. And now all eyes are turned, perforce, to the gorgeous panorama that shifts nearer and nearer. After the dreary monotony of the plains, it had always seemed to Naphtali a most beautiful picture; but just now, in the golden glory of sunset, it is superb! Like emerald arches mounting heavenward the wonderful Gardens rise, their rich, green foliage hanging, as it were, in mid-air, and striving to clasp the earth-clods with the blue above. Close by, in its own grand setting of parks and gardens, the great palace of the king appears; and in the beautiful amber glow its raised foundation of bright-hued bricks is trans-figured into so many precious stones. Now, on the western bank, the majestic temple of Belus rises, tower above tower, to a bewildering height, until the eye fancies it has caught for a diadem the dazzling bar of sunset. And around all this beauty and splendor, around each lordly mansion and each humble dwelling, too, are thrown the mighty arms of invincible walls—invincible save where the great river cuts them as a keen sabre's edge, and then glances away to its scabbard in the sea.
               But now the brazen gateway shuts out the magnificent scene, as the dropping of a heavy curtain; and, for a time, both the lost parchment and the grand picture are forgotten in the busy present.
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               "WHAT'S THE NEWS?"
               WE must keep our cargo on board till the sunrise, for the twilight comes on apace. But here, Naphtali, you are swift of foot, and I promised to deliver, without fail to-night, these bottles of palm wine. Take them to the merchant's house this side the main gateway; and see to it, lad, you do not tarry by the way."
               Naphtali had learned, from long experience, that silent, implicit obedience, best pleased his master; so, with a respectful nod, he quickly packed the leathern bottles into his tray, carefully poised the burden on his head, and hastened to the merchant's house. There seemed a strange commotion in the streets, he thought; at almost every corner excited groups were gathered, and the few words that he caught as he passed by, only roused his curiosity the more. But it would not do to tarry, even a second, until his errand had been performed; so, with swifter feet, he hastened on, and, unlading his tray in the courtyard of the merchant's house, he eagerly questioned the waiting servant as to the cause of this unusual excitement.
               "Cause enough. Have you not heard the news of the courier? Darius the Mede has summoned young Cyrus of Persia to join his troops in besieging our city! Let the vultures come, I say; they will find live soldiers here, instead of their common feed!"
               "This is news indeed!" exclaimed Naphtali, and then, with all a boy's eagerness to hear more, he quickly added, "and how soon will the soldiery reach the walls?"
               "Not sooner than we can be a match for them!"
               Here a sudden call from within summoned the servant away; and Naphtali hastily raised his empty tray, as he noticed its lengthened shadow on the tiles. Ere many minutes the gate would be closed, and after that the boat could not be reached till morning. So, restraining his curiosity, he hurried back as swiftly as he came.
               The little corner groups were slowly dispersing now, but eager, excited voices greeted him on every side; and, as he passed the armory, a clattering of shields and spears within seemed to his own excited brain, a stirring war-song.
               The brazen gates closed together with a loud noise, just as Naphtali stepped down into the boat. A minute later, he must have passed the night on the pavement, and so have incurred the sore displeasure of his master. Drawing a deep sigh of relief, he eagerly asked his companions if they had heard the great news. "Nay, verily!" they replied in one breath, "how should we, indeed deed? The captain has permitted no one but yourself to go ashore, the hour for gate-closing was so nigh. But tell us the news without delay."
               With intense interest they listened to Naphtali's brief recital, and quickly reported it to their captain. Longing to learn more, they eagerly scanned the closed gates, and watched the city lights over the inner walls. But no unusual sights could they detect anywhere; and, at length, after asking one another all manner of wise questions that could be answered by nobody, they separated for the night.
               With his face turned Zionward, Naphtali repeated his evening supplication; but the sound slumber that generally came without the asking, refused all invitations for awhile. The very stars above him seemed like vigilant sentinels watching for the coming army, and he longed to scan, with their far-sighted eyes, the gathering hosts of Medes and Persians. Would the morrow's sun, he wondered, reveal those countless legions on the vast plains of Shinar? would a battle take place at once; and would his master, his companions and himself, be summoned into the field? But the walls were so strongly built and so well fortified, the siege might last a long, long time. Perhaps they would die of starvation ere there was any call for active fighting! What would his little sister Rachel think, when the weeks turned into months—into years possibly—and still they did not come home? Of course she would know the reason some time; but what would become of her should he die meanwhile? "Trust in the Lord and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed." "Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He shall sustain thee."
               Naphtali started; for, on the midnight stillness the words seemed to come with the distinctness of a real voice. "Oh my precious parchment! How much comfort thy words have given me—would that I had thee still!" he exclaimed impulsively. But there was no one near to hear him now, for even the watchful Assyrian was soundly sleeping. Thinking upon these sweet songs of David, Naphtali recalled with them the thrilling strains of Isaiah which he had learned from the venerable Ithamar.
               Suddenly a falling star arrested his attention; it was by no means a strange occurrence, but as it pointed towards the sleeping city, there came to his mind with wonderful force that prophetic cry: "How art thou fallen from Heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning!" Had not the patriarch whispered to him that it foretold the ruin of Babylon—"the golden city?" Ay! and it was a Cyrus, too, that Isaiah called the "Lord's anointed"—His "shepherd"—the deliverer of Israel, by whom, in some mysterious way, the temple was to be rebuilt! Strange he had not thought of all this sooner! But the bare idea of a coming battle, in which he, too, might take a part, quite filled his mind before.
               Now, all the words of his old friend came back to him with a new meaning. The ending of the seventy years' captivity so close at hand!—The new light about to dawn upon his captive nation!—The fall of mighty Babylon, so long "the glory of kingdoms" and beauty of the Chaldee's excellence!—should he see it all with his own eyes as Ithamar had declared?
               Just then the waning moon lighted up the huge lion's head on the gateway, and, to Naphtali's vivid imagination, it seemed a vision of "the wild beasts of the desert that should one day lie down in the desolate city!"
               And when, at last, sleep closed his straining eyelids, he dreamed that the meteor he had seen, fell upon the lofty temple of Belus; and, immediately, each sculptured head of bull and lion shot forth tongues of blasting flame.
               But when in his dreams, Naphtali strove to arouse his sleeping mates, he suddenly found himself wide awake in the rosy light of the new-risen sun. The events of the day before reminded Naphtali that he must be more cautious in the future; so, as the morning advanced, not a word of these prophetic strains escaped his lips. All his companions were Assyrians, and he knew that the slightest mention of such things would be sure to bring down volleys of contemptuous jeers, if nothing worse. Beside, should it spread through the city that the Jews were expecting any deliverance, a persecution of his whole nation would be a very possible result.
               So Naphtali quietly pondered in his heart the wonderful words, and performed his morning duties with wonderful alacrity.
               The opening of the gates had been anticipated by all on board; and now, as they swung slowly back, the boat's company gladly stepped on shore—all save Naphtali and the other oarsman, who were left in charge of the cargo.
               It had always been the custom of these primitive boatmen to break up their perishable craft as soon as their merchandize had been sold. Then the willow boughs were offered for sale, and the leathern linings, if uninjured, were carefully folded up and carried home again upon asses brought down for that purpose. These skins were then used in constructing new boats.
               As so much time, therefore, must be consumed in the long and tedious journey up river, their stay in Babylon was, generally, as brief as possible; and so, after many conjectures as to whether or no business will proceed as usual, Naphtali and his companion conclude it will be best to have every thing ready for a speedy unlading.
               While they are thus employed, let me draw you a pen-picture of the young captive. Small of his age, and slenderly built, he seems a mere child beside his stalwart companion; but the eighteen years of his clouded life have not been without their moulding influence upon mind and heart, and as you know him better, you will find he has already acquired a true manliness of character. Waving black locks and dark, restless eyes to match them; olive cheeks with color deepened by out-door exposure; a true Jewish, aquiline nose; a mouth delicately curved as a girl's—and you have Naphtali's face before you.
               
               Doubly orphaned by their mother's death two years before, Naphtali and his little sister have fondly clung to each other, and thus far had kept together, as slaves, in the same Assyrian family. They were born in the land of exile, and the only legacy that captive parents could leave them was their own dreary life of bondage with its one gleam of undying hope. But they were faithful, zealous Jews, and had early taught their children the value of this glorious expectation.
               Then Naphtali's friendship with the good old Ithamar, had greatly increased his child-like faith; and little Rachel, who always found it easy to think as Naphtali did, had learned from his hopefulness to take courage herself.
               But now Ithamar had been called higher, with Rachel Naphtali could talk but rarely, his parchment was gone, and the boy himself was surrounded by every influence to draw him away from this despised religion.
               How think you? Will he forsake the cherished faith of his fathers? Let us follow him through a few years and see what the result will be.
               The goods are all ready for transportation now, the patient donkeys are waiting to carry them ashore, and Naphtali and his companion are eagerly watching for the return of captain and crew.
               They have questioned the few loiterers about the gateway concerning the expected enemy, but have ascertained little more than they knew before; and as the boat alongside has come from up river, it brings no tidings.
               With sharpened curiosity, therefore, they greet the returned boatmen, and eagerly inquire,—
               "Is Cyrus' army in sight? What are the king's orders? Will there be an active battle or a siege?"
               "Yes," to the first question, for along the eastern horizon something had been discerned that the watchmen declared was an army in motion! King Belshazzar had been, at once, apprised of it, but had scarcely given it a thought. Were not his soldiers as the locusts in number, and ready for battle at a moment's warning? Why should his people change countenance at thought of a coming enemy? If worse came to worst, his brave troops could retire within the walls, and where was the man that lacked confidence in those impregnable battlements? With disciplined soldiery, with granaries heaped with corn, and wide fields within the city for unfailing produce, why should they borrow trouble for the morrow? Why not put away these foolish anxieties at once, and eat, drink, and be merry? Thus reasoned the great Belshazzar in his pride, and thus he strove to quiet his panic-stricken people.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               NEW SCENES BRING NEW TRIALS.
               "YOU have labored for naught, lads," said the Assyrian captain as he noticed their morning's work. "We shall not go up river until after the siege—for such I foresee there will be. The merchandise may remain on board till the king's command comes to bring every thing within the gates." Now the reason of this command was very evident, for, of course, at such a time the longer the produce was held back the larger price it would command.
               So the merchandise was carefully packed away, and the prudent Beriah proceeded to hire out his crew to places of labor in the city.
               Naphtali had some work assigned him at the Hanging Gardens, where a few extra laborers were needed for the week. As he walked through the streets of the city, he could but notice how suddenly the panic of yesterday had subsided.
               But the light of a king's countenance is soon reflected upon his people. If Belshazzar could feel so secure in his well-built city, why should not they, like him, put anxious care away? To be sure the battlements had been examined, spearsmen and archers were gathering into corps for future service; and, from all parts of the kingdom, large quantities of provision were being brought to the city. But this precaution was an under-current that Naphtali could not perceive in the tide of gay voluptuousness that rolled over Babylon. To all outward appearances, the great aim of life with this effeminate people was the luxurious ease and giddy revelry that everywhere greeted his eyes.
               In the dust at his feet lay a golden tassel, dropped, evidently, from the trapping of some richly-caparisoned horse. Stooping to pick it up, again came the prophetic words of Isaiah to his mind: "Come down and sit in the dust sit thou silent and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldees: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms."
               Now, instead of envying the gay youths that passed him, Naphtali longed to warn them of the coming days; to beg them put away their gold and silver idols, and worship Israel's God, beside whom there could be no other. But that, of course, he could not do; and so the longing of his heart framed itself into an earnest prayer for the doomed city.
               "Why! I should think this was the ladder Jacob saw!" exclaimed Naphtali, as he approached the wonderful Gardens. And truly the flowering terraces, rising one above the other to a towering height, seemed fit steps for the descent of angel feet. Alas, that its beautiful groves should have been consecrated to monstrous idols, and not to the great God, who is above all principalities and powers!
               The work portioned out to Naphtali for the first day, was the weeding of a grand parterre on the broad area at the top. Under the burning tropical sun he soon found his labor was to be no child's play; nevertheless he heartily enjoyed the prospect. To him it seemed like stepping inside some beautiful picture, and working; for pulling weeds here was quite another thing from the dull, prosaic work in the millet rows. All about him rose the perfume of rare exotics, his listening ear was charmed by the singing of wonderful birds, and, whenever the cool breeze stirred the foliage of the trees, his eyes feasted upon picturesque glimpses of the city and its river below. Could the Garden of Eden have been more beautiful than this, he wondered! Ah! but there were no weeds then, to uproot—no sweating of the brow to earn one's daily bread—no cruel bondage—no hiding of God's countenance from His people'
               A ripe pomegranate dropped to the ground just at Naphtali's feet, and interrupted his revery. How tempting its red cheek looked in the sunlight! It would quench his burning thirst, he knew, but Eve's transgression was fresh in mind, and instantly stilled the sinful desire. It did not belong to him, and had not the God of Israel said, "Thou shalt not steal?"
               By-and-by a quantity of the luscious fruit was plucked by a young nobleman as he passed that way; and a pomegranate richer and redder than the one Naphtali had longed for, was tossed into his hands. The young Babylonian liked the boy's frank face and courteous thanks; and, noticing the sudden lighting up of his whole countenance, he said: "I trow, lad, you were thinking of something beside the pomegranate just then, were you not?"
               It was a friendly voice that addressed him, and Naphtali answered with his usual ingenuousness, "I was thinking, my lord, about Eve, and wondering if God would have given her the apple some day, if she had waited."
               
               "Ah! a Hebrew lad, is it? Surely I might have known that from your countenance. But how is it, boy, you can believe in this God whom we have never seen?"
               "I do not see your soul, my lord, and yet I believe you have one, all the same."
               "That was a good answer, young Jew! But tell me, do you think the God of Israel is more powerful than Belus—the great Belus, who is clothed with the sun?"
               "I know, my lord, that our God once commanded the sun to stand still for a whole day, and it obeyed Him!"
               "You are a bold defender of your faith! But tell me, how and when did your God do this marvellous thing? for you can talk and work at the same time," added the young noble, as Naphtali cast an anxious glance from his half-weeded plot to the declining sun.
               The boy then repeated the story of the sun standing still at the command of Joshua, adding, with enthusiasm, the words of David: "O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is Thy name in all the earth; who hast set Thy glory above the heavens!"
               But how rash, he thought, to repeat this to a Babylonian!
               Young Shethar had, however, a larger heart than most of his countrymen, and had listened with wonder and delight to the enthusiastic boy. In a tone that showed deep interest, he quickly asked, "Is your song ended so soon, my boy? It was certainly a fit ending to your marvellous story. But do you know, lad, you have a wonderful voice for singing; and how is it you have learned to use it so well?"
               Doubting the evidence of his own ears, Naphtali looked up in amazement. Was the speaker ironically praising, or was he really in earnest? Thinking the latter impossible, the young Jew answered in quite excited tones,—
               "O my lord! I humbly beg your pardon! I quite forgot myself—but do not call it a haughty song, for I did not mean it so."
               
               "Oh no! my lad," said Shethar with reassuring kindness, "I saw that it came from your heart, and I don't wonder that a religion like yours should kindle enthusiasm. I must hear more of these strange stories and majestic songs. Come to-morrow to the palace you see yonder, and I will listen to you again."
               Naphtali could doubt no longer the sincerity of his new friend, and answered with regret, "I would gladly come if I could, but my master has hired me out for the week, and I cannot leave my work."
               "And who is your master?"
               "Beriah, my lord, from the city of Is."
               "Ah! I have heard of that enterprising merchant. But what say you to an exchange of masters?—how would you like to become my servant?"
               Naphtali's face fairly beamed with joy as he quickly answered, "I cannot tell you how much I should like it."
               "I know you would be a good servant, my boy; I will see your master to-morrow."
               But in a moment the boy exclaimed,—
               "Please my lord, I did not think of little Rachel. She is my only sister, and our parents are both dead. You know how much I would like to become your servant, but how can I leave little Ray all alone in that cruel family? I would rather stay with Beriah, and so be near my sister."
               "You have a little sister, then—and how old is she?"
               "Thirteen last month, my lord."
               "Is she good-looking, kind, and capable?"
               "That she is indeed, my lord."
               "Just the one, then, to wait upon my lady! We must have her, too, if your master will give her up."
               A flush gathered in Naphtali's cheeks, and he tried to express his gratitude: "May the God of Abraham bless you for your kindness to friendless orphans!"
               Shethar, had noticed how sweet was the lad's voice, and, besides feeling a real interest in him, believed he would be worth more to him than the market price of a slave, and resolved at once to purchase him.
               And yet Shethar scarcely did himself justice. Something beside selfish profit had really influenced him; else little Rachel would never have been offered a place in the crowd of supernumeraries that thronged his household.
               At all events Naphtali, in his simplicity, believed him a miracle of goodness, and the heart of the young captive beat high for joy as he thought of the possible future in store for Rachel and himself.
               Not many days elapsed before the exchange was satisfactorily made. Rachel was to be brought to Babylon as soon as the crew went up river again, and Naphtali was immediately introduced to his new round of duties.
               At first he did little else than serve as a companion to his new master. With deep interest Shethar listened to the wonderful stories in Jewish history, that Naphtali was only too happy to relate; and with his iron pen he noted them down upon clay tablets as fast as they fell from the boy's lips.
               A Babylonian of rare abilities and high culture, Shethar ever found more pleasure in the pursuit of knowledge than in the gay frivolities of court life. In astronomy, astrology, and the traditional history of his own country, he was well versed, but these Hebrew traditions he had never thought worth the study before.
               Naphtali, however, unlocks with magic key the despised casket, and lo! the student finds therein a store of inexhaustible wealth. Those pathetic, soul-stirring songs of David, those thrilling strains of the prophets—why, in all the lore of priest and scribe, he had never heard the like! Indeed, Shethar found so rich an entertainment in Naphtali's store of Scripture knowledge, and in his sweet songs, that he seemed to forget he could make any other use of his new slave.
               One day, however, it occurred to him that if Naphtali was to be educated for a singer at court, he must learn to accompany his voice with the lyre. So he bade the boy bring down from the observatory a triangular instrument he would find in one corner.
               Naphtali hastened to obey, but no sooner had he reached the housetop, than his quick eye discerned in the distance a great gathering of people. He could see the spears glittering in the sunlight. What, save the enemy's approach, could have called out the Babylonians in such countless numbers?
               Grasping the lyre, Naphtali hastily descended to inform his master of the strange gathering. But messengers from the court were there before him, with tidings in full. The enemy, by rapid marches, were fast approaching the plains of Shinar, and would soon reach the very walls! Every man to his post! was the King's command, and young Shethar hastened to obey the summons.
               Now the nobleman well knew that among the whole retinue of his servants, he had not a more devoted one than Naphtali; so, much to the chagrin of his old favorites, he appointed the young Jew to be shield-bearer. A coat of armor, a sword and shield are, therefore, given to Naphtali, who arrays himself, at once, for the battlefield. Catching, in the polished metal he carries, a sudden glimpse of his warlike costume, Naphtali can hardly recognize himself; and, as one in a dream, he takes his place in the gorgeous chariot.
               Nearer and nearer come the strains of martial music, the gayly caparisoned horses prance to the measure, bright pennons float in the breeze, and all things seem ready for a grand festival instead of a scene of carnage.
               But now the chariot falls into line with the others, and grows as insignificant as a star in the milky way; horseman and spearman march into file; the word is given and the whole army pace through the gates, cross the moat, and offer open battle to the enemy.
               As the incoming tide of ocean, the Persian army steadily advances. The golden eagle on the standard of Cyrus, quivers in the light, as if pluming its wings for victory; the sun image on the commander's tent grows larger and brighter now, the chanting of the priests with the holy fire can almost be heard, and the gilded chariots, the archers, the spearmen, with the vast body of light-armed troops, present no mean rival to the Babylonian pomp and power.
               As the order comes to charge, a vision of little Rachel's sweet face startles Naphtali. Will he ever see it again? Brushing away one blinding tear, he whispered, "Into Thy hands I commit my spirit, Thou hast redeemed me, O Lord God of truth!" Then, with firmer grasp he clenches the huge shield and holds it with zealous care above the head of his master.
               Of the terrible battle that ensued, the brave fighting on either side, and the swaying tide of victory, we can say but a word—all ended in the humiliating defeat of the Babylonians, and their hasty retreat inside the walls. A sore mortification tification it was to the proud citizens, and might have taught them a lesson. Whether it did or not the future well discloses.
               Shethar's charioteer lies with his fallen horses on the plains, but the young nobleman and his shield-bearer are alive.
               Naphtali has given ample evidence of bravery and fidelity, for Shethar leaves the field without a single wound. Once a barbed arrow pierced the young shield-bearer at an unprotected point, but the injury proved a slight one; and now, with grateful heart he follows his master home. Loud lamentations greet them every where in the streets, and Naphtali can but remember again those fearful prophecies. Is not this defeat, he wonders, the signal of yet greater ones?—this mourning, the beginning of an endless weeping?
               Shethar has not been unmindful of the boy's unselfish services and wonderful courage; and a high post of honor such as were only given to a favorite, is assigned Naphtali among the body-servants of the noblemen.
               
               Were it not for the twinging pain in his arm, he could almost have believed that the terrible battle he had witnessed, was but the remembrance of a frightful dream. All over the city, wild recklessness and drunken revelry had quickly succeeded the disappointment of defeat; for Belshazzar and his people felt perfectly secure within their invincible walls, and viewed with scorn the besieging army without. Had they not provisions laid up for twenty years? Why then, should they afflict themselves with needless anxiety?
               So reasoned the counsellors; and to the very laborer in the streets this reckless spirit penetrated; for, although a prudent mind or a warlike soul might, here and there, be found, they formed but rare exceptions to the throngs of giddy pleasure-seekers.
               Months passed by; and still the besieging army labored in vain with their battering rams, their catapults and other engines of assault. The walls seemed, indeed, impervious to every manner ner of attack; and, with great exultation, the Babylonians viewed these repeated failures.
               Young Shethar returned to his favorite pursuits, and Naphtali learned with delight to wake sweet strains upon the lyre. His voice grew richer and deeper with frequent exercise and careful training, and Shethar marked with growing interest the lad's rapid progress.
               But one day there came to Naphtali the first great trial he had known in his new home. A song was given him to learn that shocked his inmost soul by its heathen profanity. How could a Jew pollute his lips with vows of lifelong service and adoration to gods of gold and silver? Should he sing them just as a mere form, and so please his kind patron by obedient life-service? Nay! That would be giving the lie to his own conscience, be disobeying a higher Master. The great Being who had said, "Thou shalt have no other gods before me," had also said, "Lying lips are an abomination unto the Lord." There was but one decision—he could not, he would not do the wicked thing! With a resolute heart, Naphtali took the song and craved admittance into his master's study.
               Shethar always had a warm welcome for his favorite; and, now, as usual, invited him to tell him what he wanted.
               Naphtali bowed his head respectfully, and said, "I would like to ask of you a single favor."
               "That shall be granted at once, my boy, for I know you would not ask of me an unreasonable thing."
               "I thank you, my lord, for your kindness, but I fear my request this time will sorely displease you. You know my lord, that I am a Jew, I worship one God, the Lord of Hosts; and this song you have given me to learn is full of prayer and praises to other gods. Pardon me, I beg to be released from this command. I would rather die than utter vows that I cannot keep!"
               Shethar's countenance falls; are his plans for the young captive to be defeated so? Greatly displeased with his favorite, and governed even in kind acts more by self-love than by principle, he utters sharp words of rebuke.
               "Have I been so long deceived by your smooth words, young Hebrew? I believed you had some sense of gratitude for the favors heaped upon you, but I see you are like all your people, a traitor and rebel at heart. Have I not listened with respect to your Jewish songs, and acknowledged the greatness of your God? And now, when I ask you but to offer like praises to the gods whom I adore, you have the face to tell me you will not do the thing! A promise, though rashly made, is a sacred thing, and I grant you your request; but your post of honor shall be taken from you! Begone from my presence, unthankful boy, and take your place among the menials of my household!"
               As Naphtali turned away with bursting heart, his bandaged limb arrested Shethar's attention. A vision rose up before him of the bloody field of carnage, the blinding shower of deadly arrows, the dauntless form of the young shieldbearer bearer in the midst of all, and his brave, untiring service. Calling Naphtali back, he added, with something of his old kindness,—
               "I acknowledge, boy, your faithfulness on the battlefield, and in every task assigned you except this last. If you repent of your rash words, I will yet take you back to your former position; you know the one condition: implicit obedience to all my requirements."
               "O my lord," said Naphtali meekly, "I thank you for your kindness, but I cannot take back my words. I will serve you faithfully among your menials."
               Shethar could but admire the boy's firmness, yet a deeper frown of displeasure was all that Naphtali saw as he left the nobleman's presence.
               With a heavy heart but a clear conscience, he hung up his lyre, left the magnificent halls, and with spade and hoe, took his place among the sun-browned laborers in the park.
               Many jeering questions greeted him on all sides, for the other slaves had long eyed the nobleman's favorite with jealous dislike.
               Once Naphtali would have answered such taunts by sharp retorts; but the God whom He served had shown him a better way, and all his replies were so meek and so wise, that his persecutors stared wonderingly at him, and soon held their peace.
               As the days and weeks passed by, Naphtali won not only the respect but the hearty friendship of these rough laborers. Captives from many a conquered nation, they had at least one point in common, and sympathy ofttimes leads to closer ties.
               But among this motley number, Naphtali dis covered only one of his own people—a young man some years his senior. This Ishbak showed in his very face some Jewish traits that Naphtali did not possess. The piercing gaze of his jet black eye bespoke a certain far-sighted sagacity, and the compressed lips and sharp outline of his whole countenance revealed a proud spirit, unsubdued and chafing constantly under the chains of captivity.
               
               Naphtali was almost afraid of him, at times, his words seemed so like the mutterings of a black thunder-cloud. Those grand prophetic strains that thrilled his own believing heart were no comfort to the incredulous Ishbak. A Jew, intellectually, the latter believed in the one true God as a mighty King and a stern Judge; but, experimentally, he knew nothing of God as the loving Father and Unseen Friend. No wonder, then, that the dark cloud of captivity had not one rift of the blue for him. The past he saw was impenetrable gloom indeed, but Naphtali's range was larger, and to him the cloud was checkered all over with light.
               And yet our poor boy had many things to trouble him; nearly two years had passed away since he came to his new home, and in all that time he had not heard a word from Rachel.
               As a crouching lion, the besieging army still lay beside the city, and all communication with the outer world was effectually cut off. Then, Shethar, the nobleman, seemed quite to have forgotten his old favorite; Ishbak was a constant perplexity to his Jewish hope; and his other companions were far from holding to him the place of congenial friends. His daily labor, too, was growing very irksome and exhausting; for his old wound, from want of proper treatment, had broken out afresh.
               And yet, Naphtali's confidence in His heavenly Father remained unshaken. The rifts in the clouds would surely widen ere long, and he could patiently wait till then. When discouraged, those well remembered songs had cheered him, and many a leisure hour had he spent in writing them down for Rachel, upon tablets of plastic brick.
               So the great God led him up to manhood, and, by-and-by, he realized how good a thing it is for a man to bear the yoke in his youth.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.
               ONE day, when Naphtali and his fellow laborers were excavating an artificial pond, one of the number said, "Have you heard of the feast at the king's palace? A thousand lords are to be there to-night, and our master among them."
               "I wonder the king's heart can be so merry when his city is in danger."
               "In danger, indeed!" said a third; "ah, ha! these two years have told a different story. Except the defeat of our troops in the outset, not a single thing worth mentioning have the Medes and Persians done."
               "That may, or may not be," said Ishbak shortly; "I don't believe they have been idle. All this digging of theirs isn't for nothing!"
               "Indeed!" exclaimed the first speaker, "since you are so very wise, perhaps you can tell us what shall result from this brave work of spading!"
               Ishbak answered the sarcastic thrust by a look of haughty disdain, and no more was said on the subject by anyone. Naphtali had not joined in the conversation, nor had the words of his companions specially interested him; but with terrible force they were soon to come back to his mind. That night, as he lay on his couch, a sudden cry of alarm reverberated through the empty courtyard.
               "To arms! To arms! Fight for your lives! The enemy is inside the gates—has entered the king's palace!"
               Is it a dream—a horrible nightmare? Ah, no! He is wide awake, and frightened cries from the startled household, aimless running hither and thither, a clatter of armor, and piercing shrieks from the street, unite in confirming his worst apprehensions.
               The enemy at the king's palace? Why, his master was to be there, too, that night! Would he not want his old shield-bearer?
               Quite forgetting his disabled arm, Naphtali runs to the armory, puts on his coat of mail, and seizing sword and shield, rushes out into the streets. To the brilliant palace of the king he hastens, taking by-ways thereto that he thinks the Persian soldiery have not yet discovered. Through the thick shrubbery of the park, he steals with noiseless footsteps—a few rods more, and he will be at the palace gates. But hark! Was that the wind among the trees? The sound grows louder and more distinct—'tis the stealthy approach of coming footsteps. Naphtali crouches in the shadow and waits in breathless suspense. Dark forms pass close beside him, and hoarse whispers reach his ear.
               "Here's a good place among the trees—let's bury our booty here."
               "All right! be nimble, boys! Dig a deep hole, and smooth it over well."
               "Ho! comrades, a grand night is this for the Medes and Persians. How capitally we surprised the people! Who but our great commander would have thought of turning the river?"
               "Hush, Frath! some one may hear our voices."
               "There! the treasures are all covered over, and we'll cut a notch in this tree to mark the place."
               The sound of their retreating footsteps dies away; and Naphtali, undiscovered, is left quite alone. The whole conversation has been carried on in Hebrew, much to Naphtali's surprise; afterthought, however, suggests to him, that, very possibly, some of his scattered nation have been pressed into the service of the Median king, and so have formed a part of the conquering army. But it matters very little to him now who the soldiers may have been, so long as they are out of sight, and his way to the palace is unobstructed. With swifter steps he hastens on, and enters now the almost deserted halls. Oh! the horrible, heart-rending sights that meet him everywhere! The lofty colonades seem to supplicate heaven for mercy, as they tower in bloody draperies above the fearful scene.
               Naphtali shudders as he recognizes, here and there, among the mangled corpses, the face of some noted lord. And can it be that his own master, his kind benefactor of old, lies here, too, among the slain?
               From room to room he hastens, now throwing off a shower of arrows from his faithful shield, and now contesting the right of way in a hand-to-hand attack, until the sudden gleam of an expiring torch reveals the pale face of his master.
               As the lightning's flash, Naphtali darts to Shethar's side, and his heart throbs with joy as the nobleman greets him with a glad smile of welcome. In this dark, obscure corner of the palace, young Shethar had fallen, after a brave resistance; and, too weak to help himself, he had lain there quite unnoticed by either friend or foe, until Naphtali's approach.
               The rough soldiers have passed to another apartment, and are greedily devouring the remains of the feast, so Naphtali is not hindered in his work of love.
               He bathes the bleeding wounds, and binds them with strips of the linen tunic. Then he brings cooling water to Shethar's parched lips, and longs for the strength of Samson that he may bear his master away to some quiet resting-place.
               But Shethar is too weak to take a single step, or even to utter an intelligible word, and soon sinks into a light slumber. So, until the morning watch, Naphtali sits beside him, a faithful, tender nurse. Fearful of detection he dares not seek a light, and so the night's black shroud gives an added gloom to everything. All about him lie the bodies of the slain; and, ever and anon, from distant corridors come the moans and wails of the dying. He longs to carry some comfort to the poor sufferers, but Shethar holds his hand in a vice-like grasp, and he knows his duty is just to stay where he is.
               The tramp of the soldiery seems fainter now, but they have left the palace only to seek fresh plunder; and now the cool night breeze comes laden with the shrieks of new victims.
               Is this the way that Cyrus "the shepherd" comes? How can such barbarity help his captive nation—how can such savage soldiers perform the will of an All-merciful Father?
               Naphtali is perplexed and troubled, yet he cannot doubt the prophecy. "God's ways are past finding out," he murmurs, "and in his own good time I know He will bring to pass each word of his counsel."
               But how had the besiegers entered the city, he queries. Had they made a breach in the walls, had they forced open the brazen gates, or had they scaled the battlements? Each supposition seemed equally incredible to Naphtali, as he thought of the lofty wall and strong fortifications. Then the words of the soldier came to his mind—"turning the river"—what did that mean? How could a man, though mighty as Cyrus, move the great stream? Naphtali's head fairly ached with the perplexing doubts and queries that darted in such swift succession through his brain. Would the morning never come? Surely this was the longest, dreariest night he had ever known! What if his master should die before the dawn? He bends his ear lower, and draws a sigh of relief as he catches the faint yet regular breathing. God is good—why then should he not cast his burden upon the Lord, and remember David's "songs in the night?"
               Oh! those sweet, comforting words of the Psalmist!
               Suddenly, Shethar started uneasily, and, unloosing his grasp of Naphtali's hand, gave one long, agonizing cry.
               "Dear master," whispered Naphtali tenderly, "what can I do for you? I wish I could suffer in your stead!"
               "Is it Naphtali's voice I hear! Ah, yes! I remember. Truly I have done you a great wrong, my brave boy. You are a faithful servant indeed, to stand by your master in such an hour."
               "Don't speak of that, my lord. Let me ease your pain and comfort your heart, if possible."
               Shethar grasped the hand of Naphtali in hearty appreciation of his fidelity, and the latter hastened to raise the refreshing water to his master's lips.
               "Let me feel the cup, Naphtali," said Shethar abruptly. "No! it is not a chalice from the temple, as I feared. I will drink from it now."
               Then, as he sank back upon the young Jew's shoulder, he exclaimed,—
               "Ah! Naphtali, your God is a great God indeed! I have seen His power to-night with mine own eyes. Listen! I will tell you about it, as I have the strength. My long sleep has refreshed me, and I can talk more easily now. You know about the great feast Belshazzar made for his lords, but do you also know that he graced his table with gold and silver vessels from the temple of your God?"
               Here Shethar's voice quite failed him, but another drink of water soon refreshed him and enabled him to continue. "King Belshazzar praised our gods as he drank from these sacred cups, and when he pressed them to his lords, Oh Naphtali! I took one in my hands and touched it with my impious lips! Pray to your God, I beseech you, that He will pardon my sin. But hark, lad! What was the sound I heard?"
               "I have heard sounds like that all night, my lord; I think it is the moan of some sufferer like yourself."
               "Do you think so? Then run to him, lad, and see if you can relieve his pain."
               Groping about in the glimmering light of the early dawn, Naphtali hastened to a neighboring corridor whence the sound proceeded. At first he can distinguish nothing save a heap of mangled bodies; but, as he stops in perplexity, again he hears that half-smothered, piteous cry for help. Can it be that some poor soul lies buried in that horrible mass? Surely the sound seemed to issue from beneath it! Waiting no longer, Naphtali raises the ghastly forms, one by one, until his eye detects a slight movement. Now he labors on with new zeal, and soon there rises, as if from the dead, the form of a living man unscathed by a single wound!
               'Tis a Persian soldier he has rescued! But what is nationality to a man just snatched from the jaws of death? The warrior recognizes in Naphtali only a deliverer, and clasping the hand of the Hebrew boy, he strives to express his gratitude.
               The light of the new day streams across the lofty pillars, and resting in equal measure upon Jewish slave, upon Persian warrior and upon Babylonian lord, it seems a fitting emblem of their common human nature—the one tie that binds together all our motley race.
               Naphtali can understand nothing but the gestures of the soldier, for the Persian language is an unknown tongue to him; yet, something in the warrior's manner raises hope in his despairing heart. If he can only make known to him his master's need, he feels sure of finding in the Persian a ready coadjutor. So he points to the young nobleman, and, with earnest gestures and all the beseeching eloquence of Jewish eyes, he draws him to Shethar's side. The soldier, in broken Assyrian, now makes himself more intelligible; and, glad of an opportunity to prove his gratitude, he declares his willingness to aid Naphtali. So together they form a rough litter, and tenderly place the wounded man upon it. Then the Persian throws his own outer garment over Shethar, that the rich robe of the nobleman may attract the attention of no curious eye, and out of the charnel-house they bear him to the street below. The Persian's uniform allows them to pass unmolested through the disordered troops that meet them, and, ere long, they reach the nobleman's palace.
               
               But oh! what a change that one night has wrought in the beautiful mansion! Everywhere their eyes behold the marks of plundering hands, and the long halls echo to their tread with a hollow sound that seems born of emptiness. Shethar's eyes grow wild with anxious fear, for not a living soul of all his vast household greets him. What has become of his invalid wife and his little son? Is there nothing left to give him a clue to their fate? His head droops heavily, and the bearers pause in dismay. But he has only fainted. A breath of the cool morning air and a dash of cold water soon revive him; and, as they lay him down upon his own couch, he sinks into a peaceful slumber.
               The soldier, who seems to have a kindly heart under his rough exterior, eagerly questions Naphtali if there is nothing more he can do.
               Understanding his motions better than his words, Naphtali pauses a moment; and then, stepping to an adjoining apartment, he brings forward a lady's robe and a child's necklace, points to his master, and places the garment and bauble in the soldier's hand. The latter is puzzled, at first, to know what he is to do with them; but as his eye wanders through the empty apartments, he suddenly comprehends the pantomime. He is to find the owners of the articles he holds, and bring them to the nobleman!
               With a quick glance of assent, he clasps the necklace about his wrist, noticing the peculiar mark upon it; then he gathers up the embroidered robe and hastily leaves the palace.
               Naphtali thinks it very doubtful whether he shall see either garment or soldier again; but the thought had flashed through his mind that possibly the lady and child might be recovered in this way.
               The slumber wrung from exhausting pain is short-lived indeed, and Shethar's faint voice soon breaks the silence with anxious questions about his loved ones.
               Naphtali longs to soothe his master, but knows his answers can bring but little comfort.
               
               "Yet, dear master," he adds, "your armed household were not their sole protectors—the great God tenderly cares for such innocent and helpless ones."
               "But not for mine, Naphtali, not for mine! I have offended your God, and my own great Belus has forsaken me! There is no hope for me or mine."
               "Say not so, my lord," said Naphtali earnestly; "would that I could make you feel how merciful is the God of Judah!"
               "Just, you ought to say; but stay! I have told you only half the story of last night. The soldier has gone, I perceive, and I will hasten to relate it ere we are interrupted again."
               "And I am longing to hear it, my lord; but let me first exchange your bandages, and cool your burning brow."
               "You are a careful nurse," said Shethar with a grateful smile, as Naphtali tenderly dressed the bleeding wounds. I am very comfortable now. But oh that I knew of the safety of my wife and little one! I cannot talk of anything until you have searched the house, Naphtali. Look into every nook and corner, and see if you cannot find some trace of the dear ones."
               Naphtali obeyed with alacrity, but soon returned from his fruitless labor.
               "'Tis but another punishment from the hand of your God, Naphtali; my life is only spared for greater torture!"
               "O my lord," said Naphtali, soothingly, "do not afflict yourself unnecessarily. Your loved ones may be safe in the house of a friend. Wait, in patient hope, till the tumult has subsided without, and then a thorough search can be made through the city."
               "You always see the bright side, Naphtali, and I will try to look with your eyes to-day. But listen, Naphtali, to the rest of my story. We had scarcely sipped the wine from those sacred cups, when upon the plaster of the wall, just over the candlestick, came the fingers of a man's hand! Strange, awful words they wrote upon it, that made Belshazzar quake with fear, although he could not read a syllable.
               I looked upon the writing with amazement, for never, in all my researches, had I seen such characters before, and the dazzling light that shone upon them made them still more puzzling. All the magicians, soothsayers, and astrologers were quickly summoned, but they could not decipher the mystical writing. However, when the queen-dowager heard of their repeated failures and the king's distress, she came to the banqueting-house, and told Belshazzar of the great Daniel and his skill in all manner of interpretation.
               "Perhaps you have heard of this prince of astrologers, for he belongs to your people."
               "Yes, my lord," said Naphtali, "but we call him a prophet of the Most High God! We have no magicians."
               "Well, I was struck with wonder at his modesty, courage and wisdom. But fear came upon us all, as he fearlessly reminded the king of the late Nebuchadnezzar, and how little he had profited by the example of his ancestor. Then, turning to those ominous words, his voice thrilled every heart as he read: 'MENE, MENE—God hath numbered thy kingdom and finished it. TEKEL—thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting. PERES—thy kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians.'
               Never, to my dying day, shall I forget the look of horror on Belshazzar's face as he comprehended the fearful omen. But he commanded the scarlet robe and the golden chain to be given Daniel, and proclaimed him third ruler in the kingdom, since this was the reward he had promised to the true interpreter.
               Yet Daniel had requested the king, before he read the writing, to keep his gifts for another, and I believe that, when they were forced upon him, he cared not a jot for the honor.
               You know, Naphtali, the rest of the story—the enemy's sudden appearance in our very midst, the murder of our king, and the terrible, terrible contest in the palace!"
               
               Through the whole of Shethar's recital Naphtali had been intensely interested, and now, as his master pauses, he exclaimed, with reverential awe, "O God! how great is Thy majesty! how terrible are Thy judgments!"
               "Can you wonder now," added Shethar, "that I trembled at the very thought of such a Being?"
               "My lord," said Naphtali quickly, "you see but the clouds and darkness about our God; you have yet to learn of his great mercy. Let me sing a part of the song you used to think so beautiful."
               Shethar turned his head to listen, and Naphtali, with a full heart, began: "Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all His benefits; who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases; who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will He keep His anger forever. As the heaven is high above the earth, so great is His mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us."
               As rain upon the mown grass came those precious words to the nobleman; and, although he knew not now, there yet sprang that day from his shorn earthly hopes the tender germ of a new and living faith in the one true God.
               As the morning advanced, a number of Shethar's slaves returned to their old home, but when they caught a glimpse of Naphtali and the nobleman, they fled in dismay. And not one of Shethar's retinue, except Naphtali, remained.
               The long hours lagged that day on the desolate mansion, but none came to molest the sufferer or his faithful nurse.
               When the sun began to decline, and all seemed quiet without, Shethar bade Naphtali ascend to the little observatory upon the roof. A fine lookout was this, over all the surrounding country try, and the nobleman was very anxious to know how fared the city below.
               The very first thing that attracted Naphtali's attention, was the strange appearance of the great river. It seemed to have contracted into half its usual breadth. Again the soldiers' remark came to his mind—"turning the river"? Why, yes! he clearly understood it now. Without doubt, the great Persian general had borrowed a hint from the canals of Queen Nitocris, and had dug a larger one to take the mighty waters. Cyrus had made the river's bed a highway for his army, and had found an easy entrance thus into the very heart of the city.
               He must descend at once and tell his master of the curious stratagem. As he passes the corridor adjoining his master's apartment, he catches a glimpse of the soldier in the courtyard below. Anxious to learn what tidings he brings, he hastens down to meet the Persian.
               Minus the robe and necklace, the latter carries in one hand two pair of iron fetters, and in the other a paper scroll.
               This last he hands to Naphtali, who opens and reads it immediately. 'Tis an order from the soldier's commanding officer, and is written both in Persian and Assyrian. The nobleman's wife and heir are held as hostages by the conquerors.
               If the Babylonian will lay down his arms and swear allegiance to the Medes and Persians, his life, his estate, his slaves shall be spared to him, and his wife and child immediately returned. Upon the same conditions, to him who has saved the life of a Persian soldier, a high reward shall be given. Otherwise, in fetters of iron must both be brought into the conqueror's presence.
               Naphtali beckons the soldier to follow him, and then hastens to read the order to Shethar. It is a hard struggle for the proud Babylonian, but affection for his loved ones at length conquers every other feeling, and, with trembling hand, he signs the oath of allegiance.
               
               Naphtali then affixes his own name to the parchment, but adds therewith that he can not accept any reward for a simple act of humanity.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               UP RIVER AND BACK AGAIN.
               AND what of little Rachel all this time? Up the river, some hundred and fifty miles to the north-west, the city of Is had known, as yet, very little of the commotion at Babylon. News of the approaching enemy had reached them in due time, but the last boatman who had sailed for the capital tarried long, and day after day passed with no tidings from the great metropolis.
               Beriah's thrifty household are just in the busy season of their linen manufactory; let us look in upon them this bright afternoon, and see if we shall find our little Jewess among the number.
               
               
               Ah! I think you will recognize her at once, in that row of busy maidens, for her face is the very counterpart of Naphtali's.
               With nimble fingers she twirls the growing distaff, until her dizzy head and aching arms compel her to stop and rest.
               "Here, Rachel," says the woman directing the work, "we have no time to lose; if your fingers are too stiff to round evenly, go to the roof and bring me some bundles of flax."
               Glad of a change, Rachel obeys with alacrity; and as she stoops to gather up the dried flax, her eyes follow with eagerness the strip of blue that fades away in the distance.
               Thither had her brother sailed in the early morning, two long years before, and not a day passes but she lives over that last good-bye. How bright and handsome Naphtali had looked as he kissed away her tears, and bade her be of good courage, for he would soon be back! How tenderly he had whispered that sweet word "Mizpah," telling her he should repeat it every night so soon as he saw the first star, and bidding her do the same! She did not know its meaning then, but good old Zilpah has told her the whole story since; and now the word is upon her lips many times through the day.
               But oh, these long, long months of dreary waiting! To the anxious young sister, they have seemed a whole lifetime, for with his presence, Naphtali ever carried all the sunshine of her life. All, did I say?
               No! The great God did not forget his little handmaid, but her timid, desponding nature could not yet grasp His precious promises, as did her more hopeful brother.
               Thinking still of those blue waters, and the precious freight they had borne away, Rachel hastily descended from the roof.
               Alas! some one had carelessly dropped a date stone just upon the edge of the stairs! Treading upon it, she lost her balance, and, with a cry of terror, fell the whole length of the hard brick steps. Fortunately the bundles reached the base before her, and made a soft bed for her.
               
               It was soon ascertained that no bones were broken, but her ankle was sprained, and she was terribly bruised.
               With no tender care, little Rachel grew weaker day by day.
               Her mistress too, annoyed at the loss of her work, constantly upbraided her for her carelessness.
               But one day when Rachel tried to handle the distaff, she fainted quite away; and, after that, her mistress began to realize that something more must be done for her recovery.
               It was a custom among this people to carry their sick to some public place in the street. Here every passer-by was expected to stop and inquire into the nature of the various disorders, and if any had been similarly afflicted, were to tell how they had been helped.
               So Rachel, who needed only perfect rest and tender nursing, was borne to the street-asylum; and, according to the suggestion of each passer-by, was afflicted with some new kind of ointment for her bruises. By-and-by the acute pain ceased, but this exposure in her weakness to the sudden changes of weather brought on a severe fever.
               Meantime a detachment of the conqueror's army had been making their way toward the city of Is; and not many days after the events here recorded, the inhabitants were compelled to surrender to the new king.
               Naphtali, although re-instated with Shethar to his former position, can not feel contented when he thinks of Rachel. He remembers Shethar's promise to purchase her from Beriah at the earliest opportunity, but the miserly merchant had not been seen since that fatal night, and common report said he had been seized and slain when in the very act of counting out his shekels. Beside, these Jewish captives, forming as they did a part of the Babylonian's property, were now claimed by the conquering Medes and Persians, and the purchase must therefore be made of the latter.
               
               Then again, the nobleman's property, although his own by right of allegiance and the payment of a monthly toll and tribute, was so greatly reduced by the late ravages, that Naphtali knew he would not be able to make the purchase for months to come. And yet, in the present disordered state of the whole country, Naphtali felt that little Rachel might need more than at any other time, a brother's care and support. But what could he do? Prayer, indeed, seemed his only resource for awhile; but strengthened by it, he at last resolved to go to his master and tell him of his increased anxiety for his sister.
               Since the fearful night when Naphtali had so heroically braved danger for his master, Shethar had looked upon him more as a valued friend than as a slave. No allusion had ever been made to the unfortunate song that had occasioned so much displeasure, but Naphtali felt that his master had freely forgiven the offence, and would never ask him to violate his conscience again.
               So, with more confidence than he had ever known in former days, Naphtali unburdened his heart to the sympathizing nobleman, and begged the favor of seeking for his sister and paying the purchase money by his own labor.
               "Generous youth!" exclaimed Shethar; "I wish I could give you, at once, sufficient money to redeem your sister. But you know how impossible that is. And I know not how we can spare you from the household, but I will not hinder you in your labor of love. You have my full permission to seek your sister. Perhaps I shall be able to shorten your labor, for I trust that ere long my treasuries will be refilled. Then I must number you both among my household—but not as my slaves, Naphtali; you have already well earned your own and your sister's freedom, and although I have no power to release you from the Persian yoke, you shall bear no longer the odium of a Babylonish slave."
               Naphtali was quite overwhelmed with surprise and gratitude, and could find no fitting words to express his joy and gratitude.
               
               Kissing his master's hand, he called down upon his friend, the benediction of the God of Judah.
               But keen sorrow was mingled with Naphtali's joy when he came to bid Shethar farewell.
               Nor was Shethar ashamed to manifest the real regret he felt in parting with his favorite; and had a stranger witnessed their farewells, he would have believed them brothers instead of master and slave.
               It would be tedious to follow Naphtali, day by day, in his journey up the river. Everywhere his eye rested upon the depredations of a famished, infuriated army. Here were trodden fields of grain, and here blackened ruins where thriving villages once had stood. The river, too, seemed a conquered thing, for its magnificent volume had departed since the night of Cyrus' triumph. In the drunken revelry within the city, the river gates had carelessly been left unfastened, and the enemy, marching unperceived on the river's bed, had found an easy entrance into the great city of Belshazzar's pride. And so, to minute details, were the wonderful prophecies fulfilled; for had not Isaiah declared: "Thus saith the Lord ....to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers ...... of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure ......... I will open before him the two-leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut?" And all this had been written by the pen of inspiration more than a century before!
               What wonder then that Naphtali's hopes for his captive nation grew stronger and brighter as he mused on the past events? What, save the lapse of time could be needed for a like fulfilment of those other and more glorious prophecies?
               It was well Naphtali had pleasant thoughts to beguile his mind, for the journey proved a long and tedious one, on account of the unsettled state of the country. But in spite of the many detentions, he reached, at last, the city of Is, and hastened to find his old home, and the dearest thing it contained, his own little sister.
               In almost three years how much she must have changed, thought Naphtali—why, she was almost sixteen, now, and, no doubt, had grown up into a comely little woman! His heart beats high with expectation, as he waits admission at the porch. But the porter, in Persian uniform, who answers his knock, tells him that Beriah's family have all been removed as captives to a distant city, and that the dwelling is now used as the head-quarters of the troops.
               "What!" questioned Naphtali eagerly, "are all gone—the Hebrew slaves of Beriah, too?"
               "I think our captain found the house quite empty when he took possession of it—but stay, I believe there is a little cripple here, who was left on account of her infirmity. Our captain has kindly provided for her ever since, and I think he means to send her as a waiting-maid to his lady."
               "But this cripple I do not know," said Naphtali; "my sister was as beautiful and straight as a young date palm! Can you not tell me, soldier, to which city the captives were removed?"
               "That I cannot," replied the porter, "but perhaps the captain could tell you. If you can stop awhile, I think he will see you."
               "I will wait most gladly, then," said Naphtali, as he seated himself in the porch.
               The soldier's heavy footsteps died away in the distance, and Naphtali was left alone. Suddenly a strain of sweet, faint music came to his ear. He bent his head forward to catch the notes, for they seemed to come from the court within. Ah! he can hear the words now: "Thou preparest a table before me in the midst of mine enemies; thou anointest my head with oil, my cup runneth over."
               Why does Naphtali start so suddenly, and press with eager feet to the inner door? Ah! he cannot mistake the sweet, pathetic voice of the young singer. No one but his own little Rachel could sing like that!
               The door is not locked, and quickly opening it, he stands now inside the court. By the fountain in the centre a little crippled form is sitting, busily engaged with her distaff, and singing as she works. Around her a group of the rude soldiers are gathered, listening to her touching songs. So absorbed are they in the sweet strains that the new comer is quite unnoticed. Indeed Naphtali stands as a statue, for the mingled feelings of surprise, of joy, of sorrow and of alarm have almost stunned him. It surely must be Rachel—he cannot mistake the dear face.
               But what a place is this for his darling! And that poor distorted frame! can that belong to his beautiful sister?
               The door he had left ajar suddenly swings together by a gust of wind. Instantly all eyes are turned that way, and the soldiers grasp their swords with threatening attitude as they notice the stranger in their midst.
               "Who are you?" eagerly asks the foremost of their number.
               "I come as a friend," Naphtali answers, "and have been waiting in the porch to see the captain. The sweet music I heard has brought me here."
               Then turning to the young girl, he added, "and I come to ask the name of the singer."
               In the tall, bearded youth before her, Rachel does not recognze her merry-faced brother, and, with downcast eyes and timid look, she repeats the well-remembered name.
               "And mine is Naphtali!" exclaims her questioner, as his eyes eagerly seek her face; "surely my little Rachel has not forgotten the brother who loves her so dearly."
               What! Naphtali! Her own dear brother! It can only be a dream. But when he warmly kisses her, she can doubt no longer. Unable to utter a single word, she throws her arms around him and sobs for joy.
               The soldiers witness the touching scene with mingled feelings; Naphtali's straightforwardness, and his marked resemblance to Rachel, strongly confirm the truth of his statement; but his unceremonious entrance alarms them, and a messenger is immediately despatched to their captain. But just as he reaches the door, he is met by the officer, who returns with him to the courtyard.
               At the soldiers' noisy greeting, Naphtali turns to apologize for his boldness, when a second recognition takes place! This Persian captain is none other than the soldier he rescued in the king's palace!
               Harmeter, for that is his name, welcomes Naphtali with all the warmth of eastern hospitality, enhanced by a grateful heart; for he well remembers how much he owes the brave Hebrew, and how nobly the latter had refused all reward for his kind act.
               The Persian's increased knowledge of the Assyrian tongue enables him to carry on an intelligible conversation with Naphtali, and to this Rachel listens with deep interest.
               "This little maiden," explains Naphtali, "is my sister;" for the captain noticed with surprise how confidingly the timid Rachel clung to his hand. "How shall I express to you my gratitude for your kindness to the forsaken one!"
               "Can it be that our little Rachel is your sister?" exclaimed Harmeter in surprise and delight. "I am glad I have been able to do anything for you or yours! I was thinking to send the little maid to my mistress, only yesterday, by a caravan bound for Persia; but glad am I now that I kept her with us a little longer! But how is it I see you so far from Babylon?
               "I came from thence to seek my sister," answered Naphtali. "The kind lord, Shethar, has given me this written warrant to labor for her ransom, so many years as her master may deem requisite. Let me, I beg you, begin at once the term of labor you may appoint."
               "But she is yours, my friend," said Harmeter quickly. "Think you I would require either labor or money from my deliverer? A high price should the sweet girl command if I sold her as a slave, for I have learned to love her as a daughter. But to you, young Jew, I give her freely. No thanks, no thanks," he added, as Naphtali endeavored to express his grateful acknowledgment knowledgment. "I shall always be your debtor, for what can equal the gift of a saved life?"
               Harmeter then urged Naphtali to tarry with them awhile and rest from the fatigue of his journey, but as Rachel was all ready to go with her brother, and Naphtali was impatient to return to Shethar, the brother and sister left for Babylon on the following day.
               They had hardly set out upon their journey, when the scrip Rachel carried dropped to the ground, the string having broken. As Naphtali stooped to pick it up, a large quantity of heavy gold coin rolled out, much to the surprise of both. No wonder the unusual weight had severed the string, but how had the money found its way into the bag.
               As they looked at one another in amazement, a bit of parchment clinging to the scrip caught Rachel's eye, and upon opening the roll the mystery was soon explained. The money was a parting gift to the brother and sister from the generous Harmeter, and was to defray the expenses of their journey to Babylon.
               It proved a most acceptable present, for Naphtali had been much concerned lest his frail little sister would be unable to bear the rough travelling by which he had come up the river. There was no means of going down river by boat, so Naphtali purchased a couple of docile mules, and our travellers joined a large caravan bound for Babylon.
               To Rachel, the long, tiresome journey seemed very short. So many, many things she had to tell Naphtali, and then to hear from him in return! Their talks would have filled volumes,—tedious perhaps to others, but full of interest to themselves.
               One hot, dusty day, the caravan had encamped at noon near a small stream of water. Scattered here and there at random, the white tents looked like a flock of sheep, with the tall date-palms for their shepherds. It had been a very fatiguing journey that day; but Rachel was never too tired for a chat with her brother.
               "What was my little sister thinking about just then?" said Naphtali, as he noticed a bright smile flit across her face.
               "Oh! I was saying over to myself, 'He maketh me to lie down in green pastures, He leadeth me beside the still waters.' I love the whole of that Psalm, Naphtali, better than ever since you found me by it. And I was thinking, too, that David must have written it in just such a place as this."
               "Or in one more beautiful," said Naphtali, musingly. "I remember good Ithamar told me, there were grand hills and deep ravines in the land of our fathers; but here, as you know, the fairest scene soon wearies one by its monotony."
               "That is true, Naphtali; yet these endless green plains seem to rest me, and they make me think of God's eternity. Before I was sick, Naphtali, I never thought so much about rest and God. All I longed for then was to escape from my bondage and flee to you. But now God has brought you to me, and that is far better. I have got almost to the end of the Psalm, 'Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life.' I wish I could say the very last, 'and I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever!'"
               "My little Rachel has learned to trust her Father as she could not once, I see; truly God has sent her a rich blessing out of His dark cloud!"
               "Yes, Naphtali; I can understand now what makes you so bright and hopeful, and it seems as if I never could doubt His love again. Shall I tell you what I say now instead of 'Mizpah'? Just 'Alleluia,' for my heart is full of praises!"
               "So is mine!" said Naphtali, "and do you know, Rachel, I believe that our whole nation will soon be singing a glad Alleluia."
               "But why, Naphtali? I thought our Messiah was not expected for many years to come."
               "And you are right there, Rachel; but have you not heard of the ending of the seventy years' captivity?"
               "Oh! I do remember Zilpah once told me something about it, and I think she added, that the time was close at hand; but the whole thing seemed so impossible to me then, that I thought it must be a dream of her brain."
               "Oh no! 'twas but the expression of a believing heart, for the great prophets, Isaiah and Jeremiah, have foretold it. I wish I could repeat to you some of the many prophecies concerning this thing, but old Ithamar has left the spirit of them rather than the words in my mind. Still, I know it was a Cyrus who was to deliver our people, and to say to Jerusalem, 'Thou shalt be built,' and to the temple, 'Thy foundation shall be laid.' And have you heard, Rachel, that the nephew of King Darius and his helper in taking Babylon, is called Cyrus? He has gained the name of Conqueror, too, because he has proved himself such a mighty man of war. Ah, Rachel! that last wish of thine, 'to dwell in the house of the Lord forever,' may yet be realized!"
               Naphtali's whole countenance shone with enthusiastic hope as he uttered these words, and it was no wonder that Rachel caught, at once, the inspiration.
               As they separated for their tents, she whispered, "Dear Naphtali, my Alleluia shall be thrice repeated to-night! Once for myself, once for you, and once for our whole nation!"
               Thus it was that the brother and sister daily quickened each other's faith, and waited with glad and trustful hearts, for the breaking of the cloud. All along their route Naphtali pointed out the depredations of the enemy, and Rachel shuddered as she thought of the active part her brother had taken in some of those fearful contests.
               The last day of their journey Rachel's mule became a little contrary, and Naphtali was obliged to lead it with his own almost the whole way. But it gave them a fine opportunity to converse on their favorite themes, for they had found it was not best to allude to their religion in the mixed multitude, and thus had learned to prize the talks they could have all by themselves.
               "Yes, Naphtali," said Rachel to some rapt exclamation of her brother, "it would be a glorious rious thing indeed to see Jerusalem, the city of our God; to build up its broken walls, and to lay the foundation of another temple; but I've been thinking of something to-day that I would like still better."
               "And what has your busy brain found more glorious than that, I wonder!"
               "Perhaps you will think it a childish longing, Naphtali, but when that graceful gazelle bounded past us, I couldn't help wishing I might see the fulfilment of that other prophecy, the coming of that wonderful age, when 'the lame man shall leap as an hart,' and the 'tongue of the dumb sing;' when the 'eyes of the blind shall be opened,' and 'the ears of the deaf unstopped!'"
               "Ah! yes, dear Rachel, that is indeed a longed-for period! I do not wonder at your wish. But none save the great Messiah can do those wonderful things upon our earth. Would that He were here now, my sister, and I might supplicate His favor in your behalf!"
               "But 'tis wrong for me to murmur, Naphtali, when I have so many blessings left; the lot of a cripple is not so hard as that of the blind or the mute, and while I have my dear, strong brother, and the Mighty Arm to lean upon, what can I ask beside?"
               Naphtali was deeply-touched by the child-like faith of Rachel, and all the more because it was so unlike her former disposition to despondency. But, unknown to Naphtali, the good Father had been drawing her to His great, loving Heart, and she was now cheerfully submissive to His will.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               WIDENING RIFTS.
               THE first person Naphtali and his sister met as they approached the nobleman's palace, was Ishbak the Jew. His gloomy countenance was so wonderfully bright, that Naphtali hardly recognized it at first. With a hearty grasp of the hand he greeted Naphtali, and then eagerly inquired if he had heard the good news.
               "I have not. How should I? I have just arrived after a long journey. But I pray you tell us of it at once."
               "It is a long story, but I will make it short. You remember the great Daniel, and how King Darius made him chief of the three presidents? Well, the other great men of the kingdom have been very jealous of Daniel's authority, and have tried to find some occasion or fault against him. Of course they failed in this, but what do you think was their next expedient? They prevailed upon the king to sign a decree, that no request to any god or man should be made for thirty days, and that whoever disobeyed this unchangeable law of the Medes and Persians, should be cast into a den of lions.
               "The bold Daniel, though informed of this decree, went openly to his chamber, and kneeled three times a day, as before, by an open window. There were plenty of spies about to apprise the king of this, and though it was widely reported that Darius would have been glad to spare his favorite, the decree was executed, and our great prophet was cast into the den of lions."
               Here Naphtali indignantly exclaimed, "You, a Jew! and call this good news?"
               
               "Ah, ha!" laughed Ishbak, "wait till I've told you the whole story! The king was so troubled after it was done, that all the instruments of music failed to please him that night. Very early in the morning he hastened to the den to see if Daniel's God had delivered him. And what do you think, Naphtali? The prophet was alive and uninjured, for God had sent His angel to shut up the lions' mouths!
               "Darius was delighted, and quickly commanded that Daniel should be taken out of the horrible den. And so enraged was he with those wicked men who had plotted against the good prophet, that by his order every one of them, with their wives and their children, were given to these same lions. The hungry creatures greedily devoured them all, it is said; for no angel of the Lord was there to intercede in their behalf."
               "Oh, the cruel Darius!" exclaimed Rachel "how could he sacrifice the poor little innocents too?"
               "They were children of wicked parents," answered Ishbak, "and would have grown up like them."
               "Perhaps they would have learned better things," replied Naphtali; "it is not for us to judge. But truly, Ishbak, this deliverance of our noble Daniel is a wonderful interposition of the great God. You will no longer say that He has utterly forsaken His people."
               "But you cannot deny that He has hidden His face from them a long, long time."
               "Nor can you deny, Ishbak, the long, long rebellion of His chosen race. But we are interrupting your story, Ishbak; pray finish your recital, for I long to know what effect this wonderful event has had on the king."
               "That is the best part of all," continued Ishbak; "King Darius has just proclaimed to all people, nations, and languages in his realm, that the 'God of Daniel is the living God, steadfast forever; the One who delivereth, seeth, and worketh signs in heaven and in earth; whose kingdom shall not be destroyed, whose dominion shall be even unto the end!' He has also decreed that in every part of his kingdom men shall tremble and fear before the God of Daniel."
               "Oh, Ishbak! this is glorious news indeed! Verily the Lord of Hosts is a God as wonderful in mercy as He is terrible in justice! Why should His people longer doubt His loving kindness toward them?"
               Ishbak shot a swift glance from the working implements in his hand to the glittering sword which a passing Persian carried; and the bright gleam quite faded from his countenance as he said with bitterness, "I cannot understand why success should always crown a heathen standard. Surely the Hebrew race in their worst estate are better than these unprincipled conquerors! Why, then, should we serve, and they rule?"
               "Because God wills it so," answered Naphtali reverently.
               Ishbak said no more, but turned away to his work; and Naphtali and Rachel proceeded to the palace.
               Shethar was within, and soon received them in the audience-chamber. He was as greatly surprised as delighted to see Naphtali so soon; and the many questions he asked concerning the whys and wherefores of the speedy return, the state of the north country, and other matters of equal interest, consumed nearly the whole afternoon in answering.
               Rachel was an interested listener in the long conversation, and received, every now and then, a kind word from Shethar, who had given her a warm welcome, for her brother's sake.
               Afterward came questions as to the future. But Shethar had not forgotten his promise, and told the young man again, that both his sister and himself were released from the Babylonian bondage. "And yet," added the noble, "I would like always to keep you and the little Rachel in the household. You, Naphtali, are a man in years, and wiser than all your mates. In remembrance of your constant fidelity I offer you the office of overseer in my household; and for your services here you shall receive monthly an ample remuneration. Your sister shall have the care of my little son, for her sweet face and her friendship to you are a sufficient guarantee for her goodness. This very day I dismissed the deceitful, impudent ward that has lately had charge of the young heir."
               Naphtali and Rachel looked at each other, and then at the nobleman, with grateful surprise. How wonderfully had God prepared a way before them—how rich and overflowing was their cup of blessings! With heartfelt thanks to the kind nobleman, and to the God of their fathers, the brother and sister vowed a constant fidelity in in the responsible offices given them; and Shethar, with full confidence in their ability and worth, at once introduced them to their new posts of honor.
               We must pass over the quiet, pleasant year that Naphtali and Rachel spent together in the nobleman's household. Their faithful services had given full satisfaction to Shethar, and the months, though filled up with a busy round of duties, had been most heartily enjoyed by both. Naphtali was now twenty-two years of age, and Rachel seventeen.
               Under the reign of Darius the great city had preserved almost entire its former magnificence; and in the two years that had passed since its conquest, the estates of the tributary nobles had quite recovered from the losses sustained by plunder and pillage.
               The venerable Daniel, now over ninety years of age, had continued in high honor with the king, and when, upon Darius's death, Cyrus came into full authority, the revered counsellor still held his influential office.
               It was no wonder, then, that the hopes of faithful Jews were constantly on the increase; without doubt this very Cyrus was to prove the great deliverer promised them by their God!
               Yet, among these Hebrews there were still unbelievers,—proud, impatient spirits like Ishbak's, who, while rebelling under the chastening rod, wondered their God did not, at once, remove it!
               Then there were others, so wealthy and honored in the land of exile, that they had no thoughts or wishes for any higher boon; and of these two classes it would have been difficult to decide which cast the greater reproach upon the Jewish faith.
               But among God's chosen "remnant," Naphtali and his sister were still to be numbered. Adversity and prosperity had alike strengthened their well-grounded trust in a righteous God; and since their residence in Babylon they had heard new things to confirm their faith. From some of their aged countrymen in the city had come the story of the wonderful book that Jeremiah had sent the captive nation years before.*
                  
                     *
                     Jeremiah, chap. li. 59-64.
                   How the great prince, Seraiah, had brought it to Babylon, and after reading the prophecies concerning the doomed city, had fastened a stone to the scroll, and cast it into the Euphrates,—thus signifying how complete should be the fall, one day, of the mighty capital.
               Yet ever from these terrible judgments upon Babylon there rose, as the white lily from a stagnant pool, the hope of a glorious redemption for the captive Jews; and although so happy in their pleasant homes, Naphtali and Rachel gladly anticipated this release to their down-trodden nation.
               One day when Naphtali had occasion to go to the market-place, he found the whole area crowded with people. Curious to learn the cause of this large concourse, he inquired of a bystander if Cyrus had issued a new decree.
               "That he has!" replied the stranger; "but hark! can you not hear for yourself what the king's messenger is saying?"
               In the babel of half-subdued voices Naphtali had not before distinguished a louder one in the distance; but the shrill trumpet once again commanded silence, and now the startling words of the messenger could be heard distinctly over all the area.
               
               "Who is there among you all His people? His God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the Lord God of Israel (He is the God) which is in Jerusalem. Thus saith Cyrus, King of Persia. And again: Whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver and with gold, and with goods and with beasts, beside the free will offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. Thus saith Cyrus, King of Persia. And let every one throughout the kingdom proclaim these tidings to his neighbor."*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Ezra, chap. i.
               
               The voice ceased, and suddenly rose the exclamations of an astonished multitude. But in all the vast concourse there was not a heart that thrilled with deeper joy than did that of young Naphtali. So wonderfully had the prophecies been fulfilled, so abundantly came the measures of God's mercy, that he could scarcely refrain from singing aloud an Alleluia chorus.
               His eagerness to tell Rachel of the wonderful decree far outstripped his fleet steps; and, overtaking Ishbak on the way, it was no little relief to share his overflowing cup with another.
               But 'twas strange how this gloomy man contrived to find flaws in everything. While to Naphtali the clemency of their prince seemed as much a cause of rejoicing as the decree itself, to Ishbak the whole affair seemed but a cunning stroke of policy.
               "What, Naphtali! do you suppose the king has done this thing out of any love to Israel or to Israel's God? What could be better for his treasury just now, than to have the waste country of Judea populated—and that with industrious subjects? And what could better check the growing wealth and power of the Jews at the capital than this permission to rebuild their temple? Surely the king has done for himself a very wise thing, and that, too, in a very wise way!"
               "I am glad, Ishbak, you allow that Cyrus has wisdom, if no other good quality. Yet I can but think the king to have been governed by higher motives in making this decree. How could it be otherwise, with the noble Daniel so influential at court?"
               "Hold then to your own ideas and I will hold to mine," said Ishbak shortly, as they parted at the porch.
               Naphtali's bright, hopeful nature sprang up elastic from the pressure of Ishbak's leaden words, and soon found a more congenial air in Rachel's sympathy.
               "Why, Naphtali!" she exclaimed with cheeks all aglow, "I didn't think of its coming in this way—the ending of the seventy years' captivity! I did not dream the blessing could be given so full and free as this! But God's ways are not our ways, and I do believe that if we would but hold our arms out wide to Him, we would oftener have them filled."
               "That is true, Rachel. We hope and pray with so little faith, I wonder, sometimes that God answers us at all. But oh, Rachel! My heart burns as a living coal to go up to Jerusalem to help build up her broken walls—her glorious temple too!"
               "And mine too, Naphtali," said Rachel with like enthusiasm. But no, it cannot be. A poor cripple would be only an unwelcome burden. I must stay behind and send my offerings and my prayers alone."
               "Nay, nay, dear Rachel," cried Naphtali with tender earnestness, "I cannot go without you. These strong arms can work for you and for the Lord beside. I would stay in Babylon all my days rather than leave you behind!"
               "Oh, Naphtali! I would most gladly go if I could be any help to you, but you can surely labor better without a helpless burden; so leave me, dearest brother, in this pleasant home. Our separation cannot be forever."
               "But, Rachel dear, do believe me when I tell you again you will be no burden to me, but a constant helper."
               
               Just then a messenger from Shethar interrupted the conversation, and with a kiss and a look that commanded assent to his words, Naphtali left Rachel to her own perplexed thoughts. What think you will be her decision?
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               ZIONWARD!
               ONWARD pressed the bands of Jewish exiles, from Chebais' banks, from the plains of Mesopotamia, from the south, the east, and the west country,—forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore souls, beside servants and maids, seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven. Then there were the two hundred singing-men and singing-women for their marriage-feasts and their funeral rites. Horses, camels, and asses increased the caravan and bore its treasures; the priests, the Levites, and the singers waited to consecrate these offerings; and Zerubbabel, Prince of Judah, with Joshua, the high priest, led the great assembly.
               Never had a more joyful gathering been known in Babylon. Never had the Jewish faith so many zealous advocates in the great metropolis. From the temple of the heathen gods had been taken by Cyrus' command, the vessels of God's house, and entrusted to the Prince of Judah by Mithredath the treasurer. In all these seventy years of captivity not one had been lost or destroyed, for God's great hand had guarded them. How, then, could His chosen people doubt His providential care for themselves?
               The morrow had been appointed for the day of their departure, and all things were now in readiness for the journey. Over the city the veil of twilight was falling, and Naphtali watched its fading palaces and temples till all was hid beneath the mantle of night. He had learned to love Babylon as the scene of his happiest days, it was no wonder that feelings of regret should mingle with his joyful anticipations that night. Not that he had a single desire to remain behind in his home of elegant luxury,—Naphtali was too noble and unselfish for that; but his thoughts wandered to the coming days when Babylon should be levelled to the dust, and he longed, more than he had ever done before, to save it from the dreadful doom. And many a heart beside his own that night was beating with like emotion, for to this generation of the Hebrew race the land of Babylon had been their only home. Who can tell but that their united prayers for the fated city, was the real cause of God's delay in its destruction?
               With the first gleam of dawn the awakened Israelites began to form into their line of march, for many miles must be traversed ere the scorching heat of the noonday. Let us look over the busy company, and see if we can find any familiar faces besides Naphtali's. You think Rachel will be there? Yes; that sweet, sunny face in the crowd yonder can belong to no one else. "I can take care of the aged and the sick, if I can do nothing else," she said. Already Rachel had found that good old Zilpah was going to Jerusalem—"to die," as she said, in the land of her youth; and so the young girl had resolved to make the feeble old woman her especial care through the long and tedious journey.
               Naphtali is numbered among the hundred twenty and eight singers; and among the children of Azgad we shall find the well-known countenance of Ishbak. Here was an opportunity for shaking off the yoke, for gratifying his restless, roving mind, and we must believe that he was full of patriotic zeal. Indeed, he could scarcely have been a Jew without that, and his unusual enthusiasm at Daniel's great deliverance inclines us to this opinion.
               To Naphtali, Ishbak was still a troublesome problem, but after years revealed to him a clearer insight into his character.
               But what part does Shethar, the nobleman, take, in this strange exodus of the tribe of Judah? The good seed sown in his heart that fearful night had taken deep root in the past months. Naphtali's daily life had proved a most beautiful exposition of the Jewish faith, and Shethar could but acknowledge how fast his old superstitions were giving way to this despised religion. But when the decree of Cyrus reached his ears, and Naphtali expressed his ardent wish to go up to Jerusalem, Shethar was greatly troubled.
               With his growing love for the Hebrew religion, he could not help rejoicing in the honor bestowed upon it. It was all right that the temple should be rebuilt, that the God of Israel should be extolled; but could not the great God be worshipped in Babylon as well as in Jerusalem? Naphtali seemed now an indispensable part of his household,—he could not bear the thought of giving him up, and that forever! Would he not be content to remain, queried Shethar, if offerings of cattle, costly vessels, gold and silver, precious gems were sent in his place? Surely they would help forward the great work, more than his single-handed labor could ever do. But Naphtali's heart was fixed; though he was but a unit in the multitude, that unit must be numbered with the faithful. The rich offerings Shethar proposed would be the nobleman's gift, not his; and while he thanked his kind patron with all his heart, he felt that it was his own all that must be laid on God's altar.
               So Shethar ceased to urge his staying,—and, indeed, so contagious was Naphtali's enthusiasm, that the young nobleman had half a mind to go up to Jerusalem, too.
               But sober afterthought convinced him that his own duty lay nearer home. The declining health of his young wife would quite prevent her from accompanying him. As a Jewish proselyte, he felt his influence at Babylon might be of no small advantage to the Hebrew nation, and so he decided to remain, all the more willingly.
               But we are making a long digression from the scene of the Jews' departure. Having bidden Shethar farewell, and taken up a missing thread in the narrative, let us now return to the great company, and march Zionward with them.
               The farewells are all spoken, and God's voice is urging His people onward. Among the company of women and children, let us find Zilpah and Rachel, and take the first day's journey with them. In all the grand caravan I doubt whether we could find two more devoted Jewish hearts than were possessed by the decrepid old woman and the young cripple.
               But the cross of bodily weakness rested lightly that morning on happy Zilpah and her young friend. Their faces were Zionward, and that was quite enough of earthly joy.
               With ever new interest Rachel listened, now to the stories of the good Mother of Israel, and now to the thrilling strains of the song that came from the distant choir. To her poetical mind it seemed the chiming bells of the Past, the Present, and the Future, and her heart kept time with all. But Zilpah could hear nothing save her own weak voice and the tramping feet about her; so she talked on about the beautiful home of her childhood, the flocks she tended in the fertile valleys, the vineyards and the groves of olive-trees that dotted the hillsides all about her father's house.
               "Oh, my child!" she exclaimed, "I cannot tell you how beautiful it seems to my aged heart, the home of my happy youth. There is naught in the land of our exile to compare with it, for God's bountiful hand has never rested here as it did in the land of Judea. Seventy years have passed since the destroyer came, and who can tell what changes may have desolated the land in all that time. Perhaps, like myself, it remains but a wreck of its former beauty,—and yet the hills and dales must be there still. If my eyes even but look upon Lebanon and Carmel I shall feel that my journey has not been in vain. But I shall weary you, child, with my endless babblings of the by-gone years."
               "Never, never, good Mother!" said Rachel earnestly; "I love to hear your stories of the land of our fathers—the land I have never seen. If you are not weary, tell me again of those days when you were torn from your happy home, and—but no, dear Mother, pardon my thoughtlessness—that is too painful a subject to speak of to-day. Tell me, rather, of the glad days when you were accustomed to go up to Solomon's Temple. Tell me all about the beautiful house."
               "Ah, my child, you know by heart already the description of that glorious temple! And yet you cannot picture to yourself one-half its splendor. But I would like to tell you, dear, of my capture on that fearful night. Thinking of trials borne in the long ago, gives to the heart new trust and gratitude—new courage for the duties of to-day."
               "I never thought before," answered Rachel, "that the memory of past troubles could ever be pleasant."
               
               "Profitable if not pleasant, they surely prove, as the years go by. But before I begin my story, let me hear you repeat that beautiful Psalm of David—the one he wrote when he tended his father's flocks. It seems like the story of my life set to words."
               "Do you mean, Mother, the one beginning 'The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want?'"
               "Yes, dear; that is the very one. It has cheered my heart more times than the days of my life."
               "It is my favorite too," said Rachel. "I call it the 'golden key,' because it opened a new world to me. Most gladly will I repeat it to you."
               A hearty amen to the thanksgiving song just ended, seemed the sweet Psalm as it reached the ears of another listener beside Zilpah. But Rachel was so absorbed in its beautiful meaning that she did not once notice her other auditor.
               "Well, little sister! am I always to find you by that glorious chant, I wonder?"
               "Why, Naphtali! when did you come? I didn't see you till this very moment, though I've been watching for you ever since I heard the last strain of the song."
               "Ah, little Ray! your bright eyes cannot look on every side at once. I came up from the rear when you were singing the first verse to your aged friend. The caravan is to rest awhile in the shade of yonder palms, so I came in haste to help the good Zilpah and yourself in dismounting."
               "The same dear, thoughtful brother as ever!" exclaimed Rachel, as she watched Naphtali's movements with sisterly pride and affection.
               Tenderly his strong arms steadied the tottering form of her old friend, and helped her own weak footsteps, as, leaving their tired mules, they sought the cooling stream and shady bank. Here in the sultry noontide they rested, and Rachel called to mind that other journey when Naphtali and herself were on their way to Babylon, and had rested in like manner.
               
               "Oh, Naphtali! she exclaimed suddenly, "do you remember our talk that noon, when we sat down on the green grass and watched the white tents among the palms? How I told you they made me think of the flocks with their shepherds, and brought to mind the very Psalm I've just been singing? 'Twas the first day you told me about those wonderful prophecies, and your faith in their speedy fulfilment. But did you dream, Naphtali, that the Alleluia song of our whole nation would come so soon as this?"
               "No, Rachel, to that last question of thine. In my thought, even, I measured God's mercy by too narrow a gauge."
               "Oh that men would praise the Lord for His goodness,—for His wonderful acts to the children of men!" exclaimed Zilpah.
               "Amen, amen!" responded Naphtali and Rachel in one voice.
               And then with happy, grateful hearts, each of the little company began to recount God's dealings with His chosen race
               "And isn't it wonderful," exclaimed Rachel, "that He cares so tenderly, too, for every one of His children—no matter how weak or how worthless any may be!"
               "Ah, yes, my child!" said Zilpah quickly. "Wonderful, wonderful, that the Great Being, who made the heaven and earth, should pity, even as a Father, the children of men! If you will listen I will tell you how great has been His mercy to His unworthy handmaiden. It may strengthen your faith, dear child, and yours too, young man, in the gracious God of Israel. I just told you, Rachel, that the sweet Psalm of David seemed 'the song of my life set to words.' Let me take it, then, as the key-note to my strain of praise, for my whole story rings with thanks-giving. 'The Lord is my Shepherd, I shall not want. He leadeth me beside the still waters.'
               "My joyous childhood seems brightly picture there, for those early years were filled up with every pleasant thing that a young heart could wish.
               
               "I was born toward the latter part of the good Josiah's reign, and the whole land was then doubly beautiful. All the idols, the heathen temples, and the groves of abomination that his wicked predecessors erected, had been destroyed by King Josiah from Geba to Beersheba. Judah had once more taken the Lord Jehovah to be her only God, and the judgments of the Righteous One continued to be withheld all through the good king's reign."
               Zilpah paused a moment, and Naphtali, who had been quite as devoted a listener as Rachel, exclaimed, "How gracious is our God! 'Slow to anger, plenteous in mercy.' 'He doth not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men.' Your words, good Zilpah, remind me of Ithamar's glowing account of those happy years when King Josiah reigned. I remember well how the dear old man recounted God's wonderful mercies to his sinful children, and the heavenly light that suddenly shone in his dim eye when he added, 'And so is He always, my boy. Behind the dark cloud of captivity, even, I know there awaits still the tender, pitying face of our Father.' Would that Ithamar had lived to see this glorious day!"
               "Yet better is it, far better," added Zilpah, with uplifted eye, "to see, like Ithamar, 'the King in His beauty—to behold the land that is very far off.'"
               "Oh, yes!" said Rachel softly, "for there the inhabitants shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity!"
               A long pause followed, for each was thinking of the dear ones gone to the land far away,—so far and yet so near, that one little breath withdrawn might waft them thither. Naphtali was the first to break the silence.
               "I interrupted your story, good Zilpah," he said.
               "My story? Ah! I had almost forgotten I was telling it. Our words about the better country had awakened so many sad, sweet thoughts, that I seemed almost to be carried there in spirit. But I will continue, if you are interested enough to hear more.
               "My father was a devoted, zealous Jew, and had never turned aside from the worship of the one true God. My mother was a Jew by birth, but had been brought up in a family where the god Baal was adored. When a mere child, she had met my father, had listened to his glowing descriptions of the pure religion of the Hebrews, and, influenced by his instructions, she had early forsaken her heathen superstitions. Ever afterward, as my father often declared, she had been even more anxious than her teacher to worship with heart, mind, and strength the Great Jehovah. In the atmosphere of such a home, it was no wonder that I learned to love God almost as soon as I could love my parents. And as I grew older the daily and monthly observances of the rites of our beautiful religion served to strengthen my faith in it, and to make me love it more and more. I thought I loved the God of Israel with my whole heart, and that I could never be led away from his service. But the trial of my faith was yet to come. When I was but twelve years of age, my dear, pious mother was called higher. Her foster-parents, whom I mentioned before as worshippers of Baal, came from Jerusalem to see her, when they heard of her dangerous illness; but before they reached our quiet home on the hillside their daughter was no more. I think they must have loved my mother very dearly, for although she had forsaken their religion, they had always treated her with the utmost kindness; and as soon as they marked in my countenance a striking resemblance to her, they begged my father to permit their adoption of me. At first he would not consent; but finally, after very much urging upon their part, he promised I should stay with them for one year. I was a weak, puny child, then, and he thought the change, and the kind, motherly care of the tender-hearted Abi, might prove of great benefit to me.
               "My love and zeal for the Jewish religion had been so remarkable for one of my years, that I think my father had not a fear that I might yield to the temptation of these new scenes. Both Abi and Hilkiah promised that I should in no wise be influenced to embrace their religion, but should follow the dictates of my conscience in everything.
               "So, with more words of affection than of admonition, my dear father bade me farewell, and I left my beautiful native hills for a close court in the crowded city. But the city was Jerusalem, and already I had learned to love it as only a Jew can. Alas! that even then it had become corrupt again through the deeds of a wicked king. Although the battle of Megiddo was still held in sad remembrance, and the lamentations for the good Josiah were scarcely ended, the wicked king, Jehoahaz, in his brief reign of three months, had wrought incalculable mischief to the country.
               "A few days after our coming to Jerusalem, the King of Egypt made Jehoahaz a prisoner and put the whole land under a tribute of an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold. Then he made another son of Josiah his tributary king, and changed the name of this Eliakim to Jehoiakim.
               "But, alas! he, too, did evil in the sight of the Lord, according to all that the other wicked kings had done; and how could our backsliding nation expect any help from the Righteous One, when the whole land was given again to idolatry?
               "Every year of Jehoiakim's reign seemed to bring new troubles, but I was too young to realize then the public calamities you have doubtless heard about; and I had, beside, many other things to distress me.
               "Hardly six months had passed away in my new home, when the sad, sad tidings reached me of my dear father's sudden death. He had been struck by a falling tree while at work in the cedar forest, and not one parting word had he been permitted to utter.
               "But I must pass over those terrible days of bitter lamentation that followed. I would not be reconciled to the mysterious Providence that had bereft me of my dearest earthly friend, and my wicked heart manifested its rebellion in marked acts of disobedience. As I look back upon those days I wonder God did not cut me off at once from the land of the living. But blessed be the God of Israel! 'His ways are not as our ways'—'in wrath, even, He remembers mercy.' Let me tell you how mercifully 'He restored my soul, and led me into the paths of righteousness for His name's sake.'
               "At my dear father's death our little family was, of course, scattered. I was permanently adopted by the kind Abi and Hilkiah, and my brothers and sisters were well provided for among our numerous relatives. We were never united again, and I know not, to this day, the certain fate of any of them. But the good Father, who has cared so tenderly for His sinful handmaiden, must have guarded and guided them too, I cannot doubt.
               "Oh, those sad eight years that followed my thirteenth summer! And yet, outwardly, they seemed heaped up with the bright things of life.
               "My foster-parents had ever been frugal, industrious people, and had amassed a large property for the comfort of their declining years. Their children had left, one by one, the parental roof, to fill places of wealth and honor; and upon me the kind-hearted old people delighted to lavish, I used to think, all their pent-up affection for the absent ones. At all events, I was petted and indulged in every whim, and all the more when I manifested such inconsolable grief for the death of my father.
               "My passionate, rebellious cries were not rebuked, my stubborn will was never crossed by them, but by every means in their power they strove to make me forget my sorrow in the gay, bright scenes of our city life.
               "And, by-and-by, I learned to love the gaudy display in their heathen temples, and all the giddy pleasures that only idol worshippers allow. I turned my face from the God of my fathers, and served Baal, the unreal god of an evil imagination. Yet I was not happy—nay, nay—better, far better, were my days of mourning, than all those days of forbidden pleasures. Oh, those violated Sabbaths! Those neglected feast days! My forsaken God! I could almost wish them blotted from my memory, as I humbly trust they are blotted from the record of an All-forgiving Father. But 'tis best the remembrance of what I have been should yet abide with me to keep me low at the feet of my offended God."
               Zilpah paused, for tears were streaming down her wrinkled cheeks.
               Rachel tenderly stroked the white hair of her aged friend, but her heart was too full of sympathy to utter a single word.
               Naphtali was silent too; for the simple, heart-felt expressions of true repentance seemed to his soul akin to David's sublime utterances in the valley of humiliation.
               His eyes wandered from the shining desert sands to the soft, white clouds that were sailing overhead, and he thought how silently they had risen from gloomy fens and black morasses far away; how, kissed by the sunbeams, and winged by the breeze, they had found those barren wastes and waited now but the touch of unseen fingers to unlock their hidden treasures. And, at his feet, he marked how the little stream whitened as it fell over rock and branch, and how the very weeds beneath the water, rivalled, in freshness, the stately palm above him.
               It was just the working of his ready imagination, but the beauty of penitential grief came to his mind with striking force through these simple illustrations; and the cloud fresh from the morass, the whitened water, and the living green below, seemed all to bear a new impress from the Omnipresent One.
               Zilpah strove, at length, to resume her story. Naphtali and Rachel had become much interested in it, but when they perceived what an effort it was for the feeble old woman, they begged her to postpone the remainder of her narrative until she had taken the rest she so much needed.
               So our little party separated to their several tents, and Rachel, ever thankful for any opportunity to help another, sat as a little ministering spirit at Zilpah's feet, and quite forgot her own weariness in trying to keep the slumber of her old friend undisturbed.
               Naphtali had returned to his companion singers, and was almost impatient at even the necessary delay on their journey, and eagerly waited the onward march. But they had scarcely concluded their last song when the orders came from Zerubbabel to take up their tents and move onward.
               Naphtali hastened joyfully to find Zilpah and Rachel, and give them all necessary aid. But he found no little difficulty in identifying the little white tent where he had left them only a short time before. The constant removing of neighboring tents only perplexed him the more, and before he had completed the round of the encampment, the great company had begun their onward march. Hurrying to a hillock of hardened sand close by, he cast his eye over the oasis, but not a single tent remained. With much anxiety he threaded the moving caravan. Here, was an aged mother the very image of Zilpah, but no little Rachel was near to confirm his hopes. There, was a sweet face that reminded him strongly of Rachel; but he sighed involuntarily as he contrasted in thought the tall, lithe form of its owner with the poor, crippled frame of his little sister. Ah, there is Ishbak, who at once relieved his anxiety. Zilpah and Rachel are close by; he had happened to see them in their endeavors to take down their tent, and had given them the necessary assistance, and beside, had found their mules, and left them but a few minutes before to find Naphtali.
               "Truly, Ishbak," exclaimed Naphtali, "I owe you a thousand thanks for your kindness."
               "Pooh, pooh!" said Ishbak, almost involuntarily tarily in his gratitude, "'tis a pleasure always to do anything for that sweet little sister of yours."
               "That's so—I mean what you said last," answered Naphtali warmly; "but if you will not take my thanks, Ishbak, I beg you to bring me to my lost sheep at once."
               Ishbak said no more, but quietly led Naphtali to that division of the company he had been seeking for so vainly. Zilpah and Rachel were delighted to see him, as they had imagined all sorts of accidents that might have befallen him.
               While exchanging their mutual inquiries, Ishbak slipped back quite unnoticed in the crowd, and they saw no more of him for many days to come. But when Rachel told Naphtali how exceedingly kind he had been to them, and how quickly he had anticipated their most trivial wants, Ishbak's character appeared in quite a new light to him.
               "And yet," said Naphtali to himself, "I always thought Ishbak's heart was better than his words. I wish I had a key to reach it. How is it, I wonder, that my little Rachel has found it so readily?"
               But Naphtali's musings were soon interrupted by a glance upward. Dark, threatening clouds were gathering, and he feared that one of those terrible sand-storms was impending. Not wishing to frighten either Zilpah or Rachel, he fell back a little, to speak to a friend, as he said, but especially to find out if such a storm was really to be apprehended by them.
               "No, my young friend," said the experienced traveller whom he questioned; "do you not perceive how fast the wind is carrying the clouds from us. We shall not feel the lash of the storm, but God pity the poor travellers that may be journeying to the east of us."
               Naphtali, greatly relieved, hastened back to Zilpah and Rachel, for he feared they, too, might have noticed the threatening clouds; but ere he reached them the sun was shining brightly again, and only the dark shadow in the east revealed the terrible work of destruction there, and he sent up his secret thanksgiving for deliverance.
               
               Nothing interrupted their quiet, prosperous journey that day, and at nightfall the caravan halted again, and rested secure beneath the watchful Eye that "neither slumbers nor sleeps."
               Zilpah had not attempted to resume her narrative again that day; and although Rachel had been tempted, more than once, to urge it, she concluded it would be best to wait the good Zilpah's own time.
               The following day, as they rested again at noontide, both Naphtali and Rachel were delighted to hear from Zilpah herself a proposal to renew her promise.
               "I believe, my dear young friends," she said, "that I had not begun to relate the way in which the Good Shepherd 'restored my soul.' Let me tell you how tenderly He sought His wandering sheep, and how carefully He led me back into 'the paths of righteousness.' You have doubtless been told, young Naphtali, that it was during the wicked Jehoiakim's reign, that the great Nebuchadnezzar first came up to Jerusalem salem from Babylon. And I need not repeat to you the well-known history of Jehoiakim's servitude under him for three years, his open rebellion afterward, and then the terrible war that a righteous God sent upon Judah. I know you are too well versed in the Chronicles of our kings to need to have your memory freshened in these things, for just about this period was it that the seventy years of captivity began.
               "Yet so few of our nation were carried to Babylon at this time, that some begin the record a little later, when, in Zedekiah's reign, vast numbers were torn from their native land, and made the subjects of King Nebuchadnezzar. I know not which is the better reckoning, but truly, from the very first attack of that mighty king, our whole country seemed a child's toy in his hand.
               "In the eighth year of Jehoiakim there came to Jerusalem bands of Moabites, Syrians, and Ammonites in league with the Babylonian king.
               "We soon realized how truly the threatenings of an offended God were to be fulfilled; for although this was but the beginning of future and more terrible calamities, it seemed in its horrors to contain the bitterest dregs in God's vial of wrath. The aged Hilkiah was but one among the many who were slain in their idolatry, and poor old Abi was far from being alone in her lamentations for her husband and her property. I was about twenty-one at that time, and though you would scarcely think it now, yet then I was praised for my beauty. Aye, and very vain was I of my long, glossy hair, my bright eyes, and my brilliant complexion. A wealthy Ammonite, twice my years, sought my hand, and, dazzled by visions of the riches and the high position that were thus offered me, I gave him that false, that wretched gift—the hand without the heart!
               "You cannot wonder, then, that my married life proved a source of great misery to me. So far had I wandered from the commandments of Israel's God, that I almost forgot, at the time, that beside the sin of marrying without love, I had
                     Aye! and very vain was I of my long glossy hair, my bright eyes, and my brilliant complexion—Page 136.
                  
                   transgressed the law that forbids so implicitly the intermarriage of a Jew with a heathen. Yet I was no better than a heathen myself in those wretched days, for I had not entered Solomon's temple for years. Baal I worshipped outwardly, but my heart had made an idol of self.
               "A little son was given me, and then I changed my worship to this priceless treasure—a purer idol, indeed, but Jehovah's word remained the same: 'Thou shalt have no other gods before me.' I learned the truth of the commandment at last, but oh! my wrecked heart was sorely tried ere it acknowledged the supreme right of God to its worship.
               "You have heard, doubtless, of the cruel heathen deity whom they call Moloch?"
               Naphtali assented with an expression of horror, but Rachel had never heard the name before, and begged Zilpah to describe the manner in which he was worshipped.
               "Oh, my dear child!" answered Zilpah with a shudder, "it is too terrible even to mention. but I will tell you a little of it, that you may better understand the trial I was forced to undergo.
               "Moloch is worshipped especially by the Ammonites, and is generally made of brass. It has the head of a calf, and is placed upon a throne. As both the image and the throne are hollow, the priests build up a furious fire within, and when the arms become red hot the victim is thrown into them. And this victim is no dumb brute, but a living human being!"
               "Oh, Zilpah, Zilpah!" exclaimed Rachel, covering her eyes as if she saw the fearful sight, 'can it be that any one worships a god that demands such horrible sacrifices?"
               "Aye, little one!" said Zilpah bitterly, "and I believe those cruel priests enjoyed the sight. At least it seemed so to me, then. But I have not told you yet the sacrifice I was commanded to make. My husband had been very gloomy for many days, and to all my inquiries gave the one reply, that he had grievously offended the god Moloch. At length he consulted the oracle, and what think you did they demand in expiation for his sin? Even the sacrifice of our little son—my one heart-treasure! Oh! I cannot tell you the fear and trembling that came upon me as I slowly comprehended the meaning of those cruel words! I was almost wild with despair, for I saw no way of saving my darling from this fearful death. I begged my husband to sacrifice me in place of our boy; but no! it was the sinless life of a little child that was demanded, and nothing else would satisfy the great god Moloch, said the oracles."
               "And was your husband willing to give up his little boy?" exclaimed Rachel, as if loath to believe that any one would be so hard-hearted.
               "God forbid that I should judge him now," said Zilpah. "I know at the time he expressed regret that so great a sacrifice should be required, but his words seemed cold and unfeeling to me then, and I stopped my ears from hearing more."
               "And no wonder!" added Rachel indignantly. "He was no better than a br—but pardon me, good Zilpah, I forget that he was your husband. Don't heed my thoughtless words, but continue your story."
               But Zilpah's thoughts were so absorbed in the vivid past that she scarcely noticed Rachel's words, and talked on as if there had been no interruption.
               "They took my little one away from me that night, in spite of all my earnest entreaties to keep him till the fatal hour. But, ah! a mother's loving watch is not easily baffled. I thought over, that night, on my sleepless couch, every imaginable place where they would be likely to conceal him; and, uttering to the God of my fathers, the God so long forsaken by His wicked servant, an earnest cry for help, I rose at midnight to seek my boy.
               "As I wandered about the dwelling of the priests (the priests of Moloch I mean), I heard a child's suppressed cry that I could not mistake. In bitter agony I crouched down by the wall, and waited the morning watch. Perhaps I could snatch my boy as they threw him to Moloch on the morrow, I wildly thought. At all events, I would keep as near him as possible, and if I could not save him I resolved to perish with him. But the early dawn was to reveal a new and unexpected sight.
               "Nebuchadnezzar had come again in person to punish the land for its wickedness, and the astonished people found themselves in a besieged city. The weak and wicked king of Judah made instant preparation to surrender, and almost before the news of the easy conquest had spread abroad, the whole city was thronged with the Babylonian soldiers. Of course there was no sacrificial offering made that day to Moloch.
               "While I lay in my place of concealment, a band of the soldiery forced their way into the priests' dwelling. Forgetful of everything save the rescue of my boy, I pressed in beside them, and in God's good mercy I was spared to save my darling.
               
               "In the panic he had been left quite unguarded with the other waiting victims, and clasping him in my arms, I bore him away in triumphant joy.
               "But whither should we go for safety? My first thought was to the house of Abi; but the way thither was so hedged up with riotous troops, that I turned aside to a more unfrequented part of the city. Then, as I caught sight of a Levite's house, I resolved to take my little one there, and consecrate him that very day to the great God whom I had so dishonored. It was the first impulse of my grateful heart, and, as I placed my little trembling boy in the arms of the good old man, and told him in a few hurried words my desire, a thrill of joy such as I had not known for many a day suddenly warmed my heart. I knew my darling was safer there than he could be even in his mother's warm embrace; and so, fearing still that my husband and the priests of Moloch were in pursuit of us, I kissed him a hurried farewell, and sought for myself some new place of concealment.
               "Ah, me! I little dreamed then of the long separation that was to come between us. Ere nightfall I was borne away a captive with the thousands of our people that King Nebuchadnezzar took up to Babylon. Of the fate of my little one I know nothing whatever; but God knows that when I gave him up it was with a whole heart-trust in the Mighty One. And although I have yearned (oh, so deeply!) all these seventy years to hear some word from my darling, I have not once doubted God's tender care over him. How could I, indeed, with all His precious promises? My punishment has been great, but it is good for me that I have been afflicted; thus hath He restored my soul, and led me in the paths of righteousness. I sought Him in my sinfulness, and I found Him so ready to forgive me, that even in the dark valley His rod and His staff have comforted me. Yes, 'in the midst of my enemies He has prepared a table before me, and anointed my head with oil, so that my cup runneth over.'
               
               "The history of my seventy years in the land of exile would be too long and unprofitable to relate, but it is filled with mercy from beginning to end, and I can only cry, when I think of God's goodness to me, 'What am I, O Lord, that Thou shouldst be mindful of me!'"
               Rachel looked up through blinding tears as Zilpah stopped, and fancied she saw a halo of light around the head of her old friend.
               Both Naphtali and Rachel had been deeply affected by the touching story, and heartily thanked Zilpah for relating it.
               Their aged friend seemed, ever after, a sacred charge to them; for, as Rachel whispered, "she had suffered so much, that God must be fitting her for a very high place in heaven."
               We may not follow the caravan each day of its four months march through the desert. God's protecting arm seemed ever round about them, and, unmolested by fickle elements or by savage foes, they made a constant progress. The aged mother sustained, wonderfully, the fatigue of this long journey, and her constant smile of patient hope grew brighter with each day's marching Zionward.
               Little Rachel—we must still add the diminutive title, for she was but a child in stature—never regretted her decision, but found that in place of being the burden she had feared, a constant labor of love might be hers. And very helpful she was to Zilpah and Naphtali both, by doing the numberless yet indispensable little things that her nimble fingers understood so well. Nor did her efforts to do good stop here. The little children in the company near them soon found her a tender, loving friend; and when the caravan halted, Rachel's tent was the favorite rendezvous of the little ones.
               And in all her strange, sweet stories that interested them so much, there was ever interwoven something to draw their hearts to the good All Father; so that, without their knowing how or why, the children used to say it was easier for them to do right after they had talked with their dear, lame friend.
               
               Naphtali's bright, hopeful nature seemed to have a grander scope than ever before; and, whether he sang with the sons of Asaph, or lent a helping hand in the necessary labor that each day brought, his cheerful spirit shed constant sunshine.
               No one in the whole company marked the progress of each day's journey with more intense interest than he, and when, at length, his feet rested upon the sacred land of his fathers, he could hardly find expression for his enthusiastic joy.
               Each deserted village they passed seemed peopled with the historic past, for the Chronicles of his nation were as fresh in his well-stored mind as the events of his own past life. There was Jericho, whose walls, descried in the distance, seemed quivering as those of old when the mighty trumpets sounded; and Jordan's blue wave that flowed at their feet, seemed waiting still for the tread of the ark-bearing priests in Joshua's noble company. Oh, the beautiful, glo rious land of Israel! Its mighty hills, its deep ravines, were no less grand than its wonderful history, and Naphtali, for the first time, was reading them both together! The very ground he trod upon seemed holy, and the flowers he gathered for Rachel seemed fairer than any he had ever plucked in the land of exile. And perhaps it was not altogether because he looked upon Judea with the eye and the heart of a zealous Jew. The country itself, although bearing the marks of ruthless foes, revealed on every side its fine, natural beauties. Babylonia, with all its grand works of art, had, indeed, nothing to be compared with the magnificent scenery of Palestina.
               Yet poor old Zilpha looked upon the old, familiar places with tear-dimmed eyes. Could these uncultivated wastes be, indeed, the land that overflowed with milk and honey? These rocky, barren slopes, the fertile hillsides where the vine and the olive grew in such wild luxuriance?
               
               The sweet, patient smile, that had almost grown to her wrinkled face, was well nigh eclipsed by the shades of disappointment. But, by-and-by, the bright light came back again; for she thought of the brave young hearts and the strong, young arms in this company of the faithful. It needed but their earnest, vigorous labor to restore the beauty of this land of lands, and why should they be discouraged by this restless mourning for the past? Nay! the present was rich with hope for the future, for God's smile had rested again upon Judea, and, seen through that glorious light, her native land began to grow more beautiful to her than ever before.
               Yet there were many aged ones in the great company, that still brooded over the well-remembered past, and could not, or would not, let this thought of the coming days brighten the prospect. And so a lack of sympathy sprang up between young and old, that found expression months after, in a strange commingling of shouts joy and wails of lamentation.
               But the long journey Zionward is almost ended now; a day's march farther, and the hills that have thus far hidden Jerusalem will be passed—the oft-repeated vision of the holy city will stand before them, a glad reality!
               The sun is fast sinking behind those sentinels in the west, and Naphtali stands in thoughtful mood beside the door of his tent. He thinks of the evening when he stood in like reverie on the plains of Shinar, and watched, for the last time, the palaces of Babylon fade in the twilight. He remembers his earnest prayer for the doomed city he afterward learned to love so well, and repeats it, almost involuntarily, as the terrible judgments of the prophets come again to his mind.
               Babylon and Jerusalem! How widely distinct had their histories been, and yet how closely were they linked together in the hearts of those captive Jews! They had lived, as it were, in spirit at the one, while in body the seventy years had passed away at the other.
               
               So thought Naphtali as he watched the darkening hills round about Jerusalem, and pictured to himself the longed-for scenes that were lying just beyond.
               After all, how faulty his glowing imaginings might prove, for had he not drawn his brightest coloring from remembrances of Babylon? He resolved to wipe out the whole picture, lest the real scenes to be revealed on the morrow might fall short of the ideal painting. So absorbed was Naphtali in his musings, that he had not noticed the flitting of a dark figure about his tent; but now a touch upon his shoulder and a gruff salutation quickly aroused him. The unexpected visitor proved to be none other than Ishbak, who seemed particularly fond of making these bat-like calls.
               "Well, Naphtali," was his greeting, "did you think to climb over those rough hills yonder, with your sharp eyes to-night? You have not taken your gaze from them these twenty minutes!"
               "Ah, Ishbak! you are here then," said Naphtali, turning toward his visitor with a bright smile of welcome. "I didn't know that I had been looking yonder so long; but how is it you did not speak to me sooner?"
               "Oh, I thought I would like to see how long you would keep that posture. But there, Naphtali, ever since I knew you you have been looking Zionward. What will you do when you are really within the city?"
               "Do? Ishbak. Why, I shall labor with all my heart and with all my strength to build up its broken walls and its ravaged temple. What work more glorious than this could a Jew desire?" and, at the very thought, Naphtali's whole countenance glowed with enthusiasm.
               "Ah, well! I hope you'll enjoy it, that's all," answered Ishbak shortly. "For my part, I'm thinking it will be no light labor."
               "But what labor of love, Ishbak, ever seems too long or too heavy? I can but think that deep down in your own heart you, too, are longing to begin the glorious work."
               
               "To be sure, I'll bear my part in it—I'm used to toil; but really, Naphtali, I cannot understand how you can look upon it as so great a privilege. It has always been a marvel to me that you were willing to leave your honorable post in Babylon, and cast in your lot with this feeble company of pilgrims."
               "Oh, Ishbak! Have you never read, 'I had rather be a door-keeper in the house of the Lord, than dwell at my ease in the tents of wickedness?' The lines had, indeed, fallen to me in pleasant places at Babylon, but what was all that when compared to the joy of beholding Zion! Ah, Ishbak! you may call me wild and visionary, but I tell you I have never felt so rich and so happy in all my life as I do this very moment!"
               "Really, Naphtali, I envy you your hopeful nature," said Ishbak, with a sigh. "Would that my poor old father had been blessed with so pious a son as you!"
               "Do not speak so, Ishbak. You have the same right as I to the glorious expectations of our people. Only believe what the prophets have told us of the All-forgiving Father and the blessed Messiah. Are not their glowing words sufficient to pierce the darkest despondency? Oh, Ishbak, do believe them,—you know they are as sure as the sunrise on the morrow. How, then, can you yield to gloomy doubts and fears?"
               "Ah, Naphtali, I've accustomed myself so long to look on the dark side of everything, that I can remember none of the prophets' words save their terrible threatenings."
               "Is that so, Ishbak! Do let me tell you, then, some of their rich promises. Hear what the great Isaiah writes: 'We have a strong city; salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks. Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in..... Trust ye in the Lord forever; for in the Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength...... Fear thou not, for I am with thee: be not dismayed, for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness...... Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If ye are willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land.' Do you not remember these oft-repeated words, Ishbak? They are but a very few of God's cheering promises, yet are they not quite enough to make one happy had He never uttered another encouraging word?"
               "Yes, Naphtali, they are very comforting, but somehow I cannot quite think they were meant for me."
               "And why not for you, Ishbak?" urged Naphtali eagerly.
               "Oh, because I have been so great a sinner, Naphtali; you cannot think how wicked and rebellious I've been. If these words are true, how can I help taking to myself those fearful threatenings against the disobedient, that were uttered by the same great God?"
               "But, Ishbak, just listen again: 'Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow.' You can surely take comfort from that, Ishbak. Oh, do not turn away from the pitying Father!" and Naphtali, in his earnestness, grasped the hands of Ishbak as if he would lead him by force to the waiting Mercy Seat.
               "I thank you, Naphtali, for your kind interest in such a wretch as I. Perhaps some time I can make myself fit to come to God and ask His pardon," answered Ishbak, as he turned slowly away.
               But Naphtali was far from being satisfied with this reply, and exclaimed with yet greater importunity, "Oh, Ishbak, do not wait to make yourself any better. You know we have no more power to change our hearts than 'the leopard has to change his spots.' And God does not require this impossible thing of us; He only says, 'Seek ye the Lord while He may be found; call ye upon Him while He is near.' And then He promises to do all the rest for us."
               
               "But didn't Job say, Naphtali, 'How can God be just and yet a justifier?' I cannot understand this free forgiveness that you talk about. Nay, more, Naphtali, I cannot believe it!"
               "But, Ishbak, just consider a moment. We cannot tell how it is that the food we eat sends to each bone, and muscle, and fibre, the very substances they need; we cannot understand why the same soil and climate can produce so many varied plants; and yet who is so foolish as to doubt the reality of all these things?
               "Then, again, Ishbak, I think God hasn't left us quite in the dark about this great salvation. You know that the priests have told us that the daily sacrifices and the scapegoat are but types of the coming Saviour,—upon Him, you know, is to be 'laid the iniquity of us all.'"
               "I see, Naphtali," said Ishbak in a light tone that ill-concealed his deep anxiety, "I see you are determined to convince me. But I fear you are not aware of the obstinate subject you have in hand."
               "But it is almost night, and we must both be resting for the morrow's journey. Good-night, Naphtali; may the God whom you love keep you in perfect peace!"
               "And may He bless you, too, Ishbak, and lead you to Himself," added Naphtali, finally.
               Early next morning, when the caravan was just starting for the last day's journey, Naphtali saw Ishbak coming toward him in great haste.
               "Hold, Naphtali! Can I have one word with you?" exlaimed his usually calm friend in a very excited manner.
               "Aye, Ishbak, and thrice that number," answered Naphtali quickly.
               "I will lead my mule, then, close beside you, and unburden my mind at once. Have I ever told you about my first life, Naphtali?"
               "No."
               "Then my story will be a long one. But stay; I must tell you first my adventure of last night. You know how dark it was when I left you, Naphtali. Well, I tried in vain to find my way back to our division (the children of Azgad, as you know). The tents were as like as lentile seeds, and the longer I sought for our company, the farther away I seemed to wander. At last I was so tired and discouraged, that I lay down just outside a tent that seemed in the outer row of a large division. But I could not sleep, Naphtali; our conversation still floated through my brain, and with it there came up before me vivid scenes of my boyhood. All my waywardness and disobedience that well-nigh broke my father's heart—all my irreverent, aye, blasphemous words when he strove to draw my heart to Israel's God. Oh, Naphtali! They seemed as fresh in my mind last night as if I were but just then guilty of them. And still the pictures of the past kept revolving on and on. I saw my dying mother, and then myself endeavoring to escape from bondage—a weak, childish plan it was, for what could I know, then, of Babylonia's vast extent? But I tried it, and lost the only bright part of my life when I fled that night from my father's humble cot. How I found my way to the great city of Babylon, I know not; but there I walked in bewildered delight one hot, dusty day. Of course my speech and my countenance soon betrayed my Jewish parentage. I was borne, struggling, to the market-place, and sold, before night, to the father of young Shethar. You guess, Naphtali, the rest of my history in Babylon, for you know well the dull routine of the life of a slave.
               "But stop, I have yet to tell you the strangest part of my story. As I said, all these scenes passed before me last night with wonderful distinctness; and, as I gazed upon them, I thought I heard my father's voice lifted in heartfelt supplication for his wandering son! I started in amazement, and rubbed my eyes vigorously to be sure I was not dreaming. But verily, I never was wider awake in all my life. I listened to hear the sound again, and lo! I heard my name thrice repeated by the same familiar voice! I now perceived that only the tent's covering separated arated me from the earnest suppliant, and I could doubt no longer that I had really heard my father's voice!
               "You must know, Naphtali, that all these fourteen years since I left my home, I have had no means of hearing a word from our family. I thought at the gathering of our people I might possibly find some of my kindred among the number; but when I learned that the children of Azgad numbered over a thousand, I found it would be like hunting for a grain of mustard-seed in a hillock of sand. Beside, I had almost forgotten the countenance of my father, and my little brothers and sisters I could not remember at all.
               "But my father's voice! I had not forgotten that; and to hear it, Naphtali, in such earnest supplication for his wayward boy—oh, that touched me more than anything else!
               "And Naphtali, was it not strange that in every pause of his prayer I seemed to hear this verse of the song you sang the other day: 'Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear Him.'"
               "'Twas the spirit of the Lord, Ishbak, that brought these words to your mind. Oh, heed them well!" urged Naphtali with tender earnestness.
               "Aye, I cannot soon forget them!" said Ishbak musingly; then, as if remembering, suddenly, the pause in his story, he continued, in hurried words:—
               "I longed, Naphtali, as I stood there listening, to break through the tent, and throw myself into my father's arms—of course I didn't—but oh! how impatiently I waited for daylight. When it came, I found I was in our own division, but just on the farthest side from my own tent. And, somehow, Naphtali, the dawn has taken away all my courage; had I better go to my father? What do you think? I have made inquiries, and find he has been in very feeble health ever since he set out on the journey. Will not the surprise be too much for him? What shall I do, Naphtali?" and Ishbak leaned forward with anxious interest to catch the words of his friend.
               "Why, Ishbak!" said Naphtali a little perplexed, "I hardly know how to advise you. But God has sent you this great blessing, I am very sure. Let us think a moment how He means you to use it;" and Naphtali looked off thoughtfully to the distant hills. Ishbak didn't know he was offering a silent prayer, too; but when the answer came, he felt quite convinced that Naphtali's advice was just the wisest and the best that could possibly be given.
               "I'll tell you, Ishbak, what I would do," he exclaimed suddenly. "These fourteen years that you speak of, must have changed you so very much that I do not think your father could possibly recognize you. Why could you not go to him as a stranger, draw him into conversation, and when he begins to talk of his son (as you can be very sure he will), tell him, by degrees, your acquaintance with this same Ishbak? Then it would be a very easy step to reveal yourself to him, would it not? Easy and safe for both of you, I mean."
               "That's so, Naphtali," said Ishbak, as if a great load were suddenly removed. "I wonder I hadn't thought of this way myself. But I believe I never do think of the right thing at the right time. I thank you, Naphtali, with all my heart, for your counsel. I shall follow it implicitly," added Ishbak, as he hastened away with the speed of a bird.
               "How wonderfully God leads us 'by ways we have not known,'" said Naphtali to himself, as he pondered over Ishbak's story. "I wish I could witness the happy meeting," he added, as his ready imagination began to picture it in glowing colors. "Poor Ishbak! I'm glad he told me so much of his past life; I shall feel more interested than ever in him. I wish I had known more about it when we were together in Shethar's household, for I might have done him more good, perhaps. Ah, me! how little we know of the heart-history of our familiar, daily associates!"
               
               So Naphtali soliloquized, and suddenly found that both Zilpah and Ishbak had undergone before him a transformation, as it were, and that, just by the simple life-histories they had revealed.
               But thinking of Zilpah's story reminded him of his charge, and leaving the sons of Asaph, he hastened to the good mother and her little attendant. They were numbered likewise among the children of Azgad, but, as Ishbak remarked, the division was estimated at over one thousand, and it was a long way from the beginning to the end of it. So, although Naphtali cast his eye all around, he saw nothing of Ishbak and his feeble old father; but little Rachel's black eyes welcomed him long before he came within speaking distance.
               A very happy journey it was that day, albeit the numerous hills in the neighborhood of Jerusalem made the journey not a little fatiguing. By-and-by the summit of Olivet was reached, and lo! Jerusalem lay open to the gaze of its ardent lovers! Who may venture to describe the varied emotions that thrilled the noble company as they beheld this city of their joy.
               There lay Jerusalem, Jerusalem, at Naphtali's very feet—so like, yet so unlike, the brilliant picture of his imagination. Seventy years had it been keeping Sabbath, as God had prophesied, and the mantle of rest seemed folded all about it still. The gentle rippling of the brook Kedron, below, mingled with the cry of a lone bird, and then naught but its soft, low dirge broke the silence of the scene. Just across the valley rose Mount Moriah with its ruined temple—the saddest sight of all; but, looking again, he fancied he saw a beautiful structure rising from beneath the grey ruins. With just a dimple between, rose the longer ridge of Zion, and far to the south and west, a long, dark shadow marked the course of Hinnom's gloomy valley.
               But the rich green foliage of the vine, the fig, and the olive, gave a strange freshness to the grey and desolate city. It seemed a token of God's loving remembrance of His chosen abode, and a promise of future blessings. Aye, Jerusalem was "beautiful for situation"—it should yet be "the joy of the whole earth," exclaimed Naphtali, as his eye rested on the natural features that neither the ravages of time nor sacrilegious hands could mar.
               Again, the impatient longing of his heart to begin the glad rebuilding eclipsed every other emotion; and when the command of "Onward!" came from the earnest Zerubbabel, Naphtali was among the very first to obey.
               But Zilpah gazed long and more wistfully upon the well-remembered scenes of her youth, and seemed to dread a nearer view lest it might reveal more startling changes. All her thoughts centred upon the long-ago Past, and the glorious Future was well nigh hidden in the mists of these by-gone years.
               Rachel could not help revealing a bitter disappointment as she looked upon the sombre city. Her ideal picture of Jerusalem had been even more brilliant than Naphtali's, for every bright, beautiful scene she had ever witnessed was interwoven, most ingeniously, with all Zilpah's glowing descriptions. Indeed, little Ray was very apt to let her imagination run quite unchecked by sober judgment, and so she was not a stranger to great extremes of feeling. And so it was a very sedate face that met Naphtali's, as he hastened back from his lone survey of Jerusalem.
               "Why, Rachel!" exclaimed Naphtali, as he noticed the shadow that not even her smile of welcome quite drove away, "what is it that has taken away the brightness of my little sunbeam on this glad day?"
               "Oh, Naphtali! I know it's very wrong of me, but I'm so disappointed!" and Rachel tried to smother a long-drawn sigh as she spoke.
               "Disappointed? And why, my little one? Did you hope to reach the city sooner?"
               "Oh, no, Naphtali, I wasn't thinking about the journey; but Jerusalem, Naphtali, it isn't one-half so beautiful as I thought it was, and I'm afraid I shall never love it again."
               
               "Ah, Rachel, you expected too much outward loveliness, I fear; and yet it seems to me there is not a little of that to admire, when we look at these many hills and vales. But think, Rachel, of the glorious Past that is really pictured there; yonder, in that opening, see how brightly the sun rests on Mount Moriah? Oh, Rachel, just think of the glory of Solomon's Temple. Think of the glad feast-days celebrated there—of the songs of triumph that have echoed from hill to hill. Think, Rachel dear, that it was here our God selected His dwelling-place, and here revealed His glory in the Holy of Holies. Oh, Jerusalem! thou hast indeed been 'the perfection of beauty' and 'the glory of all lands.' May God grant to His repenting children the unspeakable privilege of restoring once again thy matchless splendor!"
               Naphtali's ardent soul seemed to shine in every feature as he uttered these earnest words, and little Rachel longed to recall her own dissatisfied expressions. They seemed not only weak and childish to her now, but very ungrateful, and, with downcast head, she murmured, "Pray God to forgive me, Naphtali, those foolish, wicked complaints. You have taken the blindness from my eyes, and now I see Jerusalem as it really is—the city of our God! May the great Father help me always to love it as the place of His abode!"
               "My dear little sister, do you not know that I have need of that same earnest prayer? I did not tell you how like to yours was my own first thought when I looked upon Jerusalem. But look, Rachel. Is not that Ishbak yonder?"
               "I think so, Naphtali. But who can that dear old man be to whom he is talking so earnestly? It must be some one that knows him well, for see how interested they both seem in their talk. Why, Ishbak, do you not see Ishbak kissing the hand of the old man now, and receiving, as it were, a patriarchal blessing? What can it all mean, I wonder."
               "A great deal, Rachel," answered Naphtali in a glad voice. "Listen, and I will tell you a beautiful story of God's providential love."
               And Naphtali related to Rachel the story he had heard from Ishbak's lips, while their eyes read the sequel in the picture before them.
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               BEGINNING OF THE GREAT WORK.
               AND now the journey was ended. The Holy City was once more trodden by pious feet; but, first of all, the great company sought the house of their God, and made there a liberal offering, according to their several abilities, to help forward the great work. The gift increased, till it numbered "threescore and one thousand drams of gold, five thousand pounds of silver, and one hundred priests' garments."
               Then did the priests and the Levites, the singers, the porters, the Nethinims, and the great body of the undistinguished but no less faithful Jews, seek to make themselves homes in the land of their fathers.
               
               As soon as the company began to disperse, Naphtali and Rachel urged the good old Zilpah to make her home with them—an invitation which she gladly and gratefully accepted.
               Naphtali at once sought a suitable dwelling-place, at no great distance from the site of the temple, and then labored vigorously to make it a safe and pleasant home for his little family.
               As one of the singers, he would need to be absent from them at certain intervals, for the choir was divided into courses that served, by turn, a week at a time, in the Jewish ceremonies. So he was all the more anxious to secure from unwelcome intruders, his feeble charge. He had hoped to induce Ishbak and his kindred to settle near them; but, in the confusion of that last day, he had quite lost sight of his old friend, and upon making inquiries, had been unable to learn anything certain of Ishbak's plans for the future. So the three were quite by themselves in their new home, and it was some time before they made any acquaintances in the neighborhood. But Zilpah was too old and feeble to desire much save quiet and prayer, and Rachel strove to drive away the lonely feeling that would come over her whenever Naphtali was out of sight. Since Zilpah had told them the story of her past life, a strange reticence had come over the good mother; and Rachel noticed, with surprise, that whenever she asked her to talk about the olden times, Zilpah would always end her brief story with thoughts about present work and future happiness.
               One day Rachel ventured to ask her why she dwelt so much upon these things, and always shortened her stories of the past.
               "Ah, little one!" she answered, with a saintly smile, "I have lived too much already in the by gones! And I've been thinking, of late, that I must take heed lest the little time left me be wasted in useless reminiscences. You know I can do little else now but to pray for the peace of Israel. The past I leave in God's hand, and look beyond, with unspeakable longing, to a city fairer even than Jerusalem in its brightest days—to that land where my loved ones dwell—the land that is 'very far off,' and where I shall behold 'the King in His glory!'"
               Rachel felt as if an angel's wing had brushed her cheek, as Zilpah's wrinkled hand gently stroked it; and, putting her arms around her dear old friend, she exclaimed earnestly, "Oh, Zilpah, it frightens me to hear you talk so. I cannot bear the thought of your leaving us, for I have no one but you and Naphtali in the wide world!"
               "And God, who is everywhere," added Zillpah.
               "Oh yes, dear mother. I know that He will never leave me, exclaimed Rachel quickly; "but I need you to teach me how to serve Him."
               "The Spirit of the Lord, dear child, will teach you all that," answered Zilpah, with a loving smile; and then her hands were folded together again, and her lips moved once more in earnest supplication.
               Rachel kissed the furrowed brow, and stole softly away to her own little chamber of prayer, for her heart was full of longings that none but God could satisfy. Zilpah's desire to help forward the Lord's work by her prayers, had reminded Rachel that this might be a part of her duty, as well. She had longed for something great to do, and for gold and silver to offer; but here was prayer—something that was really in her power, and better than all other gifts, since it moved the hand of the great Benefactor.
               Not many weeks had elapsed since the arrival of the great company, when the beginning of the seventh month—the month of feasts—came on. Then, 'as one man,' the people gathered themselves from their several cities to Jerusalem. First of all, an altar for burnt-offerings must be built, and consecrated to the God of Israel. It was necessary to show, at once, to the people of the country this symbol of their religion; and more than all, it was necessary to remind their own hearts of God's commandment in the law of Moses. So Jeshua the priest, and Zerubbabel the prince, with his brethren, set the altar upon its bases; and there they offered a lamb without blemish, every morning and every evening, for a continual burnt-offering unto the Lord.
               "It was a most impressive month to the returned Israelites, and served to bind their zealous hearts nearer to one another, and nearer to their God.
               On the very first day of this month, Tishri, the holy convocations began with the Feast of New Moons, and, as the law of Moses had commanded, it was ushered in with the blowing of trumpets. Around their humble little altar, the faithful worshippers assembled; and although no glittering temple gladdened their upturned faces, no Holy of Holies was there, no Urim and Thummim revealed God's will, or dazzling Shechinah shadowed forth His glory, the great Jehovah must have drawn very near to those earnest suppliants.
               On the tenth day of the month came a solemn, sacred remembrance of the Feast of Atonement; and then followed, from the fifteenth day to the twenty-third, the Feast of Tabernacles.
               
               This last was so called, because, while it continued, the people dwelt in booths, or tents made of the branches of trees,—in memory of the wilderness journey of their ancestors. And, indeed, the feast itself was appointed in commemoration of this event. Sometimes it was called the Feast of Ingatherings, because it took place at the close of the vintage, when the fruits of the year were gathered in.
               To Zilpah, to Rachel, and to Naphtali, all these ceremonies were of exceeding interest. To Zilpah came, especially, memories of the past, and very thankful was she for this humble return to old-time ceremonies, and very hearty was her worship in the great congregation.
               Rachel feared her feeble old friend would quite break down under the unwonted excitement, but while the feast-days lasted she did not show a sign of weariness. Afterwards, when they went back to their quiet home, there came, indeed, a great reaction, and Rachel could but mark with trembling heart how heavily the burden of years rested on the good mother. 'Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken,'—she wondered why was it these sad, sweet words were so constantly in her heart, as she sat by Zilpah's side. Was it a warning of the coming days? But Rachel put the thought far away, and lived over the feast-days just past. In the land of captivity these festival days were observed only in secrecy—or, when a public observance had been allowed by some lenient king, only in small numbers, and Rachel, in her short life had known them by hearsay alone. The great assembly, the clarion note of the trumpets, the sacrificial offerings, the clouds of rich incense, the glittering garments of the priests, their heartfelt supplications, the responses of the people, and the songs of the sons of Asaph, all combined to impress her mind in the strongest manner, and far beyond the gaudy displays which she had witnessed in Babylon, at the heathen festivals, magnificent as they were. "Oh! if they could only last every day of the year, how heaven-like earth would seem, Naphtali!" she exclaimed one day to her brother.
               "But we do have the burnt-offering each day, Rachel, and that should be a constant reminder to us that we need to be fitting each day for heaven."
               "That is true, Naphtali; and when I watch the cloud of smoke as it rises from the morning sacrifice, I will pray God to bring my soul a day's journey heavenward."
               "And add the same petition, little Ray, for your brother too," said Naphtali, as he stooped to kiss her.
               Very grand and glorious days had this seventh month brought to the young singer. To worship the God of Israel in His own appointed way, and in Jerusalem, too! To stand where David had stood, and lift the very songs of praise their poet-king had uttered! To meet with the great congregation on Zion's hill, and consecrate anew the place where God had deigned to dwell! this was the fulfilment of his earthly hopes!
               He also joined the great company of laborers, and devoted every moment that could be spared from his home labors and his duties in the Jewish ceremonies, to hastening forward the great work of re-building the temple.
               All through the winter season the preparations were carried on with great efficiency. Money was given to the masons and carpenters, who were ready to work with a will, and meat, drink and oil to the people of Tyre and Sidon, who engaged to bring cedar trees from Lebanon.
               In the second month of the second year (scarcely more than a twelvemonth since the decree of Cyrus), they were all ready to begin on the foundation.
               Then came a great gathering of all the people to Jerusalem; for, during the year, some of the forty and two thousand three hundred and three score had departed to their own cities in Judah.
               But now Jeshua and Zerubbabel had appointed the Levites from twenty years old and upwards to set forward the work of the house of the Lord; and all had a wish to be present at the great initiatory service.
               Among the vast assembly, Rachel's bright eyes detected that day the well-remembered face of Ishbak. He was at some distance from them, and accompanied by the gray-haired man whom Naphtali had guessed to be his father. Rachel thought he was looking for her brother among the singers; and she waited quite impatiently for Naphtali's return, that she might tell him of Ishbak's sudden appearance, and evident desire to speak with him.
               She had always pitied this friend of Naphtali's, because he seemed so unhappy; and since his kind attentions during the journey, she had begun to number him among her own good friends. Besides, the story Naphtali had told her of Ishbak's past life had awakened a new interest in him; and she longed to know if the dear old man who seemed so fond of him was really the good father he had grieved so deeply.
               But hark! the priests are sounding the loud trumpets now, and Rachel clasps tightly the hand of Zilpah, lest, in the gathering crowd, they may be separated from each other. Here is a smooth stone where they can sit and listen, and watch the great assembly.
               "O give thanks unto the Lord: for He is good, for His Mercy endureth forever toward Israel, His people!" How sweetly, ay, how grandly, the song of praise arose, as the singers touched their cymbals, and course after course repeated the glad thanksgiving chant!
               And then the people shouted with one long, loud shout, that was heard a great way off, for the builders had laid the foundation of the temple of the Lord!
               But the young and the old engaged in these services with widely-different feelings. Some there were in the great congregation, Priests and Levites and chief of the fathers, who were ancient men, and had seen the first grand temple. And what was this paltry foundation when compared to that regal building of the olden times? Tears dimmed the eyes of these white-haired men as they contrasted the brilliant past with the meagre present; and with a loud voice they wept, while shouts of joy arose from the happy, hopeful youth.
               And Zilpah and Rachel, as they bent their ears to listen, could scarcely distinguish the shoutings of grateful joy from the noise of the lamentations. Zilpah thought it must be that her ears were duller of hearing than ever before, and bade Rachel tell her truly whether the people were weeping for sorrow or shouting for joy.
               "The sounds seems to be blended, dear mother," replied Rachel, "and the faces all about us seem a strange contradiction to each other." She was as perplexed as Zilpah. But the two faces that greeted her on the left were beaming with joy—that was very certain—and as Ishbak grasped her hand, she quite forgot what she had been trying to ascertain.
               
               "Ah little Rachel!" he exclaimed; "I am very glad to meet you again—and here is the good Zilpah, too! How did you dare to venture alone to-day in this crowded assembly?"
               "Oh! we couldn't help but come, you know," answered Rachel eagerly; "Naphtali helped us hither, and we have sat just here, where we could see and hear every thing, without being quite in the crowd. But how happy you are looking to-day, Ishbak!"
               "And why not, little one? is it not a glad day for our people?"
               "Oh, yes! I'm sure I think so; but why are so many crying all about us?"
               "Because," replied Ishbak, "they are brooding over the past—yet I think they do wrong to throw a chill over these rejoicings."
               "And so do I, Ishbak; it makes me feel just like crying too when I see other people in tears," said Rachel in reply; and then with her childlike frankness she added—"but it makes me glad, Ishbak, too see your face so bright!"
               "Perhaps it has caught some of your sunshine, little Rachel; what do you think? But look! I have brought my father to see you and your good old friend. Have you heard how graciously the great God led me to him?"
               "Yes, Naphtali told me the whole story, and I've been wanting to see your dear, good father ever since."
               Rachel glanced timidly, as she spoke, into the mild, sweet face of the gray-haired man; and the answering smile that quickly met her own quite dissipated all her natural diffidence.
               So, when Naphtali came, a few moments after, to find his charge, he beheld the whole little company engrossed in friendly conversation.
               He was very glad to meet Ishbak and his father; for although he had frequently seen them, at a distance, on the late feast days, this was the first opportunity he had had of meeting them.
               Ishbak, too, was greatly delighted to see Naphtali again; and as soon as the great congregation began to break up, they gladly agreed to spend the rest of the day together.
               Naphtali also prevailed upon Amram, the father of Ishbak, to bring the rest of his family to their humble dwelling, so that they might have a right merry gathering to celebrate this day.
               Never before had so many bright faces assembled round their frugal table; and Rachel, for the first time, felt quite ashamed of their homely fare.
               But that very morning they had given the choicest kid of their flock as a free-will offering to the Lord; and she knew that the dainty food must, therefore, be spared from their meagre board. However, it was certainly a most happy gathering they had in their humble house.
               Zilpah and Amram found much to converse about, for both were well tried veterans in the service of Zion. Amram, indeed, had but just past the line of three score years and ten; while Zilpah's added score had laid its heavier burden on heart and brow; but both were treading down the slope of years, and the twenty or so mile-stones between seemed but a slight space as they talked over the joys and sorrow of the way
               Naphtali and Ishbak had, of course, many things to say to each other, for almost a year had elapsed since they had had any conversation together. Arm in arm, they walked on the house-top in the cool of the day, and there Ishbak told Naphtali how admirably his plan had worked.
               "As you told me, Naphtali," began Ishbak, "my father soon began to talk of his son, and I found this subject was indeed uppermost in his mind. Dear old man, I little realized before how much he loved his wayward boy! I asked him to tell me how he looked, how old he was when he ran away from home, and many kindred questions, that were answered with an accuracy which showed how often they had been dwelt upon. Then I ventured to tell him, that among my acquaintances there was one young man that seemed to answer his description in every particular—allowing of course, I added, the changes that years would bring. The old man drank in every word with an eagerness that almost overcame me; and as soon as I had concluded, he begged me to bring this friend to him at once, if he were anywhere in the company. You can guess the rest, Naphtali, I can not tell it to you; but oh! the warm greeting I received—the parental blessings that were showered upon me! Ah! Naphtali! from this unmerited earthly love I learned to comprehend something of the heavenly!"
               "And you have found your heavenly Father just as tender, yes, more tender and forgiving, Ishbak?" asked Naphtali.
               "I have found Him," answered Ishbak, in low and earnest tones, "full of compassion."
               "Do you see that dull cloud yonder? It only needs one touch from the setting sun, to make it all alive with light. So was it with my soul, Naphtali! God touched it with his great love, and somehow the gloom is all dispelled!"
               "Oh, Ishbak!" exclaimed Naphtali as he fer vently grasped the hand of his friend, "I am so glad for you, I know not what to say! I can only cry, as little Ray does in her overflowing joy, 'Alleluia! Alleluia!'"
               Just then, Rachel's sweet voice called to them from below, and the young men hastened to obey the summons.
               A walk to the olive grove on the hillside had been proposed, and Naphtali and Ishbak must surely accompany them, or half the anticipated pleasure would be lost. So the whole company set out together, aud were soon enjoying the shade of the grove.
               Here, Ishbak's young sisters enlivened the twilight with their sprightly talk and sweet singing; and it was night ere the happy company thought of separating.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IX.
               FLITTING SUNBEAMS AND DARK SHADOWS.
               ON the following day, Ishbak and his kindred set out on their homeward journey. They had settled in a village just out of the city, but Ishbak himself intended to make his home in Jerusalem, as soon as the building of the temple was renewed.
               Naphtali, when he heard of Ishbak's intentions, urged him to come and make one of his own little household; and this proposal Ishbak was only too glad to accept, for he had foreseen how difficult it might be to procure suitable lodgings at such a time.
               Rachel was very lonely after the company had gone, for she had greatly enjoyed the rare pleasure of young companions. Ishbak's trio of merry ry, excellent sisters had introduced her to a new world, as it were; and seemed, in their departure, to have closed the magic door. For Rachel's childhood and youth had been almost isolated from girlish associates. Even in Beriah's household, her fellow-slaves were all her seniors, and Naphtali had been her only confidential friend ever since her mother's death.
               It was, however, arranged that sometime, when she could be spared from home, Rachel was to visit these sisters of Ishbak, Deborah, Bismath and Abishag,—so she cheerfully resumed her work.
               But indeed Naphtali was rarely at home now, save to give his necessary assistance in the household; for the building was almost immediately renewed after the laying of the foundation, and he still persisted in his self-imposed labor.
               Zilpah seemed to be growing daily more saint-like in spirit, while her feeble frame grew weaker and weaker. Yes, she was ripening for heaven, and the "far-off land" might soon be gained by one more longing soul.
               
               But Rachel said to herself, "Zilpah will grow stronger with the lengthening days, and bye and bye we will take our pleasant walks together."
               Before the rainy season set in, they had daily taken a quiet saunter through the neighboring streets; and Zilpah had pointed out to Rachel many a ruined building that was rich with past associations.
               One day, when with tear-dimmed eye she had marked the spot of the Levite's house, Rachel ventured to ask a question that had long been revolving in her mind.
               "Dear Mother!" she said with an eager look, "do you not think we might learn, even now, something of the fate of your little one? Who knows but that he is living still, and even within our city?" Zilpah started quickly at Rachel's words; then with a deep sigh she said, "Ah! dear child, you have expressed the one thought that is constantly with me, in my down-sitting and up-rising; but I see no way by which the question can be answered. In my haste that day, I forgot to tell the good priest the name of my little son. So I have not even the hope of finding him by that! and after seventy years, who is there in all this city that could tell me aught of the aged Levite and the little nameless boy? No, my child, I must put the thought away. Only in the "far-off land" can I hope to see my darling; and whether he has gone there before me, or whether I go a little while the sooner, it matters not—my one prayer is, that God will there unite us in the land where is no more parting, and where sorrow and sighing shall forever flee away!"
               Rachel said no more, for Zilpah's resignation seemed too beautiful to mar with her own foolish suggestions; but the hope would not quite leave her own mind, that sometime in this life Zilpah would meet her long lost son.
               Since Ishbak's finding of his father, her hope had greatly increased, and although the numerous inquiries she had made, quite unknown to Zilpah, had thus far been utterly useless, she still clung to her single thread, and wove around it all manner of beautiful romances. But as the days went by, and Zilpah grew weaker, Rachel began to fear that the good Mother's words were indeed prophetic.
               And then came sad forebodings to the little cripple. What should she do without Zilpah? How could she live through the long, lonely days in store for her? But these were selfish thoughts, and she checked them at once, in her busy efforts to promote the comfort of her dear, old friend.
               Never was there a more devoted nurse than our little Rachel through all those dreary days; and never was there a more cheerful, patient sufferer than good, old Zilpah.
               Just about this time came the first hindrance to the great re-building. Rachel gleaned something from Naphtali and Ishbak's excited talks about the troublesome intruders; and every day there came tidings of fresh difficulties.
               It seemed that the people of the country had come to Zerubbabel and chief of the fathers, at the very beginning of the work, and offered their services; "for," said they, "we seek your God, as you do; and we do sacrifice to Him since the days of Esarhaddon, king of Assur, who brought us up hither."
               But Zerubbabel and Jeshua suspected their motives, and said to them: "You have nothing to do with us to build an house unto our God; but we ourselves will build unto the Lord God of Israel, as Cyrus, the king of Persia, hath commanded us."
               The people of the country were greatly incensed at this reply, and began to annoy the builders by every means in their power.
               They dared not do much openly, because they knew the work was supported by Cyrus; but as Naphtali said, "the mischief they managed to perpetrate in an underhand way was truly incalculable."
               Sometimes, they would intercept the materials for the building; sometimes they would discourage age the weak-minded among the laborers by suggesting all sorts of despondent thoughts; and then they made the bolder threat of hiring counsellors to oppose the ministers whom the Jews sent to Cyrus for supplies and protection.
               Of course, the work progressed very slowly under all these hindrances, and the poor Jews found it hard to keep up good courage and labor on. Even Naphtali's bright spirit was clouded for a time. Ishbak had no little difficulty in keeping back many a rash, impatient thought, when he saw the obstacles; but constant victories over himself had given him a wonderful self-command. Indeed, Ishbak's silent but steady adherence to the labor of each day stimulated him to put away his own despondent thoughts, and to work on zealously. A few such indomitable spirits always kindle many more, and so the work went forward surely though slowly, day by day.
               Meanwhile the shadow in Naphtali's home seemed to be lifting a little. Zilpah began to show signs of returning health, and her faithful little nurse was almost beside herself with joy. At length, the good Mother had so far recovered her strength, that Naphtali and Ishbak firmly believed a visit to Ramah was the only thing needed to secure her entire restoration. This would give her the fresh air of the hills, and divert her mind from painful reminiscences.
               So they reasoned and so they urged, till one bright morning Zilpah and Rachel set out upon their journey. They took a very early start, for Ishbak was to accompany them, and return to the city in time for his day's labor.
               Six miles to the north of Jerusalem lay the little town of Ramah, situated, as its name indicates, on an eminence. It had been the scene of many historic events, and, as our little party journeyed along, they recalled with deep interest the noble lives that had rendered the place so famous. Here had the great prophet Samuel made his favorite residence; for beside the outward beauty of Ramah, it was also endeared to him as the place of his birth. Here had he built an altar unto the Lord, and here, in the fulness of years, had he slept with his fathers. It was Ramah, that Buasha, king of Israel, once possessed and fortified; and that Asa, the king of Judah, wrested from him by stratagem.
               A little way out of Ramah, on the road to Bethel, was a place that Ishbak said Rachel must visit; for here was buried the beautiful wife of father Jacob, whose sweet name our little cripple bore.
               Then Zilpah remembered that it was upon this eminence of Ramah that the captive Jews had been assembled under the Babylonian captain, Nebuzaradan. She, indeed, had not formed one of the company, for her own captivity had begun years before, but often had she heard from the lips of these captives, how bitter was the parting there, as they viewed Jerusalem from the hill, and bade it a long farewell.
               Naphtali and Ishbak had quite forgotten this fact when they said to each other, "The scenes about Ramah will bring up only pleasant associations to the aged Zilpah;" but the good Mother had learned of late, as we have seen, to let no painful reminiscence cloud for a moment, the present sunshine or the future glory. So, putting away the bitter memories, she only spoke of the beautiful view from the hill. And indeed, it was a rich expanse of country that stretched out before them on every side! The morning sun was just climbing above Olivet, and Jerusalem lay half in the light and half in the shadow—an emblem, Rachel said, of its real condition there. All about them were the first green slopes that the summer's sun had not yet scorched—sunny slopes that rose from dark chasms; and far to the north and west a wave of faint blue hills told of Lebanon's glory and Carmel's beauty. Even Zilpah's dim eyes were charmed with the rich prospect, and Ishbak caught a bit of Rachel's enthusiastic joy.
               A few rods farther, however, brought them to the dwelling of Amram; and here the hearty welcome that greeted them, and the many questions asked or answered quite absorbed all other thoughts and scenes, for the time.
               Among these good people we will leave Zilpah and Rachel awhile, and return with Ishbak to Jerusalem. The journey back seemed twice as long to him, albeit he rode at a much swifter pace than before. Curiously enough, too, the sunlight seemed dimmer without Rachel's bright smile, and the singing of the birds was not half so merry as an hour before. Twice he sprang from his mule to gather some rare, bright flowers, but only to throw them away when he thought of the hand that was not there to receive them. He was glad to pass by the desolate house in the city, and begin at once his day's labor on the wall; for a sense of loss seemed to haunt his whole being.
               Naphtali was there before him, and eagerly questioned him as to how their old friend had borne the journey.
               "Oh, admirably," answered Ishbak, "and my father and sisters were delighted to welcome her and your sister."
               "Rachel I know will enjoy the visit exceedingly," said Naphtali, "and I trust the good Zilpah will gain much strength thereby; but I'm thinking, Ishbak, we shall sadly miss them both."
               "Ay! Naphtali, ay!" replied Ishbak, and with so much earnestness that Naphtali looked up, involuntarily.
               Ishbak's crimson cheek revealed a secret that he did not mean to betray; but Naphtali's keen eye was quick to discern it, and though he said nothing more on the subject, he thought about it, not a little, that day.
               It was only about a week after this, that a little incident occurred—trifling enough in itself, but meriting notice because of its bearings upon the future. It had been a most discouraging day to the temple-builders; and Ishbak and Naphtali, with many other of the laborers, had been obliged to leave their work for want of materials. So in the early part of the day, they laid aside their tools with reluctance, and turned their faces homeward. The afternoon was hot and dusty, and as they stopped to refresh themselves at a well by the roadside, a beautiful young girl came thither to fill her earthen pitcher. A sudden blush suffused her face as she noticed the two young men and returned their courteous salutation. Stooping to fill the pitcher, her long, black hair fell like a dusky veil over her lovely face, and the bright eyes that peeped shyly out of the meshes, seemed like twin stars in the firmament of night.
               Naphtali was charmed with the whole appearance of the young girl; and, noticing that it was with difficulty she could reach the water, he sprang forward at once, and offered to fill the pitcher for her. With a bright smile she thanked him and accepted his offer; but alas! the pitcher had scarcely changed hands, when Naphtali's unsteady fingers dropped it on the margin of the well. Of course, it was shattered, and Naphtali was overwhelmed with embarrassment at what seemed a piece of inexcusable carelessness. But the young girl waited for no excuse, assuring him that it was of no consequence, at all—the pitcher was not a valuable one, and indeed, she was glad to have it out of the way.
               Naphtali, however, had noticed the unique design of the jar, and almost distrusted her courteous words; but the merry tones brought back his own self-possession, and he now begged permission to try his hand in the filling of a second pitcher. "For I think I have not forgotten the art," he said lightly.
               "I will prove you, then, if you wish," answered the girl merrily; "my father's house is close by, and I will hasten to get another jar."
               It was not just the answer Naphtali expected, but beckoning Ishbak to follow, he accompanied the young girl to the neighboring dwelling.
               He was almost inclined to draw back when he saw it was the home of a well-known enemy of the Jews; but courtesy and the lively chat of his companion checked the impulse. With all her childlike freedom and gayety, a womanly dignity—like the delicate veil she wore—seemed to be thrown over her whole deportment.
               The second pitcher was soon procured, and Naphtali filled it with care—enjoying heartily the merry bantering of the light-hearted maiden. As he bade her good-bye, he was very glad to remember that the valuable jar he had broken was yet to be replaced; and thus another opportunity would be given him of meeting the young maiden.
               Ishbak, with the old, dark frown on his face, had followed Naphtali like a shadow; and as soon as they had left the damsel, he expressed in strong terms his opinion of their new acquaintance.
               "A very rude and forward young maid, Naphtali! I wonder you should have encouraged her unwomanly conduct. Think of your gentle sister talking like that to a perfect stranger!"
               "Talking how, Ishbak?" said Naphtali in surprise. "I am sure I thought the damsel very lovely both in face and deportment."
               "Ah well, Naphtali," said Ishbak, checking the sharp words that rose to his lips; "I see we cannot agree, yet, in every thing; so perhaps it were better to drop the subject at once."
               Naphtali knew his old friend too well to attempt to argue in favor of the beautiful maiden; so neither said anything farther on the subject.
               Naphtali found no little difficulty in procuring a substitute for the pitcher he had broken, and it was not until a month after, that a skilful potter supplied his want. Meantime, however, he had seen the young Athaliah, for such was her name, almost every day, either at the well, or on the path to it. So their acquaintance was fast ripening into friendship ere the replacement of the broken jar; and the cordial greeting from her parents, whom young Naphtali then met for the first time, served to cement his growing attachment for the beautiful Athaliah.
               Ishbak, of course, knew nothing of all this; for Naphtali did not dare to confide to him aught of his feelings toward her.
               
               But just about this time, a series of startling events occurred, that absorbed every other interest.
               One evening, as Naphtali and Ishbak were returning from their work at the temple, a courier greeted them with a message from their friends at Ramah. It proved to be an urgent request for their immediate presence at Ishbak's home. The whys and wherefores of this sudden call were entirely withheld; and, with mingled curiosity and anxious forboding, Naphtali and Ishbak hastened to the neighboring village that very night. As they approached the dwelling of Amram, the merry songs of minstrels within silenced their fears, but only increased their curiosity. The whole house seemed illuminated as if in honor of some great event, and savory odors from below suggested strongly the serving up of the fatted calf.
               "What could it all mean?" exclaimed Ishbak and Naphtali in one voice, as the glad rejoicings greeted them on every side. But the query had scarcely dropped from their lips, before it was answered by the happy Rachel. She had been on the lookout for them, and now met them in the porch with a beaming countenance.
               "Oh Ishbak! Oh Naphtali! Such glad news as I have to tell you! You would scarcely believe it possible; but our dear good Zilpah has found her long-lost son!"
               "Found her son after seventy years, Rachel!" exclaimed Naphtali, as Ishbak concealed his own astonishment in the practical questions of "How? When? Where?"
               "Oh! as to all that," answered Rachel, "you must come in and hear the story from beginning to end. They are all waiting for you in the courtyard."
               Ishbak and Naphtali needed no second invitation, and following Rachel, they soon found themselves in the midst of the happy gathering.
               The greeting words were quickly said, and then the new comers eagerly scanned the familiar faces to find the unfamiliar one of Zilpah's long-lost son. There sat the good Mother with a radiant smile illuminating every feature of her wan and wrinkled face.
               There was Amram with his youthful wife, his noble lads, and his beautiful daughters. Here was Rachel close beside them; but save these and the singing men and women in the corner, not another person could they detect in the whole courtyard.
               But now the singing ceased, and every ear was turned toward the aged Zilpah, whose weak voice was raised in ejaculations of praise. All responded in one breath; then Amram arose, and taking Ishbak and Naphtali by the hand, drew them to Zilpah's side, as he said,—
               "Behold, young men, the mother who gave me birth, and counted her own life as naught that she might deliver me from the fiery arms of Moloch! 'After many days' comes the fulfilment of God's promise. Praise to his name for thus leading us down through the threescore years and ten to this happy meeting." "Amen, and Amen!" rang out again the glad response; and Naphtali brushed away a tear, as his eye rested upon the touching scene. Surprise and curiosity were quite lost in the tender interest he felt for the aged mother and the gray-haired son. But the tableau was soon broken; for the evening was fast waning, and the half of the story was not yet told. So, after Ishbak had saluted his new-found grand-parent, all the company took their seats again, and listened with deep interest to Amram's account of the way in which the good God had revealed the mother and son to each other.
               It seemed they had been recounting, one day, the events of their past lives, and Amram had pointed to the neighboring eminence as a place very dear to him, because from that spot he had bade Jerusalem the long farewell ere leaving for the land of exile.
               "I was a mere boy, then," he added, "but I felt keenly this parting from the land of my fathers—and felt it all the more, because I was so utterly ly alone in the great company of captives. The good Levite who had been father and mother, brother and sister, to me ever since I could remember, had been slain before my eyes only the day before; and life seemed a very, very bitter thing to me, as I brooded over my sorrows that night."
               "Zilpah's countenance surprised me," continued Amram, "as I said these words. She had almost wept for sympathy before, when I had recounted my fresher sorrows; but now her whole face seemed to be kindled with a new-found joy. 'A Levite was your foster-parent?' she inquired eagerly, and then added quickly, before I had time to reply, 'but did he never tell you about your own parents? Why did they leave you in his charge?' Of course, I could not understand this unwonted excitement on the part of our gentle Zilpah, and feared our long talk had brought on a return of her late disease. Without answering her eager questions, I proposed an immediate return to the house, (for it was in yon olive grove that we held our converse) but I soon perceived that naught save a speedy answer to her queries could quiet her excited nerves. And no wonder, no wonder, dear mother," added Amram tenderly as he kissed her hand again. "I told her the beautiful story of my mother's self-sacrificing love, that the good Levite had often repeated to me; and then the earnest longings of my heart to know the fate of this same dear mother. You can guess the remainder of my story, can you not? This scar upon my arm confirms the discovery of mother and son, for thus had I been branded for Moloch by an unnatural father! Again my heart cries, 'God be praised for His gracious providences to usward!'"
               And Amram's countenance beamed with grateful love as he glanced upward, and then from Zilpah to the little company before him.
               It was indeed a day of glad rejoicing not only to mother and son, but to all the sympathizing household, and when Amram had concluded his brief recital, the remainder of the evening was spent in a merry-making of both young and old.
               The next day, Ishbak and Naphtali were obliged to return to Jerusalem; and as Zilpah's home henceforward was, of course, to be with her son, they urged Rachel to return to their lonely home in the city. So, bidding Zilpah a reluctant and affectionate farewell, she prepared to accompany Ishbak and her brother on the following day.
               Rachel's visit at Ramah had more than realized her anticipations, but it was very pleasant to be with Naphtali again in her own dear home. And the dingy old dwelling seemed indeed to be suddenly transformed into a palace, now that there was a Ray of light within it. At least, so Ishbak affirmed, and he seldom spoke in hyperbole.
               Alas! that aught should have disturbed the peace and joy of this quiet, happy home; but a demon unseen was hovering near, and soon darkened the whole beautiful scene.
               For a few days Athaliah's bewitching face had been almost forgotten by Naphtali. He knew, better than he cared to know, that should he yield to his mad passion and marry the maiden, he would violate one of the strictest laws of his nation. No intermarriage with the people of the land, read the Jewish laws; and turn them which way he would, Naphtali could find no exception that might countenance the desired act.
               So he strove to overcome the growing passion, and avoid meeting the damsel. He did not dare ever to take a draught from the wayside well at noon lest he might meet her there. So, every day, Rachel filled her little water-jar as Naphtali desired, and willingly carried it to Ishbak and her brother as they took their noontide lunch at the place of labor. Sometimes she wondered they did not choose the cool, shady nook by the neighboring well for their resting-place; but it never occurred to her to ask Naphtali why he did not do this. Nor did Ishbak ever question Naphtali's changed conduct, for he was only too glad to avoid meeting the wicked eyes of Athaliah, as he assured Naphtali they always appeared to him.
               But the young damsel herself was by no means silent concerning the changed demeanor of her ardent lover.
               Day after day she returned from the well with disappointed countenance, and at length made her artful mother the confident of all her feelings. I think if Naphtali could have seen her at these times, he would not have found it very difficult to overcome his love towards her; for a wonderful transformation took place in both her face and deportment when she gave way to her unlovely temper.
               One day, as Rachel was returning home from her noon-day walk, she stopped a few moments to rest by the wayside well. While she sat there, quite absorbed in thoughts of Zilpah's new found joy, and the half-awakened thrill that Ishbak's earnest words had stirred within her, a haggard-looking woman came towards the well, and sank exhausted beneath the tall palm trees. Her wan face was not very different from the blooming one of Athaliah, which Rachel had met so many times in this same place, but there was something about the woman's countenance, in spite of its wrinkles, that forcibly reminded her of the beautiful maiden.
               Rachel's water-jar was standing close by the edge of the well; the woman noticing it, asked if she might use it a moment to draw a draught of water to quench her thirst, and Rachel, who was only too glad to favor any one, instantly begged her to take it. With many thanks the woman grasped the jar, and filling it, eagerly raised it to her lips. Then, dipping the pitcher again into the well, she returned it filled to Rachel, who thanked her for the unnecessary trouble she had taken. To a passer-by the whole incident might have appeared as trivial as it did, at the time, to Rachel; but the consequences!—ah! who could have foreseen them?
               A few commonplace remarks having been exchanged between the two, Rachel took her pitcher and resumed her homeward walk, leaving the woman still seated beside the well. Hot and thirsty after her long walk, she very naturally drank profusely of the water she had brought with her; but, detecting a strange, undefinable taste about it, and attributing it to the state of the jar, she threw away the remainder of its contents, and gave the pitcher a thorough cleansing.
               Thinking much of the good Zilpah who had been so constantly with her in the past days, Rachel went about her household duties, and strove to forget her loneliness in efforts to brighten up the old house ere the return of Ishbak and Naphtali. But, as the afternoon began to wane, a strange feeling came over her. Acute pain was followed by a heavy stupor; and when the young men returned from their labor, poor little Rachel was lying unconscious upon the hard stone floor. "What could it mean?" they scarcely stopped to question, but applied instantly every restorative antidote they could think of. By-and-by, Rachel began to show signs of returning animation; and while Ishbak hastened to obtain medical assistance and a competent nurse for their patient Naphtali strove to ascertain from her broken speech the cause of this strange and frightful sickness.
               "Perhaps 'twas the water from the well! It had a bad taste!" sighed the suffering girl. "Oh! give me some pure, cold water, dear, dear Naphtali, or I shall die with this terrible thirst!"
               But there was not a drop of water in the house, for Rachel herself had thrown it all away; and even if there had been, Naphtali would not have dared to give it to her, after her words.
               So he waited anxiously for the return of Ishbak, that he might leave Rachel to obtain the longed-for draught. Alas! before either water or medical assistance could be obtained, "the silver cord was loosened," and little Rachel, with a smile of inexpressible peace as she neared the Valley, passed away, as she had so often wished, to dwell in the "house of the Lord" forever!
               
               How can I describe the deep, deep anguish of Naphtali as he gazed on the lifeless form of his darling, or how depict the keener pang of Ishbak, who had loved the beautiful spirit as a man can love but once?
               After the first shock, Naphtali and Ishbak sought anxiously to know the cause of little Rachel's sudden death.
               Her words about the water furnished the only clue; but as soon as Naphtali repeated them to Ishbak, the ready sagacity of the latter instantly comprehended the whole terrible tragedy. He had followed Rachel that day as far as the well, for he noticed her face was paler than usual, and he feared she might be overcome by the heat on the way. At a distance, he had perceived the woman approach, and thought then, though he was too far away to be positive, that she strongly resembled the mother of Athaliah. Now he had not a doubt that the water she had given poor little Rachel was poisoned, "For do you not perceive, Naphtali?" said Ishbak, "that snake-like Athaliah had become jealous of one whom she knew not to be your sister. Afraid to commit the horrible deed herself, she doubtless instigated her mother to accomplish it! Oh, Naphtali! Naphtali! we may not tamper with any of God's laws, as I have many a time learned by bitter experience. Would to God that the wicked Athaliah had never crossed our path! I will not accuse you, Naphtali, for yielding to the natural impulse of your heart—you did rebuke the forbidden desire, and I honor you for your noble self-control; but oh, Naphtali! if you had only read Athaliah's character from the very first—if you had never won her dangerous love—our darling Rachel might have been with us yet."
               "Oh, Ishbak!" faltered Naphtali, "can it be as you say? God knows I would willingly have died for my sister."
               "Nay, nay, Naphtali!" answered Ishbak tenderly, "do not misunderstand me. I know your true, brotherly affection for Rachel, and how willingly you would have borne her sufferings but God saw, methinks, that your infatuated love for Athaliah could be quenched by this terrible revelation alone. So I warn you, Naphtali, and take, at the same time, the warning to my self, beware, beware how you trifle with God's laws!"
               Oh! the bitter regrets that filled Naphtali's heart as he listened to Ishbak's words! Waiting not to answer the accusation of his conscience, he sought, as David did, the forgiveness of an offended God, and found, as all true suppliants will, that God's tender mercy is ever granted to the penitent.
               And it was with a subdued and chastened heart that Naphtali took up again his daily burdens of life.
               The departure of Athaliah and her parents from the city just after Rachel's death confirmed the suspicions of Ishbak; but as he had no positive proof of guilt, he wisely concluded to let the matter rest in the hand of a just God. Naphtali was very willing to acquiesce in this, because he dreaded to believe that the beautiful Athaliah could have been guilty of the horrible deed.
               The dark cloud that had closed so suddenly over Naphtali's home seemed but a forerunner of the great national calamity that was soon to follow.
               All this time the work of the temple had been progressing very slowly. The people of the land had used every endeavor to hinder the builders, and at last a bold project to stop the work entirely was agreed upon. To carry out their purpose, the leaders of these adversaries, Bishlam, Mithredath, and Zabeel, with the rest of their companions, wrote a letter to Artaxerxes, king of Persia. All the people of the land were represented in this epistle, and the substance of it was as follows: "Be it known unto the king, that the Jews who came up from thee to us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the bad city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations. Be it known now unto the king, that if this city be builded, and the walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute and customs, and so they shall endanger the revenue of the king. Now, because we have maintenance from the king's palace, and it was not meet for us to see the king's dishonor, therefore have we sent and certified the king that search may be made in the book of records of your fathers so shall you find that this city has been hurtful to kings and provinces, and that this people have moved seditions within the same of old time."
               Of course, so specious a letter as this was calculated to arouse the king, and, without making an honest investigation into the real purpose of the great rebuilding, he sent a letter in return which commanded the Jews to desist from their work, and gave the adversaries full power to carry out this unjust statute.
               Thus ceased for a time the work of the house of God at Jerusalem, and month after month with mourning hearts the faithful "remnant" viewed their unfinished labor. But it was God's work, and it could not perish.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER X.
               BLUE RIFTS AGAIN, WITH JUST ONE PASSING SHADOW.
               PASSING over an interval of some fifteen or sixteen years, let us turn our eyes once more to the City of the Lord. It is the year B. C. five hundred and twenty, and great changes have been taking place in Jerusalem during all this time. No longer a waste and desolate city, it is filled with pleasant homes and all the appliances of happy domestic life. But the morning sun, while it reveals the beauty of these tasteful dwellings, sets out in bold relief the rough, unfinished work of God's great temple.
               Here and there the jagged rocks are covered with delicate mosses, but the trip of the workman's hammer is never heard upon them now; and year after year has passed away only to leave new marks of decay.
               In striking contrast to the gray, gloomy pile of waiting stones, are the bright, childish faces that peer in and out among them this sunny morning. It is, evidently, a favorite play-ground of theirs, for the children seem perfectly at home in the great enclosure. There are but two of them—a boy and girl of ten and twelve years perhaps. They are Rachel and Thar.
               After playing awhile among the rough stones, they stopped under the shadow of a huge corner-pile of the unfinished temple. Rachel was busying herself with arranging a wreath of flowers, when Thar, with boyish ambition, resolved to climb to the topmost stone, and crown it with the wreath, which he succeeded in doing. So absorbed was Rachel in watching his movements, that she did not hear approaching footsteps steps. A hand on her shoulder, however, soon made her start, but it was a familiar face that greeted her.
               It was Ishbak's, and the little Rachie was Naphtali's daughter, a sweet namesake of the dear cripple sister whom he lost.
               This resemblance had endeared the child to Ishbak far more than the fact of her being the daughter of Naphtali and his sister Deborah. And Rachie was very fond of her grave uncle, as will appear from that morning's conversation.
               "Why! how sober you are to-day, uncle Ishbak! Has any thing happened?" questioned Rachie anxiously.
               "Nay, nay, little one! but your words pulled down the thinking-cap over my eyes. Now your bright smiles are lifting it up again. Has Thar never heard his good father tell how the work of rebuilding was hindered, I wonder?"
               "Why yes, Thar," said Rachie, "do you not remember how our father told us the people of the land stopped the building?"
               "But how could they stop it for so many years, when King Cyrus told the builders they might do every thing they could to finish the house?" and Thar's face grew very red with the eagerness of his questionings.
               "Well, my boy," answered Ishbak, I suppose the builders might have gone on with their work after the wicked king died who forbade us so unjustly. Some did try to keep on, and your father was among the number."
               "And was you not among them too?" put in Rachie, anxious to have her uncle's zeal commended likewise.
               "I, little one? Oh, yes! I always labored by your father's side; but what could a mere handful of workmen do upon this grand structure? It seemed as if our daily labor amounted to just nothing; and, one by one, we laid aside our tools, convinced that the time for building the Lord's house had not yet come."
               "Will it ever come, uncle—the time for building, I mean?" whispered Rachie.
               
               "Oh, yes, dear! The great God will permit us to finish it, by-and-by, I trust.
               And when will by-and-by be? When I am old enough to help, uncle?" questioned the eager Thar.
               "Perhaps so," answered Ishbak thoughtfully; and then, as if forgetful of the children's presence, he murmured half aloud to himself, "Strange, strange, that these same questions should follow me everywhere!—I thought to forget them here, in play with the little ones."
               Rachie was troubled—she could not understand the absent-mindedness of Ishbak, but thought she and Thar had somehow displeased him.
               "Dear uncle," she murmured, as she put her little brown hand in his, "I'm so sorry we've troubled you with our questions; don't mind them any more. We won't ask you another one to-day—will we, Thar?"
               "You trouble me, little ones!" exclaimed Ishbak, rousing suddenly from his reverie; "nay, nay, my darlings, I love to hear you talk. Ask as many questions as you like, and your old uncle will do his best to answer them! But here is Rachie's wreath all finished—shall I put it on the topmost stone, dearie?"
               The cloud slowly vanished from Rachie's face with Ishbak's words; and before she has time to answer, Thar has snatched the wreath from her hand and given it to Ishbak. The latter steps carefully over the stones, and reaching to the very highest one in the corner-pile, he crowns it with the fragrant crescent. The children clap their hands in delight; and Ishbak, as he views their eager faces, cannot help recalling a well-known passage in Isaiah, "And a little child shall lead them;" for somehow the trivial act of crowning the stone has a double meaning to him. "Fixing up God's house!" Ah! the children have indeed begun the glorious work, and shall he tarry longer to obey the faithful warning of Haggai?
               Nay! This simple wreath of flowers shall be the pledge of wholesoul-offerings to God's great Temple, and that without delay!
               So resolves Ishbak as he turns homeward with the happy children; and with the resolve comes a lightness of heart he had not known for many a day.
               Naphtali meets them in the porch—the same frank, earnest Naphtali as in former years; a bit of the boy about him even now, you say, as he challenges Thar to a race in the courtyard, and laughs merrily to find himself beaten by the nimble child.
               But hear him a few minutes after in serious conversation with Ishbak, and you will find that the years have left a chastening influence on heart and mind. Ever since Rachel's death, indeed, Naphtali has been a different man. Less impetuous in feeling, more cautious in action, his character has acquired new stamina, and his religious zeal a steadier glow. He had been, as Ishbak affirmed, one of the last to give up the building of the temple; and all through these years of waiting, he had laid by his offerings for the house according as the Lord had prospered him.
               But the past years had been far from prosperous to the Jewish nation. Frequent droughts had stinted their crops, sickness had thinned their numbers, and the little wealth they had been able to lay up, seemed to have been put into a bag with holes, "as Haggai" declared. God's smile no longer rested upon His people, albeit the hostile nations round about had ceased to molest them; and yet, with blinded eyes, they labored on (with only here and there an exception like Naphtali) to amass for themselves new treasures, while God's temple lay waste.
               But listen awhile to this earnest conversation between Ishbak and Naphtali, for they are discussing national affairs just now.
               "So you have heard the prophet yourself, Ishbak?" inquires Naphtali earnestly.
               "Yes, that I have. But I must say I almost doubted the inspiration of his words at first. It has seemed so impossible for us to do aught toward the temple of the Lord while famine peered in at our doors, that I have thought, verily, God's time has not yet come. But Haggai, as you know, sternly rebukes us for our inaction, and declares that our failing crops are but tokens of God's displeasure. It may be so, Naphtali,—indeed, I think it is, but I've been very loth to believe it."
               "I know, Ishbak, it has seemed well nigh impossible to provide for our families even, these years of drouth and famine; but I've felt all the time, that our sufferings are brought upon ourselves. I've longed—more than I can tell you, Ishbak—to cry with a loud voice and urge our people to renew the great work; but what was I among so many? What could my words do to rouse the multitude? Nay! God's prophet only has power to turn men's hearts. But this Haggai, Ishbak, I am sure is such an one. God grant a listening ear and a willing, obedient spirit to His heedless children."
               "Amen!" responded Ishbak with fervor.
               "Do you indeed accept these words of Haggai, then?" inquired Naphtali, as he grasped Ishbak's hand in his eagerness to hear the good news.
               "Ay, Naphtali; I can doubt their solemn truth no longer. Ever since I heard his earnest voice, my ears have been tingling with that stern rebuke: 'Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your ceiled houses, and this house lie waste!'"
               "I believe the hour is drawing very nigh, when, with one mind and one soul, God's people will unite to finish the great work. But look! here is a courier at our door. Let us hasten to find what tidings he brings."
               Little Thar had spied the messenger sometime before, and now came running back to Naphtali and Ishbak with cheeks all aglow.
               "Oh, father!" he exclaimed, "'tis a servant from the house of prince Zerubbabel! He says he has an important message for you and uncle Ishbak. I do so wonder what it may be!"
               "And why, my boy, should you be so curious to know about these grave matters?" said Naphtali, kissing the eager, upturned face. "Run back, child, to sister Rachie, and uncle and I will attend to the courier."
               Thar obeyed rather reluctantly, for he was a very zealous little Jew, and a most devout listener whenever the affairs of the nation were discussed in his hearing—that is, whenever they came within his childish comprehension. But his father's words were law to him, so he comforted himself in being the bearer of news to Rachie, for a courier from the house of the Prince, was, by no means, an every-day occurrence.
               Meanwhile, both Naphtali and Ishbak were listening to the messenger with deep interest. He had indeed brought important tidings from prince Zerubbabel, and a command that Naphtali and Ishbak were only too happy to obey. Haggai's faithful admonitions had, at length, accomplished their God-sent mission. The noble prince of Judah, and Jeshua the chosen priest, had given the hearing ear to God's prophet, and now their whole souls were stirred within them to renew the long-neglected labor. "Who among the people were ready to unite hands with them, and hasten forward the completion of God's great temple?"
               To Naphtali and Ishbak the query came with all the force of a command from Heaven, and the simple response to Zerubbabel, "Thy servants are ready, O prince, with waiting hands and willing hearts" expressed really but a tithe of their patriotic and religious zeal.
               Not many days after, a noble company of workmen assembled in the grand enclosure on Mount Moriah; and once again the hills and vales around sent back the cheery echoes of hearty, vigorous labor. The withered wreath was brushed away from the "toppest" stone, but in its place was laid the polished shaft, of which the floral offering had been indeed the earnest.
               
               The long, bright day is drawing to a close, and it is almost time for Naphtali and Ishbak to return from their labor at the temple.
               Before they come, let us take a peep into Naphtali's home, and see what changes the years have been making here. 'Tis the same old house in the same old place, but the long, low rooms are no longer the desolate halls that even little Rachie's bright smile could scarcely illuminate.
               Childish voices are ringing merrily to-day among the busy household noises, and soft and sweet amid the cheery sounds, comes a mother's lullaby to her little babe. Thar and Rachie are romping with their little brother in the cool, pleasant courtyard; and the gentle mother watches them with a loving eye as she rocks her little one to sleep. 'Tis a simple home picture, but one, I think, upon which God's angels love to gaze.
               And to both Naphtali and Ishbak this same sweet picture seems the very foretaste of the heavenly home, for love, and rest, and peace are here,—and tell me, pray, what dearer, sweeter boons than these can God's great love bestow?
               But the fair Deborah's thoughts to-day are resting not so much upon her own happy life, as upon the frail, sweet life that gladdened all hearts in the by-gone years. Little Rachie's smile, as she glanced up from her play, had wakened this train of thought; for the child, as I said before resembled greatly our dear crippled Rachel. Why had her innocent life been so cruelly blighted? thought Deborah, as she recalled the sweet, patient face that won her pitying yet admiring love at the very first sight. And then the sad, sad ending!—could it be that Ishbak's suspicions were true, she wondered, for with incredulous ears she had listened to her brother's indignant convictions. Ah, well! what did it matter now to the happy, sainted Rachel? came the quick afterthought.
               So mused Deborah, as the shadows lengthened, and the little babe smiled in her sleep.
               It was very quiet now in the courtyard, for Thar and Rachie had finished their noisy play with the little Davie; and all three had left, with the benison of a mother's kiss, to meet Naphtali and Ishbak.
               A loud, nervous rap at the outer porch suddenly aroused all the sleeping echoes in the quiet house; and the little one waking, almost sprang from Deborah's arms with affright. Some one, evidently, must be in great distress; and Deborah soothing the terrified child, hastened herself to the door without waiting for the slow steps of the porter.
               A wee boy, all out of breath, was standing there; and to Deborah's kind questions, he gave in broken sentences the object of his errand. A dying woman in the outskirts of the city was calling for the singer Naphtali, and naught could quiet her save the promise that she should see him that very night. Would the master come at once, for it might be that the sick woman would breathe her last ere many minutes?
               Before Deborah could reply, Naphtali and Ish bak were standing at her side, for they had just returned from the temple; and the lad, recognizing the well-known singer, hastened to repeat his errand and to urge Naphtali to return with him.
               "But who may this woman be?" inquired Naphtali.
               "That I cannot tell you," replied the boy. "But come yourself and see, for the whole neighborhood is distressed with her cries."
               "Shall I go, Deborah?" said Naphtali in an undertone.
               "Do as you think best, my husband," replied Deborah. "I can trust you anywhere," she added, as Naphtali endeavored vainly to explain the mysterious summons that was quite beyond his own comprehension.
               "But you must go with me, Deborah, and hear the explanation yourself," he continued.
               "Nay, nay, my husband!" answered Deborah. "I know you will tell me all about it on your return, and our little one needs me now."
               
               "Fare thee well, then, for the present, dearest Deborah," said Naphtali quickly, as if some sudden gleam of light had flashed across the mystery. Then turning to the impatient lad, he added, "Direct me to the woman's house, and I with my good mule will follow immediately."
               The command was scarcely given before it was obeyed; and an hour after Naphtali and his guide drew up their panting mules before the dwelling of the dying woman."
               "I must—I must tell him before I die—call him louder, louder!" shrieked a piercing voice within that made Naphtali shudder as he recognized the long-forgotten tone. Yes, the clear ring of Athaliah's voice was less changed than the wild, haggard face that greeted him there. Oh! what fearful ravages the years had been making in that beautiful countenance—so fascinating once in its radiant bloom of youth! Could it be Athaliah? Or was it only her famished spectre that glared upon him? But his own countenance was little changed, and the dy ing woman, recognizing it at once, ceased her cries and eagerly beckoned him towards her.
               "Thank God! Naphtali," she exclaimed fervently, "you have come at last. Send these people from the room, at once, for I have not long to live, and you alone must know the whole of my terrible secret!"
               Half guessing what the revelation was to be, Naphtali complied with her request, and then bent forward to catch her broken words.
               "Oh! forgive me—do forgive me—I am dying—Oh, Naphtali—listen—quick!"
               "Ay, my poor Athaliah, I do forgive you all as I pray God to forgive me."
               "But, Naphtali, you can—not—know—you shall though—yes, you shall know—every thing. I killed—Oh, Naphtali—your poor, innocent sister! 'Twas I that—bade my mother poison—the water! I was—jealous of one who was—so dear to thee, Naphtali, Naphtali!—There!" exclaimed the stricken woman with the fearful strength that sometimes comes just before death, "punish me, Naphtali with bitter, scathing words and withering looks. 'Tis the only punishment earth can give me now. But oh, Naphtali! I go to meet the righteous Judge, and He will vindicate your cause. My mother has gone to her judgment before me; for, months ago, the pestilence struck her down, and her last words were, 'Oh, Athaliah! take this terrible load of guilt away; 'tis burying me alive!' O God! O God have mercy on us! Thou art very—merciful, Naphtali!—Is not your God—the same?"
               With one wild, piercing look, she clenched Naphtali's hand, and then sank back exhausted.
               Checking the righteous indignation that was boiling in every vein, Naphtali thought of the long-suffering, merciful Father, and then in a clear, calm voice he repeated those precious words of holy writ, "The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sins nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us."
               As Naphtali ceased, a vision of the by-gone years came up suddenly before him. Athaliah's white face seemed to have changed into the dearly-loved countenance of his old master Shethar, and the miserable hut into the stately halls of the Babylonian palace.
               For these were the very words he had repeated to the wounded noble on that never-to-be-forgotten day; and remembering the sweet comfort they had imparted to the penitent man, Naphtali prayed that the wretched Athaliah might be blessed in like manner.
               But the Death-angel was close at hand. Would he quench the last gleam of hope for the dying woman?
               The bony fingers slowly relaxed their hold upon Naphtali's hand; but as the haggard face was thrown eagerly forward to catch those blessed words, it lost its agonized looks, and a sudden smile of glad surprise lighted every feature. 'Twas only for a single moment, though—when Naphtali looked again, Athaliah's countenance was rigid with the kiss of death. Her spirit had indeed passed to the righteous judge;—would she find in him the reconciled Father, too? How much of penitential faith did that last strange smile express. Naphtali could ask the questions, but eternity alone could answer them.
               'Twas a sad, sad death-bed, and he turned away from it with a heavy heart. And when, in his own happy home that night, he recounted the scene to Deborah and Ishbak, all found their bitter revenge lost in heartfelt commiseration for the conscience-stricken murderess. Athaliah's terrible secret was never spread abroad, for the hand of charity covered it from the gaze of all save the righteous God.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE LOWERING CLOUDS SHOW SILVER LININGS.
               ALL this time, the labor on Mount Moriah was progressing with wonderful rapidity. Another prophet had arisen among the people, Zechariah by name; and, uniting with Haggai in earnest exhortations to the laborers, he, too, laid his own shoulder to the wheel.
               Rich and glorious were the promises that God now sent to His waiting, working people by these inspired men. To Zerubbabel their prince, to Jeshua their priest, and to the people one and all, came gracious words of commendation.
               For thus spake the Lord: "Be strong, O Zerubbabel; and be strong, O Jeshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people, and labor on; for I am with you, saith the Lord of hosts...... I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come; and I will fill this house with glory...... The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, and in this place I will give peace, saith the Lord of hosts."
               Then, as if language failed to express the rich gifts in store for the chosen race, Zechariah swells the theme that Haggai began, with the exalted cry: "Sing and rejoice, Oh daughter of Zion: for lo! I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the Lord..... Be silent O, all flesh, before the Lord; for he is raised up out of his holy habitation."
               With such encouraging songs as these, it was no wonder that the awakened Jews should labor with indefatigable zeal.
               
                  How this latter house was to surpass in its glory the magnificent temple of Solomon, they could not understand; but God's word was sure, and they doubted not His power to bring to pass even this seeming impossibility.
               Some of the elder Jews, and those who were best instructed in the words of holy writ, beleved that the precious promise embraced the glorious appearing of Messiah—their long-expected Prince; but the younger Hebrews, who gloried in the outward beauties of their cherished faith, hoped, and therefore believed, that untold riches of the mine were yet to adorn the humble temple upon which their hands were laboring.
               But the people of the land were not to be easily silenced in their renewed opposition to the building. Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shethar-boznai with his companions, the Arphassachites, sent, as a last resort, a letter of inquiry to King Darius. Comparing this last epistle with the one that had been sent years before to King Artaxerxes, we shall find it to be characterized by far greater justice and clemency. After the customary salutation to their sovereign. this last letter went on to state the wonderful progress of the Jewish building; and then followed a plain, honest repetition of the reasons given by the Hebrew workmen for their labor. Would King Darius examine these wonderful statements of the Jews, and allow a search to be made among the court records for this asserted proclamation of Cyrus? Such was the import of the letter sent to Darius, and until an answer could be received, the Jews were allowed to labor on.
               Day by day, as they gave willingly of their substance and their strength to forward the building, a marked change became evident in their basket and store. The mildew and the hail no longer blasted the ripening grain, nor did the vine, the fig and the pomegranate fail them as of yore.
               This evidence of Jehovah's favor served not a little to strengthen the hands of the earnest workmen; and although some weak, distrustful ones among them still feared that the people of the land would again retard their building, the majority were confident that the Lord was indeed on their side, and that the reply of King Darius would help, not hinder, their great and glorious work.
               Nevertheless, there was scarcely a Jew or Gentile who did not wait impatiently for the return of the messengers; and when month after month passed by, and still no answer was received from the Persian court, many of the faithful began to fear that the desired records could not be found.
               "I think it very strange, Naphtali," said Ishbak, one day, "that no copy of King Cyrus' proclamation was retained by our people. Just think how much time and trouble would have been saved had this been done at the proper time! Do you think we shall ever have any help in our work from this new king?"
               "Most surely, Ishbak, for I know our faith has zealous supporters yet in Babylon; there is our good lord Shethar, think you not that he is still an active friend to the Jewish nation?"
               'Possibly, Naphtali; yet I think that even if he remains true to our cause, he forms not one of a class but rather the exception; for really I cannot doubt that the Hebrew race are held in as much contempt as ever at proud Babylon."
               "Did I tell you, Ishbak, that I sent a letter to our noble lord by the messenger that took the royal epistle?"
               "No, Naphtali, how is it you were able to do it?"
               "Through the kindness of Tatnai, whom you know, Ishbak, to be a good friend of mine. These governors are honest, well-meaning men, and I've enjoyed many pleasant talks with this same Tatnai. God be praised for delivering us from such men as Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel and the rest of their companions! But to return to my letter. I sent it off very hastily, for the possibility of so doing did not occur to me till just before the courier set out. Else Ishbak, I should have inquired if you had not some message to send."
               "I would gladly have sent my humble regards," responded Ishbak, "yet, verily, I cannot think Lord Shethar has any pleasant remembrances of me. I was always a stubborn rebellious slave."
               "You are a severe judge of yourself, Ishbak," replied Naphtali; "I have not forgotten how faithfully you performed your daily task, and I wonder not that the yoke seemed hard to you when you could not see 'twas a Father's hand that placed it there."
               "Ay, Naphtali, those were indeed dark days to me, but 'twas my own wilful blindness that made them so. God be praised for giving me so tender and faithful a friend as you, dear Naphtali; had it not been for you I might have been still enveloped in the dark clouds of unbelief and sinful despondency."
               "Not unto me, not unto me!" exclaimed Naphtali, "must be given aught of the glory. God, indeed, is the One alone to be praised; for it is in His hand that are all the hearts of men. I bless His holy name for permitting me to lead you to himself; and I bless Him, too, for giving me so brave and noble a friend as you Truly, as the soul of David was knit unto the soul of Jonathan, my soul has become knit unto yours."
               Little had either imagined, when companion slaves at Babylon, of this intimate, lifelong friendship that was to spring up between them; for then they seemed to possess a natural antipathy toward one another. But God "by ways they had not known" was linking, even then their lives' histories together by indissoluble bands, and looking back over the pathway of other years, each could read now what had seemed then but inexplicable mystery.
               This conversation between the two friends had taken place one morning while they were on their way to the temple; and, on reaching their place of labor that day, they found a sudden demand for new materials, and also a lack of funds to procure them.
               With idle tools the workmen viewed their unfinished labor, and eagerly interrogated one another as to the best means of obtaining the desired commodities. Was there no one in all their number who was willing and able to make a free-will offering to the Lord! exclaimed one of the laborers.
               But the reply came at once from many lips, "Verily, I know not the place where such an one is to be found; for he that has the will to do this thing lacks the very means to do it, and he that is able to give doth not possess the willing mind."
               Naphtali's heart was full of generous impulses that morning, for his talk with Ishbak on the way thither had kindled anew the grateful love to God that years of bounteous gifts demanded; and now, when he learned of the straits to which the builders were reduced, he longed most ardently to lend a helping hand. But what more could he do to assist them than he had already done? Had he not retrenched to the utmost his household expenses, that all the surplus money might be given to the Lord? Had he not long ago placed in the hands of Zerubbabel the consecrated store laid by for many years? Had not Deborah sacrificed willingly her gold and silver ornaments for the temple of the Lord? And had he not given daily the only remaining thing he had to give, even the labor of strong arms and an active brain?
               Yet stay! there was one offering more that might be made. Was God calling for this, too? he wondered. There was the gold and silver coin he had laid by, year after year, for the little ones, marriage dower for Rachel, and a portion for Shethar and his brothers, so soon as they came of age. In the aggregate, these savings now amounted to a good round sum, and would aid not a little in lifting this incubus from the builders' hands.
               As Naphtali hesitated a moment to consecrate this last offering to the Lord, Haggai's words of fire—heard months ago—came suddenly to his mind: "The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the Lord of hosts."
               And then by sudden connection of thought, came up before him David's words before the great congregation, when he said: "But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee." Naphtali needed no further assurance of his duty; and, fearing lest some worldly afterthought might blind his eyes, he whispered a few words to Ishbak, and then hastened to give this last offering to Zerubbabel.
               Naphtali, as was his custom, made the consecration in a most quiet, unostentatious manner; and had it not been for Ishbak, not one of the laborers would have known aught of his gift. But the few words that passed between the two friends in an under tone seemed to Ishbak well worth repeating on the housetop, and as soon as Naphtali was out of hearing, he recounted to the neighboring workmen this last general resolve of his friend. As an electric spark it flew from tongue to tongue all through the division of laborers; and ere nightfall, Naphtali's noble act was not only known but imitated by many a zealous Jew.
               Meanwhile, the God of Judah was preparing new triumphs for His people. Not one self-denying act had escaped His watchful eye, for, as Zechariah had said with inspired tongue, "upon one stone shall be seven eyes: behold I will engrave the engraving thereof, saith the Lord of hosts."
               And now there came a day, when the longed-for answer to Tatnai's letter was brought from King Darius. Oh! the curiosity and the dread that filled the hearts of those faithful, earnest workers as the contents of this royal epistle were about to be published abroad! Just watch Naphtali's ingenuous countenance as he finds his hopes more than realized in the gracious decree of King Darius. For the search in the house of rolls for the great Cyrus' proclamation had, at last, been so successful, that the permit for building the temple was found complete in every minute particular. And thereby Darius was more than satisfied with the asserted right of the Jews. Not only did he second the decree of Cyrus as found in the palace at Achmetha, but whosoever should trouble the builders, and thus alter the word of this decree, "let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be hanged thereon!" Moreover, all necessary help should be given the Jews from the king's own goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, that day by day their work might prosper, and the appointed sacrifices be offered without fail. So should sweet savours ascend unto the God of Heaven, and the life of the King and his sons be prayed for.
               Then, as if to make his words yet stronger, Darius closed his decree with the imprecation: "And the God that has caused His name to dwell in Jerusalem, destroy all kings and people that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem, I, Darius, have made a decree; let it be done with speed!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               INTO THE BROAD SUNLIGHT!
               NAPHTALI had scarcely recovered from the bewilderment of joy that this royal epistle brought to every Jewish heart, when a fresh surprise awaited him. This was nothing less than a gracious epistle from the Lord Shethar, in answer to the one he had sent to Babylon by the courier. And with the letter came rich gifts of gold and silver and changes of garments urged upon his acceptance with such delicate regard that refusal was quite out of the question. For all had been sent by the generous nobleman to little Shethar, his namesake, who was at full liberty to share the gift as he chose with his little brothers and sisters.
               Naphtali's "lending to the Lord" had been indeed paid with interest, but the richest, most acceptable reward of all was the kind, affectionate letter itself. A steadfast Jewish proselyte, the few modest words he wrote of the efforts he had made in behalf of the captive nation, convinced Naphtali that his faith had no truer, firmer supporter in Babylon than the good lord Shethar. 'Twas a comfort just to know that, while so widely separated in outward circumstances, they were still one in heart and work, and Naphtali rose from the reading of the letter with new courage for the duties of his own humble sphere. Afterward, Naphtali's love and admiration for his old master were not a little heightened when news reached him that the same caravan that brought his letter, brought also a rich offering to the temple, of Babylonish coin, from a certain pious lord known among his people by the name of Shethar.
               And now from all quarters came efficient help to the builders, for Darius' decree was not to be despised, nor altered in a single particular. "And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah son of Iddo."
               Oh! the glad, busy two years that followed! Day by day the temple rose in beauty and splendor, and Mount Moriah became once more the crowned head of the Holy City. No Urim or Thummim yet appeared, nor dread Shekinah, in the sacred place; but God's blessing constantly rested upon His chosen race in those months of earnest labor, and through the young Zechariah His word came to them in richer measure than it had done for many years before.
               Strange visions had this young prophet, and often, when the labor of the day was done, Naphtali and Ishbak would recall the glowing words that had dropped from his lips, and strive to grasp their hidden meaning.
               Sometimes, after the little ones were asleep, Deborah would join them on the housetop and listen to their earnest discussions; for these prophecies were precious treasures to the Jewish people, and ever invited their faithful study. One evening, after rehearsing the progress made upon the building that day, Naphtali began their customary conference with the question, "Well, Ishbak, what do you think our noble young prophet meant by the four horns that have scattered Judah, Israel and Jerusalem? And who are the four carpenters that are to cast out these horns of the Gentiles."
               "Ah, Naphtali!" responded Ishbak, "methinks those will be difficult questions to settle in our minds, for they've been often perplexing my head of late. Yet I doubt, sometimes, whether it were not more profitable to take on faith the most of these wonderful prophecies, and leave the ages to prove their truth."
               "I agree with you, Ishbak, so far as these curious questionings cloud our faith or hinder present action," answered Naphtali, "but verily, Ishbak, I think our God would never rebuke a humble, reverential inquiry into the meaning of His Holy Words. Thus only, it seems to me, can we rightly prize and appreciate them."
               "Ay, Naphtali, I believe you speak truly, and in proof, let me tell you of my own feeble efforts to solve the present problem. These four horns, it seems to me, are the several hostile kings that have already oppressed both Israel and Judah; and the four carpenters have begun their work, have they not, in the persons of Zerubbabel and Jeshua? Ere it can be completed, I doubt not that the other two mighty men will be raised up to fill out the appointed number of workmen. Am I right, Naphtali?"
               "Verily, Ishbak," answered Naphtali, "I have great confidence in your far-seeing sagacity, yet I have thought that the four horns meant the four tribes that have so harassed us since our coming from Babylon. You know to which I refer—the Samaritans, the Ammonites, the Arabians, and the Philistines."
               
               "True, Naphtali, these four nations have seemed our constant scourges all these twenty years, but did they ever really 'scatter both Israel and Judah?'"
               "Ah, Ishbak! I had not thought before of the exact wording of the prophecy; but I perceive now that my explanation must be widely at fault. Yet how sure I was that I had found out the one true solution!"
               "It may be, Naphtali, that mine is just as widely at fault, too; I know, indeed, that many of our people understand the whole prophecy as referring to no enemy of the nation in particular, but only to those who may arise or have arisen from the four winds of heaven. And thus explaining the first part of the prophecy, they define the four carpenters as able instruments in general that are raised up to defend our cherished faith."
               "Ah well, Ishbak, whichever meaning is correct," responded Naphtali, "we may, at least, take great encouragement from the whole tenor of the prophecy; for, at all events, it assures us that the great God is mindful of us still."
               "And that is quite enough for me to know," put in Deborah's low, sweet voice.
               "Ay, ay!" said both Ishbak and Naphtali in one breath. And then Naphtali's cheery voice recounted the visions of the horsemen among the myrtle trees; the man with the measuring line; the golden candlesticks; and the two olive trees;—all of which had been seen and related by the earnest Zechariah.
               Each separate prophecy awakened, of course, some new discussion; but through all the mystery, the same clear, bright hope shone forth that Naphtali had marked in the first. The great Jehovah's arm was round about His people, and Jerusalem, the Holy City, was yet to receive the wealth and glory of the nations.
               By-and-by came even more glorious promises than these; for the coming of a greater helper than even Jeshua, Zerubbabel, or all their companions, was foretold; even the coming of the
                  Branch, of whom their great high priest could be but the faintest emblem.
               Oh! the glory of those coming latter days.
               
               'Tis the month Adah—the third day, and with hearts too full of joy for utterance, Naphtali and Ishbak ascend the Mount of Olives. Thar and Rachie, light-hearted children still, chase each other up the hill in very glee, and wake the slumbering echoes with shouts of exultation; for 'tis a white, white day in the Jewish calendar, and old and young together feel a gratitude almost unbounded.
               Ah! 'tis easy to guess the reason why; for look! look! the finished temple rises now before us in all her matchless grace, waiting to receive the crowning glory of an oriental sunset. Naphtali's poetic instinct has anticipated this unequalled picture, and Olivet's commanding height has called his willing footsteps thither.
               "Oh, father, how beautiful!" exclaims little Rachie with clasped hands, as she watches the quivering sunbeams yonder; but Naphtali answers her never a word, for his heart is quite absorbed in reverie. But now, with the dream of his life realized, his thoughts turn backward to the by-gone years, and once again he stands with Rachel among the way-worn travellers.
               Oh! the desolation of Mount Moriah then, as she sat in her sackcloth and ashes! No wonder little Ray's expectant heart quite failed her as she gazed upon the barren waste. Could she see the beauty of it now? he wondered; or was the glory of the unseen Heavenly Temple so bright, so satisfying, that earthly scenes were all forgotten by sainted souls like hers and Zilpah's? Who could tell—ah! who? Naphtali's eyes filled with tears, strong man as he was, as the oft recurring accusation, "'Twas thy sin sacrificed thy sister" came up again with tenfold force. For although he doubted not that Rachel had laid down her cross for a glorious crown, he could but feel that earth had lost too soon, and that by his own folly, the radiance of her life.
               
               Strange, is it not, how our brightest moments are so often clouded by the darkest scenes of life?
               It may have been that Ishbak read Naphtali's thoughts, for he did not trouble his friend with any curious questions, but silenced Thar at once when he asked rather impatiently why it was that his father looked so sad on this happy, glorious day.
               And I could almost believe that little Rachel's spirit hovered near, so sweetly was the cloud of vain regret lifted from Naphtali's sensitive soul; for "are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?" Behold! yonder, the evening sacrifice ascends, and as the incense rises, a glad thanksgiving chant greets the listening ears of the group on Olivet. Eager Thar catches the strain, and sings in glad response, "Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people; He hath redeemed Jerusalem. The Lord hath made bare His holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God."
               Ere the boy finished, Naphtali's voice had joined in the song, and ere the echoes sent it back, Ishbak had sealed it with a hearty amen.
               One by one the stars came out as the fiery glow died out in the west, and still our little party lingered on the slope; for evening seemed to add new grandeur to Mount Moriah's crown. But soon the heavy dew began to descend, and Naphtali remembering his tender charge, hastened to return home.
               As they neared the old familiar house, a snow-white lamb bounded out of a clump of bushes and nestled down close by Rachel's side. 'Twas a beautiful creature, without spot or blemish, and an especial pet of the little maiden's.
               "See, father!" she exclaimed, as she stooped to caress it, "just see how Beda loves me; and do you not think he grows more beautiful every day?"
               
               "A pretty pet, my darling," answered Naphtali; "and his love to you shows your kindness to the poor, dumb creature."
               "I may always have him for my own, dear father, may I not?" urged Rachie.
               "Yes, little daughter, I gave him to you weeks ago. But look, there is the good mother waiting for us in the porch. Let me see you try a race thither with your nimble Beda."
               Rachel needed no urging to try the favorite sport, but bounded at once to her mother's side, and clapped her hands in merry glee as she found how far she had out-stripped her playmate.
               One month later, she looked back with wistful longing to this same glad evening, and wondered she could ever have been so gay and happy. For the first great trial of little Rachie's short life was close at hand, and when it came, she believed, in her childish grief, that it would surely break her heart.
               But of this, hereafter; let us hasten now to the glad Feast Days that followed the completion of this second temple. First came the glorious dedication—inferior, doubtless, to the pomp and ceremony that marked the consecration of Solomon's splendid edifice, but not one jot less hearty and joyous, nor less acceptable in the sight of the Lord of Hosts. With one heart the children of Israel, the priests, the Levites, and the rest of the children of captivity kept the dedication of this house of God as befitted the rites of their beautiful religion. An hundred bullocks, two hundred rams, and four hundred lambs were offered for a sacrifice unto the Lord; and then for a sin-offering, twelve he-goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel, were slain, a part of their blood poured out before the altar, a part sprinkled on the horns of the altar of incense, and a part carried by the priests to the most holy place. For thus had the law of God commanded, by his holy servant Moses, that the sin-offering should be always made.
               Afterward followed the beautiful services of chant and anthem in the house of God; for the priests in their divisions, the Levites in their courses, and all the sweet singers of Israel, waited, each in his place, to perform the appointed rites, and lo! "in the beauty of holiness," the temple received another crowning, of which the sunset glory was but a feeble type.
               Ay! and all this imposing ceremony was really but the forerunner of a matchless glory that was yet to be revealed in the Holy Place. No ark, no mercy-seat, no visible revelation of the divine Presence, no sacred fire, and no Urim and Thummim were here to add their holy, mystic beauties; but "I will fill this house with glory, said the Lord of Hosts"—with glory greater than the former temple ever knew. "For I will dwell in the midst of thee," saith the Lord, "yet once again." "Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem; behold thy king cometh unto thee; he is just and having salvation, lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt, the foal of an ass." "Turn you to the stronghold, ye prisoners of hope; even to-day day do I declare that I will I render double unto thee."
               So sang Zechariah in holy, ecstatic joy, and Naphtali was but one among the many who received the same with glad, believing heart.
               Oh! 'twas a day long to be remembered in Zion, that day of consecration! Without, all nature seemed to conspire in bringing rich tithes to the Lord. For lo! the winter had past, the time of the singing of birds was come, and the voice of the turtle was heard once more in the land.
               Olivet's soft green slopes were redolent with the fragrance of the early wild flowers and the delicious odor of the tender grape. The fig trees were putting forth green figs, and the verdure of the olive groves gave promise of rich offering there.
               Within, glad anthems of praise resounded again and again from voices so loud, so enthusiastic, that even Mount Moriah seemed to tremble with joy, and Mount Zion to catch the strange vibration. And the valleys caught the inspiration, too, for lo! from their grey depths the dying notes received new impulse, and in long reverberations breathed again the anthem, "It is finished, finished!"
               And Calvary's modest height beheld it all,—Calvary, only half a mile away, whose rough grey slopes were destined to hear in the coming ages a marvellous repetition of that echoed strain. For there was the last stroke to be given to a greater temple than ever graced Moriah's height,—to the living temple of God's own Son; a temple which, though razed to the ground, should yet arise again in three short days, according to the prophecy.
               But naught of all this sad, sweet mystery dreamed the happy, exultant Jews that day. Their King, sang they, was to come in great glory, when the scroll of intervening years rolled hence away; and so dazzled were they with thoughts of His divine majesty and power, that they never once thought of the "man of sorrows rows" who "was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities."
               A month later began the preparations for the Feast of the Passover, which, although a sacrificial offering, was essentially a home festival. Yet, coming as it did this year, so soon after the dedication of the temple, it seemed a continuation, as it were, of the joyous rites of consecration; and never had the children of the captivity hailed its return with gladder expectations than now.
               One little heart there was, however, in the great congregation, that could only look forward to the coming feast with sad forebodings, and that belonged to poor, weeping Rachie.
               Perhaps my strong-hearted reader will smile when I tell him what it was that so grieved the little maiden, for, in truth, it was only the expected sacrifice of her pretty pet lamb. Yet, to the child's sensitive nature, the loss of the beautiful creature seemed next to parting with her brothers, and the very thought of it filled her eyes with tears. Never before had a pet lamb been appointed for sacrifice in Naphtali's well-ordered household; but this year, as the time drew near for the preparation of the Passover, it was found that the one perfect lamb of the second year that had been reserved for this sacrifice had either been stolen, or else had strayed away to the woods and so had been devoured by the wild beasts there. What should be done, therefore, for the preparation? The tenth day of Nisan had at length arrived—the day set apart in the Mosaic law for selecting the lamb of the Passover Feast; and of all the flock not one, save Rachel's pet, remained that was wholly free from spot or blemish. This lack would never have occurred had it not been for the murrain among the sheep, and the liberal offerings of all the fairest so recently made at the consecration of the temple.
               But thus the matter stood, and all efforts to purchase a suitable lamb from the neighboring folds were alike unavailing.
               Rachie had learned all this with a trembling heart; for, although her father had not once intimated that the pet Beda must be offered at the Passover, she saw at once 'twas the only fit sacrifice that could be obtained for the household.
               Naphtali himself had not forgotten the promise he made to his little daughter only a month before, that the lamb should "be all her own;" and, although he saw no other way of providing for the solemn feast than by sacrificing this same lamb, he resolved it should not be done without the consent of little Rachie.
               This tenth day of Nisan had seemed an age to the troubled child, for every hour she had been expecting to see her beautiful Beda borne away for the slaughter. All the morning she had been caressing the playful creature, and hiding her tears in its snowy fleece, and when, just after midday, her father's voice called her back to the house, she obeyed with anxious foreboding. But Naphtali only asked his little daughter to accompany him in a walk to the temple, telling her, at the same time, that the pet lamb might follow, too. This last suggestion greatly relieved our little Rachie, and with something of her old light-heartedness she hastened to prepare for the walk.
               Not a word of the coming Paschal Feast did Naphtali mention to the child all the way thither, but, pointing out to her the various parts of the temple and their several uses, he succeeded so far in awakening her interest, that ere they were ready to turn homeward, she had almost forgotten the morning's anxieties.
               "How very great and how very good is our God, dear father!" she exclaimed suddenly, as Naphtali was relating to her some signal act of the loving-kindness of Israel's King.
               "Yes, my darling," answered Naphtali. "His mercies to us are new every morning and fresh every night. What shall be rendered unto Him for all His wonderful gifts to the children of men? What shall you and I give Him, little Rachie, in return for His goodness to us?"
               "Ah, father," answered the little maid with downcast eyes, "you have told me that God asks us to give Him our whole hearts in return, and I suppose that means to give Him everything besides, that we love most dearly."
               "If He asks it of us, little daughter," added Naphtali, "yet how seldom is it that He requires of us a single real sacrifice!"
               Rachie was in tears now, for she thought again of the little pet lamb that God seemed calling her to give in sacrifice; and, unable longer to control her feelings, she exclaimed, "Oh, father, I know what you mean! But I can't have my pretty Beda killed! I am sure God is too good to ask of me so great a sacrifice as this. See, father, is he not too beautiful a creature to be carried away to the slaughter? Why would not that lame sheep yonder do just as well for the Passover?"
               Without endeavoring to answer her excited questions all at once, Naphtali stroked the dark, glossy locks of his little daughter, and bade her sit down beside him on the grassy bank at their feet.
               
               "Listen, darling," he said tenderly, "and I will tell you once again the sad, beautiful story of the first Passover. It will help you better to bear the trial that seems now to you so very great and cruel."
               'Twas by no means a new story to Rachie, but never before had she listened to it with such deep interest. It may have been that Naphtali had never told it with so much feeling before, for his heart was deeply moved that day by the sorrow of his little daughter, and he longed to soothe it away by showing to her the greater sorrows of life in striking contrast with it.
               As Rachie listened to her father's glowing words, she seemed to see before her the great company of Egypt's bondmen, their wise, meek advocate, and Pharoah's hardened face. Then, the implicit, grateful obedience of the still trusting Israelites, as Moses, at God's command, bade them each take a lamb without spot or blemish and slay it for the coming days. With them, she dipped the hysop in the flowing blood, and marked the appointed lintels, and as Naphtali described the fearful visits of the dread death-angel, all that night it seemed to Rachie that she felt his dusky wing brush by. Only the blood-marked posts of Israel's faithful band were powerful enough to stay the avenging Hand; and, had there been a single house without the appointed sign, even though it held true Jewish worshippers, it would have mourned next morn, as did all of Pharoah's hosts, the death of the loved first-born.
               "Think you, Rachie dear," concluded Naphtali, "that any would have hesitated that night to sacrifice even the pet lamb of their flock, when by this sacrifice a precious human life was saved?"
               "No, no, dearest father," answered Rachie quickly. "But it is not so now, for did you not tell me that the Passover in our day is only a memorial feast?"
               "Yes, Rachie, but God's word is God's word now just as truly as it was then."
               
               "Ah, yes, father," answered Rachie slowly, "I see it must be so, and I will not be so weak and childish any more. What if God should take Thar away from me because I've refused so long to give the sacrifice He has been asking of me!" and Rachie shuddered at the very thought of such a thing.
               "Oh, father, do you think He will," she added as she slipped into his hand the scarlet cord that held her pet.
               "No, my darling," answered Naphtali, as he stooped to kiss her crimson cheek; "God is more tender to His loving, obedient child than even your earthly father can be. We will pray Him to spare to us our precious Shethar, and to accept this offering of His own appointment for the coming Paschal Feast. I would, my Rachie, that it were not necessary to take your beautiful pet for the sacrifice."
               "Poor Beda, I'm sorry for him!" sighed Rachie, as she hid her wet cheeks in his snow-white fleece. "But I'm willing now to give him up, father," she quickly added; "because I'm sure it is God's command. So take him away, I pray you, father dear, for if I play longer with him, 'twill only make it the harder to see him sacrificed."
               "My brave little daughter," was Naphtali's fond reply. And then, as Shethar joined them, he added, "you may go, children, now, to our neighbors yonder, and invite them to share with us the Feast of the Passover on the approaching fourteenth day. The lamb will more than suffice for our own family, and, according to our law, naught of it must be set aside for the following day."
               The children hastened to obey their father's bidding, but Rachie could not help thinking all the way how terrible it would be to eat the delicate flesh of her pet. Could she ever do it, she wondered.
               The message, however, was soon delivered, and the invitation of their father readily accepted by all of their neighbors.
               
               Rachie then returned home to report the success of their errand, and Thar departed in an opposite direction to climb up Olivet, as he said. He had not been gone away many hours before Rachie saw him coming down the hill at lightning speed. Had anything happened to the workmen on the slope? she enquired, as she hastened out to meet him.
               "Oh, no, no, nothing of the kind," he answered almost impatiently, in his haste to impart the strange news he had brought. "Oh, Rachie, Rachie!" he exclaimed, "what do you think I've found on the slope yonder? Now do not try to guess, for I know you would never guess the truth. Let me tell you right away. 'Twas a butterfly that led me just there, Rachie, for I'd been chasing it all the way up the hill; but when it flew beyond the bramble patch, I couldn't follow, for I was caught on the thorns. While I was trying my best to get away, I noticed bits of wool scattered all about, and before I had time to wonder much where they came from, I heard the bleating of a lamb close by. Poor thing! I soon hastened to its rescue, for I guessed at once that it had got entangled in the thicket. And I was right, Rachie; the helpless thing had almost tied itself into a knot in its frantic efforts to get away. But 'tis a beautiful creature, sister, and I do believe 'tis the very Paschal lamb that strayed from our flock only a few days ago. I can't be sure, for the brambles were so sharp and so tough that I couldn't get very near to it, but I've come home for a sharp knife, and then I can cut it away from the thorns. Come, Rachie! Come quick! I shall need your help, too; and before the little girl had hardly time to say a word in reply, Thar had seized a knife and was off to the hill again.
               Had they killed Beda yet? was Rachie's first thought as she took in the meaning of Thar's hurried words. At all events, she would tell her father about the lamb in the thicket, and perhaps it might be possible, yet, to save her pet.
               So, trusting that Thar's stout knife would release the struggling lamb, unaided by herself Rachie hastened to tell her father the news, and was overjoyed to find that her beautiful Beda was still alive.
               Ere long, Thar returned from the hill in triumph, for the lamb released from the brambles was the very one they had marked months ago for the Paschal Feast.
               Although robbed a little of its thick outer covering, it was still without spot or blemish,—a fit offering for the coming feast.
               So Beda the pet was restored uninjured to little Rachie that very day, and the solemn rites of the approaching feast days were stripped of their horror to the sensitive child.
               Busy days to the thrifty housewives were those that intervened ere the fourteenth day, for immediately after the Paschal supper came the seven days of unleavened bread, and upon the first and last of these days all servile work must be strictly laid aside for holy convocations.
               As the sun went down on the thirteenth day of Nisan, and the twilight star appeared, each family, or group of families, in the Holy City assembled around their several boards. "For the priests and the Levites," says holy writ, "were purified together, all of them were pure, and killed the Passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves." And the children of Israel, and all who had laid aside their heathen superstitions for the Jewish faith, did eat, and kept the Feast of Unleavened Bread with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful. Ay! the children of the captivity had never known before such glad feast days, and 'twas a fitting time for joyful worship and reiterated thanksgiving to the God who gave these blessings. For who but the great Jehovah could have turned the heart of the Assyrian king unto them; or who but he have strengthened their hands to complete the work of the house of God,—the house of the God of Israel."
               Let us take one parting look into Naphtali's home on this last day of the Feast of Unleavened Bread. Thar and Rachie are sitting at their father's feet just now, and listening to Naphtali's stories of the flight from Egypt, when the bread was taken in haste from the very kneading troughs, and each borrowed of his neighbor money and jewels to pay for the cost of wages long withheld. Naphtali tells them, too, of God's wonderful care over His people all through the long wilderness journey; and then, changing the scene but not the spirit of his story, he tells the children of the captives' life in Babylon, and the tender Father's same untiring care that followed even there His erring, disobedient people. "For the dark cloud of captivity," he adds "has never been quite impenetrable. 'Tis a cloud that the breathing of God's holy word is constantly making thinner, and sometimes we find wide rifts of blue within it."
               The children looked a little puzzled, but Deborah and Ishbak responded heartily to Naphtali's truthful smile; and the latter added, with one of his rare, bright smiles,—
               "Ay Naphtali, the rifts of blue seem sometimes greater than the overhanging cloud itself; and just now it would seem one rift had widened to take in the sun's bright face; is it not so, Naphtali?"
               "Verily, verily," responded Naphtali's hearty voice, as he sang aloud the psalm of praise that was surging in his breast. The little one at Deborah's knee laughed and crowed in merry glee as she listened to her father's song; and this stimulated all the rest to add a full rich chorus. Indeed, the whole house seemed a cage of singing birds that night, and what was better still, it formed but one of the many happy dwellings in the city.
               Surely singing birds are happy captives, and a cloud, so shattered as to show through its rifts the sun's bright face, scarce merits the name of a cloud at all.
               And yet for caged birds they are the wires, still when the joyous song is done; and no matter how brightly the sun may be shining now, if ever so small a cloud is near, there is constant danger of an overcast sky again.
               Ay! the captivity of the Jews was not removed, only a bit of the shadow lifted, and a bit of the dark cloud widely rifted; but let us leave Naphtali, Ishbak, and all their companions in the bright light of this widest rift of all; and though the remembered faces of little crippled Rachel, of good old Zilpah, and the gentle Am-ram are not here to catch the passing gleam, let us picture to ourselves the halos of unapproachable light that crown the brows of these faithful ones; for lo! they have passed beyond the shadow of the cloud into the immediate presence of the Lord of Glory. And although their feet may never tread this temple of the Jewish pride, a "temple not made with hands," "a temple eternal in the heavens," is theirs forevermore!
            
         
      
      
         
            TREASURE THOUGHTS.
            From the writings of Frederic W. Farrar. Selected by Rose Porter. Spare Minute Series. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.00. This excellent compilation of the choice utterances of Canon Farrar comes at a peculiarly happy time. The distinguished preacher has hardly left our shores, and the impression he made upon the public mind, yet fresh, will be deepened and made more enduring by the contents of this volume. The compiler truly says that no words of approval are needed in introducing it to the public. The name alone "will prove a potent entrance plea, claiming interest from readers all the broad land over, so well are Canon Farrar's writings known and prized. Doubly so since the hour when the heart of this English Archdeacon met the heart of the American people in responsive sympathy, as it did, when in West-minster's ancient Abbey, standing within the shadow of the tombs of England's illustrious dead, he uttered that eloquent eulogy on our nation's hero—Grant. A tribute which spanned the wide Atlantic like the warm hand-clasp of a brother." Miss Porter alludes to the fact that there are those who, while they admire the writings of Canon Farrar, gravely fear their tendency when they deal with the orthodox belief touching the future life, their fear being lest he opens heaven's gate too wide and holds it open too long. In fairness to this class and to the preacher himself, she quotes at length his full religious belief from the closing pages of his well-known work Mercy and Judgment. Like all the preceding ones of the Series, it is beautifully printed and bound.
         
         
            
            HISTORY OF CHINA.
            By Robert K. Douglas. Until this book appeared, a thoroughly good one-volume history of the "Walled Kingdom" for popular use, was not to be had. There have been many works upon China and the Chinese, but of these, few have attempted to summarize the history of that great empire and its citizens in a single comprehensive work, and none have done so with such success as to meet the popular need. In this volume we have an authentic, scholarly and most interesting summary of Chinese history from the earliest period to the present time. In addition to the careful editing of Mr. Arthur Gilman, the book has had the advantage of the critical abilities of the young Chinese scholar, Mr. Yan Phou Lee of Yale College. The volume is richly illustrated with appropriate engravings, and will rank among standard books. 12mo, cloth, illustrated, $1.50.
         
         
            ALASKA: ITS SOUTHERN COAST, AND THE SITKAN ARCHIPELAGO.
            By E. Ruhama Scidmore. No book yet published bears any comparison with this volume in respect of valuable andauthentic information relating to the history, geography, topography, climate, natural scenery, inhabitants, and rich resources of this wonderful terra incognita. The author, who is a writer of well-known reputation, has had exceptional opportunities for the preparation of her attractive work, having visited the regions described, at different periods, under most favorable circumstances, and having had access to the government documents relating to the history and surveys of Alaska, aside from the kindly assistance of the experts and scientists best acquainted with that marvellous region. Her book has all of the interest of a delightfully written story of adventures in a comparatively unknown region, and with the additional value which it possesses as the only approach thus far made to a trustworthy treatise upon the history and resources of Alaska it will commend itself to all persons interested in that country, either as students or voyageurs. Fully illustrated, 12mo, cloth, $1.50.
         
         
            PHILOSOPHIÆ QUÆSTOR,
            
               or Days at Concord. By Julia R. Anagnos. In this interesting book Mrs. Anagnos, one of the accomplished daughters of Mrs. Julia Ward Howe, presents under cover of a pleasing narrative, a sketch of the memorable Emerson and other sessions of the Concord School of Philosophy. It has for its frontispiece an excellent picture of the building occupied by this renowned school. 12mo, 60 cents.
         
         
            CHAUTAUQUA YOUNG FOLKS' ANNUAL.
            Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, illuminated board covers, $1.00; cloth, $1.50. If there is any book published in America of the same number of pages, which contains more interesting and really valuable information than this handsome volume, we have yet to know of it. The very best writers of magazine literature are represented in it, and every article was especially prepared for the work. There are papers by Edward Everett Hale, Rose G. Kingsley, daughter of the late famous English author, Charles Kingsley; Mrs. Jessie Benton Fremont, Dr. Felix S. Oswald, the distinguished naturalist; Sarah Orne Jewett, Prof. A. B. Palmer, Oscar Fay Adams, Yan Phou Lee, the Young Chinese scholar and lecturer; Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, Amanda B. Harris, and others. Mrs. Fremont paints some vivid pictures of life at the South thirty and forty years ago; Mr. Hale contributes a number of historical studies called "Boys' Heroes," in which he tells the real stories so far as they are known, of some famous characters of ancient times, Hector, Horatius Cocles, Alexander the Great, Hannibal and King Arthur; Miss Kingsley tells some interesting stories about the "Children of Westminster Abbey;" various authors instruct boys and girls "How to Do Things," and Mr. Adams, in a series of questions and answers, imparts a great deal of general literary information. It is just the book for a parent to put into the hands of his children.
         
         
            
            
               The Pansy, 1885, is distinguished among annuals, as formerly, by articles which commend it especially to Christian homes. It abounds in delightful stories, interesting descriptions of famous men and places, and the brightest of pictures. Lithograph covers, $1.25: cloth, $1.75; cloth, gilt, $2.00.
               Some Boys and Girls. Edited by Pansy. These are stories of good times—the delightful experiences of genuine merry-hearted boys and girls in this and other lands, with much that is entertaining in biography and history. Lithograph covers, $1.25.
               Storyland. A land which all little people will delight to visit. Its stories are illustrated by beautiful pictures and appear in handsome type. Lithograph covers, $1.25.
               Chautauqua Young Folks' Annual, 1885. This annual has been styled "a young folks' cyclopædia." The present volume exceeds in richness all of its predecessors, new editions of each of which have been made to meet the demand for them. Lithograph cover, $1.00; cloth, $1.50.
               Young Folks' Cyclopædia of Stories of Famous Authors. Favorite stories by such authors as Mary Hartwell Catherwood, Ella Farman, C. R. Talbot, Julia A. Eastman, Mrs. Hallowell, and others. Elegant cloth binding, $3.00.
               Wide Awake Volume T. Contains beside other notable features Charles Egbert Craddock's brilliant Tennessee story "Down the Ravine," a stirring historical serial, "In Leisler's Time," by Elbridge S. Brooks, and Mrs. Champney's "Bubbling Teapot," with stories, poems and papers by Mrs. A. T. D. Whitney, Edwin Arnold, Margaret Sidney, Susan Coolidge, Edward Abbott, Rose Terry Cooke, etc. A frontispiece in eighteen colors, "A Merry Christmas to you," is reproduced by L. Prang & Co. in their choicest style, from drawings by L. H. Lungren. Quarto 400 pages, boards, $1.75; cloth, gilt, $2.25.
               The Golden West, as seen by the Ridgway Club, by Margaret Sidney. The fascinating record of a journey embodying material collected in personal travels by the author, and admirably adapted not only to the instruction of the young, but of older readers. It presents authentic information as to the people, natural scenery and customs of our newer States and Territories, Lithograph cover, $1.75; cloth, $2.25.
               Babyland, 1885, is, as usual, "radiant with pictures of bonny baby life, and its rhymes and jingles ring with sweet glee and laughter." Quarto, lithograph cover, 75 cents; cloth, $1.00.
               Wide A wake S. (Popular edition). Contains tales, biography, history, and poetry, with an intermingling of lighter matter, profusely illustrated, and especially adapted to the taste of intelligent and inquiring young folks. Handsome lithograph cover, $1.50.
               Little Folks' Art Book. Such artists as Bodfish, Sweeney, Barnes, and Francis, have furnished outline drawings calculated to entice the little ones into attempts at copying, and thus lead them to a taste for art.
               The Gray Masque, and Other Poems. By Mary Barker Dodge. This little volume of "tender and beautiful poems" as the London Literary World styles them, has passed to second edition, which appears in a rich dress of cardinal, red and gilt, 12mo, $1.25.
               Artists' Gallery Series. Six volumes. First, Millais, second Alma Tadema, third Rosa Bonheur, fourth Bouguereau, fifth Fortuny, sixth Munkacsy. Each of these volumes is a miniature gallery devoted to a single modern artist, containing nine superb fac-simile photogravures of the artist's most famous representative paintings, with portraits and biography. Printed on finest plate paper in three tones. Exquisite binding, new style, full gilt, per volume, $1.50, satin, $2.00
               Helps by the Way. Compiled by S. W. W. and M. S. H. with an introduction by Rev. Phillips Brooks, D. D., contains triple quotations for each day in the year. Elegant cloth, 16mo, $1.00, gilt edges, $1.25.
               Boys' Heroes. By Edward Everett Hale. Reading Union Library. 16mo, illustrated, cloth, $1.00. Twelve chapters containing the story told in Dr. Hale's characteristic style, of a dozen characters famed in history as worthy to bear the title of heroes, and the story of whose deeds and lives possesses a special interest for boys.
               The Temperance Teachings of Science. By Prof. A. B. Palmer, M. D. LL. D. A book for home and school use, presenting the strongest arguments in favor of temperance from the standpoint of the highest scientific authority, with an introduction by Mrs. Mary A. Livermore. 16mo, cloth, $.60.
               But Half a Heart. Seventh volume of the famous V. I. F. Series. By Marie Oliver. 12mo, $1.25. A new volume by a charming writer whose vigor and originality are winning for her a high place as a writer of choice romance.
            
         
         
            
            ENGLAND AS SEEN BY AN AMERICAN BANKER.
            Notes of a Pedestrian Tour. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. This charming work is sufficient disproof of the popular belief that the only book a banker knows anything about is an account book. It is really one of the best descriptive works of travel we have seen for a long time, and absolutely more satisfying to the reader who wishes for clear impressions of places and people than Richard Grant White's England Without and Within, which is regarded by most Americans as the standard book on the subject. The author has a way of making readers see what he sees; he notes the little traits which make those whom he is among different from the people of his own country; he comments shrewdly and curiously upon these differences and the reasons for them; he describes charmingly the scenery of the various districts through which he traveled, the towns he visited, the people he saw, and the facts he collected. He very decidedly contradicts some statements which Englishmen have made about themselves, and which American readers have accepted as facts. He tells us, for instance, that English boys are not so strong and vigorous looking as American boys, and that the popular opinion to the contrary has no real foundation. It is written in an off-hand, easy style, which makes it peculiarly agreeable to read, and can be set down as really one of the notable books on English travel that we have had for the past half-dozen years.
         
         
            BUT HALF A HEART.
            By Marie Oliver. V. I. F. series. Boston. D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.25. Marie Oliver has already won an enviable reputation as a writer of the higher and purer class of fiction, which the present volume will go far to render permanent. It is the story of a girl's life, intense in interest, elevated in tone, and permeated with a moral, which, without making itself obtrusive, cannot fail to deeply impress the reader. The principal character of the book is Elaine Challoner, an orphan girl of fifteen when the story opens, who makes her living by selling oranges in the street, and later does sewing in a tailor's shop. She is possessed of a marvellous voice, and through a fortunate accident becomes acquainted with a prominent singer—a German prima donna who takes her abroad and educates her. Her good fortune does not spoil her generous heart and kindly temper, however, and she returns after an absence of several years, eager to greet once more the humble friends she left behind her. The ending of the story is unexpected, and the reader will turn the closing pages with a saddened heart and moistened eyes.
         
         
            
            D. LOTHROP & CO.'S NEW BOOKS.
            D. LOTHROP & Co. present a remarkably attractive list of new publications possessing genuine value from every point of view, as will be evident from the following notes. The literature offered, which includes history, biography, general literature, romance, poetry, and various scientific works, presents a sufficiently wide range to meet the needs of all classes of readers.
            
               A Family Flight Around Home, and a Family Flight Through Mexico are the two latest volumes of the Family Flight Series, by Edward Everett and Susan Hale, and deal largely with the picturesque side of history, as well as of life and scenery in the countries treated. Illustrated, extra cloth, $2.50.
               Art for Young Folks. Contains a description of an art school for children in New York; biographies and portraits of twenty-four of the leading American artists, with engravings of paintings, studios, etc., etc. Quarto, boards, $2.00; cloth gilt, $3.00
               Boys and Girls' Annual, 1885. Contains original stories expressly prepared by the best of living authors who are favorites with the young folks. Extra cloth, gilt, $3.00.
               Our Little Men and Women. Contains a miscellany more charming than ever. Dainty short stories with seventy-five full-page attractive illustrations, and countless smaller ones. It is especially suited for use in homes and schools, having a variety of articles on plant-life, natural history, and like subjects, written most attractively to please the little ones. Among serial articles of permanent value are "Kings and Queens at Home," "Stories of Favorite Authors," "Nests and Nest Builders," and Margaret Sidney's "Polly." Quarto, illuminated cover, $1.50: cloth, $1.00.
               We Young Folks. All young people will be attracted by this book with its stories of hunting and fishing, of life in the "good old times," of famous men and women, etc. Lithograph covers, $1.50.
               The Children of Westminster Abbey. By Rose G. Kingsley, daughter of Canon Kingsley. Reading Union Library. Profusely illustrated from photographs and old prints, 16mo; cloth, $1.00. A graphic descriptive narrative of all that relates to the old Abbey, with stories of secret statecraft, gorgeous pageants of weddings, christenings and coronations, and a fine description of the old Abbey itself.
               STORIES FROM THE PANSY. A library of delightful short stories in which instruction is pleasingly blended with entertainment. These stories, culled from the writings of well-known authors, will command the favor of parents seeking the best books for their children, and of those who desire the most acceptable books for Sunday-school libraries. Second series, fully illustrated, six volumes in a neat box, the set $1.80.
               IN THE WOODS AND OUT. By Pansy. Here is a book admirably suited to the needs of that large class of young folks who wish at times to read, or have read to them, the choicest of short tales. Mothers and older sisters will make a note of this, and for the twilight hour when the young folks clamor for "a story," will provide themselves with "In the Woods and Out." Illustrated, 12mo, cloth, $1.00.
               COULDN'T BE BOUGHT. A book for the Sunday-school library. By Faye Huntington. For genuine excellence in both manner and sentiment, few writers of books for the young excel the author of this excellent character study. It is a book which will be equally interesting and profitable. 16mo, cloth, illustrated, 75 cents.
               INTERRUPTED. By Pansy (Mrs. G. R. Alden). It has all the charm of this most popular author's fascinating style, grown riper each year, and possessing more of the peculiar power by which she adapts herself to her varied audience. More than a hundred thousand of Pansy's books are sold every year. Extra cloth, 12mo, $1.50.
               MEMORIAL OF REV. WARREN H. CODWORTH. By His Sister. Simply told and remarkably interesting is this story of the life of one of the most saintly of Christian men. It will be welcomed and read with satisfaction by all who knew him, and to those who never saw him, it will be full of suggestive thought. With portrait, 380 pages, $1.50.
               BACCALAUREATE SERMONS. By Rev. A. P. Peabody, D. D., LL. D. The sermons contained in this volume, delivered before the graduating classes of Harvard University, it is safe to say are not excelled by any productions of their kind. They are not only rarely appropriate, as discourses addressed to educated young men upon the threshold of active life, but are models of logical thought, and graceful rhetoric worthy the study of all ministers. 12mo, $1.25.
            
         
         
            
            THE STABAT MATER.
            Illustrated, with Historical and Critical Notes, by Franklin Johnson. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price, cloth, gilt edges, $3.00; morocco, $6.00. To the religious and scholarly reader we can imagine nothing more welcome or gratifying than this exquisite volume. It contains, in the original Latin, and English translations preserving the measure of the Latin, the two most tender hymns of the Roman Church—the Stabat Mater Speciosa and the Stabat Mater Dolorosa. Although these hymns are intimately related, and are alike in metrical structure, they differ in spirit and aim. The first is a pæan; the second is a dirge; the first contemplates the cradle of Christ; the second his cross. The first rejoices in the birth of the divine Babe, the second exhibits the broken heart of the Mother over the crucified Son. Mr. Johnson places these two side by side, and follows them with translations of his own. The text is accompanied by photogravure reproductions of six famous paintings, Raphael's Sistine Madonna; Mary. The volume is elegantly bound in cloth at $3.00 and in morocco at $6.00.
         
         
            THE CHILDREN OF WESTMINSTER ABBEY.
            By Rose G. Kingsley. Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.00. Rose Kingsley, the author of this pleasant series of papers, is a daughter of the late Canon Kingsley, and inherits much of her father's literary talent. These sketches, of the royal children who found their last resting-place in Westminster Abbey, with the description of their tombs, is deeply interesting, and the boy or girl who reads them will imbibe with the story a good deal of important English history which would hardly be found in text books. The volume opens with a brief history of the building the abbey, with the numerous attendant legends, and very curious some of them are. There are thirty-two illustrations, which include views of various parts of the Abbey, inside and out, with noted monuments, effigies and portraits.
         
         
            THE ARTIST'S GALLERY.
            Illustrated. Boston: D. Lothrop & Co. Price $1.50. This exquisite little set of art books is unique in form and idea, and ought to become popular the moment the volumes take their place on the bookstore counters. Four numbers have been issued, devoted to Millais, Alma Tadema, Rosa Bonheur and Bouguereau. The form is a very small quarto, and each number contains ten reproductions in miniature of famous pictures by the artists named, printed on extra heavy paper, bound in white parchment covers, and full gilt. The pictures are all reproduced in tint—sepia, brown, olive and green, the tints varying according to subject. The effect is charming, the detail and values of the illustrations being faithfully preserved. It is proposed to extend the series so as to include the most prominent artists of Europe and America.
         
         
            
            
               IN CASE OF ACCIDENT. By Dr. D. A. Sargent. This little handbook is worth its weight in gold, and should be found on the most convenient shelf of every family library. The author is connected with the Harvard College Gymnasium, and the contents of the volume are made up of practical talks delivered before the ladies' class of the Gymnasium. His aim is to give such practical information as will aid to self-preservation in times of danger, and to teach a few of the simplest methods of meeting the common accidents and emergencies of life. The illustrations are numerous and excellent. Illustrated. Price 60 cents.
               THE EVOLUTION OF DODD. By William Hawley Smith. This remarkable book is destined to create as great a stir in its way, as "Ginx's Baby," although written in an entirely different style. It treats of phases of young life as seen through the spectacles of a keen-eyed man, sharp enough to let none of the intricacies of the newer systems of education evade him. It should be read by every parent, teacher, and public school officer in the land. Extra cloth, 12mo, $1.00.
               THE GRAY MASQUE AND OTHER POEMS. By Mary B. Dodge. The name of this author, whose reputation is already established, will be at once recognized in connection with some of the choicest bits of poetry contributed to recent periodical literature, such as "Indian Summer," "My Baby," "Frozen Crew," etc., all of which, with many new and equally excellent poems, are offered to the public in this unusually attractive volume. Illustrated, extra cloth, $1.25.
               LIFT UP YOUR HEARTS. Compiled and arranged by Rose Porter. Helpful thoughts for overcoming the world. A vest pocket volume, in dainty flexible covers, printed in sepia. Bound in red cloth. 25 cents.
               MONEY IN POLITICS. By Hon. J. K. Upton, late Assistant Secretary of the United States Treasury. This volume presents a complete history of money, or the circulating medium in the United States, from the colonial days to the present time. Mr. Edward Atkinson, in his introduction, pronounces it the most valuable work of the kind yet published. To citizens, legislators and business men it affords authentic information of the very first importance. Extra cloth, gilt top. 12mo, $1.25.
            
         
      
   
