
    ----CITATION----
        Beckwith, J. R., Mrs.. The Winthrops .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5763
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE WINTHROPS, 
               A Novel. 
             
            
               NEW YORK: 
               CARLETON, PUBLISHER, 413 BROADWAY.
             
            M DCCC LXIV. 
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1864, by G. W. CARLETON, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Southern District of New York. 
            
               R. CRAIGHEAD, PRINTER.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            Having but little to say by way of Preface to this volume, I shall say that little briefly. Few people ever read a Preface for any purpose; but if by chance some peruser of the following pages should turn back to this one to see if by any possibility the author offers an apology for having dared to tell a quiet family story in an every-day manner, he will find it in the assertion that the present every-day life of the nation affords only too much of sensation and excitement, and "The Winthrops," was written with no other aim than that of offering relaxation and rest rather than farther stimulant to already aching brains. 
            It was written as a relief from care, and if its perusal awakens one cheerful vein through moments, which otherwise would have passed wearily, it will have fulfilled the highest wish of 
            
               THE AUTHOR.
             
             
          
       
      
         
            The Winthrops 
             
             
            THE WINTHROPS. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               "'IT never rains but it pours!'" said my father, as he looked up at the window, down which miniature rivers rolled in a misty-dreary way, occasionally penetrating beneath the sill with a fizzling, bubbling announcement of the success of perseverance. Outside it was dreary enough; and the straggling pedestrians whom stress of circumstances had compelled to defy stress of weather, picked their way carefully over the mud-besmeared walks, with centers of gravity painfully variable and not at all to be relied upon. Weather-persecuted females looked painfully perplexed in their efforts to solve the question whether it were better to suffer the bedraggling of outraged crinoline, or to lay hands upon the constantly increasing burden, and by elevating, end it-said query being at last determined by the utter impossibility of doing anything beyond sustaining an umbrella against the fitful gusts which lay in wait round treacherous corners, and rushed unresistingly down every alley. Suffering humanity touched my father's tender heart, even through his own perplexity, and, powerless to aid, he turned his eyes again to the fireplace, where a persevering smoke was paying court to a half green log, keeping up a series of skirmishes by suddenly enfolding it as if to force the invoked flame, and then as suddenly retreating and making a reconnoissance through the various chinks and crevices of the surrounding fuel. "'It never rains but it pours;'" repeated my father: but it is problematical, whether that trite proverb referred to the state of the weather, or to the state of the family. Mrs. Winthrop, my industriously productive mother, being at that identical hour occupied in duly introducing to the light of this world the seventh little Winthrop. Six pledges of connubial felicity had my father already received-if not very thankfully, at least in a spirit of pious resignation-and the grace "which had been with him in six trials would not desert him in seven." My mother, obedient wife that she was in most respects, had displayed a willful persistency in her family arrangements which tried my father sorely. All her productions were girls, and despite his mild remonstrances, girls they had continued to be! He had lost hope to such a degree that the bluish light which played over and around his face did not lift or mitigate, even when the door opened, and good wife Willard advanced first her head, then her upper works generally, and lastly herself in bulk, and stood with a singular lack of the feminine importance for such cases made and provided. Her timid soul shrank from making the announcement of which she was the herald. A seventh young olive branch had shot from the paternal tree. Providence had graciously prepared my father for the announcement. He looked up patiently, but detecting a certain something by which one face telegraphs to another, exclaimed-Gracious Heavens! You don't say-it-is-" 
               "Yes sir; as fine a boy as you'd wish to see!" and as if it, too, were electrified by the sudden glory of our house at that instant, the coy and long resisting log yielded to the pursuing flame, and burst into a cheery blaze. My father's sense of the injustice for twelve long years heaped upon him in six equi-distant installments, melted away like a woman's wrath under the judicious application of a compliment, and he sighed with a little air of satisfaction-"Ah; Mrs. Winthrop always means well; but it's the nature of women to be headstrong!" 
               "Oh yes, sir, I'm sure she always meant well, and now she has gone to sleep as contented as a kitten." 
               "Very well ma'am" said my father with a bow so polite that it filled the room quite crowding out good wife Willard, who returned to the mysterious regions from which she had issued, with a feeling of relief that all was now told, and received not only as patiently as usual, but with something like real pleasure. 
               Still the penetrating, disheartening drizzle continued, without, and the street gullies were filled with a rush of many waters breaking ever and anon into pocket-edition Niagaras, as they swept on in their way to the mighty ditch beyond. But my father heeded it no more, as, gently swaying to and fro in his easy chair, his hands spread over its embracing arms, he dimly heard a soft, clear whistle escaping from the now brightly blazing log, as if a spectral fire-engine were at work. I know not what visions extending into the future, cheated and beguiled his mental machinery, but the low half whistle which all the long morning had served as an escape valve for his oppressed feelings, ceased to issue from his lips, and the corners of his mouth reversed judgment and softened into very pleasant lines. The old clock on the mantle-piece struck twelve, rousing him from his reverie, and simultaneously a very small human voice most lustily exercised, came forth from the aforesaid mysterious regions. It was not a voice overflowing with the spirit of harmony: in fact it was only remarkable for being like all small voices pertaining to the latest editions of the genus homo; but it was music to my father's ear, announcing, as it did, the unprecedented complaisance of my mother, and an heir to the house of Winthrop. 
               Never did youngster in any house, where such advents are no rarity, receive such care and attention as were lavished upon my brother Tam-for so we dubbed him, though our parents, in some fancied compliment to Abraham and Sara, insisted upon calling him Isaac. But we argued that though this son of their old age might be a little coincidence, the presence of six girls who might have been boys and who at least were children, destroyed the patriarchal precedent, and that it were a pity a boy should go "Ike"-ing it through this vulgar world, for so slight a provocation. Then when in time he commenced to wax strong and to practise the art of self-responsible pedestrianism, he gave indications of becoming a very "spirity lad," and, in compliment, we transposed him into "Tam O'Shanter ter;" not, Heaven forbid! that he should emulate the hero whose name he bore, but because so extraordinary a boy deserved an extraordinary appellative. For what earthly reason that particular child should have been delegated a particular nurse girl, instead of scrambling up as the rest of us had done before him, and in accordance with the time-honored customs of central New York, the neighbors never could decide; but as my father explained, "Boys are quite another affair in the family!" we patiently endured a fat, good natured, slovenly girl who became a fixture in the family, and upon whom, indeed, young Tam O'Shanter exercised his dawning reason most encouragingly. She bore the euphoneous cognomen of Polly, and was not particularly attractive in her personal appearance, being exceedingly short of limb and broad of girth, and her style of "getting up" was peculiar to herself and altogether unique. Her hair was of just an inconvenient length, and had a way of suddenly pouncing down from the lazy clutches of the three-toothed comb which confined it, and taking a plunge-bath into whatever her hands chanced at the moment to contain; and so many times a day was it soaked, stewed, and scalded, that its natural color, if it ever had possessed any, was quite lost and obscured. 
               She expressed great distaste for "bad figgered persons," and with a view to improving her own dumpy proportions, she drew in her waist till between her dress fastenings little puffs of dubious colored "cotton-wear" burst through, and one series of calamities followed upon another throughout her entire outer woman. Young Tam O'Shanter evidently was a little exercised by her peculiarities, and often beset her with questions and suggestion.-"I say, Polly," he said one day after a long season of silent thought, "who do you think made you?" 
               "Why, law! Master Tam! God made us all; me, and you, and the rest." 
               "Well, Polly; do you think he'd have made you if he'd known how ugly you'd be when you got growd up?" Vanity was no weakness of Polly's, and perceiving the chagrin his question excited, he hastened to offer consolation. "Though I don't know Polly; your'e an't so awful ugly after all! If your hair wasn't quite so spotted, and that kink was out of your nose, and you wasn't cross-eyed, you'd be real pretty!" 
               "Oh law, now, Master Tam! don't go on so. Little boys should be seen and not heard." Another long season of inward communing. 
               "I say Polly, what for makes you pinch yourself so hard? Don't that dress hurt you?" 
               "Orful! specially jes after dinner," confessed Polly, confidentially. "Well, but what makes you do so? Is that the way you grows? 
               "What'ee say?" 
               "Does squeezing you so hard in the middle make you longer at the ends?" 
               Doubtless much of master Tam's philosophy was buried amid the shades of the nursery; for after an unprecedented lull in adding names to the family ledger which yet lacked one of being full, my mother added another to the number-a girl-which as it ought to have been a boy as companion to Tam, we christened Frank, thus making as good a compromise as the case allowed. So little Tam, although he continued to be the pride of our house, and the object around which centered all our ambitions, ceased to be the only claimant upon our attentions, and was started to school to fight his way up among the other boys. In due time having "done" geography and made progress in mathematics, he was promoted to a boys' preparatory school where he remained all the week, according to the regulations of the institution, only coming home to spend the Saturday and Sunday, breathing stations in the march of mental progress. 
               The proprietor of this school was an English gentleman, who, though slightly lame, possessed uncompromising dignity and unflagging resolution, and when all other means for instilling information failed, he inducted it by a whack of his omnipresent cane. His sturdy wife was a meet helpmate for her liege lord, and many a night the little pupils were sent supperless to bed for having done something which they ought not to have done, or for not having done something which they ought to have done, this mode of correction for slight misdemeanors having been proved both wholesome and economical. For graver offences ces there were corresponding penalties, and master Tam whispered many a tale of oppression and outrage, during those blessed relief days which closed one week and commenced another. 
               "Now what do you think of this, father, and it's the truth, too," he poured out in one indignant weekly statement. "Yes, two days in the week the she Englisher pretends to give us pie, and this is the way she comes it over us little fellows! She looks as cross as thunder first at one of us and next at another, till she gets clear around the table, where we dasn't speak, and says as hard as can be, "shall I cut this pie for you, sir?" "Shall I cut this pie for you, sir," and of course we all look at it setting right there under her nose, uncut, and we all say as frightened as can be, "Oh no ma'am, don't cut it for me." "Well the other day, Ed Reese, he just says as big as life, "Oh yes, ma'am, cut me a piece if you please, I like pie, very much," (did she ever see any boy that didn't?) I tell you sir she looked so surprised for a minute, and then she said, 'I remember, now, I shouldn't have offered you any. Youv'e looked bilious for a few days, and pie wouldn't be good for you, I'll give you some medicine to-night,' and instead of his pie, he had to take a nasty stinking pill, when he went to bed. Ed said she was "an old rip;" and wasn't he right? I tell you we live the awfulest there! What do you think of this, too, father? For a whole week we han't had a single, solitary thing for supper except some slap-jacks made out of some old musty cookies that got wet in the cellar. Well, last night we saw the pan of that same slap-jack timber setting down on the floor by the old cook stove, all ready to bake, and we offered Ed a quarter, to go and spoil it. Well sir, what do you think the little devil went and did?" 
               ("Leave out the hard words my little son," said my father.) 
               "Yes sir, he went and grabbed a little nasty miserable pup there was there in a nest with a lot of others, and slung it slap-bang right into the very middle of the pan! The old woman, she heard the spattering and come running to the door as mad as hops; and says she, "Here you! Who threw that puppy into the dough? I'll bring out my tail (that's her cat-o-nine-tails she licks us boys with when we don't behave,) and whip the whole caboodle of you!" But she couldn't see any of us, cause we run and hid, and sir will you believe, she give us them same slap-jacks for supper, all the same, darned if she didn't! That was a little more than us boys could stand; so after the old cock had asked the blessing (as if the Lord or any body else would bless such a supper as that, if he did crack it up as "abundance!") we all shoved back from the table and marched up stairs. Well, sir, and that wasn't all, either! The old woman knew we'd be hungry by-and-by, because the dinner hadn't been fit to eat, either; ('twas burnt as black as a coal, sir,) and she thought we'd be coaxing up the cook to give us something. So she come up stairs, and she walked up and down the hall, and up and down the hall, till I knew her old legs ached! It got to be nine o'clock, and we knew at ten we'd got to go to bed whether or no. So one of the boys, he drew the cut that said he'd got to go, and he off with his coat and shinned down the locust tree close to the window, and cut around to the kitchen; and cook, she give him a thundering big pie, ("my son," put in my father mildly,) and a mess of goodies, besides, because she's something like a woman, cook is; and he tied 'em up in a towel she give him, and we were going to hist 'em up the window where we'd hung down a long stout cord, (we made it out of one of the bed sheets, torn up and twisted together.) Well, we let her down to him, and just as he was tying 'em on, and we thought we'd all but got 'em, round the corner comes the old man! I tell you sir, he wasn't no time at all in picking up that boy with one hand, and with the other he let him have as hard as he could fetch right across the legs, enough to knock his brains out!" 
               That we all sympathized with master Tam, in his troubles, may well be imagined; but we knew, too, that from the rebuffs and hard knocks encountered during school days, is often enough formed the flint which eliminates the sparks of genius and perseverance from the mind of the man, and his "preparatory" days drew themselves along in the usual routine, till at last they were ended, and he came home to pass an interval before his departure for College. A fine great boy he had grown to be, perhaps somewhat overgrown for his years; but as free as possible from the goslingy appearance which incipient manhood often assumes so much to the derogation of the dignity of that period in life. He possessed a thorough good-nature and manliness of disposition, which formed a refreshing change in our family, from the whining, sniveling characteristics of girls (I suppose ours was no family exception from the general class) and was, if possible, more than ever the hope of the household. He attached himself romantically to the fortunes of little Frankie, the "least one" of the family, whom we all hoped and prayed might retain her claim to the title of the "youngest;" for as the seventh daughter she occupied a position which, if not one of positive neglect, was at least remarkably free from a preponderance of "the small sweet courtesies of life," and nothing but her inborn independence and self-reliance prevented her from becoming the merest mope of a child, imaginable. With a total lack of the usual contempt of boyhood for anything like care over, or association with the younger department, he would play no plays and join no excursions in which she was not a participant. Sometimes, indeed, when her feminine instinct demurred to the rude sports of boyhood, his lips would curl into the expression "namby pamby!" but closely upon it returned his 
                     magnamimity
                     magnanimity
                  , and the manner in which he urged her to "be a little man, now!" never failed to overcome her scruples, and she was rapidly becoming as perfect a hoyden as could be desired by any boy. However, we gave ourselves little trouble upon that score, so that they were well out of the way; for, as in all families where progression-spirited girls predominate, the house was full of perplexities, and unceasing contriving a way out of them. My father, worthy man as he was, had yet a besetting sin, born of his time and generation, and incident upon its struggles. Architect of his own fortunes, and having risen from nothing, pecuniarily, the close economy of years had become so fixed a habit that it was impossible to throw it off, even though increased prosperity rendered dered it no longer necessary, and my mother was by no means a rectifier of this weakness, which, as it grew upon him with increasing years, bade fair to throw a cloud over his many virtues. With the laudable ambition of girls, some of whom were married and others rapidly becoming marriageable, we longed for modern innovations, and the head-work and patient contriving by which wooden-backed furniture and print covered lounges made way for their betters, and superannuated articles generally were replaced by those of a more recent pattern, was as wearing to our constitutions and tempers as it was vexatious and seemingly prodigal to the nominal head of the family. What had been considered "good enough for your mother and me," doubtless, in accordance with my father's idea ought to have been so for us; but as unfortunately it was not, and he systematically exiled himself from the quarters in which such extravagant proceedings were perpetrated, he was at last reduced to seek refuge in the kitchen, or to submit gracefully to the spreading and steadily encroaching innovations, which at last he did; mentally falling back upon Tam O'Shanter as a forlorn hope which should reconcile him to all else. For Tam, nothing was or could be too good, no expenditure even of money begrudged, and if in the feminine soul supreme reigned an allowance of envy, not one cent would it have diverted from that channel, even though in calculating how to accomplish our aims without it, we earned the reputation among other young people of being imbued with an unusual quantity of "female stinginess." While we had been educated in the common schools whose virtues my father strongly praised, and preferred above all "trumpery seminaries"-for girls it seemed,-for Tam, his son, he designed a collegiate course, which should place him upon an educational level with any man's sons. So the necessary arrangements were completed in much honest pride, and Tam started off to college, from which in the usual time he indited the invariable home-sick letter protesting he couldn't stay there; like every poor wight in whose melancholy brain the same idea holds sway during the first sad days succeeding matriculation. Who does not remember them? The careless faces of the sophomores, who, having outlived that earlier period, retain for it nothing beyond that tender mercy due to the source of unlimited butts, and who add many vivid memories to this outset in the race for "the wooden spoon." 
               The recitation rooms, every post and corner of which contain some classic allusion or quotation appealing to the risibles of those "who can understand it" are to the bewildered freshman but so many irreverent testimonies of stealthy perpetrations. Life-like caricatures in the rough, to the leeward of every pillar, represent the physical kinks and peculiarities of some universally unpopular "Prof," and odd couplets in Latin have edged themselves in and around promiscuously, as much to the edification of those older and wiser, as to the mystification of the new comer, who feels that in all this he has no part, and feels inclined in all respects, to consider himself a spooney. The very room destined to serve as "his castle," has an air of complete apartiveness from him and the abundance of cabalistic characters with which his very table is thickly covered o'er, raise no other emotion than one of wonder that even here men have lived and found strength to smile! But all this soon wears off, and long before the hereditary practical jokes have been played off upon those who have not yet acquired their complement of dental organs, the young man of spirit feels quite at home amid his surroundings, and college life jogs on as it always has and doubtless always will. 
               From all manifestations, Tam O'Shanter's first year was as discreet a one as could have been wished, and his letters were the joy of the family. He was enthusiastic in his praises of his chum, a young Virginian named Frederick Houghton, whom he styled "a brick of a fellow," and after the first commencement, of which my father was a delighted spectator, vowed himself under such everlasting obligations to him for innumerable lifts over tough places, that the grateful old gentleman brought him by main force to spend the vacation with Tam at the old place. 
               A decided frown settled down upon Frankie's brow as the old coach disgorged the unexpected guest, a visible shadow of the jealous fiend so savagely tweaking her, suddenly chilled the little heart which had impelled her half way to the gate as she saw Tam dutifully holding open the coach door for the emerging head of the family. 
               There they lingered, all three, and so intent was Tam upon his friend, that he had not once looked towards the house. 
               "It's all of that hateful Fred Houghton! I wish he had stayed away," exclaimed Frankie, angrily, as she turned and ran quickly back into the house, nor stopped till she reached her own room and slammed the door behind her, as if with it she could shut out all memory of the author of her disappointment; and here Tam found her sobbing wrathfully, as, scarcely heeding the caresses with which we all half suffocated him, he asked, "Where is Frankie?" and receiving no reply, up stairs he sprang in search of her, calling-"Come Frankie, no more primming and prettying-up now. Out with you," and pushing open her door, he unceremoniously entered, but soon reappeared dragging her half struggling, but smiling against her own will. 
               "Oh ho, Fred, what do you think! Here's my Frankie, jealous of you, and wouldn't come down stairs; and she declares girls are of no earthly account to any one! Now tell her if you intend to interfere in any way with her right, claim, and title to me, her brother, Tam O'Shanter." 
               "Frances, I'm ashamed of you! Come and speak to your brother's friend, said my mother in displeasure, giving her nose an excited little wipe which slightly reddened that mental thermometer. Thus adjured, Frankie gave her head a little twitch by way of protest against the maternal edict, which possessed a fatality for always being uttered at the wrong moment, and the words she was upon the point of pronouncing, in welcome, froze into an ungracious-I suppose I ought to be glad to see you, Master Houghton, and I'm sure-" 
               "That you are not,"-he concluded the sentence with a smile. "However, I am not surprised that you wanted Tam all to yourself during vacation, and I ought not to have come." 
               Frankie's generosity relighted her face and warmed her manner, and extending her hand she said earnestly, "Yes you ought; and now I'm glad you did. I'll divide Tam with you." 
                
               And "divide" she did, all the more generously as atonement for her first ebullition of jealousy, often occupying herself all day with some wondrous knitting designed as an addition and embellishment to Tam's wardrobe; while he, half ingrate, oblivious of her care, in his sportsman's enthusiasm, scoured the woods to the manifest inconvenience of the squirrels and other small game liable to accidents from fire-arms; cheered on by his friend's ardent participation and enjoyment in the pursuit. 
               The two were of about the same age, equal in size and stature, and both blessed with sunshiny dispositions yet unruffled by a care. The principal contrast between them consisted in the darker cheek and deeper tint of the hair and eyes of his friend, while Tam felt a species of contempt for his own blue eyes, and the curling brown hair which "no amount of pulling and straightening could win from its chronic crookedness," as he impatiently declared. 
               Each possessed for the other an ardent admiration and appreciation, and there existed between them that species of romantic attachment often seen between youths thus in the dawn of manhood, and which at rare intervals survives the changes and excitements of later years. The inland village where was located the respectable mansion in which had appeared, grown and flourished, eight representatives of the clan of Winthrops, seemed to have been let down by some chance, in a region of eternal hills. No railroad had ever found it, nor was it likely that any iron horse could ever be born with sufficient courage or soundness of wind to climb the twelve mile up-hill stretch which shut it in from his accustomed thoroughfare, over miniature mountains covered with an ambitious crop of grey stones, whose only change was from large to larger, and more of them. A creek, ambitious to become a river, wound in and out among them, crossing the one carriage road with persevering intrusiveness, and anon bawling from some growing cascade which foamed and fretted from within its homely limits to such purpose, that in one place the hard rock had yielded, and a fine waterfall roared and tumbled from a lofty elevation, sending up its mist, and sounding its own praises in an audible voice, which reached even the carriage road and it swelled amazingly, as, attracted by its self-laudations, people left "the pike" and looked around the hill to see if it were not a conceited thing after all, but soon joined it in its own estimate. In a turn of the road at the foot of an unusually steep ascent, stood a smart mill, and near the smiling pond whose damming did not in the least ruffle its serenity, the rapid flow of the creek was spanned by a bridge with a showy railing, which led to terra firma upon the other side, and with little to interrupt the chatter of the squirrels and the social gatherings of the wild ducks who laved their sheeny plumage in the cool waters, the road wound its way to the summit, a little beyond which lay the old burial ground, and then down a road leading off from a fork where stood the invariable brown house with numerous girls peeping out from among the hop vines, our village lay, as proudly conscious of its own merits and first society as any Gotham in the land, and utterly indifferent to the prospect that here it would probably forever remain, shut off from the busy thoroughfare up and down which rushed the busy sons of men in their rounds of toil and ambition. Others beside the denizens of the little town thought it pretty, and its surroundings formed the very paradise of sportsmen. The crowning glory of the place was a little lake nestled comfortably down there in the very bosom of the cherishing hills, its margin screened but not obscured by fragrant cedars, while just at its head stood a row of magnificent Lombardy poplars, as if to keep silent watch and guard over all. Never were such shadows reflected in any water as those the afternoon sun threw into the breathless lake! not tossing, breezy shadows which come and go with every play of the wind or ripple of ordinary waters, but deep, motionless, profound lines of shade, with every leaf reflected, and even the grand old poplars from root to top and back again! No visible outlet or inlet had this marvellous creation, and every law of its government, from the bare but romantic fact of its existence, to the sudden storms that would convulse it without a moment's warning, was deep and mysterious. Many a tragedy had these treacherous storms caused to be enacted upon its usually placid bosom, innocent as it looked; yet these harsh moments were rare, and it was loved and courted no less for its beauty than for the rare sport it offered to Nimrods far and near. Originally, all below its surface was quiet and inanimate, but some disciple of Walton had years ago stocked it with a variety of fish, which had so industriously obeyed the primary law that it abounded in members of the finny tribe, ranging from the inglorious "pumpkin seed" up to magnificent bass, with intermediate stages of pickerel, whose "schools" a youth might joy to attend indefinitely. For days the lake had worn its most smiling face unheeded by the college freed youths whose restive spirits yearned rather for the unbroken run of the hills and the excitement of bounding game, which inspires active limbs with unusual and illimitable vitality and fleetness; but having fairly stretched out the kinks begotten by long twisting under tables and benches in their subserviency to the brain, a high conspiracy was one evening entered into out under the back porch, in which Frankie took an enthusiastic part; said conspiracy being against the peace, and dignity, and undeniable rights of the finny denizens of the lake. Long before daylight next morning, a quiet bustle, struggling hard to keep below its breath, moved on tip-toe through the house, and three figures moved out into the grey promise of light to come, one with a spade, and one with a hoe, and the third with an old basin, which, having been first freshly cushioned with moist earth, was converted into a carriage of state for the portly angleworms for such circumstances made and provided. 
               It was literally "the last of earth" for them, poor time despised martyrs, made even to die while they deceitfully lured others; but without much compassion for their condition, it must be feared, the garden gate was reclosed, and taking an angle of the house in their way, an additional article of paraphernalia was taken up in the form of a tin pail packed with a luncheon not to be despised upon occasions in which sport annihilates time. A quick run through the clover field, which was the shortest route to where the little boat, moored, and hidden among the low drooping cedars, awaited them, a hasty embarking and pushing off, and the sport commenced. It mattered little that the boat proved to be a leaky "wessel o' wrath," and that nothing save frequent and vigorous use of a leaky tin basin therein providentially found, and which gave liberal tithes of all it possessed, prevented the miniature ark from swamping outright. Frankie curled her feet up above the water which she occasionally wrung from her feminine belongings, swung out her line and watched the result with eager eyes. It was still earlier than the first robin-time, and Houghton whispered that the fish were not up yet; but even as he uttered the slander, Frankie pulled in her line, and lo! a fine pickerel played fantastic pranks at the end of it. Again and again in quick succession the feat was repeated, before Houghton, who baited her hook, or Tam, who relieved it of its prey, had so much as dropped a line, and at last Tam laughingly seated himself, 
                     exclaming
                     exclaiming
                  , "Hurrah for you, Frankie! You do the fishing, and I'll sit here, as this is the only way I stand any chance of saving my face and eyes from your unerring aim." 
               "Oh Tam!" she exclaimed in distress; "did I really"- 
               "Hit me every time, fair and square, right in my respectable 
                     physionomy
                     physiognomy
                  ," said he, drawing out his handkerchief and wiping his face, down which trickled substantiary testimonies. A little chagrined with the play of her woman's muscle, she changed her position so as to guard 
                     aginst
                     against
                   a recurrence of the calamity, and all now waiting for a bite, silence reigned supreme. How fresh and limpid the water played in little waves among the logs already washed clean and white, and polished by their long action, dashing gently against them where they half floated off from the shore, with a little chuckling, swashing murmur, and fading out in scarcely perceptible ripples that played along over the glittering pebbles, and so floating on and away. Soon the birds came out of their leafy homes one by one, with an affectionate chirp of morning greeting, answered by another yet invisible but near, and delicate wings flitted back and forth as families and friends were re-united, and gushes of melody poured out upon the air till a full chorus was formed. Then a cunning little head, followed by a sprightly black body with the well known "bushy tail," came out of some sly corner, and another and another tripped out upon the water danced snags, and a noisy chattering-bee was held over meager breakfasts, which speedily called the sun up to see what it all meant. He came briskly up over the hill top, making his toilet as he came, and upsetting his paint which streamed in a red glow all over the lake, which blushed for his carelessness; but as if to impeach the witness, he smiled out in the brightest yellow, flinging a perfect wealth of colors over every dew drop which bade him welcome,-and day had come! 
               "Here Fred, if we don't bail out this concern, by George we'll soon have more water inside of it than out," said Tam; and so it appeared, as during their silent application to their pastime, the water had entered rapidly, and the fish, which had been carelessly thrown into the bottom of the boat, sailed around as if quite at home in their element, however circumscribed the limits that girt it round about, while the luncheon pail, half swamped against the side of the boat where it had been hung lest accident should befall it, called loudly "to the rescue." Availing himself of the second basin, now nearly emptied of the bait, Houghton fell to work with a will, and the two soon bailed out and restored the craft to comparative dryness. "I feel a wonderful attraction towards that pail, Tam," said his friend, wiping his face with a handkerchief which had served all the morning upon towel duty, as he 
                     possesed
                     possessed
                   a liberal allowance of digital fastidiousness. 
               "Come Frankie, you shall see the sun rise again some morning!"-She really seemed absorbed with the scene around them, as, retaining her position half lying across the thwart, her long uncared-for line floated up and down with the play of the water. Poor unromantic Frankie! For other thoughts possessed her. The morning beauty was certainly not unfelt; but it served only as a contrast in the retrospect of trouble to which her certainly not enviable life was subject; for in Tam's absence she had little to cheer her, and she would gladly have lengthened the present into an eternity. She came out of her meditations cheerfully, and while the boys rowed round into the shade, she made a table cloth of the newspaper which was tied over the pail, and spread out an imposing array of cold ham and short cake, pickles, doughnuts, and cheese, and as it gracefully submitted to their attentions, their chatter made atonement for the long preceding silence. 
               "Now let's take a vote to go home, or not to go home." 
               "Oh Tam, dont let's go home yet!" appealed Frankie. "It will only be fret and tew there about something, and it is always time enough to go home when you can't help it any longer. Let's go farther out into the lake and coax the bass, for awhile." 
               "Well; it's hot as 'lection, and the sun will spoil your complexion." 
               "Oh don't, Tam;" and little lines of vexation ran all over her face; for the "nutt browne" Frankie was so persecuted at home upon account of that very complexion that she was amply excusable for the frequently expressed wish that she "hadn't any." 
               Ho, ho; touchy there, sis? I declare I think you are deuced good-looking! Don't you, Fred?"-He did, and said so with much warmth; and while she was not re-assured by the compliment, she was soothed by the affection which prompted it, and her smiles returned. 
               Hotter and hotter grew the sun beating down upon them, and bites were rarer, till even to Frankie, home seemed not so contemptible, and with short grace and few thanks, the boat which had so unwillingly done its duty, was drawn upon the beach, and the oars hidden among the cedars, and the homeward tack taken though the clover field, in which the boys helped her to wring her dripping skirts, proposed leaving her on the fence to dry. 
               They thought no more of the strings of fish they tossed down in the grass near the pump, and Frankie said nothing of the tedious half day which followed the morning's success, the family economy excluding the aid of servants in that part of the country, it being reckoned but "a shiftless lot of girls that couldn't do their own work without a hired girl." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER II. 
               THE vacation drew rapidly to its close, and the last night of home liberty had arrived. A little touched with regret at the more than half neglect with which he had treated Frankie, Tam determined to make his peace with his own conscience, by one last, uninterrupted visit with her before his departure, which project his friend fully approved, and went early to bed with Don Quixote for a companion, while Tam sat in the window of his sister's room, holding her beside him with one arm, as in the days when they thus used to eat their tarts together. 
               Her self restraint gave way under the rush of tender recollections called up by the familiar caress, and leaning her head upon his shoulder she sobbed, Oh Tam, Tam, it seems to me I shall die if you go away for another long year! "Oh, if you only knew how hard it is here!" 
               "What Frankie! don't they treat you well? Who is bad to you?" 
               "Oh I don't know as any one; but they don't love me, and never did, and I'm only worth what they can get out of me, and it's 'Frank do this,' and 'Frank do that,' till I hate the very name of Frank! yes, and everything else-except you! and every time one of us girls wants anything, it is-'aint you ashamed to be so cost-ful,' from mother, and 'ruinous extravagance,' from father, till we wish we were Hottentots and done with it. Then there's Maria, always scolding and crying and threatening to 'accept the first offer,' which doesn't come, and wont in a hurry! Tam, I haven't had a new rag to my back in six months, nor any of the girls' old things made over, either, as they have to wear them themselves till they ain't worth it." 
                
               "Why Frankie! I didn't know father is so"- 
               "Stingy-don't mince it, Tam, for that's what it is! I know you didn't, for you are a boy, you know." He did not catch the idea, emphasized as it was by a curling lip; but he did obtain a glimpse into a state of affairs he had never suspected, as boys seldom notice such things, or at best consider them but a manifestation of the truth of the remark that "women are always complaining about something." 
               "What do you want, Frankie?" he asked, putting his hand in his pocket from whence the rattling of small change always issued. 
               "Oh it isn't that, Tam; indeed it isn't! I don't care for the 'duds;' I suppose I'm too ugly to look well in anything, as they all say; but it would be a comfort not to be pecuniarily pinched black and blue." 
               "You shan't be, any more. I'll send you part of my quarter's allowance, depend upon it. I can get along just as well with less than father sends me: and now little fellow, cheer up, for I've something good to tell you. Next year we are to spend vacation at Fred's. How do you like that?" 
               "Who are we, Tam O'Shanter?" 
               "Why, you, and Fred, and I. Do you think I'd go without you?" 
               "What, way down in Virginia, Tam?" and she dashed away the lingering tears, and became animated; but the old gloom came back in an instant, as she added, "but it is of no use to think of it. It will cost so much, wont it?" 
               "I'll attend to all that, only you fix yourself up shipshape." 
               "But, Tam, they're going to put me into long dresses! They are bad enough, now, dangling around in that aggravating way, but when they are really and truly down long, I shall look and feel like a gawkey!" 
               "No you wont, little one; and you aren't ugly either-a little black, maybe-but you have nice brown eyes, and beautiful hair, and your mouth can't be beaten, when you feel good natured. Then too, you are tall, and I believe you will look better in long breeches-you call 'em gowns though don't you?-upon my word I do!" 
               "Really and truly, Tam?" and a gleam of comfort returned. 
               "And, Tam, will I see the little niggers lying in the melasses, down at Fred's; and will I have a little maid to dress me that I can box around as much as I please?" 
               "Oh, yes, all that and much more, the half of which I can't tell you! but there's the clock striking eleven. Now be a good girl and try and be happy while I am gone. Next year will soon come, and then who knows!" 
                
                  "But tell me, who will I go to see at Fred's. Has he any sisters, or anything?" 
                  "I can't say; no sisters worth mentioning I believe, but a snarl of little fry that maybe will come to something sometime. You will go with me," and he drew himself up a little taller with a sense of his own manly importance. 
                  So Frankie was left alone to dream of joys to come if fate so willed, and Tam and his friend went back to college a day or two before the new year commenced, to look up the old boys and see who were the new ones, and to form alliances offensive and defensive against their new enemies, the juniors. 
                  It was the evening before the first day of the new term, and the two friends, who had forsaken the freshmen department, were seated in their own room, in that state of heels-in-air comfort every son of Eve enjoys upon his own premises, while the hazy clouds from their cigars, mingled with the not mysterious fragrance which rose from the steaming contents of a pitcher, gave tangible evidence of the vigilance dismasted state of "life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness," whose reign was about closing down upon them within the devoted classic walls. 
                
               "I say, Tam, coming back to school is quite a different affair from one's first appearance, isn't it? The one thing I have to rejoice at is, that I shall never more be a freshman! How many plots against us do you suppose even the walls of this old room could reveal were it not ashamed to, and against freshmen and new comers in general?" 
               "I vow, Fred; it is a shame the way affairs are suffered to go on in the colleges of the land! The idea, that because a fellow must have a first year in them, he is to be a butt for all the malice which has grown rampant during a longer apprenticeship! When you become an M. C., you must legislate against this state of affairs." 
               "George! I recollect how my blood boiled the first day I walked around these grounds! That long shinned sheep, knee-buckled Spence, shambled up and asked-"looking for the faculty, sir?" I flatter myself I gave him a tangible inkling of the 'faculty' in which I placed my faith! The fact is, both you and I ought to have jumped first year. It's all very well for the old fellows to book you for an extra year at the first end of the role; but a fellow who 'knows his belongings,' wont be too tender of their pockets at the expense of his own." 
               "Oh, it doesn't matter much. It all goes towards twenty-one, and we are only waiting to arrive at years of discretion." 
               "That is all very well for you, who have only to submit to the destiny of gentlemen at large, and by-and-by step into the paternal and so-forths! But as for me, I am here for a purpose. The honorary degree of 'F. F. V.' will never fill my airy pockets, nor advance me farther upon the scroll of fame than the stereotyped reputation, 'poor and proud.'" 
               "What are you going to be when you come to a head, Fred? Will you enter the army of the country, or 'the army of the Lord,' or practise something at somebody's 'bar?'" 
               "It is no laughing matter, to me, Tam! I have got to choose a mission. The army is nothing but a sinecure at present, and were it other, it would be worse. I've no fancy for killing men for money, and as I've no talent as hypocrite, both armies are disposed of. I have too much conscience to turn physician and blunder people into their graves, so I-" 
               A knock on the door interrupted him, and obedient to the order came in several of the students. "Glad to see you back again," said Hamlin, a southern member who was considered a prime fellow for his easy good nature, as he shook Tam's hand. 
                
               "Hamlin is entering upon a new 'sea of troubles' this term, and hopes they will prove calmer," laughed a representative of Illinois. 
               "How did you spend your vacation, Hamlin?" asked Houghton. 
               "Taking the kinks out of my battered constitution, and fortifying myself against others doubtless to come. I reckon I went through first year pretty thoroughly, from being 'matriculated a junior,' down." 
               "Well, Hamlin; you've much to be thankful for," suggested another, "we've made a tolerably sharp customer of you, and so robbed the juniors of at least half their expected perquisites. By the way, my friends, we've a new Prof., this term." 
               "Really! in what field does he labor?" 
               "In the 'hic, hc, hoc' department, I believe. He is a pumpkiney looking specimen, and I'm afraid will come to grief among the boys. We've warned old Symes to prepare for taking his cast. He wears 'specs,' and his hair is as yellow as corn-silk! Lord; what a time he must have had when he was in college!" 
               "Houghton, isn't it about time you passed that pitcher?" asked an expectant waiter, evidently getting more and more upon the "anxious seat." 
               "Beg your pardon, I'd have done so before, save that there's little besides the pitcher to pass-evaporation, you know-and I thought perhaps you wouldn't notice it. However, if you'll be patient, I will descend to the lower regions for hot water, and we'll have another brew. I'm immense on brewing!" 
               "Brought your pony back this year, Crittenden?" asked Tam. 
               "Dashed if there was enough of her to bring! I took her down to the midsummer races, and some scamp shaved her tail as bare as your chin, didn't leave a long spear of hair in her mane, and actually cropped one of her ears! If I could have found out the miserable wart who did it, I'd have put him through! By Jove, it's enough to make a man swear a blue streak!" and he looked excusably bly like doing so. But his good humor returned with the brew, and cigars circulated freely till the ten o'clock bell rang, and the hour's extra grace was drawing to a close, when in high good fellowship the party separated, and the old walls were left to silence. 
               The advent of a new tutor is a signal for doings fast and furious, and gifted beyond the ordinary lot of mortals must one be, who avoids all the pitfalls laid in his way. Human energy were incompetent to recite all the ills sore and grievous which befell the new Professor that year; and as if the fates had bestowed upon him an especial talent for rendering himself obnoxious and getting into difficulties, no secret gathering for surreptitious pastimes was held near his quarters, that he did not happen in upon, by accident, if not by malice aforethought, and, some way, every one escaped the consequences except himself. Did he suddenly intrude upon a card party, the lights went out as if by magic, and the bits of pasteboard were transformed into well aimed eggs; and when, after an unsuccessful raid upon ubiquitous unorthodox noises, he returned baffled to his room, heated up to ninety in the shade, and not a little blown, the door, after having vigorously resisted his panting efforts, suddenly gave way with a report compounded of unlimited Fourth of July's and pyrotechnic displays. But the height of his misfortunes was reached when, one bright morning, he found himself minus all his wearing apparel, the "cast iron company" having picked his lock during the hours of the stilly night, and stolen it away from under his very snoring guard over it. Recitation hours arrived, and so did the class; but no professor was forthcoming, and a visit was made to his room to discover the reason. The truth was made known, and another professor loaned him a suit in which he made his appearance. 
               The students could not control their risibles as he entered clad in habiliments "a world too wide for his shrunk shanks," and reminding them of the "shirt on a bean pole" comparison. His long coat tails switched around him according to a fancy of their own, and his whole appearance was suggestive of a state of collapse. Poor mortal! his days were full of howling and his nights were full of pain; and so far was he from receiving any aid or comfort, that the very brother professors often failed entirely to conceal their inclination to give him an accelerating kick down his hill of unpopularity. 
               If Tam's improvement in the classics was in corresponding ratio to his increase of expenditure, my father had every reason to be proud of it. That he was a very benevolent youth, was perfectly evident from sundry letters like the following: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              
                                 Oct. 18-
                               
                              "DEAR FATHER
                            
                           Please send me by return mail, twenty-five dollars. There is to be a collection taken up in chapel, next Sunday, for Foreign Missions. Am well, 
                           
                              Yours affectionately, 
                              TAM."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              
                                 Nov. 10-
                               
                              "DEAR FATHER;
                            
                           I am indebted to a friend for fifteen dollars. There was a purse made up for the Orphan Asylum, and I was 'stripped.' Better make the sum fifty dollars while you are about it, and save trouble next time. 
                           
                              Affectionately, 
                              TAM."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "DEAR FATHER;
                            
                           I enclose you a statement of my indebtedness up to Jan. 1, to various of my friends who have accommodated me upon occasions in which unexpected collections were taken up. I am well, and applying myself diligently. 
                           
                              Ever, etc., 
                              TAM."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
               To the last of which my father replied:- 
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "MY DEAR SON;
                               
                              I am glad you have a kind heart, and are charitable to the needy; but I would suggest that your individual exertions are not expected to supply the entire wants of the human family. Don't cramp yourself, but 'apply yourself diligently' to whittling down your expenses a little, and when you have an extra call upon your generosity, make it up on something else. 
                              "As you will see, I enclose you a check which will repay your indebtedness, and leave you something over. Mind, my son, you shall have all you need, but, in your charities, remember that better is a little judiciously bestowed, than a great deal sown broad-cast. 
                              
                                 Your affectionate 
                                 FATHER.
                               
                            
                            
                              "P. S.-Beware of borrowing. It is a very bad habit to form." 
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               There was a source of infinite amusement in the sophomore class, in the person of a young Mississippian, who remained utterly incorrigible despite all the efforts of professors. His name was Clinton, and if his success in rendering himself notorious should continue with increasing years, it was evident the name would not remain in obscurity or only attract attention within the college walls. His mental peculiarities were not few or unnoticeable; but even these were thrown in shade by his physical ones, principal among which was the wonderful control he had acquired over his facial muscles, not even the usually dormant ones in his ears being exempted from what must have been at first most arduous training. The variety of expression exhibited by his nose and upper lip when they chose, was by no means deteriorated by the sudden standing upright of his ears, which he controlled like some favored member of the canine fraternity, and not unfrequently he came into class with some huge adornments of paper so contrived as not to impede the action of these accomplished organs, and whose effect was irresistibly ludicrous as upon some occasion when particular attention was called to some abstruse calculations, they elevated themselves and their appendages with a show of alertness sufficiently flattering. In fact, from long custom these striking organs had become quite incapable of remaining quiet, and even in chapel persisted in their show of astonishment upon any striking occasion, quite independent of their lawful owner. It was a source of infinite annoyance to the professors who would not believe that the habit was now fairly beyond the control which had first subjugated them, and one day during some particularly difficult experiments during which the unruly members had displayed every emotion of their possessor to the laughing students, who were ever upon the watch for them, the Professor rebuked him scathingly, and sent him out of the class. Clinton was angry, and the blood of all the Clintons boiled in his veins. The offending Professor was next morning the surprised recipient of the following note: 
                      
                         
                            
                              
                                 "SIR:
                               
                              I consider the remarks you addressed to me yesterday in class, an affront only to be reconciled by the satisfaction one chivalrous gentleman gives another. My second has my instructions to wait upon your's at any time and place you may appoint. 
                              N. B. I shall not consider your fancied superiority as my teacher, any excuse for a refusal to afford me the satisfaction I demand; for I assure you, that down in Mississippi where I came from, you would'nt be reckoned anything or anybody. 
                              
                                 Yours respectfully, 
                                 T. CLINTON.
                               
                            
                         
                     
                  
                
               The "satisfaction" he received was a lecture from the Faculty, in force, who threatened him with expulsion if he did not improve in his line of conduct; and as this was a consummation he most devoutly wished for, he considered himself a doubly ill used individual, that neither his demand was granted, nor the falsely raised hope in his breast fulfilled. In fact, the faculty concluded that he was a rara avis, who the more it was let alone, the better for all parties. 
               While the year passed almost imperceptibly to Tam, it dragged wearily enough to Frankie, who, amid her monotonous round of household duties, and the uneventful "Academy" hours, grew into young ladyhood unnoticed; for it is a singular fact that the youngest of the family is seldom considered anything but a child, by the older members of it, till long after every one else has ceased to remember that it ever had any childhood. Frankie was considered a proud, unsociable girl, by those with whom she was thrown; and she certainly was singularly silent and apathetic for one whose whole physique indicated fire and resolution. What joys she might have had, no one knew, and when stung by any vexation, she was equally undemonstrative in words; only a cloud would sweep over her face and her dark eyes flash for an instant, and all was as apparently passionless as before. Between her and my mother there existed a perfect antagonism which seemed unaccountable; but the truth was, that in every characteristic they were naturally the antipodes of each other, and no parent likes to see a child, particularly a daughter, quietly deferring from their judgment and pursuing its own independent way in serene indifference to all else. Then Frankie, instead of evidencing notable house-wifely qualities, was careless, if not utterly contemptuous, of the petty details of a well regulated establishment, and went through the tasteless routine imposed upon her, with a slow, inanimated "lope," as my mother stigmatized it, which was aggravating to witness. Graceful and dignified, she undeniably was; but in all her peculiarities she was but an unfortunate source of irritation, and the many petty oppressions and vexations she suffered in consequence, only a feminine imagination can depict. But the crowning point was reached, when at length, as the yearly college vacation approached the long silently nursed Virginian expedition was broached. Not a hint of it had been given till the time was ripe, for both knew that success lay in coup de main, if anywhere. A coaxing letter from Tam had half won my father's consent; but he never decided any subject of importance without consulting my mother; and a family "talk-it-over" was called, participated in by as many of the married sisters as were obtainable, chief among whom was Elizabeth, now Mrs. Duncan, who as the energetic wife of a rising member of the bar, was considered a family oracle. She certainly possessed good talents and universal capabilities; but her leading characteristic was an unshrinking handling of the truth, however disagreeable. Indeed, she made herself a steadfast martyr to its dictates, and never availed herself of any excuse to father a weakness in the expression of a harsh judgment, or for healing up a painful fact of any description. 
               Another married sister was summoned home from Utica; not that her easy, good-natured opinion had much effect in any way, but it added dignity to the council. Frankie, who had pre-determined that go she must and would, gave no sanction to the conclave by her presence, but, liberally supplied by Tam, proceeded diligently with her wardrobe, which no hands could more skilfully or tastefully have fashioned. The opposing forces in high conclave assembled, might have been classified thus. Rabid and determined nays, the maternal ancestor-ruling causes, the expense, and a natural love of imposing crosses. Mrs. Duncan, ruling cause, "I never did so." Yeas. Mrs. Luce, ruling motive-live and be happy. Wavering, my father's opposing impulses-desire to see his children, (particularly Tam,) happy, against possible imprudence, and useless expenditure. It is useless to recount the family arguments upon the subject, how the nays insisted upon the folly of such a thing; the yea, that nothing is folly which makes us really happy; and the wavering, according to custom said little and thought much. How it would finally have terminated, is doubtful, but for an unlucky shot from Mrs. Duncan, which roused all the affection and obstinacy in my father's character. 
               "All this comes of the foolish indulgence heaped upon that scape-grace Tam O'Shanter! He'll come to no good with his extravagant habits, and he'd better be sent traveling before he spoils Frank any more." 
               My father suddenly rose, as a signal that he had decided and the council was over; for though he always asked my mother's advice, it was no evidence that he adopted it, which, to tell the truth, he seldom did; and his lips closed firmly over the edict, "Frankie shall go if she likes." It is little enough, at the least, she and Tam see of each other. Great was Frankie's astonishment as she heard the rare sound of my father's footsteps approaching her room. He entered, only glancing at her preparations as he asked, 
               "Well Frank; you were going in any event?" 
               "Yes, sir." 
               He recognized something of himself in the respectful firmness of her reply, and an approving smile lighted his face as he said kindly, 
               "You can go with my full consent, little daughter. I am far from wishing to deprive you of any innocent enjoyment, and I know you are safe, anywhere, with your brother. Do you want anything?" 
               "No, thank you, father. I have everything nearly ready, now." 
               "So, this is the secret of Tam's charitable donations!" He struggled with a little feeling of chagrin, and then added, "Tam is a good brother to you, Frankie; love him always, for when I am gone he will be the head of the family, and a protector for you," and an evident pride spoke in his manner. 
               Frankie had known little of her father, seeing him only in his ordinary manner, and regarded him as children are too apt to do a father-as a giver of decrees, and a family regulator. In all her life she had asked nothing of him, and received less than he imagined, all those matters of family dry-goods purchase being regulated by my mother, who, implicitly relying upon Frankie's pride and ingenuity as far as personal appearance was concerned, seldom thought of expending a dollar upon her in any way. Of this my father never even thought, and the natural conclusion had been that he did not care. Each now looked at the other and recognized an unknown and heretofore unnoticed something, raising up a new tie between them. My father's decision was wont to settle at once and forever any discussion upon which it was given, and no one now demurred to it; and Frankie was peaceably aided and equipped, my father making many voluntary additions, as his family pride could not brook that one of his children should go into the world presenting any save the best appearance, however they might economise at home. A joyful letter apprised Tam of the state of affairs, and prepared him for the reception of his father and sister at commencement, where they arrived to his completest enjoyment and a general flutter of interest among his friends. 
               "I've an overwhelming number of particular friends just now, Frankie," said he laughingly. "Do you get tired of presentation?" 
               "No; but the worst of it is, Tam, I forget not only their names, but their faces, and young Crittenden scowled dismally, because I didn't see that he was fairly lifting his hat, till it was too late, as I didn't dream I had ever seen him before." 
               "You'd better tell him so, for apology, Fanissimus! He couldn't fail to understand it and excuse you." 
               "No indeed. I haven't lived in the woods not to know that people are not very forgiving when you hurt their vanity! I'd far better plead imperfect vision-as old ladies say, 'loss of eye-sight' (what other is there, I wonder?") 
               "And 'Widow Wadman-like,' set him searching for the difficulty, eh? But I must tell you that this thing is to close to-morrow afternoon in time for a grand musical entertainment in the church. I shall hand you over to Fred's courtesies, if you please, as there is a certain young lady here who expects me to do the gallant upon the occasion." 
               "Thank you, I'll go with father. I'd far rather, for he will get tired early and maybe want to go back to the house." 
               The words were very filial, and quietly spoken, and Tam kissed her enthusiastically, as he called her "a good girl and a handsome one." He did not feel the little heart-tweak she did, when he mentioned the expectations of that "young lady." "Expectations" indeed; who had any right to indulge in them, when she, his sister who had not seen him in a year, was here to be escorted to that same entertainment? And why should Tam thus neglect her for others, and voluntarily resign her society? Who can say how much of her beautifully filial reply was due to the pain she felt! There was no reason why her father's enjoyment should have depended upon Houghton's absence, for he liked him heartily; but so she arranged, and Tam saw nothing beyond the surface. So she went in the evening leaning dutifully upon the old gentleman's arm, and Houghton happening to enter in time to obtain a vacant seat near them, took it with the air of one who knows himself welcome, and really was so. 
               "See, Miss Frankie. There is Tam with the head Prof.'s daughter. Shan't I signal them to come here? There is plenty of room," and without waiting for the assent he was sure he should receive, he made his signal, which attracting Tam's attention, he smilingly joined them with his partner, who was shy and pretty, and Frankie, too magnanimous to retain her jealousy, made her pleasantly welcome, and Tam was in high glee with his stylish sister, and his party, and all things in general. So the evening which had dawned so unpromisingly for her, closed in pure enjoyment; and as her head sunk upon her pillow, pleasantly echoing the music to which she had delightedly listened, she surprised herself thinking that this is not altogether so sad a world, after all! 
               The next day was busy with the usual leave-takings, and the old hall seemed literally turning itself inside out, as trunk after trunk was carried out, followed by its proprietor, and the rooms were left to the exclusive possession of the ghosts of departed mischief, who could revel in them for three months to come, in undisturbed hilarity. 
               My father took his farewell of the young people, in time to come out home in the morning hack, and Houghton and his guests started on their way rejoicing, despite the prophecy of the new Professor, that the disciples of that college would one and all be elevated to the gallows, or he was no judge! 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               "SEE Frankie; there is the old Virginia shore! Does it meet your expectations?" 
               She turned her eager eyes in the direction indicated, where the river bank was stretching itself out before them. The hill sides, rising gently from the water, were covered with the crops of the season, many of which were already being harvested. Naturally the most interesting feature of the landscape, was the darkies. They certainly wore little the air of overtasked children of oppression, and the busiest among them left their work, and leaning lazily upon their implements of husbandry, looked at the "gran white folks" passing by, with the most perfect leisure. Here a number sat idly sunning on a back-bone fence, and there another squad were letting into a Methodist hymn with a vim that must have left little energy for the use of the shovel and the hoe. Every where there was a soothing absence of the rush as if for life so noticeable in the free states. Occasionally a quaint, weather-beaten house variegated the view, its sturdy old brick chimney "setting up to" the end of it, as if, too magnificent to endure the interior of so rude a domicil, it had betaken itself to the nearest practicable portion of all out doors, and here, too magnanimous to desert an old friend in distress, was keeping it steady company. Broken window sashes, and panes of the old-hat and bundle patent, decorated the brown clap-boards where windows once doubtless had reigned, and altogether the ruins were as the 
                     unsophiscated
                     unsophisticated
                   traveller described those of Athens-very much out of repair. Yet these rickety habitations were overflowing with human life, as innumerable grades of poor-white-folks-begotten, staring from the thresholds and adjacent premises, gave ample testimony. 
                
               At length the boat stopped to put off something for somebody, and the prospect of a half hour's run not seeming despicable, most of the passengers sprang on shore. The turf was fresh and springy, and the air filled with a penetrating balm. 
               "Now, Tam O'Shanter, if we could only fall in with the pleasant company of some shaded spring, wouldn't it be glorious to drink the bright bubbles from the spicy cups of some of these green leaves. I'll ask that old Ethiope, hanging on the fence, if "such a thing there may be," and rasing his voice he called, "Ho, uncle! Tell us where the spring is, will you? I'm sure we are near one." Upon this, a bevy of lanky, frowsy-headed girls dressed in "Turkey red," raised their dulcet tones and called "Par, Par! Here's the abolitionists meddlin with the niggers!" Suddenly, from some mystic region near, ran out a lean, long old man, followed by two sons like unto him, who with fierce gesticulations ordered the intruders off. 
               "Fred, is this to be considered a fair sample of Virginian hospitality?" asked Tam, slily. Irritated by even a playful allusion against his native state, Houghton's cheeks burned crimson, and walking angrily up to the old man and his seedy looking olive branches, he said contemptuously, "Shut your idiotic heads! Abolitionists! Why, I own more niggers in this very state than you have seen in six months!" 
               Frankie, whose northern little head was full of raw-head-and-bloody-bones stories of persecution against the "suspected," in that land of horror called the South, was trembling in her gaiters, despite her efforts at control; which Tam, perceiving, styled her "a silly little goose," but nevertheless led her away so protectingly, that before Houghton rejoined them she was herself again. 
               The spring was found, surrounded with moss covered stones except a large one in front, worn smooth and white by frequent coming feet, and with a delighted "hurrah," the two young gentlemen, moved by a common impulse, measured themselves across it in true school boy style, and leveling their faces over the clear pool, imbibed long, cold, exhilarating draughts which the gods might have envied. The steamer's whistle roused them all too soon, and laden with the flowery trophies of their stroll, they again resigned themselves to the dingy little cabin filled with the usual number of babies who refused to be comforted, and strong lunged women whose experiences seemed, like their tongues, to have no end. There was a worried, "tuckered out" mother with seven children of the afflicters of Magdalen kind, the youngest of which rejoiced in the name of Johnny and a pair of real cowhide boots whose strength he evinced in making calendars of distress of all the juvenile trotters on board, and every momentarily off guard old lady indulged in mysterious rubbings and soothings of her apparel a few inches above the floor. He possessed a fearful development of voice under the frequent cuffs he received from irreverent hands, which caused him to become the innocent subject of a pun from some of the young people. "Why is Johnny like a certain famous Scriptural character? Because he goes roaring up and down, seeking whom he may devour." The weary mother was to get off at a landing in the woods, and here she was met by her husband, to whom she and the children had "come on" after a long separation. He picked up, one by one, the whole seven, not excepting even the dirty faced Johnny, and having bestowed a rowsing smack all round, he then noticed his wife, who stood patiently awaiting that event, and shaking hands with her, merely observed "Wall Sophi," and without another word the whole party moved off, the mother bringing up the rear to gather up the stragglers. 
               It was evening when the young people disembarked, having reached the end of their river route, and little was to be seen beyond the usual features of a small river town-neutral tinted walls labelled with the articles inside, for sale "for cash only," and the faded grandeur of a tavern with a wooden sign swinging creakingly in front of the door. A few melancholy lights glimmered at intervals along the dirty, coal begrimed streets, displaying lounging figures, white, and black, all with the usual rush of nothing to do, and any quantity of time to do it in. "Ki massa Fred! dat you?" 
                     exclamed
                     exclaimed
                   a familiar voice, as a black hand was delightedly extended, just as the last trunk was thrown off. So, Dan, you are out looking for us, are you? How is your "misery in the bones? and how are they all, up home?" said Houghton, as he shook the welcoming hand. 
               "All well, praise de Lord! De pecaninnies roar offle, case dey want for come out in de carriage, too; but I knowed 'twant no use, case, sed I, dare's a fine young lady long wid de young gemmen, and ladies doesn't like to hab der pretty-doins smashed up by de young fry." 
               "Dan, are the horses tired?" 
               "No, young massa; been in de stable eatin all day, as I got here afore de broke ob it, a most." 
               "Well, then we will go up to the inn and wait till you bring them around, and go out home to-night. How is it Miss Frankie; are you equal to a fifteen miles ride?" 
               "Any distance; don't fear." 
               The distance seemed magically short as the carriage rolled rapidly over it, old Dan occasionally turning round from his high seat in front, to offer some remark, with all the freedom of an old servant. 
               "Look, Massa Fred. Dare's de old place; do he look nateral like?" 
               A nice, comfortable looking white house surrounded by vine covered galleries, standing picturesquely among some forest trees, was just visible in the starlight, as, opening the wide gate, Dan drove the horses through, and they soon drew up at the door. Then there followed a medley of kissing and many voices, and half confused by it, and blinded by the light, Frankie felt herself seated in an easy chair, and kind hands removing her hat and travelling cape. 
               Then came a supper of hot biscuit and coffee, and the accompanying nick-nacks, over which there was much mirth and cordiality, till, the clock striking eleven, reminded Mrs. Houghton that it was late, and her guests probably tired, and with her own motherly hands she put Frankie to bed as she had never been in her life since she was old enough to crawl off to it in the dark, and kissing her good night, left her to pleasant musings. 
               She awoke from a sound sleep early the next morning, as one is sure to do in a strange place, and rising at once, she went out upon the gallery to look around. Everything was pleasantly rural, from the long grassy sweep of the grounds down to the road, to the green waving fields fenced in from the woodland beyond. At the left of the yard lay a large garden, and to this she made her way, attracted by the beds of flowers which nodded their heads gayly in the morning breeze. She was gathering some of them which were nearly hidden from view, when she was joined by Mr. Houghton, who gave her a pleasant morning greeting, and opening his knife commenced cutting the flowers with a liberal hand, till having amassed a magnificent bouquet, he placed it in her hand, without ceasing in some narration which occupied him, unthinking that she would have thanked him for them. The unostentatious kindness of his manner awoke all that was frank and genial in her own, and, mutually pleased, they were chatting away sociably when they saw Mrs. Houghton standing on the gallery, and returned to the house. Mrs. Houghton extended both hands as she came forward to meet them, and kissing Frankie, smoothed the heavy bands of her hair ruffled by the wind. 
               "I had no idea you would be up so early after your journey, or I should have sent Jacko up to assist you. Have you any prejudice against black servants? because if you have I can easily procure a white one for you." 
               "Oh no, Mrs. Houghton. I like everything I see here, and am sure you need make no change for me. Let me have Jacko." "Jacko," called Mrs. Houghton, and obedient to the summons, an intelligent, gayly turbaned young mulatto woman came to the door. "This young lady is to be your mistress, Jacko, and you must be very faithful and obedient to her." 
               Jacko made a respectful obeisance, and Frankie thought "That doesn't look much like the stupid head into which I thought they had to thump every christian idea." 
               Tam and young Houghton made their appearance when the breakfast bell rang, and a very pleasant, fine looking young lady came in, who was introduced as "Miss"-somebody, the name being lost amid the noise of the chairs. 
               "Where are Ettie and Robert, Miss Ida?" asked Mrs. Houghton of the young lady, glancing at the same time at two unclaimed seats upon the opposite side of the table; from which the new comers rightly conjectured she was the children's governess; and looked again for the meek, over-tasked air traditional among that class of females. There was nothing of the kind visible; only an agreeable dignity and cheerfulness of deportment evidently natural to her, as she replied-"They are playing sleepy, and prefer to breakfast in the nursery with the children," and the meal proceeded with much cheerfulness and informality. The rich coffee and cream, and sweet corn-dodgers, were fully appreciated by the college dieted friends, and the two ebonies who waited in the dining room, made a great display of dental ivory over the amusing incidents rehearsed. 
               "Let the lessons take care of themselves, to-day, if you please, Miss Ida," said Mrs. Houghton as they rose from the table. "I want you to help me entertain Miss Frankie, who of course is to be made acquainted with everything outside of the house, as well as in it, and taught the names and ages of all the children, and other similarly interesting statistics. We shall see no more of our gallants till noon, I am sure, as neither young gentlemen, nor old ones, come home till they are hungry." 
               "Vile slander; ma mere cherie," laughed young Houghton, as he and Tam took their hats and went out into the yard with their cigars. 
               "Fred, that mother of yours is an elegant woman, and evidently as good as she is elegant; but how young she is!" 
               "Yes. I never thought to tell you she is my stepmother, for she never seems like one to me. My own mother was a delicate 
                     Lousianian
                     Louisianian
                  , and soon took a consumption in these cold wintry winds. She died when I was very small, and for a long time my father did not remarry-you see he is much the elder. My mother is elegant, and thoroughly educated. She was once a Richmond belle, and I can assure you she is an uncommonly accomplished plantation mistress." 
               "I thought it was a peculiar characteristic of most southern ladies, to be amiable, well educated, and accomplished!" 
               "Unsophisticated Tam O'Shanter! No indeed! They are generally superficially educated, and as they marry young, and overlook the quarter negroes-to whom they
                   are the real slaves-in addition to having a tribe of children, they soon become very ordinary women, if not actually peevish and disagreeable. Of course there are exceptions." 
               "Women are not such very nice things after all, Fred! Do you know that?" 
               "Unromantic, horrible Tam!" 
               "No. They are always in trouble some way, and crying for the only thing impossible to be obtained. By the way, who is that Miss Ida?" 
               "She is Miss Ida, the family friend and governess. I suppose she is the proprietress of a second name, but I really don't know it, nor much about her. She came a little while before I entered college, and they were all mighty taken with her. It seems it has lasted, and I hope she and Frankie will like each other. It would be pleasant for both." 
               "Your mother seems fond of Miss Ida." 
               "Yes. She is sufficiently a lady herself, to recognize another in her, and she always treats her as such. She is mighty pretty, isn't she?" 
               "Yes. What our friend Crittenden would style, 'quite the thorough-bred animal.'" 
               "Poor Crittenden. He'll never serve out his apprenticeship in college unless they add a veterinary department. He is, and ought to be, a horse jockey. The soul of one 
                     prevades
                     pervades
                   his being!" 
               "If he does jump the course, it will be the best evidence of good sense I ever knew him to display. I can't for my life, see the use of being penned up there three or four years, to a universal rigmarole for all applicants, and knowing nothing at the end of all." 
               "Spoken like a true Tam O'Shanter! I'm often tempted to break. Here I am now twenty years old, and if I am ever to acquire a legal education, it is time I were about it. If you'll leave next half year vacation, I will." 
               "But the governors!" 
               "Oh mine, is all right! The young people always rule the old ones, South, and if yours objects, you can easily get expelled." 
               "I don't know; remember Clinton! That's been his ambition for a year. But I think father can easily be persuaded to see the wisdom of his dutiful son's opinion, that an education obtained by actual observation of, and experience with the world, is worth much more than mere book-learning, despite which a man may be a fool." 
               Lying on the grass under the trees, the friends drew plans for the future, and laid out head-work with much more diligence than it is usually put in practice, when it comes to performance, till imperceptibly the sun stole a march upon the shade and forced it to retreat, and forming his own lines upon the evacuated ground, his embraces soon became more ardent than welcome; and, attracted towards the house by the sound of the piano, they approached the window and looked in. Frankie was seated at the instrument, one child in her lap and two more pulling at her dress, as she played with much grace some lively little airs to which juvenile forms were dancing in that natural, labor-saving fashion, which permits the feet to hold fast to their natural element, leaving the other portions of the body to divide the work among its members, as it pleases. 
               "I did not know your sister was a musician," said Houghton. 
               "Nor I either. I'm sure I don't know how she ever learned anything! She makes me quite ashamed of the poor use I have made of my superior advantages. Nature is no bungler, and she certainly is impartial; for to one she gives opportunity, and to 
                     annother
                     another
                   talent." 
               "Don't go into the chronic modesty department, Tam! 'umble' people are universally rascals." 
               Frankie's playing was interrupted by the entrance of Mrs. Houghton, who re-covering her fair arms with the sleeve she unpinned from the shoulders of her dress where they had been fastened, replied to Frankie's interrogatory, 
               "Oh no, it was not a very bad accident. One of the servants, in cutting some wood, had let the axe fall on his foot, and the bleeding frightened him. It is a mere scratch, and I have salved and bandaged it so it will be entirely well in a day or two. Negroes are great cowards and self pity-ers. 
               "How many delicately reared Northern ladies would leave their drawing rooms to bind up a bleeding sooty foot?" asked Frankie mentally, conceiving, if possible, an increased admiration for her hostess, but perfectly guiltless of any ambition to win laurels in the same field. 
               "Miss Frantie, Miss Frantie; we's got an ole gramma shutted up in a room up stairs," said little Larned, tugging at her dress to ensure attention, while his face was full of the interest of the communication. 
               "You have! Where on earth did you get her?" 
               "I wasn't abil to say. Her is jes like ole debil," he ejaculated, earnestly, shaking his head by way of emphasis. 
               "My little son, don't speak so of your grandmother. You may take Miss Frankie up to see her, if she likes. It is my mother, who is too infirm to leave her room," added Mrs. Houghton, in explanation. Little Lemmy, who stood at the other side of the music stool put up his hand, and drawing Frankie's head down to a level with his own which he had elevated tip-toe length, whispered, "Her's a mighty nassy ole lady, and when Larned and I get big enough we're going to lick her!" 
               "Why Lemmy! going to whip your grandmother?" 
               "Yes sir, lick her good! Fred says God wont love us if we do; but God knows she's mighty bad, too, and he'd be right glad to see her catch it, and he'd love us right good for it! I isint afraid." 
               Frankie could not restrain a laugh at his earnestness, and even Mrs. Houghton smiled, as she said, "Ma doesn't like children, and is often too severe with the little fellows. She is very old, and growing cross; but she likes young people's society, and will be glad to see you at any time. Where is Miss Ida, Larned?" 
               "I wasint abil to say," he answered with his stereotyped expression of non-information; but Lemmy knew, and revealed the fact that she was reading to his grandmother, and farther volunteered the information that Ettie and Robert, afraid of the young lady who looked so tall and grand, had gone off berrying, and that Miss Ida was ashamed of them for it. An urgently repeated pulling upon the other side, enforced Frankie's attention to Larned's communication that "We's going to have something mighty nice for supper. You knows bonny-clabber, doesint you?" 
                
               "I'm afraid not; who is he?" 
               "O-oh! you don't know bonny clabber? Why; he isint peoples; he's eats! and Miss Ida says Ettie and Robert can't have one bit, if they isint good shilluns and stop being afraid." 
               "I think you must have been sufficiently edified with these youngsters, Miss Frankie. I'll call mammy to relieve you," and in obedience to Mrs. Houghton's order, the old nurse came and led the unwilling little ones away. The young gentlemen who had quietly relished the scene, despite their unlawful witness of it, sauntered off, content to know that Frankie was evidently enjoying herself and becoming a favorite, and the day passed so quickly and pleasantly, that darkness came upon them unawares. Ettie and Robert had appeared at dinner, and after the first shyness passed off, proved very pretty and interesting children, and were soon as much delighted with the guests as they had at first been afraid of them. They were all most happy and at ease with each other as they gathered round the brilliant tea-table. 
               "Miss Frankie, let me help you to some of that promised bonny clabber," said Mr. Houghton. "You will never become a true southerner till you learn to eat this," and he proceeded to dish out something which looked most beautifully white and appetizing. Fresh, rich cream, streamed over from the top of it, and stood in pools all around it, and each one sweetened it according to his own taste, with sugar or syrup. Tam took the first taste and thereby fell into a dilemma. Swallow it he could not, and politeness forbade him to eject it. He looked at his friend, in distress. "Out with it, old fellow, he exclaimed laughing, motioning the boy to advance the spittoon; and it being hardly a matter for choice or careful deliberation, Tam obeyed the order, coloring to his eyes. Frankie looked on inquiringly, and Mrs. Houghton explained, "It is only curdled milk with a dressing of cream; but it requires a cultivated taste, no doubt, to like it. Few people do at first." 
               Frankie ate a little of the cream and pronounced it very good, (with a mental addition, "for those who like it,") for which, as Tam could'nt see the mental addenda, and did see her dish left nearly untouched, he mentally pronounced her a polite hypocrite. 
               There was nothing done in ceremony, but everything in the truest, most graceful hospitality, in the home of the Houghtons, and time flew by with fearful rapidity as Frankie realized that upon a fixed date she must return to the joyless existence of her own home. Only toward her father, did her heart turn with one warm impulse; and she formed many resolutions to be to him henceforth a companion and sympathizer in what she now for the first time realized might be his unsatisfied, lonely life, in a home where no one strove to render him happy. The reason why he had especially fixed his hope and affection upon Tam to the apparent exclusion of all others, now seemed clear to her, as she realized how exclusively his daughters revolved around the maternal sun, when they condescended to acknowledge any center of attraction. They were quite unlike him in all their characteristics, and his wife was not, and could never have been, much society for him, with her weak intellect and nervous ways, and Frankie determined to attach herself to him and to make him feel that he had at least one daughter who loved him. She almost forgot the long years during which he had seldom seemed to notice or think of her existence, as in her very heart she thanked him for the share in her present happiness his consent to her visit had bequeathed, and as she now saw how happy a home might be made, perhaps her good resolutions in regard to her own, might have been his reward for the greatest violence my father had ever committed against his ruling passion, and for his resistance against his besetting sin. 
               The very last week of their stay had arrived, and the pang of approaching separation was felt by all, but by none as by Tam, who felt a vague pain and restlessness under it, experienced by none other unless shared in by Miss Ida, who was promenading with him upon the lawn, in the rays of a softly brilliant moon. Houghton and Frankie had wearied of their unsocial companionship, and at last deserted them entirely, and she was now giving him a playful music lesson, in which it seemed as if he allowed his fingers to go wrong for the purpose of making her place them right again. 
                
               "Come, Ida," said Tam, impatiently, "do speak one kind word, if you really know how, before I go back to my tiresome books. It would be pleasant, at least to carry back with me the knowledge that I am not utterly an object of indifference to you." 
               She placed her hand upon his arm while she replied as if by an effort, "I am too fully sensible of my position in life and towards you, to deem that any manifestations of regard upon my part would be any benefit to you, when you return to your friends-still less as you assume your position in the social world. You must not suppose that the honored position I occupy in this family, is the ordinary one. I may be a governess all my days and never again be so fortunate. Mine is not a governing position in society." 
               "Ida, what do I care for the miserable airs assumed by the proud upstarts who presume to patronize you because you accept a salary? It is the surest proof of their own vulgarity, and you know that we of the North are educated above it. We accept people upon their merits." 
               "Hardly! I know such is the boast; but what says 'our first society?' The lady in the North who employs her accomplishments for a salary, occupies the same position she does in the South, save that here people will sometimes overlook the position in favor of the person." 
               "All this is foreign to the subject, Ida. If you cannot love me, say so." 
               "You are unjust, now. You jump at conclusions like a woman." 
               "Ida, will you correspond with me when I am gone." 
               "Yes, with pleasure. I am to do the same with your sister." 
               He was not satisfied with the way she said it, but, after all, assent was the chief thing wanted. 
               "And if my letters commence informally?" 
               "All the better. Formality is the torture of friendship and the parent of discomfort. Tam, I do feel very kindly towards you, and I do appreciate your regard for me. If I speak little of what I feel, it is because I must reason, and not because I am cold, or indifferent." There was a flush on her cheeks, which enforced the truth of her words and heart-glad as he saw it, Tam felt that his arm would not be out of place if he moved it, and his lips, just to keep the caressing arm in countenance, or perhaps seized with sudden loneliness, sought a center of attraction very near indeed, which did not in the least mitigate the eloquent color which had first raised all the mischief. He wondered how he ever could have thought Frankie handsome, as he saw her come out on the gallery looking for them. She certainly did not dawn very welcomely upon his vision at that particular moment, and if there is a good genius who watches over, and preserves female charms at his pleasure, he ought in mercy to have restrained her from that unsuspecting call, to which Tam felt compelled to respond; but, strange inconsistency of man! no sooner had he rejoined her, than the joy overwhelming his inner man found vent in an embrace which would have done credit to a 
                     patriachal
                     partiarchial
                   bruin. 
               Everybody else had gone to bed and to sleep long hours before, and as Frankie bade Ida good night, she noticed the glowing color in her cheeks and lips; but only thinking it remarkably becoming, she sought her pillow, and her dreams were untroubled by one thought that another was disputing her heretofore undivided empire in her brother's heart. 
               As for him, fond dreams lingered round his pillow, which became the thankless object of much misplaced affection; but even its patient endurance of his caresses lent vividness to the delusion enthralling his sleeping senses, and he woke with the wonder striving to settle itself in his brain how much of all this had been a waking, actual transaction, or "the baseless fabrication of a dream." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               "Miss Frantie, Miss Frantie, we's come for some more Bibil stories," shouted the little ones, prancing into the parlor the next morning after breakfast, where the young people held sway in the absence of Mrs. Houghton, who had gone down to the quarters on a ministering visit to some negro baby reported as "down right smart of measles." Frankie was enjoying her constitutional exercise in a rocking chair, too comfortably pre-occupied to remark the silence composed of overflowing thought which thickened the atmosphere of the room, despite the revivifying entrance of the breeze which came in at the open windows, shaking the curtains out in little snow drifts of all fantastic shapes, and wafting in the perfume of the blooming vines which entwined the gallery. She roused herself in response to the demand made upon her historical acquirements, and lifting one of them upon each arm of her chair, while their plump little legs dangled across her lap, she commenced: "There was once a very good little boy whose name was Joseph; and the land in which he lived was governed by a very wicked King named Solomon, who caused all little children to be put to death. Now in that same land there lived a man who was very strong-" 
               "Could he lick a mad bull hooking down fences, do you think?" interrupted Lemmy, enthusiastically, who had seen that exploit once in his life, and remembered it as something awful. 
               "Oh yes, I've no doubt in the world of it, he could whip anything that ever lived on the face of the earth! Well, this strong man's name was Samson, and he had killed many men with a bow and arrow, so that King Solomon himself was afraid, and trembled upon his throne, on account of him; and Joshua, the good boy heard of it-" 
                
               "Why Miss Frantie; I thought the good boy's name was little Jo!" 
               "Oh yes, so it was! Well, little Joseph heard of these things, and went out against Samson to slay him; and he 'let him have' with a big stone, right in his forehead, so that the strong man fell down and straitway gave up the ghost." 
               "And then did nice little Joey scalp him, Miss Frantie?" 
               "I don't know, because some wicked men who were Samson's backers, were sore wroth, and took little Joseph and put him in a lion's den-" A shout of laughter from the older part of her audience, interrupted the recital, and Tam exclaimed, 
               "Bravo, Fanissimus! Your accomplished and intimately correct scriptural narratives are worthy of a wider field!" 
               "Oh never mind a little inaccuracy in names, Tam! facts are the main things after all, you know." 
               The little fellows were impatient for the denouement of the story, and questioned eagerly as to whether the lions ate up little Joseph, and if so, if all at one meal, and if they didn't have to drink lots and lots of soot tea after it; upon all of which queries Frankie was non-committal, professing that she always forgot the rest when any body laughed; thereby exciting much indignation against the unappreciative Tam, in the juvenile minds. Houghton was in much higher favor: for so far from having interrupted the story, he exhibited much enjoyment of it, as, aiding in the rocking of the triply freighted chair, he listened with a light in his black eyes, and a smile upon his lips very pleasant to witness. Happy days, whose only bitterness was the thought how rapidly they were fleeting!- 
               Even sooner than they had anticipated, was the first long separation to occur between Tam and Houghton; for a family council, in which, as he anticipated, his own arguments were considered paramount in importance, resulted in the decision that he was to close his college career, and commence reading law as soon as he pleased. He did not state what had suddenly decided him to do so, even before the time referred to between him and Tam, but electrified that young gentleman by announcing his intention of proceeding directly to Richmond, and commencing his studies with an old attorney of repute, who was a friend of Mrs. Houghton's, and long contemplated as his instructor, when the time should arrive. 
               It is the peculiar privilege of friendship, above all other human sentiments, to be unselfish; and in spite of the prophetic pang of lost companionship which swept over him, Tam heartily congratulated his friend upon this consummation of his ardent wishes. 
               The last night they passed together, he made him a full confession of his love for Ida, and urged him for some expression of opinion upon it; not, he explained, that it would make any difference, should he not approve of it; but if he happened to, it would be very pleasant to know it. 
               "Approve of it; how can I, when I know 'women are not such very nice things after all?'" 
               "Oh Fred; don't throw that back at me. I'm wiser now. Besides, Ida is not like any other living woman." 
               "'La femme vous aime est toujours belle.' But I must admit you have displayed good taste in the selection of your first love. With such a beginning, what may not be expected in the end." 
               "Most cynical Frederico, guard thyself against too much wisdom in thy youth, for 'whom the gods love die young.' Wait till I catch your philosophy upsetting itself." 
               The carriage came round to the door upon the morning of their departure, in time to take them out to the early boat, and farewells were taken, from the old grandmothers, many of whose tedious hours had been beguiled by their society, down to the little ones who cried lustily at parting with their favorite, "Miss Frantie." With Mrs. Houghton, the good byes lingered, loth to be spoken, and Frankie felt that in parting from her she was leaving a woman upon whose like she should not look again. The servants were grouped around the door uttering many a "Lord lub you, honey," and old mammy asked, "when you reckon you be back again, chile? I spects dese pecaninnies be after leffin if you done gone too long." As for Jacko, she was unfortunately married to Dan, the coachman, who had during the night thought it judicious to administer marital reproof, and like a sable "Niobe, all tears," she leaned dejectedly against the door post, her trouble divided between the bitter rankling from her castigation, and the pain of parting with Frankie, whom she begged to take her with her, "away from her ole man who treat her like a nigger." 
               They were off at last, and the horses pranced down the drive to the road as if there were no such things as sad partings and falling tears. 
               "Poor Jacko," laughed Houghton, who was accompanying them to the boat. "Of all 'melancholy objects of pity,' a married negress is the worst; for besides their white masters, who are often bad enough, they have more miserable ones in their husbands, who beat them unmercifully. They out-English the English, in that marital accomplishment." 
               "I don't know what women were ever made for, I'm sure!" burst out Frankie impetuously. "I believe that the most fortunate one among us, if she could have her choice, would rather be a one eyed yellow dog, if only guaranteed good character and respectable ancestry." 
               "Oh," said Tam aggravatingly, "they doubtless fulfill some wise purpose in the economy of nature. For instance, without them what would become of the next generation-and-the dumplings?" 
               "Exactly," she retorted contemptuously; while Houghton deprecatingly ejaculated, "Oh Tam!" 
               Tam softly took possession of the little hand clenched angrily upon the cushion, and said repentantly, "That was mean, Frankie! Let's kiss and make up." She would have appreciated the proffered martyrdom had she known how decidedly unkissable she looked with her dark cheeks blazing and her arched lips compressed till only a crimson line marked the usually kissable spot. Tam saw that his words had struck some painfully jarring chord in her incomprehensible nature, and rightly judged that dropping the subject was the quickest restorative; but he returned to it, when, after a tender adieu to Houghton, who waved his hat after them till a bend in the river shut them from his view, they were left by themselves upon the boat's guard. 
                
               Now tell me, Fanissimus, why you were so angry with me for a remark you should have known was in jest." "Indeed, Tam, I wasn't angry with you. It was the subject; not your remark, that made me boil over so. I can not recollect the time when I was not in open rebellion against the hateful destiny which made me a woman!" 
               "But why? You certainly don't think the genus feminine destitute of intellect?" 
               "What does my opinion matter when the world, who is our judge, wont admit its possession. Who wants to be merely the connecting link between men and fools? The whole system of 'women at half price,' from remuneration for labor, down to admittance fee into a travelling circus, is a virtual upholding of this creed of half-way-itiveness!" 
               "If all women were like you, they would soon put it down." 
               "Yes, that is easy to say! It sounds beautifully to hear you tell us that we are responsible for the treatment we receive! How can we alter it?" 
               "The race needs more just such women as you will be, to lead it." 
               "The worst of it is, Tam, it isn't worth the leading. Half the women wouldn't be anything if they could! I don't battle for the universal race of them, but only for individual members of it who were created women by mistake, and so condemned to march under its banner." 
               "Well, don't talk of it any more now. It makes you like a widow under the first pinch of affliction, before she knows how much money the dear departed has left her to spread upon." 
               "Yes, Tam, and that 'widow's portion' 
                     arrangment
                     arrangement
                   is another relic of barbarity, too. No wonder the poor things look bilious, when, having endured the 'dear departed' to the bitter end, they are defrauded of his possessions, due as a virtuous reward." 
               "Yet think how much wholesale poisoning it prevents, for which at present there is little inducement. Wives would forsake the slow torture under which husbands only thrive and live longer, and turn Borgias at once, if they had only to step at once into their reward." 
                
               She was laughing again, and good nature was so decidedly becoming to her that Tam took care to foster and encourage it through the remainder of their journey. Indeed he had no difficult task, for she was naturally as frank and sunny in disposition as could be wished. Her faults were those of her education, and her occasional ebullitions were the natural result of the injustice she had experienced. There was little in the homeward journey worthy of recital, or particularly attracting their attention; for a road once travelled, has lost forever the fresh charm of novelty which alone is piquant, and is thenceforward subservient to association, but they were the more glad of this, as it left them to their first uninterrupted visit since that evening in her window, long ago. 
               "Tell me, Frankie, how you ever acquired your musical accomplishments. I know father considers a musical taste as one of the seven deadly sins, from 'its uselessness and expense,' and never helped you." 
               "No, I exchanged benefits with one of the girls at the academy, who gave me music lessons in return for her compositions, and I practise always during the noon intermission. I have learned to sketch, too, Tam, and if I could only take lessons in oil painting a while, I believe I could"-she stopped short, for whatever plans hinged upon that "could," were as yet confined in her own brain. But he made a memorandum of the wish, and at the next academy term it was gratified. 
               The first cold days of an early Fall came on, and the maple leaves, tinged red and yellow, were hurled to the ground with every gust of wind which swept over the hills. Far away the forest trees lifted their rugged branches now bare and somber, to the clouds, and the birds which had made them joyous while the summer leaves lingered, had gone upon their pilgrimage to warmer climes and sunnier skies. Only the hardy wood pecker, and some belated robin who had not been ready at the household flitting, remained, and they would soon have gone. The autumn flowers drooped their bright heads as day by day their hearts were chilled by the cold ingratitude of the once gentle breezes to whose wooing they had given the fruition of their gorgeous beauty, and the winter fruits were being gathered in by hurried hands. What days of nut gathering, and cider-sucking! All juveniledom was reveling in the glorious time of plenty, unheeding the whistling winds whose stinging cold would ere long pinch exposed digits, and violate all acknowledged laws, in painting the human face divine with red nose and blue lips, and cheeks of mottled dye. Within the paternal mansion of the Winthrops reigned a grey gloom, scarcely mitigated by the glowing fires which the cool nights and mornings rendered necessary, but which through the day smouldered down into ashes with only here and there some not yet extinct coal struggling to escape its living burial. The flies gathered thickly around the kitchen stove pipe, loth to move, even for necessary supplies, and when compelled to do so by actual hunger, buzzing with a drowsy hum and steady persistency most provoking to hear. Tam was back in college again, amid the rising glories of his Juniorship, and Frankie, who seemed more animated and ambitious since her Virginian visit, was engaged early and late with her studies at the academy, which this year bloomed out in unprecedented majesty and assumed the more imposing title of seminary. Never had my father shown so much interest in any of his "girls," as he had assumed in her, much to the indignation of the older members of that fraternity, who accused her of "managing him by underhanded means," and stigmatized as "wheedling," her many affectionate little offerings to his comfort and pleasure. But contempt was boundless when the very kitchen was robbed and illegally defrauded by "the last stroke yet!" My father was very fond of flowers, and loved to have them around him; yet, as he seldom entered the rooms where alone bouquets were placed to regale the senses of "company," she conceived the idea of placing one in a quiet room where he spent much time with his books, and which was consequently styled "father's room." 
               There was a blue and white pitcher in the house, which years ago had been considered beautiful, bedecked as it was with immense weeping willows, and singularly shaped children engaged in mysterious amusements among something with wings, and other weird shapes on four prongs to represent legs, all mixed and huddled in together without out regard to nature or anything else. This vessel of honor was for years kept in the aristocratic seclusion of a closet, and only brought out upon state occasions, till in the 
                     capricous
                     capricious
                   changes of fashion it found itself left in the lurch, and in penalty condemned to every-day use. An unlucky rap at the fountain which curtailed its nasal organ of its fair 
                     proprotions
                     proportions
                  , placed it upon the retired list, and soon after, its handle having gone into a decline from grief for the departed nose, also shuffled off and left upon a journey from which no handle ever returned as good as new, when as additional penance for its increasing infirmities, it was 
                     ignominously
                     ignominiously
                   shoved into the sight of a contemptuous world by being elevated to the kitchen mantlepiece as an humble holder of matches. Frankie suddenly regarded it with covetous eyes and unlawful fingers, and bearing it off, she made it the receptacle of an 
                     asassemblage
                     assemblage
                   of dahlias, and 
                     chrysanthenums
                     chrysanthemums
                  , and pearly snow berries, which woke a smile on the good man's face as they welcomed him to his room. 
               At the lighting of the next fire in the kitchen stove, the matches were discovered mourning for the departed repository, and 
                     inqury
                     inquiry
                   was made for it. Maria had seen it in its new capacity upon the way to my father's room, and thither my mother followed in pursuit, and snatching it without word or warning, she tossed the flowers into the fireplace, and bore it back to its duty in triumph. 
               Frankie, who saw it all through the open door, made no comment, but stimulated into an additional desire for a bouquet in that particular location, her slender supply of money remaining from Tam's last remittance was poured forth and shed for a handsome vase which took the place of the deposed pitcher, and looked every bit as well. Paternal gratitude for the offering of affection, opened my father's purse for the benefit of her depleted one; but she would accept nothing under false pretences, and confessed that aroused obstinacy had been the ruling incentive to the pecuniary sacrifice. 
               "Then take it for your frank confession," he said smiling. 
               "Thank you. But really, father, I wouldn't give a cent for any one who never did anything they knew they ought not to; would you? It is the sure mark of a spooney!" 
               He hesitated a moment whether to reprove the shocking morality of her remark, and I fear will fall in the estimation of half the fathers in the land, when they learn that he did not; but instead of it, replied humbly, "the flesh is often too weak to obey the spirit's dictates-or at least what should be its dictates-and I suppose we can all of us remember that which was not, perhaps, exactly right, but very natural, and under the circumstances irresistible." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               So the sad grey days lengthened into winter, and the cold air which had been filled with flying snow, at intervals, all day, moderated in the night, and the soft flakes fell down and covered the bare, somber ground from sight and dressed every naked bough with a purer, more luxuriant covering than the green leaves which had danced there through the long summer days. The snow-birds, dressed in their glossiest black and white, twittered round the windows of every buttery, demanding the share of the feasts which loaded every shelf; for it was Thanksgiving day, and after a little church-going was to succeed much feasting. 
               The Winthrop establishment was thrown open and thoroughly warmed from kitchen to parlor, for although ours was to be strictly a family gathering, with several of its representatives absent, at that, this was a day upon which no stinting was allowable, no, nor the best half good enough! Mrs. Luce had come home the preceding day, as the morning train from Utica failed to regulate its time so as to connect with our stage-line, and she brought with her, her son and heir, Master Georgey, aged four years, her husband as usual sending his regrets that he was unable to accompany her-which standing "regrets," upon all family occasions were a source of no little pique to the other members of it. Mrs. Duncan came round in her overflowing one horse cutter, in which she had brought her husband, Mr. William Duncan, who was as much her inferior in size as he was her superior in everything else; Master Henry Leroy Duncan, aged eight; Master Fitz James Bertram Duncan, aged six, and two more juvenile Duncans, who had descended in bi-annual blessings upon their much enduring parents, beside Miss Caroline Isabella Duncan, who had now attained the mature age of three months. There was a disgorging from the cutter amid much loud protestation from the male heirs, which woke the slumbering yells of the heiress clasped in the maternal embrace, and with much cuffing and shaking, the struggling lads were dragged triumphantly into the house, the patient father following. A liberal supply of candy provided for the occasion in remembrance of many preceding similar ones, soon produced comparative quiet, and Mrs. Duncan proceeded to divest herself of her bonnet and tippet and other wraps, amid which she laid away the re-slumbering Caroline Isabella, who, having been awakened very early that morning to be scrubbed and rubbed down for the ceremonies of that great day, was willing to forego, till a more convenient opportunity, her privilege of drowning out the conversation of her elders. 
               "Well, Mrs. Luce," said Mrs. Duncan as she smoothed down her collar and shook the infant-begotten wrinkles out of the front breadth of her dress, "where is your husband? At home, regretting, as usual?" 
               "Oh I can't answer for him now; he's out of sight," replied Mrs. Luce good naturedly. 
               "Yes, he generally is out of sight;" has, I may say, quite a happy talent that way! Did you come out from Utica, alone?" 
               "Oh no, my dear; Georgey escorted me." 
               "For my part I don't think it looks respectable to see a lady gadding round the country alone, in that way! I'm surprised at Mr. Luce! However, its all just as you begin with husbands; but you were always a weak minded thing, and he knows what you'll endure." 
               "Very well, Elizabeth; if you are accomplished in managing husbands, manage all yours just as you please." 
               Mrs. Duncan turned away from the weak sister, in lofty contempt, and my father, who had tried not to overhear the passage at arms through all his efforts to entertain Mr. Duncan, looked relieved at this indication of a deceitful peace. My mother was the next recipient of Mrs. Duncan's attention. "I received a letter from sister Ellen, in Iowa, last week. She had been hoping to come home in time to spend this Thanksgiving with us; but they lost their cow, and her husband said he could'nt afford to buy another and send her home, too; so she was fool enough to give up and stay at home." 
               "Poor Ellin!" said my mother. "I guess she and Baker don't find movin around, a very good way to make a livin! I hope they'll stay put, on their place there in Io-way." 
               "She says they are trying hard to raise something on their note to father." 
               "What's that, Elizabeth!" asked my father, suddenly rousing to interest in the female conversation as it struck the key note of his nature. "Do you say Baker is going to take up the note?" 
               "Oh no; he's far enough from any such ambition! Ellen says they want to 'raise something on it;' a new stock of your patience and forbearance, I suppose," and she smiled at her own wit, for the first time her face had assumed a pleasant expression since her arrival, if such a smile could be called pleasant. 
               "Oh, that is all? Baker must be a poor calculator if he can't make enough to raise a petty note of six hundred dollars; a very poor calculator! I'm afraid I shall have to foreclose my mortgage on his place." 
               He forgot that the "petty note" for whose payment he often felt himself sorely pressed, covered the entire worth of an invalid daughter's home, whose fault it certainly was not if her husband's "poor calculation" kept them in debt to a father who had "enough and to spare," as he had often boasted in recounting the success of his perseverance from limited beginnings. A shadow of pain crossed Mr. Duncan's benevolent face as he said, "Oh, no; don't do that. They really have a hard time to live, and I don't see how their children are to be educated. If you are at any time in want of a little money, I think I can accommodate you." 
               Mrs. Duncan sneered her idea of such weak philanthropy; but as she seldom attacked her husband's opinions directly, in the presence of others, she reserved her verbal remarks for the private endearment of their domestic hearth. A howl from the elder "pledges" here interrupted the conversation, and Mrs. Duncan turned sharply to see what occasioned it. Master Henry Leroy had taken "in chancery" Master Fitz James Bertram, and was "polishing him off" in the best pugilistic style of which he was master, while Master Georgey, astonished and terrified at the scene, was tip-toeing up and down, black in the face, and with protruding eyes from the force with which he evolved a series of yells from his distended mouth, which would have done honor to an untamed panther. Mrs. Luce led away the young aspirant for vocal honors, laughing at his proficiency, and Mrs. Duncan shook apart the combatants and sat one of them down very hard at one side of the room, and the other ditto at the other, from which position, after a little self rubbing, consolatary after the setting-down infliction, they indulged in much expressive pantomine as a hint of what was to come by and by when they should be let loose again. Miss Caroline Isabella was too much accustomed to similar outbreaks to be disturbed by them, and biding her time, slept on. The announcement of dinner wakened her, however, for she possessed this ruling instinct, unquenchable in babyhood, however sleep had held her powers in temporary abeyance. The soothing properties of a chicken bone kept her in contented obscurity through the first courses of dinner; but she woke from inglorious inaction with the entrance of the puddings and pies of the orthodox pumpkin, and ignoring all little boy agency for the establishing of quiet, Mr. Duncan rescued her from her retirement, and elevated her to a seat on his knee at the table, where she made a vigorous display of the infantile accomplishments of clawing into everything soft, and bringing her doubled fists down upon everything hard, till an unguarded whack upset the paternal coffee cup, deluging table-cloth, papa, baby and all. Fortunately, the coffee was not very hot, and after a brisk toweling from the prompt mamma, Miss Caroline Isabella far from being in her former state of well starched smartness, was in a weakly, draggled condition, banished into ignominious solitary confinement in a distant room, where, having screamed to her heart's content, she satisfiedly stopped, like any sensible child. 
                
               "What is this?" asked Mrs. Duncan as she re-helped herself to something beautifully light and fragrant, and of a rich yellow color. 
               "That's a pumpkin pudding Frances learned how to make of Miss Houghton, down in Virginny," explained my mother, a little in doubt whether anything could be perfect if made by Frankie, and not liking to risk her own cook-ly reputation by letting it pass upon its merits; and she lauded her own caution when Mrs. Duncan, pushing aside her plate and wiping her lips contemptuously, remarked, "I thought it had a pumpkiny taste! I don't see how any one ever thought to cook the first pumpkin, and it is a pity it ever was thought of. Frank's accomplishments must be of great value in the family, I should think; quite worth an expedition to Virginia! If the rest of us had only been there, now, what a family we might have become!" 
               Frankie did not appear to hear the innuendoes fired at her; but she noticed that her father pointedly passed his plate for a re-supply of the condemned compound, and she appreciated his motive. 
               The juvenile crowd could be restrained no longer, but from kicks and increased bangings upon the envious door that hedged them in, they proceeded to shouts, in which ejaculations never learned in their virtuous home, fell with painful distinctness upon my father's ears. The elders rose from the table, to which the youngsters rushed like young savages; and then followed a cramming in which it were difficult to decide whether their eyes, mouths or ears received the most liberal share. 
               "Ma, ma! Bert has spitted all over my pie, so I wont eat it! Come and give me a bigger piece. Bert's a hog, he is." 
               "That's a lie you mean runt! you're so mean you can smell your own breath! Take that side of the head, will you?" and the aspersed Fitz James Bertram shied a coffee cup at the offender, which, taking effect upon a pitcher near him, both went with a crash on to the floor. 
               Mrs. Duncan was conveniently out of sight, drying Miss Caroline Isabella before the fire, and taking advantage of the fact, my mother administered a sound boxing to each of the malcontents, which took them so by surprise, coming from their usually cherishing grandma, that they did not recover the use of their vocal organs till they had been judiciously stuffed and sent off to play. 
               The early twilight descended in mercy over the half-crazed inmates of the household, who offered up their truest thanksgiving when Mrs. Duncan and her brood stowed themselves once more into the cutter of which it might have been wondered how it contrived to hold them all, and with a parting hoot from some slily bethrust member of the young fraternity, they started homeward. My father laid his head back upon the cushion of his chair, and said with a mild air of fatigue,-"Elizabeth is a very superior woman; but some way she rather fails in family government. We all have our weak points!" 
               Long letters from Ida cheered the monotony of Frankie's winter, and often Mrs. Houghton inclosed a page written in her own cheerful, affectionate style, and filled with hopeful accounts of her son, who, if her own opinion of him were correct, was a prodigy of application and quick intelligence. At first Ida's letters contained frequent allusions to Tam O'Shanter, and many amusing extracts from his letters, while a thousand nameless indications manifested that she was au fait in his pursuits and surroundings; but these gradually became less and less, till at length inquiries as to how long since Frankie had heard from him, and if he were still in college, revealed the fact that she had ceased to hear from him at all, raising no little exasperation towards him in Frankie's mind, as she had no toleration for lukewarm friends or dilatory correspondents, and she wrote him an expostulating letter asking what it all meant. He replied evasively that he was devoting his time exclusively to his studies, "in fact, cramming, might and main," as he did not intend to return the coming year, and was making the most of his time. This was true as far as it went, but had he been frank, he would have confessed that his boyish penchant for Ida had faded out month by month, and he was already half ashamed to acknowledge that the prophecy implied in Houghton's remarks upon the subject, were founded in wisdom. As for Tam, he was neither weaker nor wiser than most young gentlemen of his age; and well were it if all young ladies under similar circumstances were gifted with the good sense exhibited by Ida, in the change which she did not fail to interpret, as she had at first prophecied it. 
               She lost neither flesh nor color under it, and as she had never made use of his sister as a snare bird-as is the custom of some young ladies-she did not suffer their vanished romance to cast the slightest shadow over the friendship existing between them, and as she had made no girlish confidences in regard to it, she had now to suffer no consequent humiliations. 
               Spring came, heralded by the cawing of the crows out in the woods from which the snow went off, leaving only patches behind it, and after the daffodils and jonquils which came forth like the first ark dove to see if the earth would do to live on, and then disappeared, evidently to carry back a good report, came sweet scented hyacinths and budding peonies, till summer spoke again in her fair creations, and with her came Tam, now as fine a mustached young gentleman as our village could boast. 
               To be sure, the quiet town's-people pronounced him "uppish!" but it was not his fault that he was stylish, and he soon convinced them that he was good natured and generous; in consideration of which, his personal advantages were forgiven, and he was universally admitted "a good fellow." But they all prophecied that "Square Winthrop's team" wouldn't last long at the rate it was rattled over the hills when Tam and his favorite sister went riding over them to look up the cool breezes that always played among them. The horse knew how he preserved his legs unbroken, if no one else could tell, as saving up his energies till he gained the top of some particularly stony hill, he let himself down it with a perfect looseness, which shook Frankie from the carriage seat and left her holding on to something, as, having reached the foot of the hill he looked round as if to see the effect, and if ever a horse laughed, he certainly did. 
               Long delicious rides they enjoyed all over the country; out past the old farm houses, with the milk-yards near, in which stout Dutchesses forced the milk from the steaming cows, or "did the chores" dressed in "petticoats and short gowns" upon which last year's accumulation of the fat of the land shone out in glazed brightness: on past the district school houses where science had been thumped into the thick skull of many a possible future President, or very doubtless "M. C.," till more pretending mansions bespoke the vicinity of some modern Athens in which city customs were imitated in a small way, and in which one could enjoy all the inconveniencies with none of the alleviations of the metropolis. During one of these excursions, Tam made her a full confession and revelation of his affair with Ida, concluding philosophically" I really was for a while desperately done for and formed plans for leaving the halls of science for the school of matrimony as soon as possible; but as I came to the unromantic speculation of how I was to provide beef and potatoes to keep her handsome and good natured upon after I should have married her, the conviction gradually forced itself upon my mind that in perpetrating such an act, Tam O'Shanter Winthrop et uxor would offer the admiring world a beautiful example of trust in the care of Providence, and I didn't care to become such "a shining mark," which it is said a certain dread power loves. So I came to the sensible conclusion to go out West in search of a fortune, that my next undying affection may not be literally starved to death. Now what says Fanissimus?" 
               "That with masculine facility you fall in love and out again: However it is a toughening process, and doubtless good for one." 
               If her reply was a laughing one, it was still true that a sharp pain had darted to her jealous heart, as his revelation awoke her to the conviction that she had once ceased to be sufficient to him, and doubtless would be so again; that if he should win the fortune he had resolved to attempt, as she had no doubt he would, he might very soon marry; and she resolved that no wife of his should find in her the bugbear which most wives consider their husband's moneyless sisters. The plans she had cherished from her childhood came up with redoubled vigor, and she resolved that his departure from the paternal roof should be the signal for her own. To him only, she disclosed her project, and he kept her counsel. 
                
               For Tam but to express a wish, was to ensure its gratification, and my father readily consented to his proposal to give up the remaining year of his collegiate course, receiving, instead, the sum of its expenses in ready funds; nor was scarcely any objection raised against his Western project. Not that my father anticipated any great results from the contemplated speculations, but that was nothing, for would not Tam by and by be the inheritor of his bank stock, and landed estate? My father's motto was "give your boys a fortune, and let your girls marry one," and in contemplating his son and heir, no visions of an estate cut up into legacies, haunted him. He knew that every man's experience costs about the same amount in some way, and congratulated himself that Tam's would be in business failures, rather than in giving bail to keep out of city lock-ups, and in wild-oat seed generally. So he made liberal arrangements to send him out into the world in good style, to the satisfaction of us all. Tam went down to the city to order his wardrobe, declaring that the cut of a village suit of clothes could be recognized forty miles to windward, and determining that Frankie should be as well provided for, he took her with him, and himself superintended her purchases, that she might not sacrifice her taste to economy. 
               In vain she protested against his extravagance; he bought liberally, in true masculine style, wasting more in superfluities than would have supplied her modest necessities. The worst humiliation of her pecuniary straits had always been, that she was compelled to accept from him what should have come from her parents, as a right honestly due her; and her chagrin found expression as they returned homeward. She had been silently reviewing the amount of her purchases, appalled at the figures. He read her long silence correctly, and said as if in answer to an audible remark, 
               "What difference does it make whether you receive it directly from father, or through me? It all comes from the same headquarters, and is as justly yours as mine." 
               "Oh Tam, that's just it! Boys must be gratified and indulged in every way, and above all, never seem pecuniarily 'cramped,' while girls receive the merest pittance, and are berated for ingratitude in not finding it sufficient. I tell you I do rebel against the whole preaching of children owing such undying gratitude, not only for the gift of existence, of which they would far rather have been deprived, but for the necessaries of life, which the lowest animal gives her offspring freely! Is a child's whole life to be one oblation for its parents' having performed an evident duty in supporting and rearing it, and often enough grudgingly at that? There are two parties in the duty question, as I view it, which, like affection, should be mutual. Mind, I do not say that children owe nothing to parents, but I do say that parents owe as much to children." 
               "Why Frankie; you unorthodox wretch!" laughed Tam. 
               "Yes, I know such sentiments quite shock the old school fogies; but you know, and so does everybody, that they are only just, and little by little in many ways the world is acknowledging it. I tell you Tam O'Shanter, that if I ever become the melancholy instrument of bringing any human being into this world to struggle and suffer as even the happiest of us must, I will go down upon my knees and beg its forgiveness, and devote my life to making what poor reparation and atonement I may." 
               "So Fanissimus, you complain because sons fare too well and daughters too badly. Would you have us suffer the same regime?." 
               "No, Heaven forbid! They would be ruined for life if they were to do so. I believe that shabby clothes would spoil the best boy that ever lived!" 
               "Yes, it is true. A pair of shabby pantaloons will crush the manhood right out of any poor fellow who knows enough to aspire to gentility, and is too poverty stricken to support it. I have seen many a talented fellow in college, stumble through exercises he knew better than any of the well dressed noodles around him, from pure embarrassment and chagrin at his seedy appearance! Whatever close economies we practise in our model families, we wont sponge from the backs of the young fry, will we?" 
               "Oh Tam! do you recollect how I used to be gotten up when I was a youngster? I have a most vivid remembrance brance of an old cloak, in particular-my "Sunday-go-to-meeting." It was a new one made out of mother's old one, and there was no end to its eccentricities! It was of some stiff manufacture, and still retained all the brilliancy of red and green checked off with county lines of black and yellow. Oh, but it was 'fearfully and wonderfully made!' The whole widths of the abundant material descended from the shoulders to a little below my knees, into which two slits were cut to let my arms take up quarters in some huge sleeves puckered in at the wrists. The fronts of this superb cloak were faced with red flannel, but back, out of sight, it was lined with cambric, which 'cost less;' and then over the upper works there fell a liberal 'vandyke,' that it might'nt look 'skimped' which you know mother can't bear. In it I looked much like a Dutch churn, only I was out of proportion just at the top, owing to the cape standing stiffly off and refusing to believe that it looked ridiculous." She laughed heartily at the remembrance, as, if distance lends enchantment to a view, it is no less effective in extracting the ludicrous from past experiences. 
               "Oh yes" said Tam, "I remember it perfectly. I was sent around to Mrs. Cogswell's to borrow the pattern, as mother placed implicit faith in all the productions of that wonderful woman's ingenuity, and had seen her Mattie in one of the same style." 
               "And oh, Tam! another experience I shall never forget! You remember when our forty-eleventh cousin Henrietta, died, out in -. The girls had gotten all rigged up in new mourning, to go to the funeral and at the last moment I found it out and cried to go too, which, as I hadn't any 'mourning' was quite impracticable; but I had quarrelled with Henrietta when she was living, twice as much as the older girls ever had, and consequently felt that I had a more legitimate ownership in her funeral, to such an extent, that as the carriage drove round to the gate, mother yielded, and plunging desperately at my bonnet, she sent word to father to wait, for I was going too. Oh that bonnet; it was dreadful to contemplate! It was made of ringed, streaked and speckled silk, with puffs drawn on shirs-you don't know what they are, Tam, but they are puckerations which draw in suddenly as if out of breath, leaving great fat, cotton-stuffed swellings sticking out between them, and are very nice. Well, mother dove to the bottom of her great red chest and appeared triumphantly, in a moment, with some black ribbon growing gray with old age; and in some way she tortured it in and around the head institution, bringing it at last directly over the top and fastening it and winding it up with a huge bow on the crown, and presto! I was ready. The girls didn't notice me much at first, as they were cross from having to wait, and it was beginning to rain; but when we had gone a mile or so, Maria broke out. 'Oh horrors! Father, do see here. Don't let this ridiculous creature go any farther! just look at that bonnet, once!' Father turned around, and he did wince a little as he looked at the thing; but as he was always reproving the girls for being 'proud,' he couldn't say much, and the girls insisted that I should be put out and left at a neighbor's till they come back. But he bore me on in triumph, and I funeralded as much as any of them, much to my comfort. But oh, inglorious! when we got home again, mother, who had been vexed with herself for letting me go, from the moment we started, whipped me for her own chagrin as well as for being the occasion of the girls scolding so!" 
               "Frankie, what ever become of that muff and tippet you used to feel so dressed up in that they always had to hide them to prevent you from sporting them all summer?" 
               "Oh, old age and hard labor didn't agree with their constitutions, though I cherished and clung to the muff till it was so well tanned by much friction that there was no longer a good side to put out! But wasn't it 'elegint entirely' in its pristine days? While (like a draggled kitten,) you remember, with little black tufts let into it every half hour or so, and lined with flannel inside." 
               They were laughing merrily as they drove into the yard, and my mother, who did not approve of sinful mortals too much enjoying anything, remarked-"It'll doubtless be a savin grace to Frances, when Tam goes off. He's spilin her, takin her mind off o' her work so-quite spilin her! Deary me, what can she have in all them bundles and things!" and she took off her spectacles to see them, as Tam filled his arms, and still had not all. 
               "I'm glad, now, I left the supper dishes for her to wash! That'll take the laugh out of her a little, I guess," said Maria, who knew what was good to sober young spirits after too much enjoyment. But she was mistaken in her 'guess,' as Frankie was too happy from the exhilarating effects of her ride, and moreover Tam had promised to break her proposed exodus to my father, and if possible win his consent to it. 
               "Wants to teach?" echoed my father as Tam explained by degrees. 
               "Well, her mother has often said she ought to, in return for her three years at the academy; and though it's hard work, if she wants to undertake it I've no objections. I think she can get the school in the first district, which is a good one to 'board round' in." 
               "But she doesn't want to teach a district school," explained Tam, coming gradually to the announcement. "She prefers a situation in some seminary or family." 
               "There's our town seminary, she may get in there." 
               "But the work is hard and the salary very low. In fact, that is the case every where in the North, where a teacher receives not a third as liberal remuneration for three times the labor demanded in the South." My father grasped at the word. "South," he repeated, shocked into an upright position, and firmly clenching the arms his chair. "Does she want to go South to teach?" 
               "Exactly," said Tam, relieved that it was fairly out at last. 
               "No, no; don't mention it, I wont hear a word to it; I am able to support my family, and don't approve of her teaching, any way; but I sha'n't consent to her going South for it; no, no!" He shook his head, while the lines drew firmer and firmer around his mouth. No one but Tam would have ventured another word but he continued conscientiously. "Father, I am sure you will think farther of it, for her heart is quite fixed upon it, and I know it has been a cherished plan for years. She is too spirited a girl to like to be dependent, even upon you, and she has a perfect longing to know something of the world outside of this sleepy, stupid place, and to live among other scenes and surroundings. Think of it, father." 
               "No, no, no; she has a good home; this is the proper place for her; she can't go:" said my father, ending every sentence with the rising inflection he always gave his voice when he was obstinately determined. 
               "Well, father, I know you will think over it all; and please don't mention it to mother or the girls just yet. Their comments are never very soothing, and would only make matters worse, now," and seeing that any farther discussion would only increase my father's opposition, Tam retired, and softened everything as much as possible in his report to Frankie, that he might not depress her spirits by the utter failure of his embassy. But she was not flattering herself with any delusive hope, and moved around among her accustomed duties as quietly as ever, while all memory of the discussion between himself and Tam seemed to have passed from my father's mind. He supposed that, as usual, his decision had settled the subject forever, and a deceitful calm reigned among and over us. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               TAM O'SHANTER took his departure at the close of the summer, followed by the sincerest good wishes of all the village, and the leaves began in the old yet ever new monotony to renew their waning youth with "aids to beauty" of bright tintings of red. Already we were settling into the listless anticipation of a long winter, when we were effectually roused by the announcement that Frankie intended to start for the South in a very few days. This intelligence came from my father, to whom she had gone in person a few days after Tam's departure, not to ask consent to the project, but to tell him her own determination as softly as possible. 
               My father was thunder-struck at the renewal of the subject, and that he had not retracted from his first resolute prohibition, was very evident; and as she no longer hoped to gain anything from secresy, she had not objected that he should mention it; and indeed, he would scarcely have heeded such a request longer, for he felt that it was time her mother should know it. 
               The old lady lifted her hands and let them fall again, so overcome by surprise that she was actually silent! But she rallied in time, and feeling herself utterly incompetent to cope with the difficulty single handed, resorted to her usual course under similar circumstances, and called a talk-it-over. These family conclaves were Frankie's abomination, and she had never yet graced one of them by her presence; but upon this occasion, and for her father's sake, she did so. Mrs. Duncan was there, without her husband, who had chosen the sensible course of offering what he had to say in private, and after having asked Frankie's permission. Mrs. Luce was present, full of sorrow row at what she considered Frankie's rash determination, but overflowing with sympathy for her, in remembrance of the many occasions upon which she would have done likewise, had she possessed the courage. There was no preliminary feeling around the subject, or softening the avenues to its approach; but Mrs. Duncan seized upon it at once with a vigorous clutch born of her character, and with a contemptuous smile of congratulation, remarked, 
               "Well, father, your family seems to be distinguishing itself as rapidly as could be wished. What is to succeed Frank's exodus." 
               He did not rouse himself under the thrust, but sighed, and looked up into the face of the clock, gloomily. My mother commenced rocking herself vigorously, with her apron to her face. 
               "It all comes o' that trip to Virginny. She han't been good for nothin ever sence, and nothin han't been good enough for her, here where she was born; and now she must go cruisin off among strangers, who'll may be use her better." 
               "They certainly can't well 'use me' more, mother," said she quietly. "Ever since I can remember, I have been considered worth just what you could get out of my physical machinery, and nothing more. My resolution to go away and take care of myself, extends farther back than my visit to Mrs. Houghton, where I formed the first good resolution, I ever recollect to have made." 
               "Really, quite an object to have sent you," said Mrs. Duncan, facetiously. What do you propose to teach beside morality, if I may ask?" 
               "All this is foreign to the point," said my father, who possessed a nervous horror of feminine bickerings, whose argumentative persuasion he distrusted, and knew that unkindness would only strengthen Frankie in her determination. "I only want her to see what we all think and feel upon the subject, and to make up her mind to stay with us." 
               "Yes father, I may 'stay' and 'stay' till I am grey headed, and lead this same weary life; and when I am dragged down by it, be buried out there in the old churchyard, and so end!" and her tears fell drearily, and dropped one by one upon the window sill where she laid her head. 
               "Oh no, Frankie; oh no! You are a smart girl and a handsome one, and by and by you will marry and become the honored wife of some good man!" 
               "Oh, glorious destiny! Stay here among my native hills, and chimney-smokes, and forget there is a world beyond them, and in time become the slatternly spouse of some hard fisted blacksmith, and wash the dirty face of our seven fat children." 
               "Frances, you are shockingly immodest, and how can you be so sassy to your father;" exclaimed my mother, with the tip of her nose reddening as it always did when her weak nature turned into an effervescent state. 
               "Don't be angry with the child, wife. Strong feelings will choose strong expressions. I've no fault to find with her; she was always a good child." 
               "Good for what, I'd like to know! To look pretty, and spend the money she wheedled out o' Tam. She never airnt salt to her porridge, and always went lopin around, the aggravatinest!" 
               "No matter, wife, no matter, I'm willing to give her the salt and porridge both. Oh no, Frankie; give up your Quixotic expedition, I can't listen to it for one moment." 
               "I tell you father I can't give it up! You have no idea of the thousand petty oppressions which have nursed it in me since I was a little child! You did not see them, and never until lately did I learn to forgive even you, for the blindness which I then thought indifference. It is too late now." 
               "You'd better go on to the stage, Frank. You do injured innocence in a style that would excite a sensation, anywhere." 
               Mrs. Duncan's suggestion received no attention from any one, and my father, quite excited by Frankie's firmness, said with some impatience, "What folly! I really will hear no more of it. You never will have my consent to it. What! a daughter of mine go out into the world to struggle for a living, like a common beggar's child? Never. The world would say I was too stingy to give you a comfortable support!" 
                
               "You never were remarkable for your liberality, father, it must be confessed," observed Mrs. Duncan. 
               "I may have erred, it is very possible; but Frankie, let me tell you, this is a hard world for men to get along in, and a woman has not half a chance in it. I have a great deal of sympathy for women." 
               She raised her head, and a quick retort was upon her lips; but love for him pressed it back, and without an allusion to the injustice he heaped upon his own daughters, despite his sympathy for the sex, she looked around in silence. Mrs. Luce had said nothing; but there was a gleam of pity in her eyes, which touched Frankie's heart, at bay as she was; and rising, she said gently, "I see no use in protracting this scene. You will not think and feel as I do, and I cannot change so as to agree with you. It is better for all, to end it." 
               "And you will go?" 
               "Yes, father." 
               There was a brief silence and then my father said, 
               "Well, Frankie, then you must. Go if you will; but when you have tried the world and found it cold and drear, come back home, Frankie; come back to your old father, whose arms are always open for you." His voice quivered, and tears were in her eyes, as bending over him she softly kissed his brow and whispered "good night."-There was a little pause as the door closed after her, broken at last by the rather theatrical sobs of my mother who exclaimed, 
               "Oh dear, oh dear, Mr. Winthrop! what have we done that we should be punished with such ungrateful children! I know I've neglected my prayers, but"- 
               "Pish," ejaculated Mrs. Duncan. "If you had prayed less, and expended your energy in acting more, you'd have hit it! It is no secret that you never loved Frank, any more than the rest of us, and if father's latter day affection had blossomed years ago, it might have done her some good. The truth is, father, you have always ground us down to the last foothold of decency; some of us married to escape it, and Frank will run away for the same reason." My father put up his hand in deprecation; but she continued, "Yes, it is true; and every one of us knows it. I don't know what right people have to go on 'multiplying and replenishing,' when they have no thought of comfortably sustaining, and if you had been content to have stopped upon a reasonable number of 'blessings,' you would have spared all of us the disgrace this last one is to heap upon us." 
               He raised his head, and there was a dignity about him which awed us all. "Elizabeth, what ever may have been a parent's errors, it is very hard when his own children cast reproaches upon him! If you live to become as old as I am, you will understand a parent's feelings, and I only hope that any lesson in store for you, may not be learned in the bitterness and humiliation I feel at this moment! When you were all little, I looked forward with happy anticipations to the time when you would become the comfort and support of my declining days, and so repay the cares and anxieties of years. But I know now, that the happiest hours a parent ever sees are those when his little ones are gathered round his knees. 
               I am an old man, now, and my disappointed life will soon go down. Try and remember only what is best in me, and forget my errors, for I am your father."-His voice had grown husky as he proceeded, and his head drooped lower and lower, till a quick gasp broke upon our ears as he concluded. It was the first sob we had ever heard from him, and even Mrs. Duncan was softened by it, and her voice had almost a tone of tenderness in it, as she, too, said "good night." 
               When it was thoroughly understood that Frankie could not be swerved from her purpose, all discussion upon it ceased, and the last few days of her stay at home were by far the happiest she had ever known there. Each one seemed anxious that she should retain only kind memories, and had half the efforts crowded into those few days, been extended through her earlier years, they would have made the neglected child another creature. My father became more and more a prey to uneasiness, lest he should be called upon for pecuniary aid, and it became evident to us all, that the struggle between his manifest duty and his besetting sin, was too much for him to endure. He felt that he ought to offer her such assistance, yet he was unequal to the effort, and with deep chagrin and sorrow at this one defacing weakness of his otherwise amiable character, Frankie took the earliest opportunity to reassure him. "Father don't think of it any more. I need nothing from you. Tam has supplied me liberally with all I require." 
               He brightened so vividly under the announcement, that a deeper pain stung her. She had half unconsciously clung to the hope that his parental affection would triumph over his worse nature, and that he would offer her some assistance; not because she needed it, or would have accepted it, lest it might embitter his remembrance after she had gone; but it would have been the strongest proof of his regard for her in his power to bestow, and as such, most grateful to her. This last hope of her loving heart was crushed as he raised his head with the first happy look his face had worn since his war with self had commenced, and said, "I thought it very probable. He has always been a good brother to you, Frankie, and I hope your separations will never estrange you. He will be the head of the house-never forget that-and can protect you from much you might otherwise suffer should you be unfortunate in the world. I can't leave all of you a fortune, you know." Pained beyond measure that his ruling instinct for the time held every better quality in subjection, she turned away. 
               He carried her in his own carriage out to the railroad depot, and as he always drove slowly to save up his horses, they were but just in time to catch the train. The engine drew up panting and shrieking from its breathless race through field and forest, even as they reached the station; and while she pointed out her baggage and received her checks, he hurried to the office and bought her ticket. He brought it to her as the conductor shouted "all aboard," and said, "Here, Frankie, have you any small bills? I paid five dollars and a quarter for your ticket." 
               "No father, I'm very sorry; I've nothing smaller than a twenty dollar gold piece. 
               "Well, there's no time to change it now; send it back to me from the first place where you stop. Put it in one bill, and enclose the twenty-five cents in postage stamps." There was no time to add "good bye," and as he had raised his voice above the din of the bell and the commotion attendant upon starting, that she might fully understand his instructions, many eyes were turned upon her in curiosity, and careless lips curled with a smile which quickly vanished as they caught a glimpse of two dark eyes overflowing with tears, before her hastily lowered veil shut her in alone with her sorrow. 
               Now that she was fairly embarked upon her voyage, its possible failure and contingencies, and its certain annoyances suggested themselves to her mind, and it is but little wonder if her heart beat unevenly as she looked her position in the face. She had never confessed even to Tam the utterly uncharted sea of adventure upon which she had launched, and all, with singular unanimity, had supposed that she had thoroughly prepared her way, and went to fill some pre-arranged engagement. 
               Her well known reticence had spared her any questions, and the excitement of her preparations and leave taking had scarcely left her any opportunity to realize the magnitude of her enterprise. She was alone, bound for, where, she knew not, and cared less, so that it were far far away from all she fled from. But these sinkings of the spirit were but momentary, and she rose from them with the steady resolve to succeed, which never fails of accomplishment. Little curiosity was excited upon the river steamer, by the dark haired young lady whose self-possession and dignity were sure safeguards against impertinence; and the lady passengers, young and old, welcomed her with that freedom from clanishness so pleasant a feature in Southern travel. There were several young ladies returning alone from summer visits in the North, and among them was one employed as a preceptress in a Vicksburg seminary, whose evident pleasure and content with her location decided Frankie to make that city the haven of her journey. This point decided upon, she felt as though her chief difficulty were overcome, and she resigned herself to the full enjoyment of the novelties around her. The low, monotonous, cotton-wood studded banks of the "father of rivers" with only now and then a garden-like spot breaking in upon the unvarying scenery, changed at last, and occasional bluffs rose with corresponding majesty. The solitary cotton landings at which they occasionally stopped to add to their cargo, looked peaceful enough, with perhaps a primitive log cabin standing among the cotton bales which had "come down to the river and couldn't get across," and so were waiting patiently for a steamer to go "down the Mississippi floating." 
               Sometimes the presence of the owner of the royal bales, was signified by a saddled horse tied to a tree in the edge of the clearing, his legs let loose from the knee, with one foot elevated ambiguously above its fellows and like the world hanging "swinging in the air," while his head, full to the ears with sleep, hung down from his long, bristly mane-covered neck, as if it were attached to dust and longed to return to it. But in the night, these scenes were weird enough. At one place where a little bluff had to serve as a landing, for want of a level space, a slide had been made, down which the bales slid with such velocity that but for much care they would all have taken to the water upon their own responsibility; and the sable figures with their flaring pine torches, and confused jargon of many tongues all busy at once, formed a good representation of pandemonium. Hordes of families, numbering from seven to seventeen, came on board at numerous landings, all belonging to that fraternity known as "Colonel Grey's family," from the invariable color in which they are always dressed. The men, with pantaloons as much too short as too narrow for their lean, lengthy shins, and ornamented by the huge old stove-pipe hats, battered by many a sorry rap or possible load of "bricks," and boys whose long-tailed coats made them look like their grandfathers cut down, distinguished the male relatives of this ubiquitous family, while females, dressed in that peculiar variety of "huckle-berry calico," which, look at it and it will fade, show water to it and its color is gone entirely, is known all over the world, and particularly by the worthy "Colonel Grey's family." Little girls were cut from the same piece of relation timber as their toothless grandmothers, and all wore sun-bonnets made from the same goods of which their gaunt dresses were manufactured, bedecked with veils in which all faded colors were dying in slow martyrdom. All the Grey family were distinguishable no less by their dress than by the sallow, cadaverous look bequeathed by unlimited seasons of fever and ague among the canebrakes in which, by and by, they would lay their grey bones, without causing any evident diminution in the living number of the brotherhood. 
               The steamer reached Vicksburg one rainy night at about eleven o'clock, and as no carriage, or other conveyance was to be had, under the protecting arm and umbrella of the gentlemanly clerk, Frankie made her way over the broken, up-hill pavements of this worse than old Rome in the number of its city foundations, till they reached the hotel, and having ordered a room of a sleepy waiter stretched out on the office counter in his shirt sleeves, her conductor made his adieus, and she was alone. After a patient, but not unusual waiting, she was shown to a not fastidiously clean room, in which an immense four posted bedstead was the principal article of furniture, and under its canopy she fell into a sound sleep, from which she did not awaken till morning. She took her breakfast serenely indifferent to the attention she attracted from being the only lady at a well lined table, and then going to the parlor, she requested the presence of the proprietor. He came, a middle aged gentleman of very courtly address, whom she recognized as having sat at the head of the breakfast table and showing her much delicate attention. She bowed him to a chair opposite her own, and in a very quiet, business-like way, introduced her subject. 
               "I beg your pardon, sir, for trespassing upon your attention for a few moments. I have come South, sir, desiring to establish myself as a preceptress, either in some seminary, or a good family. Here are my letters of recommendation, and if upon the strength of them you choose to make any exertions for me, I will cheerfully re-numerate you with any percentage upon my salary which you may deem an equivalent." He smiled kindly when he had read her letters, and said, 
                
               "I think I know just the place for you. The principal of the - female seminary has been suddenly deprived of his teacher of music and painting, and has this week advertised for one to fill the vacancy. The location is pleasant, and the salary good, and if you wish, I will see at once if I can procure you the situation. But my dear young lady, say no more of remuneration! I remember the time when I started out alone in the world, and I am very glad to extend a helping hand to all who need it as I did." He left her, and soon returned with an agent instructed to arrange with a substitute for the vacancy in the - seminary, and the same day Frankie left by rail for the theatre of her labors. She was received by a little, black-eyed lady of much vivacity of manner, who, upon reading the letter she brought from the agent, announced herself as Mrs. Jennings, the wife of the principal; and kissing her, very warmly expressed her joy at her arrival, and conducted her to a room ready for her reception, where she left her to recover from her fatigue. 
               The seminary was alive with the excitement of her arrival, and some of the young ladies, who, by passing the parlor door had seen her talking with Mrs. Jennings, were in great demand to describe her personal appearance. 
               "I'm mighty glad she is handsome; the other teachers are so ugly" exclaimed one of them, and added with a smile "I wonder how she'll like 'father' Jennings and his remarkabilities!" 
               It cannot be said that she was particularly prepossessed in his favor, when she met him, by invitation, a little before tea. He was a fleshy, self important personage, many years his little wife's senior, and spoke with a deliberate pomposity of manner most aggravating to listen to. 
               "I am truly happy to welcome you, Miss Winthrop, and trust you will be happy among us. If there is anything I am remarkable for, and my friends flatter me there is much; it is a paternal regard for all my household! I call them teachers and all, my family; and may truly say I am a father to them." 
               He looked as if he might "father" all creation in the shadow of his huge dimensions, which quite overpowered his little wife's vivacity, and left her under a jaded, half timid air which quite appealed to Frankie's sympathies. How her own spirit rose against the pompous parade of her presentation at the tea table, and afterward in the assembly room to which he caused all the young ladies to proceed from it, to listen to a speech he had evidently prepared in anticipation of the occasion, in which he repeated all the qualities for which he was 'remarkable,' and re-did the paternal, to the manifest amusement of the young ladies, who nevertheless cast many admiring and sympathizing glances at Frankie, as she sat posted upon the platform behind him, among a line of demure teachers similarly martyrized, and afterward offered her much affectionate congratulation upon her arrival. She sought her little room early, sadly needing rest and quiet to prepare her for her duties to commence on the morrow, and turning the key in the lock, thought she had no more interruption to fear till the morrow should come. But she was mistaken; for later in the 
                     evenng
                     evening
                   she heard a knock on her door, and opened it to Mrs. Jennings, who, with an air of embarrassment asked her if she objected to her room being shared at night by her own two step-daughters, whom their father always preferred should room with one of the teachers "for an example." Frankie looked disconsolately around her narrow quarters, very limited for even one, it seemed to her, and said deprecatingly, 
               "Oh, the room seems very small for three." 
               "Oh no, not at all! You see their trundle-bed slides out from under yours, and can be put back again early in the morning, as the girls rise at daylight to practise their music lessons, and they are never in the room through the day. They roomed here with the last teacher, who went home sick recently, and you wont have any trouble at all with them." 
               Frankie gave a reluctant consent, not well seeing how she could do otherwise, and she was vexed with herself for having done so, when two red-headed mitigations of their father came in upon her, and with much quarrelling commenced undressing; but she was too tired to retract, or change the arrangement, that night, and went herself, to bed, where she was kept in a nervous fever till mid-night by whispered spatting between the sisters, and occasional casional ejaculations in no gentle tones, betraying that pinching and monopolizing were visited upon the sides of sisters and bed in common, and the last thing she heard as sleep weighed down her eyelids was "och! Mary, I'll tell pa." 
               Mr. Jennings did not seem a very amiable "father" when Frankie, the next morning, requested that she might be placed in the undisturbed possession of her room, which she objected to share with any one; and assumed much offended majesty that his daughters should be forbidden the premises of any of his teachers; but they were removed, much to her satisfaction, as well as to that of the young ladies in the seminary, with whom they were no favorites, and who congratulated her that she had escaped from them, as they had actually worried the other music teacher sick. 
               Things soon fell into their usual routine, and after the first letter from home, Frankie felt as if she were submerged for life beneath the monotonous current which rolls over a teacher's existence. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE year of 185- was one of unprecedented speculation in the lands and mines of the north-west, and the tide of travel set strongly in that direction. Steamers filled with passengers, from those who went to see, perchance to buy to mere pleasure seekers who took refuge in its latitudes from the oppressive heat of lower ones, made profitable trips over the chain of lakes and rivers, up to the very head of Lake Superior, their route dotted with innumerable cities in embryo, if any faith was to be placed in the golden visions of the proprietors of "town sites," which, ubiquitous personages prowled up and down every thoroughfare, loaded and primed with carefully made "plans," or magnificently colored maps upon which every street and avenue were lettered with most city-like names, and even the fashionable cemeteries, churches and seminaries were pointed out so clearly that a child might find them-on the map. Newspapers, too, recounted the rising glories of some particularly favored city, and prophecied unprecedented effulgence to come-at so much per line-and "Warren's Patent Blacking" never equalled the subtle advertisement which one absorbed unthinkingly, done up in letters from "our special correspondent," and in poetical rhapsodies which the true and lawful muse was supposed to have inspired, instead of the jade, money. Ingenuity ran mad 
                     bewteen
                     between
                   the rival efforts of the aforesaid proprietors, each one convincingly certain that his was to become the metropolis of the upper lakes. But alas for the faith-wrung martyr who visited his possessions after having purchased on paper! Exulting that he had secured some fortunate lots in close 
                     proxinity
                     proximity
                   to "Washington Avenue" or the "Public Square," he rushed up the lakes, his trunk filled with building-plans of imposing architecture, and his head filled with unending speculations, to find the sad reality of a city yet in its native woods, whose unbroken foliage gave no boundary lines between the cemetery, and "First Street," unless that one containing two board shanties were it, which was probable, as it proved to be not only the "first" but only foot-path cut in the clearing. Even in the more progressed cities, where four or five streets intimated that a larger one might come if not nipped in the bud, individuals might daily be met studying their maps on the corners, enquiring lugubriously, 
               "Sir, where is the "High Street Seminary?" 
               "Oh, coming, sir. The place is growing finely," would be the hopeful answer, and the only remedy was to give it a lift by way of eventually getting one's money back. 
               And the mines? Golconda was a babe in arms to them! Iron, copper, silver, and even gold, were talked of in magnificent language, and every thin man to be met had "made lucky claim in the very heart of a mine of splendid ore, 
                     whch
                     which
                   fact he was keeping strictly secret, lest Government should forbid the sale by and by when the land should come into market. He had even refilled the hole in which he made this discovery, that envious neighbors might not "peach upon him," and the land in his vicinage would be taken up as if by magic. 
               This furnished a back country upon which the cities were to depend, and upon the strength of it some of them grew and flourished with praiseworthy diligence. The city of - in particular, had so far outstripped all others in its tender age, as to incur their undying hatred and jealousy, and especially that of an older and long established place in which many a buyer was persuaded to remain and invest his capital in its sandy soil. 
               But those who prudently went on to look at the infant city, seldom returned, and it was really in a prosperous condition, and pervaded by a business-like air among its already fine, yet rapidly increasing population. To this emporium of promise Tam O'Shanter made his way, and, chilled in his expectations by the many disappointments he had seen befall others who had bought in haste to repent at leisure, it was with surprise and delight that he reviewed viewed a fine rise of land covered with buildings of fair proportions and prepossessing appearance, which smiled down upon as beautiful a bay as ever nature cut off from its parent waters for the express purpose of a harbor. As the steamer passed through the narrow entrance, and ran up the whole length of the city, to humor the peculiarities of a sand-bar which had anchored off it as if to torment the waters which would have beaten it off, the evidences of its prosperity were easy to be seen, in the many new buildings going up as if in response to a Twistonian cry for "more." As they turned at the head of the sand-bar and ran proudly back to the pier opposite the entrance, Tam felt highly elated that he had pressed around to what he felt would prove the goal of his aspirations. Despite the muddy condition of the streets, from recent heavy rains, he did not stop till he had traversed them all, and he returned at last to the hotel, a little fatigued with the exertion of keeping his wind and his balance unimpaired through the many demands upon them, but more than ever pleased with the place to which it appeared a special Providence must have impelled him. He found a chance for "an investment" sooner than he anticipated; for shortly after his first survey of the city proper, while lounging upon the hotel piazza he was greeted by a familiar voice, and turning, he beheld his old college acquaintance, Crittenden. They shook hands cordially, each glad to see a familiar face, when Crittenden asked, 
               "Come to speculate, Winthrop?" 
               "Yes, if I find a fair chance." 
               "Whoa! I'm your animal, exactly. I came in during the first heat here, in fact during the very first of that vacation you went home with Houghton, (good fellow, has the real blood in him,) and not finding any fun here, I put my governor's last donation into some city lots which went cheap then, and which I'm now looking up a customer to sell to, as I want to bring up some fast horses to trot on the ice here by and by, and they'll probably cost more than the governor may feel like shelling out." 
               "How did you buy, Crittenden?" 
               "You start on the wrong track, mon ami. You mean how will I sell?" 
                
               "Yes that is the question" replied Tam, smiling. 
               "Well, Winthrop, for old acquaintance sake and ready cash, I'll sell to you cheap; but mind you register every lot at fifteen hundred dollars, for the city progenitors will fly the track if they hear of a sale below standard figures," and lowering his voice that he might not be overheard, he named the figure at which he would sell half a dozen lots, and having had their location pointed out to him, Tam said "done," and the bargain was completed. So upon the very night of his arrival, he went to bed a "landed proprietor," and upon the strength of it his mental machinery let loose every regulating valve, and beheaded every screw, and launched off into gyrations upon its own responsibility, in which it made and lost fortunes innumerable, and at last tossed him high and dry upon the reef of aged bachelor-hood "gumming" bread he had begged of Ida's children. 
               He soon learned that he had purchased his lots at a price which would already ensure him a pretty profit should he choose to sell, and upon the strength of his fine prospects, he wrote his father, recounting the transaction, and offering to make him a silent partner in every arrangement for which he should be willing to furnish a share of the ready. The old gentleman was too cautious to venture, but, pleased with Tam's success, warned him to "sell out in time," and sent him a draft for a handsome amount as a help to more of the same kind. The first thing to be done was to make a pre-emption claim, and having gone prospecting several days, he at last hit upon one to his liking, put up his "habitable house," according to the regulations established by the Land Office, and commenced his clearing. He soon saw the wisdom of the sharp dodges practised upon the innocent government, and could not refrain from applauding. Every man was entitled to one claim of one hundred and sixty acres of land, provided he should be able to prove that he had cleared and cultivated enough of it to manifest that it was his bona fide intention to make it a permanent home, and put up a house in which he actually lived, and, if married, in which his family resided. Having made such a claim, which was duly set forth and registered in the Land Office, each claimant was fairly entitled to secure his own against all other purchasers when the lands should come into market at the government price. So a man or two was hired to perform the leveling science upon the kings of the forest, and a something was erected which might be termed a house, because it certainly was nothing else; and here, laden with a ration or two of flour and pork, the pre-emptor existed over night, and was ready to swear, and bring witnesses to attest, that he lived on the premises and lodged there." But the frequency of claims being "jumped," i. e. taken possession of by other parties during the absence of their lawful owners, led to hiring men to go and keep them, and an enterprising man could thus keep two or three at a time, no difficulty being experienced in finding accomodating individuals who had not formerly pre-empted, who would for a consideration "prove" up upon them when the proper time arrived, and then make them over by deed, to their actual pre-emptor. 
               Much amusement was caused when a married man went out with his family "to live on his claim," and leave takings of city friends were very merry, the country residence with its hole to crawl in at, and four foot hole with a triangular bit of glass wedged in somewhere to represent the required glass window, being honored but a very brief space of time by its fortunate possessors, whose eyes being averse to smoke, did not particularly relish the exertions of the also required chimney, which seemed all in the wrong direction. Neither was the axe-made furniture particularly luxurious, or a sure foundation, and if one wished to swear to having slept on the premises repeatedly, he engaged some one to waken him as many times as he should really fall asleep. The trick fulfilled all the swearing conditions of the law, and was easily learned; so Tam made his claim, and by occasional visits contrived to keep possession of it, and then turned his attention elsewhere. His curiosity was one morning attracted by the very vigorous swearing of some excited individual, and hastily rising, he descended to see what was the occasion for such forcible English.-"The miserable swindling rascal," he was continuing, as Tam joined the little knot around the door. "I gave him a fool's price for three water lots over in-(a rival would-be city) and when I went to look at them preparatory to building some warehouses on them, I couldn't see a turf around there. I hailed the four men and one woman by whom the place seemed inhabited; but none of them knew, and I was coming off, mad enough, when a shock-headed boy poked his grinning face out of the door, and said "I knows them there lots. They's clean out in the bay; in the middle of the drink!" and by his help I proved so. Yes, gentlemen, at least six feet under water! and the only satisfaction the scoundrel I bought them of will give me, is that they are as good lots as any, when you get down to them. "The crowd laughed, and he continued-"This is shameful! I'm as badly done to as the man I heard of in the land fever of '36, who went out to see his possessions, and declared they were 'all long and no wide, all the way up hill and damned stony.'" 
               "Re-sell, re-sell, Jones," laughed a listener. "To my certain knowledge you are the many-eth one taken in on those 'water lots,' and your best way is to keep close, praise 'em up, and sell to the first customer you can catch among the uninitiated." 
               "Yes. There's a steamer due to-morrow. You'll catch some of the unsophisticated if you rush on board in time," said another. Tam turned to Crittenden, who stood by with all a jockey's delight in a "do," and remarked-"That's the way its done, is it!" 
               "Oh yes. I tell you what it is, my friend. Some men get a dose of State's prison, and all deserve it; and I believe every man carries under his own harness the knowledge that he's only out by good luck." 
               How clear and beautiful were the Fall days preceding the Indian summer, in which the wood whistlers had sung their last notes and departed like their fellows in all climates, before the cold weather should freeze the melody in their little throats; and so dry was the air, so vivifying and exhilarating, that the steadily increasing cold was scarcely felt. November shut in the denizens of the demi arctic city to reap what amusement they might within its confines, till the thaws of April-might be of June, should sweep away the fields of ice that begirt them, and place them once more in quick communication with the world "below." 
                
               Then came the dog sledges bringing the semi-monthly mail overland, trudging through snow over pathless wildernesses save for a mere trail over which travellers not unfrequently made the journey to the nearest city of - gaily camping with their blankets for a covering, or, at lucky stations, sought the protecting precincts of some rude shanty which had stopped there for their especial benefit. But with other improvements, this winter of 185-had brought real mules and sleighs, and trail had been widened to give them a passage, and now even ladies made the overland journey, so fur be-wrapped as to be scarcely distinguishable from the gentlemen, and despite the stinging cold which froze one's breath as soon as it left the lips, transforming whiskered men into grizzly bears, and rendering frequent rubbings of ears and noses necessary, to prevent them from freezing, too, no merrier travellers were ever beheld. What if the heavy sleigh did sometimes upset? The soft snow received the ever expected guests, and the variety kept them upon the qui vive. But at night woe befell the unlucky wight whose slumbers rendered him unconscious of petit larceny. Even in spite of tightly grappling fingers, blankets had a curious way of departing from their lawful owners and clinging lovingly around some other recumbent figure, who, in its turn was divested not only of its jack-daw covering, but of its own particular, by way of balancing things. Then the return of the sleigh, with the mail contained in bags which had been lynched upon some tree and left to their agonies for weeks, where, despite the pleadings of letters to be allowed to "move on," very un-"poor-Joe"-like, they lingered in inglorious solitude till mid winter, the limited capacity of the vehicle being unequal to their transportation save on time. These arrivals were signals for such a rush as only a similar event can arouse in any community of hundreds of people deprived for a long time of mails, and the hurrying lines of anxious individuals besieging the office, were only limited by the entire male population. 
               The snow lay six feet deep on the ground, and the one road leading out of the city was the scene of many amusing turn outs. The only alternative for turning around when the desired distance had been accomplished, was to get out, and, taking the cutter at one end, "slue it around" in association with the efforts of the horse at the other, who someway got himself faced about, when with much laughter mingling with the jingling of bells, the homeward route was taken. But the scene of glory, was the bay. Miles of solid ice, covered with firm snow whose crust was thick and hard enough to bear up a man, lay spread out in its majesty, and there in the glorious moonlight seldom known in the middle latitudes, robed sleighs flew back and forth right merrily. But if these experiences possessed for Tam each one its peculiar charm, his enthusiasm was intense when he first viewed the full glory of the Aurora Borealis. He stood at midnight beneath a canopy of glory. Over his head was one blaze of light, scattering in broad beams far down the horizon, flickering, like a flame in the wind, and the whole air was filled with the crackling sound of electricity. Cold, cold; the very mercury freezing in the thermometers, and the pine trees rent from top to bottom as if by lightning. Deep rumblings in the bay, like subterraneous thunder, shoved up huge masses of ice, leaving cracks in whose treacherous gulfs unsuspecting travellers were sometimes swallowed up, and many "hair breadth 'scapes" lent piquancy to excursions. The winter supply of snow had fallen, and no more would come than just enough to keep this from wearing out, and certain of no thaw till spring should permanently have come, the ice was cleared for the races. Crittenden's horses had been duly admired during their practising, and he had suitable jockies to drive and attend them. Other horses there were, claimed also to be "fast," at which idea he "poohed" and "phsawed," as one certain of the superiority of his own, and, upon the day appointed, all was bustle and activity. 
               Sleigh loads of ladies and gentlemen drove down to convenient sites for witnessing the contest, and crowds of men and boys blacked the snow field. Crittenden, with a prancing grey before his light cutter, drove down with Tam, whom he had invited to share his turnout, and who was quite excited as the blankets were removed from the pawning steeds, who recognized their contest and were eager for it. 
                
               "Look, Crittenden, at that 'Crow-bait' of Nickerson's. Think of putting him up against the Lady! Why, the old cooper's shop will fall to pieces if he isn't careful." 
               "I don't feel so sure of that! These crow-baits beat the devil on time; and the Lady is too fat. I had her shaved this morning till she looks as if she'd been tanned. She sweats too much." 
               Both now rose to their feet, as did every one else, as the Lady and Crow-bait sprang to the contest. At the quarter stake they were breast to breast, and Crow-bait was throwing out his huge, gaunt legs, in mighty strides, in the effort to escape his companion, who, with feminine obstinacy, refused to be distanced if muscle could prevent. At the half stake she was a whole length ahead, and still gaining. Hankerchiefs waved in the air, and bets were offered three to one on her. She held her own past the third stake, and redoubled shouts rent the air. But applause was too much for her; she broke, lost time, and discovered her mistake as Crow-bait drew alongside, and finally bolted outright, leaving her competitor to win his laurels at his leisure. Hisses and groans greeted the beautiful mare as she was trotted slowly back to the starting point, and bets for the next heat went against her by wholesale. Crow-bait came back unelated by his success, as if comprehending that he had not yet entirely won the field, and modesty might be becoming, should he lose the next two heats, and he dropped his nose meekly to the ground, while the judges declared him winner of heat number one. 
               Crittenden was unmoved by his failure, and trotted up and down the ground looking at the ladies and making his comments as unconcernedly as possible during the time that intervened before the next heat. 
               "Look, Winthrop; there are the wife and sister of my competitor." 
               Tam looked at the cutter indicated, in which were two ladies, young and pretty, but one of them, in particular, was dashing and showy beyond any woman he had ever seen. 
               Her hair and eyes were the intensest black, and both cheeks and lips were tinted with the richest crimson, while her whole air was one of exuberant life and spirit. They passed each other quickly, and Crittenden, who was an acquaintance, received their bows, much to Tam's envy. They had turned to ride again down the line, when Crittenden, having consulted his watch and pronounced the time nearly up, suddenly exclaimed, "By Jove; there she comes again. Isn't she a thorough-bred animal, with her trim neck and blooded build? You shall see her pace, once! head up, shoulders taut and square, and pasterns lifted clean every time, and no interfering." 
               "What, the Lady?" 
               "No, no! hang the Lady! Miss Bell Nickerson; she's the breed for my money; bound to win, every heat. Young, too, by her teeth." Tam laughed at this enumeration of a young lady's "points"! but now the second heat commenced in earnest, and again every one rose to witness it. They started as before, Lady ahead at the first stake, passed by Crow-bait at the second, but finally made it up by a mighty effort, and came out winner by two whole seconds. Hurrahs for the Lady, now rent the air, and betting for the third and last heat went on vigorously. 
               Crittenden, as unmoved as before, drove up to the Nickersons' sleigh, in which the husband and brother of the ladies had taken his place, and being gaily received, presented his friend, and lively sallies were bandied back and forth. "Are you betting to-day, Mr. Winthrop?" asked Miss Nickerson. 
               "No. I am unskilled in the science of horse-flesh, and am to-day a mere looker on." 
               "Come then, I challenge you. I lost a cherry pie on that last heat, and am looking for an opportunity to retrieve my fortunes. Here is pie number two, against a pair of moccasins. Of course I bet on Crow-bait." 
               "Done," said Tam: and Mrs. Nickerson having accepted a challenge for twenty-five cents against a quarter of a dollar, from Crittenden, he made a memorandum of both bets in his book, and started off, but stopped again, to inquire of the ladies if he should see them at the hop at the hotel in the evening, and being assured in the affirmative, drove off in good spirits, as was Tam. The excitement was intense for the issue of the third contest, which was to decide both others, and every one was breathless as it commenced. The Lady led off in fine style, gained and lost by turns, till, at the third stake she was full a length ahead, and making her fastest time, when a sudden slip checked her, a limping effort to proceed, followed by a faint groan as she came to a stand, and her swollen nostrils quivered as Crow-bait pawed by. Crittenden rode up to see the extent of the accident. The Lady had sprained her near fore leg, and was led crippled back to her stable, amid the regrets of all. But Crittenden, discovering that she would be easily cured, recovered from his first alarm at the accident, and observed, "All right, Winthrop! She never had the stuff in her that the grey has, and I put her on first, for effect. Don't you see, now, people will lose confidence in my horses, and when it comes the grey's turn every one will bet against her, and I shall more than make up all I've lost to-day. Isn't she a beauty, though? Gads; it's a pity a fellow can't marry a horse!" 
               The evening hop was a gay and stylish affair. Elegant and accomplished ladies, representing all parts of the Union, vied with each other in their pleasant manners and tasteful attire, and though most of them were married, they were all the more agreeable companions for that, and husbands were as much gratified to see their wives admired, as if their own special office in the world were not to humble their vanity. Every delicacy that lower latitudes could furnish, graced the tables, and no expense was spared in any particular. Tam pursued his acquaintance with Miss Nickerson, who was the acknowledged belle where many were beautiful, and knew that she and Tam formed no unprepossessing a couple. A fine contrast, forming a becoming companion, will reconcile a lady to much personal disagreeability; and as Miss Nickerson was not, in this instance, a martyr to such a drawback upon sociability, she was excusable for enjoying it as she evidently did. Crittenden contented himself with the sister-in-law of the admired "thorough bred," whose husband was airing his gallantry with some one's else wife, and the four were promenading during an interval between the dances. 
               "See, my friends, how lovely McKnight looks playing the violin. There is grace and beauty for the million." 
                
               They smiled, as obedient to Miss Nickerson's command, they saw the gentleman named, entertaining a chosen circle with some amateur efforts on what certainly might have been named with reason "an ungodly fiddle," from the dire and unearthly shrieks which issued from it, as, clinched tightly under his chin which for that purpose, had deserted his mouth that remained wide open in despair, he beat into the melody with his enthusiastic foot, the time which else had been not. Tam laughed at the figure thus cut by one of the chivalrous sons of the South-for such he was-and a good natured boaster of his own proficiency, often proposing to put himself up against the world, for playing all round a tune and never hitting it. 
               "Let's get out of this, Winthrop," said Crittenden at length. "These confounded new boots have been prowling round my corn rows most maliciously all this time! The Nickersons are gone, and there's no one else I can smile at such grief, for." 
               Tam made no demur, and as they sought the slippered sanctity of his room for a comfortable smoke before their sleep, Crittenden asked, "What strikes you as the peculiar feature of this town?" 
               "Its cosmopolitism, and pretty women." 
               "Answered like a shrewd fellow! By the time you've lived here six months you'll 'guess' with the yankees, 'allow' with the hoosiers, and 'reckon' with the 
                     southeners
                     southerners
                  , as naturally as life. This is the place for good feeling, where every one thinks 'live and let live.'" 
               So Tam thought, as amusements multiplied in the long evenings descending at four o'clock, and "poker" was never so attractive as when shared in by some lady with her little basket of dimes kept ever ready upon the table, while chess and cribbage amused the elder people, among whom were no "old fogies." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII 
               NEW YEAR'S day was celebrated by the ceremonies considered orthodox in all parts of America, and gallants were in the usual condition of confused ideas long before the round of calls was completed. All grades and descriptions of turn-outs filled the streets, from the modest vehicle of the pedestrian line, to the four-mule, darkey-driven establishment, containing a select number of gentlemen who made their calls in an organized company, the most noticeable feature of which was, that not one member of it could be induced after two o'clock to partake of any delicacy except pickles and strong coffee. They declared that a hospitable cow, who had been milked upon the occasion of one mid-day call, yielded pure egg nogg; and believed other mysterious things innumerable, but altogether in so happy a way, that their faith deserved encouragement. The three days headache from indigestion, visited all alike, and many a suffering mortal felt himself a victim to "happy new year!" But all this was laudable and right, and not even married gentlemen complained. 
               The days grew a little longer towards spring, and an excursion was planned to a neighboring waterfall around which the entire scenery was said to be remarkably beautiful. Several large sleighs were filled by the wit and beauty of the city at an early hour upon the day appointed, seats being tabooed, and all depositing themselves primitively upon the straw and robes placed upon the capacious sleigh bottom. One after one the merrily loaded vehicles followed in a line, bringing up with the commissary transport containing all sorts of solids and indigestibles provided for the noon collation. 
               For a few miles the road was wide and open; but gradually it narrowed, and twisted in and out among the trees cut only wide enough for a rub and go as they squeezed through, and interlacing boughs drooped low as if for the express purpose of giving envious scratches to beauty's nose, and adding embellishments to any uppish hat which had not known enough to remain in its peaceful home under the protection of its virtuous box. Relics of departed spirits strewed the road at modest intervals, cold-annihilator, of course, being a necessary adjunct to such an excursion, and taken with much endurance. Indeed it was suggested that this was the real "children cry for it" advertised so extensively in the newspapers, and one added meekly, "We are all but children of a larger growth," and it behooves us to be patient and long suffering. Pass the "conveniences." Startled rabbits galloped off in alarm, virtuously resolved to preserve their own principles unperverted by so shocking an example, and in pure contempt for their old fogyism, they were pursued by whizzing snowballs, which "lent wings to their speed" as they disappeared in the depths of the unbroken forest. 
               It was noon when they arrived at the clearing at the head of the falls, made long ago by some town site enthusiast, who felt assured that this romantic region would become a fashionable resort to which Niagara would be but an infant in the cradle. The "garden sass" had withered and gone out, and the planted acres drooped in hope deferred for the throngs which never came, till the human hope and expectation even of a speculator had found their limit, and he left in disgust. His double log house with its puncheon floor was left in solitary grandeur behind him; and leaving the colored members of the commissary department to make the coffee, and arrange the tables, under its hospitable shelter, the party sallied out to view the natural wonder, whose most peculiar feature was that it never had been seen, and probably never could be, as it was frozen and snow-covered in winter, and the road to it was impassable in summer. 
               However, this was not felt as a drawback, for it left a vivid play for imagination upon what "it might have been," and the ravine which contained the river, below, was at all events a fixed fact. Shelving rocks of over two hundred feet in height led down to it on one side, while the other had become abrupt from frequent cavings off of its territory, and looking down, one could see at its foot the evergreen trees still clinging to their dethroned bit of earth, and proudly defiant in their fallen grandeur. From the elevation extended an unbroken view for fifty miles, over the hazy landscape of the adjoining territory, planted for a state and rapidly growing up into one, and had not familiarity bred contempt for the original lords of the forest, one could have sighed in pity to think how fair a paradise was being wrested from them, foot by foot. 
               A real dinner horn, legacy to the deserted house by its owner, summoned the party back to its hospitalities, while around it, huge fires of blazing logs tempted cold feet to warmth and comfort, and over all streamed the rich aroma of coffee, which would have tempted the fastidious ideas of a dyspeptic. The house was more than full, which furnished a sufficient excuse for the fortunate possessors of log seats near the fire, to retain them, and beneficent young gentlemen bought liberal supplies of the fearful compound ladies prefer, reserving for themselves the sandwiches so unpoetically relishing. 
               "Will you have one of these 'one horse pies,' madam?" asked Crittenden of an amused little lady, who accepted the proffered tart with polite acknowledgment; but he saw the little smiling commentary, and added "not original, madam. That is the technical in the portion of 'down below' I came from, only I should say 'take a one horse pie, if you are agreeable' supposed to mean, 'if you like.'" 
               "And would the lady, in doubt upon the subject, leave you to the full and undisturbed possession of the tart?" 
               "Not if she resembled you, madam," said he under the happiest stroke of gallantry he had ever been hit by, and mentally resolving to say that same thing to some unmarried lady, upon the first occasion. "Hang it all," he complained to Tam, "Isn't it a shame to waste the few good things a fellow ever does say, upon a married lady?" 
               "That's the mistake of your life, Crittenden. A pretty speech is worth double to a married lady, because she isn't surfeited with them by every day use." 
               "By George! There is something in that! Husbands do 'set their backs against the marriage certificat,' and rule compliments off the course, don't they?" 
               A blinding snow storm was falling as they set out for home, but it rather seemed to increase their merriment than otherwise, and the story of "Villikens and his Dinah" was pathetically doled forth, all joining the chorus, or the charms of the "Sailyor Boy" were sung to a highly appreciative audience. The snow ceased falling at last, and, emerging into a more open space, the sight was beautiful. Every limb and twig of the grand old trees was weighed down with its fleecy load, upon which the last rays of the setting sun shone out, illuminating the whole with myriad sparkles of light more brilliant than the eyes of millions of diamonds. Far and near the same bright, cloudless heaven lighted the colorless landscape, which looked ghastly enough as night came down around it, and it seemed like sacrilege thus to disturb it in its winding sheet. 
               Every house was radiating light, and warmth, and hot suppers, as they drove into town, leaving at door after door the members of the excursion party, and much to Tam's delight he was invited to sup with the Nickersons, of whose sleigh he had been an occupant, contentedly seated next Miss Bell, who had in so many small ways made him in love with himself, that he felt much inclined to become so with her, or to imagine that he already was so, which amounts to the same for all practical purposes. 
               Tam's speculations had progressed finely. He had bought and sold to an unlimited extent, and in the meantime proved up on his claim. He had employed two men to clear his farm, and upon their report that a necessary portion of it was under cultivation after having provided them with endless potatoes, lettuce, cabbage, wheat and flax-seed, he had brought them forward to testify that all was done decently and in order to entitle him to his home, and stood by in the Land Office, while, to his astonishment, they swore to having planted an acre of potatoes, an acre of cabbages, an acre of wheat, and an acre of most everything, in fact, up to fifty of them. The Register looked up at Tam as much as to say "I don't understand this," and Tam looked at the Register as much as to say "It is
                   very mysterious!" and having been let off without any very strong swearing from himself, Tam took them by the sleeve as they left the office and said, "Come now; how did you do all that?" and was enlightened by the reply, "Oh, easily enough! You see we cleared one acre and planted it first to potatoes, and then to cabbages, and then sowed it to wheat, next to turnips, and so on, winding up with the flax-seed; and we wish you fine crops, sir!" So the claim was now ready for sale, and as it was advantageously located, he had repeatedly refused several thousand dollars for it, waiting till a certain figure he had resolved upon, before selling, should be offered for it. Some overland arrived speculators saw and coveted it, and offering more than he had even expected, he sold it and pocketed his 
                     winings
                     winnings
                   with a very comfortable feeling. He was also meddling a little with mining stocks, and notwithstanding some unlucky investments in concerns that opened well, but alas! progressed no farther into the expected ore than the few pocket specimens planted near the surface by some hopeful speculator, who might have been strong in the faith that his little acorns would produce tall oaks. 
               His great hope lay fixed in a certain mine whose rich promise might have raised the expectations of more cautious, doubting souls than his, and he was impatient for the opening of navigation, that he might make it a long deferred visit. Share after share in it had been sold at ever increasing figures, and he felt warranted in counting over the sum of his inevitable income from so fortunate an investment. It was with 
                     plesaure
                     pleasure
                   that he saw the ice begin to honey-comb in places, as an evidence that it was seriously thinking of breaking up altogether, and accustomed to hardihood and recklessness of life as he had become, he could not repress a manifestation of surprise at preparations for another race on the bay, through whose treacherous ice it often occurred that the horses put now and then a foot. The round of amusements had become almost exhausted, when some waggish southerner bethought him of a mule race, and his compeers who had witnessed the sport in other regions, seconded him by putting on the competing list all the mules they possessed, or could hire; for this was to be a contest not of the few, but the many. 
               At the hour named, a dozen or so of the long-eared Bucephalus fraternity were huddled together round the track, already worked up to a rabid state of obstinacy by the shouts and noise around them, and the spurring and aggravations practised upon them by their fantastically dressed jockies. The dire uncertainty of all things in the national character of a mule, lent animation to the betting, which was interrupted in the last minute by a great noise of shouting and laughter as a new competitor appeared on the field, in the worthy person of a fine jackass, ridden by a boy so dressed and appendaged as to form a capital resemblance to a monkey. The sacred animal was known as "old seventy-six" and his established fame and popularity won him many backers as soon as it was known that he was to compete "for the Derby." Amid a hurricane of cheers, the whole number of contestants were gotten under way, and with much kicking up of heels, and audible expression of emotion, the pack started off, leaving only "one lazy Lawrence" straggling on behind, refusing to be coaxed or driven out of a very dignified funereal march. Bets were lively upon him, it being a well established fact that "the race is not always to the swift," but the battle to the strongest and best generaled forces. "Old seventy-six" was leading off at a rattling pace, amid the pranks of his jockey, stimulated by the shouts he excited, when suddenly it seemed to strike the spirited animal that he was cutting a ludicrous figure, and he stopped with a strength of resolution that pitched his rider over his head in fine style, arming himself at all points against being remounted by the dethroned object of his aversion, whom he had tossed at least two yards ahead. 
               "I'll bet on the jockey. He's ahead now," called one, and the herd of mules were so scandalized by the new position of things, that they gave expression to their injured feelings, each in his own way. One deliberately turned and walked back to the starting point, as if considering that a new beginning were necessary; another bolted into the snow outside the track, while a third, planting himself with a determined air, refused farther to stir hoof in the cause. In vain he was "boosted" by his desperate rider, who left the saddle and braced himself against the huge haunches of the living obstinacy, and lifted with all his might. The steadfast animal knew that the mule who hesitates is lost, and despite the evident temptation to kick, kept his feet firmly fixed, and every muscle in his corporosity rigid. It was evident that nothing but time could move him, and his stock went rapidly down in the betting market. "Old slow and easy" as the deliberate mule had been styled for his resolution to let his moderation be known, slowly walked up, and with a look of supreme contempt passed the herd who had at first distanced him, and was in his turn derided by such a scream as only a mad mule can give utterance to. "Old seventy-six" saw the reward of patience and perseverance, and fired by a new ambition, gave vent to one tremendous bray, and started off; but, wilfully bereaved of the guiding hand which would have directed him on to glory, and feeling that his exertions were worthy of a wider field, he made two bounds into the surrounding plain, and darted off for a larger liberty. Away he went, with ears laid back, and tail in air, and waxing warmer and more enthusiastic, he performed wild antics in mid air, and brayed again just for his own delectation. "Old slow and easy" reached the winning post alone in his glory, and, turning, surveyed the field of his triumph with a modest air of conscious merit that would have been a mild rebuke to many a two-footed mule who assumes more self-importance for less deserving feats. 
               It was the last sport on the ice for that year, and only wonderful that no accident had occurred in this, as, three days afterward, the rotten fabric gave way, and a line of water next the shore, gave evidence that it was moving off. Strong winds aided its progress, and ere long the Bay shone serenely out in all the play of rippling waters and glancing sunshine. Steadily, and unrelapsingly, warm days crept on, melting away the last patches of snow that lingered, loth to depart, and the flowers smiled up even in their chilling presence, as if insisting that summer was coming and they were its heralds. Then came the first steamer, bringing swarms of eager speculators who bought so vigorously that real estate reached a fabulous price, and Tam, knowing that his time had now arrived, sold out his entire possessions and counted the proceeds with all the enthusiasm of a successful speculator. He resolved to leave the place, and after devoting a little attention to his mining stock, to return "to America" as they styled the fertile land of produce in lower latitudes, and live handsomely on the income he had earned. In honor of his departure, he chartered a little steamer which plied in the Bay, and gave a general invitation for a pleasure excursion. 
               Every one was ready, and the little craft was crowded as she shoved off from the pier and floated into the bright waters beyond. Oh, the clear, sparkling water of that grand old lake, through whose delicate green every object was discernible at a depth of six feet! Cold as very ice, all through the hot summer days, and rippled by cool winds whose very breath was exhilaration; and as the steamer ploughed through it, a long line of foam sparkled and broke up in play with the waves, leaving a bright wake, into which it would have been joy to have plunged forever! 
               A band of colored minstrels enlivened the deck, and all looked happy and care free, as the denizens of new western cities always do. Crittenden was there in all the shining glory of a new "tile," and near him stood Miss Nickerson, who, having resolved to make Tam propose, a little ceremony he had neglected to perform, much to her pique and surprise-was looking unconsciously lovely as she leant in a graceful attitude against the guard, fully aware that he stood near with observant eyes, while Crittenden was so captivated by her unusually placid and amiable deportment, that he failed to see that it was not assumed for, or aimed at himself. Tam really admired her vastly; but, knowing the fame of her conquests, he did not care to add one more to the list, if that one were to be a very tolerable fellow of his acquaintance named Tam Winthrop. So he looked on as she displayed herself to advantage in her flattered companion's society, and thus she reaped her reward for attention to some unending horse story, which he interlarded with many flattering discoveries of points of similarity between horses and women. 
               "You see, Miss Nickerson, a fine horse is difficult to manage, and so is a fine woman. You think you have 'em all snug and taut in harness, breeching fair and square, and snaffle in the right fix; and in a twinkling they break trot, kick over the traces, seize the bits in their teeth, and away they go! Two forty is no time at all in comparison, and martingals ant of the least account." 
               A sudden collision from an approaching couple in all the abandon of "the german," sent Crittenden against the guard near which he was standing, and away went his hat into the water. They were near shore, and a snarl of water weeds stopped it in its career of independent navigation. Every convenient fish pole was extended after it, and, hitting it from opposing directions, it was ignominiously ducked under; but persevering efforts bringing it again to the surface, it was rescued like a naiad all dripping, half full of muddy water, and swathed in unending yards of water weeds. An unlucky punch had made a hole in one of its respectable sides, and the once glossy Genin was in all ways sadly withered and puckered. Crittenden saw, and his spirits fell into keen sympathy with the complainant who wrote "I never had a piece of toast" &c. That hat had been so becoming! but sic transit gloria chapeau, and he resigned himself with a sigh. It disappeared under the fostering care of some of the ladies, and he scarcely recognized it when it reappeared robed in the insignia of mourning, with black streamers from some serviceable mantilla, a crown of "artificials" surmounting it to speak of hope, and a flaming feather waving from the lamentable wound in its side, to typify valor under misfortunes. But it was dry, and suitably responding to the formal presentation, he elevated it to its former position of honor, amid much cheering and clapping of hands; and there it remained, barely endured by the head it but a few short hours before had proudly graced, a forcible example of how soon misfortune may overwhelm even the brightest objects. 
               But if Crittenden was thus persecuted, himself, he was amply avenged in the persecution he unwittingly heaped upon others. He pursued Miss Nickerson like her own shadow, and interrupted every tete a tete she enjoyed with Tam, much to that young gentleman's vexation, if the truth must be confessed; for what inspirado half way inclined to yield to Cupid's dominion, ever relished repeated interruptions just in the most interesting passages, as they are sure to occur! Neither of them suspected that a tenderer interest than he had ever felt in any object outside his stables, kept him so continually near, till a downright proposal of marriage was made her as they neared home on their return. He was very earnest as he plead his suit and continued, 
               "Oh, Miss Nickerson, I never knew what real stock was, till I reined up near you! Don't you see that I follow you around like a young colt, and how the least sound of a whinny from you would send me flying along the track? If you would only deign to encourage me, if but ever so little, you'd be astonished at my wind and bottom. I'd go for you till I dropped dead under the harness! 
               The great honest tears were in his eyes as he recognized the hopelessness of his devotion, yet could not restrain its expression, and she knew that if she had received more elegant proposals, she had never received one so thoroughly sincere, or whose devotion more honored her, and she was very kind as she refused the gift she expressed her inability to reciprocate. 
               "I know I'm no match for you, Miss Nickerson. I'm like a gaunt, spavined stage horse, along side a sleek young filly. But if you ever need a strong, willing animal to give you a pull out of trouble-which I hope you never will, you can count on yours respectfully, T.B. Crittenden," and feeling that no more could be added, he left her, and that night rehearsed what had transpired, to the wondering Tam, who despite his sympathy for the hopelessly devoted fellow, felt a little thrill of weak masculine self-congratulation that he had not offered himself at the same shrine. 
               Crittenden had more than fulfilled his prophecy with "the grey," who in succeeding races had brought him rich winnings, and he determined to take his horses off for a summer campaign, and thus escape the scene of his disappointed pointed affection, which he declared had "spavined him for life." So he left on the same steamer which carried Tam down to the - mine, and was occasionally heard from in Canada, where he was winning all before him, and fulfilling Houghton's assertion that he was made for a horse jockey. 
               Tam found himself with many others rushing to the head quarters of the - mine. The office was closed, and no one was to be found who knew anything of the proprietor. Filled with a vague alarm, they rushed out to the scene of operations, and found the man left in charge, who, scratching his head, said slowly, "You see, gentlemen, the thing didn't seem to work. We sunk that shaft, and sunk it; and the deeper we went the less ore we found; nothin but sand, sand, sand; and then come orders to let up on it a while, and we let up; but there han't come no more orders about it no way, and me and the old woman is usin the shaft now for an ice house, and a very good one it makes! Tam's was not the only face that fell, as they discovered the truth of the man's words. The popular - mine was a failure, and the hoaxed share holders felt their pockets suddenly lightened of some expected thousands, forcibly realizing the uncertainty of all things earthly. Tam's gentlemanly-ease prospects vanished before the stern realization of the fact that another year's fortunate speculation would scarcely retrieve his sudden loss, and as fine a brood of prematurely counted chickens as ever were enumerated, took unto themselves wings and flew away. However, he knew there was money to be made in the business, and determining to deal skilfully with such slippery stocks, he located himself near a mine whose ore was a proven and rapidly remunerating fact, and sat diligently to work to rebuild his fallen fortunes. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE village which contained the seminary in which Frankie pursued her labors, was situated in one of the pleasantest portions of southern Mississippi. High hills, covered with forests of live oak and magnolia, surrounded it, and there it lay in as lovely a little valley as could be imagined, not destitute of its vine-covered hills, skirting the banks of a bayou which meandered through it upon its way to the river to which its tribute was due. 
               Every foot of its sandy soil was literally teeming with flowers, from the luxuriant yellow jasmine, to the wax-leaved, pearly white, and fragrant magnolias. All through the winter, whose chill had penetrated as that of no northern winter ever had done despite its lower temperature and stern accompaniments, she had steadily pursued her round of duties, and when the trying hours of her servitude were over for the day, it was with a sensation of real comfort that she drew up by her little wood stove, while the cold northers whistled around, and cut the leaves of the last new book sent by Ida, or opened one from Houghton, liberally marked and delightfully margin written. He was still pursuing his legal studies in Richmond, and his occasional letters were full of his ambition. But these books in particular, read and marked as they had been by him, possessed a mysteriously cheering influence which was a luxury among her joyless surroundings. The tortured patience of a music teacher, is severe enough at best; but in a seminary, where nine out of ten of the pupils take lessons as a dire necessity imposed by parents and guardians, and are left to their own honesty to practise faithfully or not through the hours arranged by the school regime, the task is beyond all comparison tormenting ing. It was a lamentable fact that despite the fatherly efforts to that effect of the principal, the teachers neither liked him, each other, or the pupils, and all combined in disliking "Madame"-by which title she was alone styled in the seminary-who was teacher of French. She certainly was not amiable; but she was piquant, and when she chose, agreeable and amusing. She had passed the bloom of her youth, whose probable date was a subject of much speculation among the young ladies, who were never idle when occasion offered any link in "putting that and that together" as a guide to conclusion. Yet they respected her in their own way, because she possessed "some splendid old diamonds if they were set in silver," and could display an elegant wardrobe when she pleased to do so, at the musical soirees given monthly in the seminary. 
               If there is one thing above all others for which school girls possess a profound respect, and which tends to inspire a teacher's influence over them, it is good clothes. So, despite the fact that "Madame" sometimes boxed aristocratic ears with the murdered grammar, and in many ways raised warm blood against her, she was only laughed at when the consequent fit of passion had subsided, and remained a sort of oracle with the pupils, in consideration of her "nice things." Well dressed and handsome as Frankie was, she could not have failed to be a favorite with them, and many a quizzing which the clear sighted "Madame" never failed sharply to rebuke, was spared her through Frankie's influence over the thoughtless tormentors. Of all the teachers, she and "Madame" ever sought each other's society, and they soon came to like each other thoroughly, and many an amiable sacrifice of her own ease and comfort was proffered by "Madame" to the ever beseeching restlessness of the young ladies, that Frankie might enjoy some quiet hours of her own, free from their importunities. Warm weather was thoroughly established in April, and the swelling buds of the china trees burst into bloom. As far as she could see, down the street, magnificent rows of these elm-like trees showed only an unbroken net-work of the fragrant, rich purple clusters, with scarcely a leaf of the just springing foliage which would show its green when these luxuriant blossoms should have turned into many-hued berries crowning all the year. Then the Cherokee rose hedges, whose streaming branches waved in the wind, wafting the delicious perfume of their delicate white blossoms, wooed her to stroll along them, where the mocking-birds were swelling a wild chorus, as, perched upon some waving branch they maintained their graceful attitude, while ever changing cadences rolled from their ruffled throats. It was like going into prison, to return to the schoolroom from such a fairy-like land, and she endured the six hours' martyrdom with an inward fever of impatience which outvied the strengthening intensity of the mid-day heat. The May holidays approached, and she welcomed them eagerly as a blessed season in which she could live her own life in her own way. The pupils were nearly all going home, and those who were too far away from their own, were to share the homes of their friends; and the prospect of the peace and quiet which would reign in the old walls during their absence, was refreshing. The blessing came at last, and carriage after carriage rolled away with the delighted girls, who enjoyed in anticipation the unrestrained freedom which was to be theirs for a whole week. Frankie had declined many affectionately urged invitations to accompany those she best loved among her pupils, for she wanted this little breathing space to herself; and as the last one rolled joyfully away, she breathed a sigh of relief from all things school-like. "Madame's piquant face was almost merry as she exclaimed with her little accent, "No more lessons, and no more racket from those horrid pianos for seven whole days! It makes me very glad. I shall nevair ask any body to play for me if I live to get me out of this horrible place, for which I shall Dieu remercie. I have heard some young lady say this morning that she make very sure I should spend my holidays by a good fire in my room, as I nevair am thawed out by the hottest weather; but I find me vairy well as I am now." 
               As if to shower all her blessings down at once, the next mail brought Frankie letters from Mrs. Houghton and Ida, one from young Houghton, and a long one from Tam O'Shanter, filled with incidents of his north-western life; and as she read the large, closely written pages, she could hardly realize the contrast between his ice bound existence and her own heat oppressed one, and she thought it must be a luxury to ford the scarcely thawed streams containing such magnificent supplies of ice water, and to feel one's fingers tingling with the wind that whistled round the north pole. The next day brought another letter from home, and suddenly while she read it, she grew homesick. It is strange, that clinging fondness one feels for the home of one's childhood, even when that home has been bitter, and the childhood loveless! Absence softens all that was harsh, and the forgiveness one extends toward the dead, goes out toward the old scenes, and makes them peaceful in remembrance, and the tired spirit longs to wander back among them as if peace were certain to be restored, among the old haunts. Thus many a weary wanderer who sat out with every pulse bounding in bitterness, turns back again, and death overtakes him among the familiar scenes, and lays him to rest among the very relatives from whom he had prayed to be separated forever. 
               Maria's letter spoke of the places Frankie had loved for their own sweet sakes, and forgetting the utter abandonment to hopelessness and sorrow in which she had so often fled to them, she felt a sick longing to behold them again; once more to throw herself upon the mossy knoll where she had watched the shadows flitting, and to lay her cheek upon the dewy violets that had seemed to caress her in return. 
               The very faults of those who at times had driven her nearly to desperation, were unremembered in that hour, and she resolved that at the close of that term she would go back to them. Yet two months remained in which "to labor and to wait," but her resolve strengthened her for her duties, and the quiet vacation brought rest to mind and body. 
               The contempt she felt for Mr. Jennings and his canting hypocrisy, strengthened in the comparative intimacy produced by the family-like household arrangements, now that the teachers were left nearly alone in it. The worthy matron of the establishment turned the coffee within conversational distance of the proprietor, who spread his rotund proportions at the other end of the table, from which position he monopolized largely in the conversation which circulated more freely now that the lines of listening pupils were absent. 
               "I am vairy sure that this young lady is in love," said "Madame" in badanage, as she seated herself opposite the 
                     preocupied
                     preoccupied
                   Frankie. "She is so still, and, what you call him?-ponseeve! I would nevair put me in love! one grows so pale, and lean, and has to cry so very much, and makes age so horreebly!" 
               Frankie smiled in amusement at the shrug accompanying the words, and replied cheerfully,-"No, 'Madame;' you are wrong this time, I never was more thoroughly out of love; for I was counting the weeks before this long term will close." 
               "Ah, Miss Winthrop; I regret that I have so far failed to inspire you with a home feeling. It is very painful to a parent to see his little brood so anxious to fly away from the nest," said Mr. Jennings, with his pompous accent so aggravating to listen to, and Frankie could not refrain from retorting-"The nest is very small for the number of the brood, as some of us can testify." 
               His bald head colored under the pointedness of her remark, as he could not but perceive the implication that his two over-worked English teachers would be far more comfortable were they relieved of the pupils who had been crowded into their rooms, because the buildings were too small otherwise to accommodate the applicants who would pay well for even the most limited arrangements. Her room was next that of the Jennings family, and she overheard the offended Mr. Jennings berating every body from his wife down to herself, for what he termed the insult he had received at his own table. Mrs. Jennings ventured the self assertion that she had never approved of imposing pupils upon the teachers in their own rooms, who were fairly entitled to escape from them there. 
               "I am surprised at you, Mrs Jennings! But you never had the wit of a goose, and are only fit for the hindrance you've always been to me," replied the worthy spouse, speaking more naturally than Frankie had ever heard him, and with refreshing velocity. 
                
               "You'd better send me back to my friends, then," replied the lady not meekly. 
               "Yes, and let you ruin my school by the row you'd raise. I'd better send you to the devil and done with it! Women were made only to be aggravating; but you are as far ahead of all other women in that accomplishment, as all women are ahead of the devil." 
               Not particularly edified by the conjugal endearments, Frankie sought "Madame," and proposed a walk out to the hill whose lovely prospect was visible from the back piazza, speaking of cool shades and luxuriant swings among the drooping grape vines which covered it from foot to summit. It was but a little run across the bayou, which now rippled carelessly over its half dry bed, over a little field beyond, and an animated spring up the side of the gentle slope, and they were there, amid as rural surroundings as the heart of any forest could afford. 
               "Tell me, Miss Frankee," said "madame" with all the freedom begotten of a swinging vine which held them both. "What will you make with your lover when you go away? Will you plant him to grow older or take him with you to grow up?" 
               "Oh 'Madame,' you've no idea how he torments me, and how I endure it for the sake of that good mother of his! He sends me magnolia blossoms scribbled all over with the most absurd rhymes, into which he forgets to put the sense, and painfully readable by every young lady who can get hold of them first; and he travels past my music-room window so many times a day in the hot sun, that I wonder he is not in a liquid state. Oh, it is a misfortune to be chronically young." 
               "But reeches cover a multitude of sins. Is not that one American provairb? Oh if I made my way I would bury all the boys from the time they have nineteen years till they have twenty-five! They are not fit to live, and they know not anything, so that they never make any good thing only when they did a mistake," denounced "madame," with a shrug of her shoulders. 
               Frankie felt inclined to exclaim "thy judgments are just," as she retrospected and prophecied all the annoyances she was unable to avert by mild means, and refrained from harsh ones for the sake of a worthy mother who was her friend, and whose heart was bound up in her son, awkward and stupid as she knew he was to others. 
               All too quickly the holidays sped by, and the pupils returned, each with her huge basket filled with enough cakes, jellies, and creams, to keep her in the sick room at least two days in the five during which any pretence was made to study. Then came a wealth of ripening fruits, and as many of these were excluded from the admitted loaded baskets which continued to arrive in weekly reinforcements, much ingenious dodging was practised to smuggle them in from the darkies who hung round the gates 
                     wating
                     waiting
                   for opportunities to sell, or from some faithful family servant who had brought them from the old plantation. The hot June days came freighted with sickness, and not half of the pupils were able to remain till the close of the term. Frankie escaped violent illness, but her unacclimated frame suffered sadly, and the smothering nights shut in from the sea-breeze, were destitute of rest or comfort, while to render the heat more intolerable, clouds of mosquitoes swarmed in savage hunger, giving no respite day or night. A long drouth had set in, and not a drop of rain had moistened the parched earth, for weeks. The vegetation was dried and withering up, leaving little for animal 
                     subistence
                     subsistence
                   beside the unkillable bitter weed that overran every yard and roadside, and its gall-like qualities penetrated every beef steak, and rendered every drop of milk useless. The butter, which, composed of cotton seed aliment, had always possessed a salvy, clinging affection for the roof of the trusting mouth which received it, was now too bitter to be endurable, and a decided famine seemed lowering down around them. Added to these aggravations, a musical son of Ham made night hideous by unceasing sawing upon a violin, with supreme disregard for either time or tune, and Frankie tossed nervously upon her hot bed, presumptuously hoping that when he had gotten through, he would stop. But he scorned the idea, and if a darkey's elbow ever did give up from fatigue in fiddling, his was not of that dastardly sort. But he was at length compelled to yield, between threats of the calaboose, and the superior capacities of a hurdy gurdy, imparted by a petty auctioneer who opened his establishment exactly opposite the seminary. This attractive instrument was employed to collect a crowd for an approaching auction, when in its legitimate exercise; but often it was seized with a fit of grinding "when all was dark and still," and entertained itself with "A watcher lone and tearful," done into waltz time, and "I'll tell my mother when I get home," in an out-of-time way that would have been aggravating, save for a meek, broken-winded wail which it put up in conclusion, appealing to one's sympathies despite the evident justice of the affliction. An accumulation of petty evils often becomes positively ludicrous; and Frankie laughed heartily as she thought the last must now have come. She was repaid for long-suffering, when one off-duty-Saturday she witnessed an auction on the premises owned by this afflictor. Various merchants of the place having accumulated an unprofitable stock of Mrs. Noah-ish mantillas, lace capes, and other "ladies' wear," combined, and set up in business an auctioneer who was immensely popular with, and, extensively patronized by, the colored gentry, of whom admiring numbers stood by while he commenced-"Now walk up, and we'll commence the sale. I have to offer you some splendid-(um, ahs-what do you call 'ems?) some splendid-ah, ladies' mantillas! Going at two hits, how will you bid?" 
               "One picayune," called some darkie in the crowd. 
               "A heap you know about it, Cuffy! Two bits, two bits." 
               "Twenty-five cents," called another. 
               "Going at twenty-five cents, who bids three dimes?" 
               "I does dat ting, sah," responded another, and the mantilla was made over to a bow-legged patriarch whose "ole woman like mighty well to wear tings like the quality folks." 
               "Now gentlemen, I have to offer you some lace capes. You see they are mighty nice. I don't reckon the like of these magnificent articles, with such fine puckerations all over em, has been seen on any female nigga's shoulders since such things were toted around!" and he put it on, to display it, with all the grace of a brawny, huge-fisted man, to whose fingers it would stick in spite of all shaking, and when at last elevated, knowing that it was out of its proper sphere, it hung in a stringy way around his woolen shirt collar, and refused altogether to come out of the kinks. But the effect of the sale was amply manifest, when unusually decorated Baptist sisters congregated for the next Sabbath worship, and voices shouted "Bown for de kingdom," and "Ole Hallelujah," with all the more fervor, from issuing from beneath so fine an exterior. 
               Frankie knew too well the uncertain length of any agreeable stay in her old home, much as she longed to visit it, and resolving to spare herself the misgivings attendant upon an uncertain prospect in her return, prepared to form an engagement to which she could come back when she should choose. She was tired of the routine and regulations of a seminary, and resolved to take a situation in a family, should she receive any eligible proposals. It was no secret among her pupils that such was her wish, and many offers were extended to her, among which she was deliberating a choice, when an urgent repetition of a former invitation from one of her favorite pupils, decided her to pass the interval from Friday evening to Monday morning, at her home. The plantation lay several miles outside the village, up over the hills which shut down upon it, and she infinitely enjoyed the ride through the woods, the rustic bridges crossing and recrossing the bayou in its serpentine course, and the sight of fruit trees loaded with pears of marvellous proportions, and peaches unrivalled in delicacy of color and richness of flavor, that bordered the gardens near the homesteads which they occasionally passed. 
               "Miss Frankie, don't fail to notice our post offices. You see we don't often drive into town, and but for this arrangement, our letters would be crippled with old age before we should ever see them." 
               The wooden box fastened to the high gate post seemed an admirable arrangement, which would bear transplanting to Northern regions similarly dependent upon a stage carried mail, and Frankie thought how similarly comfortable might be many a Northern farm house, would its occupants but take the same pains to render it so; and she mentally recalled the many wealthy families she knew in her native state, who lived only to make money, seldom spending a cent for any luxury,-saving, saving, for that "time to come" which they would never recognize as the proper one, in which to reap some enjoyment from the hard earned competency, but by-and-by drop down amid their toil, leaving their miserly stored gains to children, whom parsimonious early experience would doubtless form into splendid prodigals. 
               "There is my home, Miss Frankie; but the house stands so far back, and there are so many trees around it, that you can not see it yet," said Miss Nettie, indicating a cluster of trees near. A grinning little ebony stood swinging on the open gate, and pulled his woolly young forelock respectfully as his young mistress pelted him with a shower of sugar plums. 
               Mrs. Dennison stood on the gallery to meet them, a fine, dignified woman, whom Frankie had before been presented to during her visits to Nettie at the seminary. 
               "I am very happy that Nettie has persuaded you to come with her, at last. Your welcome has long been waiting," she said as she led her into the parlor. 
               "Now, Miss Frankie, please excuse me a little while. I want to look after my old nurse and some of the other servants whose 'Missus' I am. I'll be back again right soon," and without further ceremony Nettie went out, and Frankie heard delighted expressions of welcome from the expectant servants, as the door swung together after her exit. 
               "We shall see no more of her till dark," 
                     obsrved
                     observed
                   Mrs. Dennison. "Her arrival is always the signal for great rejoicing among her negroes, whom she spoils. Her father left her six, and they are the pest of the place. Just do whatever you please, without any ceremony, so that you render yourself comfortable. 
               Dr. Dennison was the step father of Nettie and a brother older, as Frankie knew; and though she had never met him, she was prepared to like him from Nettie's frequent mention of him as "the doctor," which was the only title she ever bestowed upon him. He soon came in, a very pleasant gentleman, but evidently his wife's junior, which accounted for Nettie's unfilial title for him. There were no children from this union, which probably induced a closer affection between him and those of his wife's former marriage; and the Dr., who also had one son by a previous marriage, seemed to enjoy his blessings in a failure of farther progeny. Nettie unriddled the condition of affairs, after she and Frankie had retired to their own room at night. 
               Her own brother, Harry, was away at school, but was soon coming to take possession of the plantation, which was left him by their father, when the Dr. would return to his own home in Florida, which he left upon his marriage, to take charge for Harry till he should be able to assume it for himself. He was coming to do so now, when the Dr. would remove her mother and herself to his own home; and she confessed her project of coaxing her to go with them should she and her parents be mutually pleased. Frankie's spirits rose at the possibility! How glad she should be to possess such a pupil as Nettie, and to live with so pleasant a family as she felt sure they were. It would be more like amusement, than work; and her weary, thankless drudgery at the seminary rose up in vivid contrast to the future she hardly dared anticipate. She was too much excited to sleep, and rising softly in her night robe, she seated herself by the open window which looked out upon the starlit yard shaded by oaks and the silky tufted mimosas, and indulged in the first air castles she had ever built. The drowsy hums of the crickets and locust lulled her at last into a half sleepy state, and with the cool night breeze fanning her feverish brow, upturned from the folded arms that pillowed her head upon the window sill, the active mind grew listless, and from wandering on the borders of dreamland, unconsciously crossed them, and she fell into a sweet sleep. 
               Not even Frankie, heroine in a small way as she was, could support a cold without the ever willing assistance of a swollen nose and puffy eyelids, and she looked at her image the next morning, inclined to believe either that the glass was caricaturing her, or that she had taken a dip into Don Quixote's enchanted castle. Nettie could not restrain a smile at the evident disgust with which she turned away from the mirror, vigorously jerking the tasselled selled cord of her morning dress, which had seen fit to get into a tangle at this inopportune moment; for often one who has passed through real troubles with heroic fortitude, yields irresistibly to the vexation caused by petty perplexities. 
               "Never mind, Miss Frankie, if you are a little out of bloom this morning," laughed Nettie consolingly. "There are no single gentlemen to make ungenerous comments, and ma is certain to like you a heap better for it. The Dr. isn't too old to see, yet, by a mighty sight, which, between you and me, is the very "head and front, &c." 
               Frankie took a suggestion from the hint, and Mrs. Dennison, who like most ladies similarly mated, would gladly have exchanged years with her husband, and was very sensitive under his attentions to younger ladies, was delighted with her deportment, which she pronounced remarkably discreet for one so young and evidently impulsive. Whether or not the Dr. ever gave her provocation for uneasiness, of course Frankie could not yet decide; but that he evidently admired young ladies, and preferred pretty women to ugly ones, was not perhaps wholly unmasculine, or an individual idiosyncrasy, still she saw no reason for his wife's fears who, though no longer young, was scarcely past middle age, and few were gifted with more pleasing features or graceful manners. 
               Frankie was uneasy, despite Nettie's assurance that all was going well, and dared form no expectations upon her brightening prospects, till the proposition was formally made her by Dr. and Mrs. Dennison, to accompany them as Nettie's companion and instructress, to the new home in which they feared she might be lonely unless accompanied by one she knew and loved. There was an insinuated compliment in the form of the proposal, that, whether springing from real regard, or mere courtesy, was very agreeable, and she accepted the offered situation, at once. The details having been satisfactorily arranged, she resigned herself to the contentment she felt, and all now regarding her, as if she were really a member of the family, the house was gay with unrestrained enjoyment, and everything relaxed from the company air which half constrained it despite the graceful hospitality which strove to banish it. 
                
               "Now, Miss Frankie, you must come with me, if you please, and choose your future maid from among my assortment, and I will see that she is ready for you when you come to us in October, since you really wont stay now. Here is Dora, very good and quick. She is rather small now; but you know every day lessens the evil, and every night, too, if she lies out straight in bed; and she will by-and-by make a mighty fine little maid; wont you, Dora? Here is Dinah-she would be good if she could only keep awake long enough to carry out the intention; but she'll fall sound asleep while braiding your hair, and if you want her sometime in never so great a hurry, you may call, and call, and after looking the house over, find her stretching half length under the kitchen stove, in the hottest weather, snoring with her mouth wide open, not even waking to spit out the flies. True, isn't it Dinah? Here is Stella, but she has a trick of falling down stairs, and down everything else where there is any show for the accomplishment, breaking everything she is trusted with except her own head, which is of the lesser consequence; and she can't remember anything long enough to go after it. It isn't much of a lot to choose from, Miss Frankie, but as fair as the average, I reckon." 
               Frankie looked at the good natured faces of the sable owners of these peculiarities, as a little pause before each one brought her into particular notice, and pronounced in favor of Dora, who felt duly honored by the preference, and patiently endured the boxed ear she received as a free gift from "Aunt Prudence," who officiated in the grumbling department, always reversing in her own mind all judgments by others upon whatever subjects, and particularly disliking the favored Dora, whom she styled "a no account young nigger." 
               "Now come, Miss Frankie, and we'll just run down to the quarters and say good bye to them there, as they'll never forgive me if I go away without that," and taking her arm, Nettie led her off. The quarters consisted of about a dozen comfortable houses built upon posts, with four or five board steps leading up in various places to the sort of rude gallery off which opened the doors leading into the different apartments. One or two more pretending ing tenements stood aside by themselves, and a crowd of little "nigs" rolled in the dirt before the cabin doors, as naked and happy as possible. The whole congregation of buildings stood upon the banks of the bayou, from which a supply of sweet, pure water, was easily obtainable, and it looked as peaceful and pleasant a scene as could be found. Much delight was expressed at the young ladies' visit, and each old woman had some occupation in hand which could progress no farther till the "young Missus" had 
                     pronouced
                     pronounced
                   upon its merits. 
               "Lawsee, honey; you must see my new bed-quilt. I was mighty doubtin you'd be down again afore you went away, seein as how de young lady is visitin up at de house, and I wanted Dinah to tote it up to you soon dis mornin; but she's a inperance, Dinah is, and feels to gran for bleege ole nigger like me," and she sat out a stool for one young lady, and wiped with her dress an old veteran of a chair for the other, and proceeded to shake out the voluminous folds of a "blazin star" quilt, for which Nettie had given her the gay materials. Frankie had seen similar brilliant scintillations of fancy among the ambitious young ladies around her own home, and she recalled kindred "risin suns," in whose manufacture the signs of an approaching wedding could be discerned. 
               The deaf old patriarch with an aggravated misery in the bones, and his fat old wife cut in the middle by a red sash squeezed down into a mere string, to show where the waist stopped and the adjoining territory commenced, were visited in their door way, where they sat rocking in two primitive red backed arm chairs done off into little nuggets at the top of each high round extending up the ambitious back, the little, withered up old man looking as if absorbed by his corpulent wife, like many a "quality" couple in the world outside this little cabin door. 
               The carriage was waiting at the door when they returned to the house, and Frankie was startled to see that it was already past school time. Despite the evident truth that she could gain nothing by fretting, she was too impatient, to enjoy the ride back to town, and as soon as they arrived she tossed her hat into the bonnet room and hastened at once to her music room, where she was received by Mr. Jennings, who had waited himself into a very warm condition. 
               "Ahem, Miss Winthrop! I feel it my duty, as guardian of the young ladies confided to my care, to protest against any such deportment among my teachers as you have seen fit to perpetrate." 
               "You may spare yourself the trouble, sir, of course I shall make up after school hours, the time I have lost now." 
               "Certainly! But that is not the only point involved. I always did object, and always shall, to my teachers forming intimacies among the pupils. If there is any thing I am remarkable for, it is for laying down strict rules." 
               "Will you have the goodness, sir, to leave me in possession of my room. The bell will strike in a moment, and I wish to arrange a lesson I am then to give one of my pupils," and she bowed him out so resolutely, holding open the door, that there was no alternative. 
               However, this disgrace in Mr. Jennings' estimation was of slight comparison to that which befell her the following Saturday. The kitchen was a theater of amusing incidents and exhibition of darkey character not to be resisted by a privileged spectator, and she often made her way into it, as a relief from the primness which pervades the very air of a young ladies' finishing school. The cook was a sable amazon of untiring energies, and directed every one around her, with a multiplicity of detail that would have honored a Napoleon. Turning from some mess she was concocting over the stove, she shook a long handled spoon at one of her aids de cuisine exclaiming, "Here you Tildy! For de Lord's sake, how much longer you gwine for sot dar in de winder eatin? Ef you isn't de eatinest mortal I eber seed! Come now and tote me in some wood. You, Sal, pick up dat ar pecaninny and nuss it; little debil han't had nuffin for eat dis hull day. You got no bowelses of kermpassion in your gizzard. Pin up dat nasty coat in front. Nuff to make a pussoc throw up, to see such caperbilities fur dirt." 
               Then would succeed a vigorous stirring and beating of some steaming compound, and she would again burst into speech- 
                
               "Heah, all you cheap niggers settin round de stoves, you'd better be a leffin. Lord, you makes de room so dark can't see nuffin! You, Jim, get along wid your ugly carcase, you no account nigga, been starvin for a patch on de seat of your breeches dese six weeks, and too tarnal lazy to go put it on! Go tote all these squallin pecaninnies roun to the wash room and shut em in. I spects the young ladies roun de winder for the turnobers, now ebry minute," and her "spectations" would be realized by a file of them marching by and catching the turn-over pies she tossed them, and walking on as though nothing contraband had occurred. Mr. Jennings had vainly lectured upon the subject, and scolded the cook for thus appropriating the supplies for her own aggrandizement, as she received a picayune for every smuggled article thus dealt out against orders. Sundays furnished a sore temptation, in the fine opportunities for the manufacture of the saleable articles, while all sharp eyes and noses were in church, and fine chances to dispose of them when the thirsty young ladies surrounded the pumps close by the window, upon their return. 
               Sundays are proverbially hungry days, and Frankie, who had excused herself from the hot services in the stifling church upon this hottest of all created Sundays, and communion one at that, determined to patronize the cook, herself. The pupils had been excused from church and sent back to the hall with an uncommuning teacher, and the usual line past the window was 
                     reciving
                     receiving
                   the customary attention, as she stepped into the favored corner and said-"Give me two of your nice turnovers, aunty. Here's your dime, and you know I never have told tales out of your premises." 
               "Lord lub you honey! Ole aunty don't want your money; here's de turnobers, and don't get cotched wid em." 
               Frankie deposited the treasures in the end of her scarf, but they were hotter than the fiery furnace, and feeling her fingers smarting warningly, she was just sliding them around a little, preparatory to mounting the stairs which led up to her room, on the outside of the building, when one of them came ungratefully out into the light of day and into the very presence of Mr. Jennings himself, who had foregone his communion that day for the express purpose of taking observations, and from his concealment under the stair-case had kept an accurate account of every offending young lady who had unsuspectingly nibbled her bon bouche under his very eyes. Frankie laughed, as he raised his eyes in horrified surprise, and said-"Put my name down at the head of that list, Mr. Jennings. But you'd better take a pie yourself, and be comfortable! I wont peach on you." 
               The young ladies were in high glee at their own probable escape from the impending harangue, since it would never do for him to include one of his assistant teachers in it, and could not well remain oblivious to her equal offence, while rebuking theirs. 
               Mr. Jennings was in despair. But the only course he could pursue was to maintain a dignified silence, officially, which he did; but he consoled himself by unlimited private suggestions upon the duty of teachers setting an example of propriety before the pupils, and assisting to maintain authority; in which she perfectly agreed with him. Evils and sorrows counteract each other, and he became resigned to this, as woe befell him from another quarter. He had been wont to make his appearance in the school room, beslouched in a dressing gown which had probably in some past time been new and clean, but which had long survived that period in its existence, and the young ladies felt their dignity quite insulted by its thread-bare appearance in many places, soiled in all, and the collar in particular giving evidence of liberal donations of best bear's oil from the generous locks which sought its neighborhood. 
               It disappeared from his room, and great was the inquiry made for it. That some of the young ladies had made away with it was more than probable, and he bent all his energies to the discovery of the offenders, whom he warned in assembly that they should be made an example of. Not a circle of them gathered for social converse, but some delegated spy was among them, and detectives lurked behind every door and sheltered place. But threats had lent terror to their secresy, and despite all the room-searching, and secret vigilance, no trace of it was discovered, and it doubtless met an ignominious death in some unexplored region, and oblivion overwhelmed it. Mr. Jennings was not very tenderly parental, even in professions, for an interval; but popularity was to be earned even at the expense of private revenge; and he covered his mourning for the missing garment under assumed smiles, which were strained out of all shape and comeliness, and some feminine brain kept its secret to the end. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               UNUSUAL exertions were necessary to perfect the pupils in their exercises for the approaching exhibition, and the confusion of pianos in all parts of the building was like an aggravated chorus of sleighbells. The last day of June came, ushering in the important day, and nothing was done through it but to decorate the large assembly room, and exercise each debutante at the pianos, placed on the flower-crowned platform upon which all the pupils were to be seated. The whole Seminary was one vast dressing room, in which they were all day arranging and trying on toilets for the evening, and elaborately braiding, curling, and otherwise torturing hair, stimulating and encouraging each other with compliments and prophecies of the sensation to result from such successful efforts. The room was crowded, and suffocating with the perfume of flowers destined as trophies for the musical performers, as Frankie walked upon the platform and seated herself near her pupils. The ceremonies opened with a characteristic little oration from Mr. Jennings, and the opening "Duett: from Traviata: by the Misses Jennings," sat the pianos going. The shower of bouquets at its conclusion turned Frankie sick with their heavy odor; but she endured all to the end of the exercises, heard the usual verdict of "decided success," as she made her way out through the crowd, and gaining her own room threw herself wearily upon the bed, where she was found by "Madame" who was looking for her, with a handsome bouquet intended for her by her "chronically young" admirer, and which her rapid egress had prevented him from presenting in person. 
               "Throw it out of the window, 'Madame,' do: I shall never want to see another flower as long as I live. Oh, I was so sick the whole time!" 
               But she was better the next morning, and received with admiration, the banished bouquet which "Madame" had kindly cared for. She was putting the last articles into her trunk, soon after breakfast, when Mrs. Jennings came in quite amused, and with much vivacity informed her that young Blake, her admirer, was in the parlor, and had asked for her. Thinking that he had called only to make his adieus, as she was to leave at dark, she went in to receive them, but grew discouraged when at the end of the first hour he showed no evidences of any intention to go, but sat around with that nothing-particular-to-say manner which betokens the setting in of a long visitation. He looked painfully warm, too, in a black dress suit and dark green kid gloves, his shirt front adorned with an immense diamond cluster, and cravat of miraculous tie; and he snarled his long limbs among the chairs and around the table legs, and felt of his fingers uneasily, as though accustomed to crack their joints for amusement, he felt lost to have them imprisoned and uncrackable. "Madame" came to the rescue, and was reinforced by Mrs. Jennings in her lively, out-of-husband-sight deportment, and, being thoroughly fatigued and sleepy, Frankie went to her own room and to bed for a nap, from which the dinner bell roused her. She descended to the dining hall, congratulating herself upon so fortunate an escape from a threatening day, but felt the cloud descend again when she saw there at the table, young Blake himself, still in his green kids, and looking not a whit cooler or less heavy. But "Madame" monopolized him, entirely, and so continued to do up to the very hour of their departure, till which he persistently lingered. 
               The teachers had all of them telegraphed to New Orleans to engage passage upon the same steamer, certain to be filled and crowded at this season of the year with people leaving the city, and had been notified to be on the wharf boat at the river landing, by nine o'clock that evening, and a hand car was chartered to take them out to it, that they might escape the heat of the last train, leaving at noonday. As they walked down to the depot, Blake escaped the momentarily off guard "Madame," and joining Frankie, who was at the rear of the line, said hesitatingly and growing warmer as he spoke, "Miss Winthrop, I was going to say something to you to-day-but-" 
               "Oh, you said abundantly sufficient, sir: don't distress yourself, for no one can be very sociable with the 
                     thermomter
                     thermometer
                   at a hundred and ten in the shade. Tell me of your mother. Is she recovering from her illness?" 
               "Yes ma'am, she is a mighty sight better now;-but-Miss Winthrop-what should you say-if-I should write?" 
               "Oh, a good idea, much practice is necessary to attain a fine hand, and the pen of a ready writer, you know, is a thing of grace. You can hardly practise too much, I should say." 
               "But you don't understand me. I don't like to practise; I'd a heap rather-I mean-The truth is, and I must say it-" 
               "Oh, there, the wind has snatched my handkerchief! Do, please, Mr. Blake-you are so kind!" and before the stray bit of cambric was captured, they were at the platform beside which the car was awaiting them. He stood lingering and wistful, and the matron said playfully, 
               "Mr. Blake it is to be regretted that this car can't accommodate you; but I am sure 'madame' would appreciate the compliment if you were to follow her on horseback." 
               "Oh do, Meester Blake," rejoined "madame;" but he knew it was impossible, and looked pathetically at the seemingly unconscious Frankie as they bowed their adieus and rolled away; and shrugging her shoulders "madame" exclaimed,- "It is one very large peety that his senses are not as bright as his diamonds. He is vairy reech, so that I suppose some one will find him to be very witty, je ne sais pas how such green boys are made." 
               The rising clouds and increasing wind heralded a shower which would prove painfully de trop in that trip out to the river, all unprepared for it as they were, and the negroes made faithful efforts to accomplish it before it should descend upon them, but the car wheels had been taken off to administer an encouraging dose of oil, and screwed on again so tight that it was with difficulty they could be induced to work at all, and there was no way now to remedy the difficulty. They had evidently commenced a regular "Independence tight" in honor of the approaching national "Fourth," and at every up hill grade the most superhuman efforts were necessary to force them to move at all, two of the negroes going behind and pushing, in mortal fear as they were of the snakes hidden in the grass between the ties, who thus came out at night for the air and food the hot ground would not permit them to enjoy by day. But the crowning obstinacy was displayed when they were firmly fixed on some uncovered bridge-and these seemed multiplied for the occasion-the space between the ties being an unstep-able distance, over which it became a problem how they were to proceed. But it was accomplished, and they reached the river at near midnight, breathless with anxiety lest the steamer should have passed. She had not, and they were in time; so, repairing to the cabin of the wharf boat, they sought that feminine refuge from all care, and atonement for all trouble-sleep. 
               It was nearly two o'clock when the steamer's lights were seen approaching from around the bend in the river, and all awoke at the announcement. She drew quickly along-side, and the collection of baskets, trunks, carpet-sack and band-boxes-which, impatient to be off, had gone out on the noon train to look up the steamer-were tossed on board, and stumbling up stairs in the dim light, the ladies were shown to their waiting state-rooms, and went sleeping up the river. Oh the breathless, torturing heat of that midsummer voyage! The very water rolling in muddy currents beneath the sputtering wheels, was warranted to swallow any quantity of ice without winking, and the roofs of the state rooms were so hot they would have hissed like an insulted flat-iron, had they been subjected to the same trying treatment! It was impossible to exist in a dressed-up state after ten o'clock in the morning, and occasionally opened doors afforded brief glimpses of indefinite supplies of floor-bestretched beauty not adorned too much. The call to dinner put some animation into these woe-begone figures, who came out one by one with sadly melted looks and depressed manners, scarcely summoning enough vigor to join in the evening hop. 
               At Cairo the party separated, to pursue each her individual way, and "Madame" was not a little flustered by having been wakened at so early an hour, scolding away the numerous ambassadors sent from the clerk's office to summon her to prepare to disembark. Frankie, whose state room was adjoining, having heard the trouble, came to the rescue, and insisting upon the door being opened, a portion of a black silk night cap became visible through an ungracious aperture, and from beneath it issued the voice of "Madame." "You bad girl, to trouble me so, when you know that I like so much to sleep in the morning. Go right away!" 
               "But "Madame," this is Cairo, and the clerk is in despair because you wont get up, if you are to get off here." 
               The door was jammed together, and a sound of hurrying from within the room, evolved "Madame," who, issuing, seized Frankie by the shoulder, and shaking her vigorously, exclaimed, "You bad, bad girl! There you have been dancing and flirting with the clerk till eleven o'clock last night, and you could not make me to know what time we get here this day!" 
               "Indeed, "Madame," I had no idea we should get in before this evening, and as I saw you sagely receiving his attentions, I had no doubt you were fully informed upon the subject." 
               "Madame" made no pretence of listening to the explanation, but rushed to the office to pay her fare from the money whose corset-ripping disgorgement had still farther belated her, but she felt better when she reached the stair-case, and turning, she kissed Frankie very kindly and said,-"I hope you have vairy much good fortune in this world; but you must stop teaching before you make your temper to be spoiled, if you wish ever to enter Heaven. There, good bye," and with a last wave of her handkerchief as the boat swung round from the landing, "Madame" disappeared among the crowd upon the levee. 
                
               Frankie was left alone now: but the cooler weather of the North had set in, and with a pile of books lent her by the obliging clerk, she occupied the few remaining hours of her own voyage. 
               The very noise and commotion of the railroad train was refreshing after the monotonous river travel, and the sense of "getting on," consoled her for the additional fatigue, as she neared home. 
               Strange inconsistency of the human heart! Sadly as she had longed for the sight of her native hills, the first view of them brought back the old, weary weight to her heart, and she felt as if the old imprisonment had again shut down around her. Strange recurring revolutions of by-gone suffering, which for years and years sweep over us when the scenes of that suffering rise before us! Ineffaceable by any after troubles, undimmed through all the turmoil of busy life; waking ever into a present sting, as some tone familiar in the old time of pain, strikes into resonant discord every lacerated heart-sting we had covered from sight, and so believed dead! Perhaps in this world there are few returns to one's early home unembittered by some remembrances we would gladly crush out forever; wrongs over which we would gladly draw the mantle of charity, wounds received from hands possibly more careless than designing, but which refuse to heal, and whose re-opening seams call forth the cry, "all things are covered with the dust and ashes of bitterest disappointment, memory is the curse of life; for the stung heart there is no care, for the wrung soul no Lethe's waters." 
               Frankie marvelled much at the little change this past year so full of experience to her, had produced in the old place. The same flower beds bloomed with the familiar flowers; the fennel stalks waved their seedy old heads as she remembered them many a morning ago when she had culled them, for their inspiration through the long, drowsy Sabbath services; and she could identify the very blue birds whose yearly progeny she had protected for successive seasons, from covetous cathood by much broomstick exercise, and waste of the cool precious water she would have given much for one draught of, while condemned to the ropy cistern water of a torrid land during the southern drouth. The old time broods of chickens bobbed in and out among the weeds, to the ceaseless clucking of the self-important hen mothers, while those condemned to barren nests, ran restlessly around the yard, frightened from every sitting posture by the red flannel streamers tied round their tails; and the green and yellow patriarch crowned with the same overawing magnificence, as he displayed his knightly spurs before the admiring females of his flock, who followed him with laudable faith and submission. She laughed as she thought how many times she had "rousted" them from their family seats, by covering their heads with her sun-bonnet, preparatory to throwing them away by their tail feathers, which often seceded and remained in her fingers after the old hen had left; and she recalled her first horrid sensation of having committed a murder, as one plucky ancestress having flown at her avengingly, received a conquering blow which placed her upon the list of killed, wounded and missing, from which she at last returned a sadder if not a wiser hen. 
               The same thieving old dog who had resisted the effect of all administered "buttons" having now arrived at a successful old age, claimed his reward of merit in the wood house corner, from which he gnashed his toothless gums in impotent rage when his old enemy, the cat, came near, which she often took pains to do as if in triumph at her own unimpaired usefulness and thievishness. 
               All these things Frankie examined first in detail, because they were unmingled with any personal bitterness, and she hoped the old troubles would rest during her visit. My father had greeted her affectionately, and even my mother had called up some cordiality in her welcome, while Maria neglected to scold for one whole day, though she was evidently seeking some excusable occasion upon the dawn of the second. 
               "I suppose you made an independent fortune down in the Mississippi swamps, didn't you?" she asked at the breakfast table. 
               "Oh yes," replied Frankie carelessly, thinking it the best way to avoid the rising cloud. 
                
               My mother had been laboring under an unnatural suppression of her ideas, and glad that the way was opened for relief, suggested, 
               "It must have cost you a power o' money to make such expensive journies. How could you think o' payin so much jes to come home for two or three months, as you say you're goin back?" 
               "Mother, I did not come back to very pleasant memories, at best, but my health really required me to come north through these hot months, and if I am not welcome at home I can hire my board somewhere else." 
               My father interposed, "Your mother does not mean that you are unwelcome, Frankie; but we were reckoning your probable expenditures last night, and concluded you had better not go back South, but teach the winter school here next term. They pay two hundred dollars a year, and you can save most all of it if you are economical like the rest of us." 
               "Father, my arrangements are my own, and I have decided upon them. I have asked nothing of any of you, and only claim the privilege of earning my bread where, and as I find most agreeable. At the very first unkind discussion raised upon them, I will leave, and that forever." 
               There was a brighter color in her cheeks, and her eyes were brimming, as she spoke the words with a little ring in her always clear tones, and an awkward silence followed them. 
               All were electrified by the sudden dropping in among us of Tam O'Shanter himself. He was perfectly unexpected, even by Frankie, as having only recently received her letter announcing her own coming, he had suddenly determined to meet her, and started at once. His presence always kept the household the most amiable side out, and Mrs. Duncan came home to see him in a much less acid condition than usual, and really abstained from giving expression to the scathing comments which had been ripening for Frankie ever since she had learned that she was expected home. My father brightened again from the low melancholy which had gradually settled down upon him, and did not mention "the country poor house" to which he declared himself hastening, for a longer time than he had kept silence upon it for a year. He was actually miserable from this continual fear, despite his fair acres and untouched bank stocks, and the always closely calculated household expenses were curtailed and bemoaned unceasingly. My mother humored and fostered the idea, and pinched in all ways over the verge of meanness, and Maria, whose old threats to "accept the first offer" had resulted in nothing, perhaps only for lack of a test to her resolution, grew sharper every day as she waited for the offers that never came. Frankie saw it all; even sooner than Tam, who sought in all ways to rouse his father from this hypochondriacal condition, and showed him the carefully prepared lines of figures compiled from hours of calculation, which he hoped would convince him of the utter improbability of such a denouement to his career. Momentarily he would brighten, and running his finger down the columns he would say, "See my son. All this will be yours by and by. I always wanted a son to leave it to, and you must leave it to yours, that our family name may always be well supported. I shall leave you everything, Tam, everything." All efforts to arouse his justice towards his daughters were unavailing. 
               "No, no! 'Give your sons a fortune, and let your daughters marry one.' No scamp shall marry one of my girls for her money!" 
               "But, father, there is no danger of that, Maria never will marry, probably, money or none; and Frankie I shall always provide with home and protection if she will let me. One or two of the girls are already widows, and need assistance even now." 
               "Now, my son, you do wrong to vex me! I'm willing to do all I can; but I'm an old man now, earning nothing, and the poor house draws painfully near." And such being invariably the only result, Tam ceased his useless efforts, confining his generous projects in his own breast till they should become feasible. My father had formerly been scrupulous in his dress, never indulging in anything in the least approaching to extravagance, but painfully sensitive to soils and tears, and utterly disdaining to profit by my mother's ingenious talent for patching; but now he paid it scrupulous honor, and his coats were literally Joseph-like, without the dignity of wholeness pertaining to the garment, in the many colored pieces which bloomed upon the elbows and other unreliable places, while his pantaloons exhibited a rear guard more conspicuous than dignified. His hat, too, was a subject of much irreverent comment, and unheeding Tam's suggestion that it would make a capital hen's-nest, he wore it till its ridiculous appearance would have raised the shouts of "young America," save for the real worth and dignity of the wearer. It had in its youth been a tolerably stylish hat, of good morals, walking reverently into church with the last stroke of the bell, and retiring to its closet upon its return, as hats of the passing generation were wont to do; but it had been spoiled, latterly, by wearing of it every day, till it was an object for pity as it rested lame and sore upon the window-sill over night. Its weak sides were battered by many a contusion, and an unguarded sitting down had made a breech near its crown, which gave it a tip to the eastward from which no coat-sleeve rubbing, and bolstering caresses, could win it. It looked limp and tearful enough as it essayed to stand alone when deprived of the honored head which lent success to its efforts; but it roused a little when its wearer donned it with all the respect he had paid it in its palmy days, and when the sun came out, it seemed quite to revive in the invigorating rays. 
               Irreverent hands laid hold of it when out of the protecting presence, and a mysterious blue blaze issuing from the too quickly opened stove, elicited from my mother, "Why that burns like old wool! I wouldn't wonder if Tam had destroyed his father's old hat. I hope he han't, for he'd be so lost without it!" 
               And so he was, utterly refusing to be comforted by the present of a new one, and from the many mournful complaints which followed it one might have imagined that some unregenerated member of the family had come to similar grief in fulfillment of the ministerial prophecy. I think my father had typified the bearing of some spiritual cross, in the mortification he must have endured in wearing his ludicrously bepatched clothes, for he turned sadly away from all new ones, and bemoaned the prodigality of the rising generation, in the first insinuated reproaches he had ever breathed against Tam. He was really breaking down with age, physically as well as mentally, and as his resisting power weakened, the one fault of his character came out with painful distinctness, and the foreclosure of the mortgage upon Ellen's home, was the chronic form it seemed to assume, over and above all other expression. In whatever project any money was to be invested, this sum was the very one needed, and only by Mr. Duncan's efforts and continual watchfulness was he restrained. 
               Tam received a happy letter from Houghton, announcing his approaching examination for admittance to the bar, and also, that if he should prove successful, he intended to leave his native state and seek a home in the West where young men had less to contend with in starting in life, and might sooner arrive at some enviable position; and Tam rejoiced at the wisdom of his decision. He entertained no doubt of his friend's success, and fully sympathized with his ambition. Houghton's letter, too, spoke of Frankie, mingling her with his hopes and aspirations in a way that brought additional color to her cheeks, but from what emotion, Tam could not decide, and as he felt no ambition to win laurels, or their opposites, in the field of match-making, he did not ask her for any explanation. Whether or not she reaped the expected recreation and benefit from her old haunts, she certainly was, as ever, very happy with Tam, who formed many plans for what they would do when he should have completed his fortune, and she did not think it necessary to chill him by avowing her own unweakened resolution to be independent of all-even of him-and to exercise to the last, her prerogative of self maintenance. 
               The weeks sped by so rapidly she feared to count them, heralds as they were of another indefinite separation. Tam had seen astonishingly little of domestic life, and was never tired of observing its homely details. He lingered around the kitchen, watching the mysterious compilation of pies, and their brotherhood, and had he retained tained a memory of half the cookery receipts, or a third part of the garrulous explanations regarding backstitching, felling, and sewing "over-hand," poured upon him by his proud mamma, his head would have proved a valuable acquisition in any well regulated family. But it was much to be feared that what fell upon his ears slid off of the smile upon his lips. 
               He was particularly edified by the coming-to-tea department of the nice old ladies, who, having wearied of their own steeping, went abroad for a change, and he listened with polite attention to all the contending tea making factions, one stating very confidently, "There can't be no improvement on the old rule-one teaspoonful for every two persons and one for the pot, and then bile it five minutes," while another warmly insisted that "bilin spiles tea, as every body knows! The way to beat all nater on it, is to put in a plenty, and then draw it slow," and the whole number would listen in absorbed interest, looking over the tops of their spectacles at the speaker, balancing their own well filled saucers meantime between the extended first and second fingers of their right hand, with the slightly curved thumb bringing up the inner side, in that peculiar way known to tea-drinking old ladies alone. Tam declared that their sage, knowing expression of features, as they thus discussed the important topic, was a fit subject for a painter; and he wondered why old ladies wear spectacles when they always look over the top of them if particularly interested, or desirous to see well. 
               He discovered, too, that elderly ladies are, as they assert, "good at readin young gals and seein through their artful ways," that "Arabelly Jones'es curls an't no more nateral than my-I mean your foretop," and that another "artful minx wears one false fore tooth, for all it looks so nateral, and proberly is the best one she's got in her head," and as many more "unbecoming" items as he could demurely sit under; and he was sufficiently a graceless scamp to laud a certain custom of the Chinese, which shall be nameless. 
               "I tell you what it is, Frankie," said he laughingly, "The Cornish miners have a custom of selling their wives, five cents being about the average price, and the sale is binding and the bargain past being flown if the purchase money is true silver. My opinion is, that unless they are warranted not to turn old and spiteful upon the buyer's hands, five cents in good money is an exorbitant price!" 
               September lingered with her warm smiles in that year of grace, and the occasional frosts that stole round at night for a winter reconnoissance, vanished in the first beams of the morning sun, leaving everywhere traces of tears for the scared blossoms which had drooped their heads and trembled in their presence. 
               Warned away by the changing autumn tints, Tam and Frankie left us; one for the semi-arctic regions in which he pursued "the fickle goddess," and the other for the soft air and oriental scenery of southern Florida, in which the Dennisons awaited her. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               FRANKIE'S sea voyage was accomplished without any untoward incident, and as the steamer rounded up to the wharf of the little city skirting the crescent outline round which they had glided, she saw Nettie, and a young gentleman who, from his resemblance to the doctor she rightly judged to be his son, waiting to receive her. She was quickly clasped in an enthusiastic embrace, and then presented to Mr. Howard Dennison, who begged to be made useful in superintending the disposal of her baggage. It was quickly pounced upon by a stout negro whose mission it was to "tote the plunder," and they soon accomplished the short distance up to the house, which, with its pleasant verandas looked out upon the sea from among the chapperal and almond trees which shaded the yard. She looked out upon the landscape with delight, so singularly picturesque with the blooming trees and shrubs all new to her, and the graceful varieties of palm trees waving their fringed branches in the playing sea breeze, which was seldom still even in the warmest days. Dora had skilfully arranged her shining braids, and assisted to dress her in the flowing white muslin which the warm October day rendered most luxurious and appropriate, and she knew that longer lingering was inexcusable, as the family awaited her re-appearance below stairs. The Dr. and Mrs. Dennison met her cordially, as she entered the cool, pleasantly darkened parlor through which the breeze stirred refreshingly, and Howard wheeled a chair for her near the pleasantest window, through which floated the delicious fragrance of the blooming oleanders, mingled with the more heavy perfume of the wax flowers, and other beautifully tinted blossoms with which the yard was gay. It looked like a paradise, and she earnestly hoped that no skeleton concealed its hideous shape in any recess or corner of it. Mrs. Dennison was the embodiment of graceful hospitality, and listened with manifest enjoyment as Frankie complied with her request to try the new piano which had stood invitingly open, much to her previous temptation. It was perfect in tone and action, and she was delighted with it, as visions of many happy hours in its companionship rose before her. 
               The first two or three days were given up entirely to rest after her journey, whose wave-tetering motion still confused her brain, and Nettie and Howard accompanied her in delightful rambles along the sea side, from which they returned with many trophies; and hours were spent in pressing out the bright sea flowers washed up from unknown depths and tossed upon the coral rocks, by the play of the waters. Delicate shells, whose fairy-like workmanship would scarcely permit the touch of the most delicate fingers, clustered in the receptacles which bore them carefully home, and unlimited varieties of coral whose marvellous creation was unrivalled in form and color, added themselves to the collection which soon adorned her room. The comical "soldier crabs," too, afforded them no little amusement, wandering around Atlas-like with their world upon their backs, in the form of a sea shell, into which having twisted their tails, they traveled off industriously, and in case of alarm with no friendly crack near into which to retreat, suddenly drew in their whole bodies, leaving their fortress to lie naturally upon the ground like the most innocent shell old ocean ever "threw up." They were great fighters, too, these miniature men at arms, and when an injudiciously chosen fortress became untenable, instead of making a journey to the beach and selecting another, they relied upon muscle, and forced some more fortunate possessor to vacate his probably ill-gotten premises, into which the conqueror removed, and thus reaped the spoils of a well earned victory, leaving the last poor victim of war to make a holy pilgrimage for another castle, out of a series of which, the fate of repeated battles had cheated him altogether. 
                
               The lessons commenced, and things soon fell into an established routine over which Mrs. Dennison presided with a rigor not to have been anticipated from her company deportment, and Frankie soon learned that she possessed a natural little talent for tyranny, under which all the family suffered according to position, and against which the Dr. politely protested in the presence of others, but she suspected not so politely in the retirement of their own room. The servants who belonged to his establishment, illy concealed their dislike to her sway, under the respectful deportment they were accustomed to yield to color irrespective of relative position, and many a sigh followed her retreating footsteps, as they said among themselves, "Tings was oderwise in de times ob de old missus." Still there were no rude scenes. Everything moved on in the quiet, polite cycle enjoined by society, and the family was by every one considered an illustration of perfect peace and harmony. Howard was a fine young fellow, most punctiliously polite and attentive to the ladies, like his father, whose image he was, and, a fact Mrs. Dennison was the first to discover, was more than usually kind and attentive to Frankie, who was innocent of observing it. How long he might have remained half in ignorance, himself, of his own interested motives, is questionable, had not his step-mother awakened him to a sense of them by a vigorously urged warning to beware how he awakened in the young governess' mind any expectations that could never be realized. Howard started up in sudden embarrassment, neither prepared to admit or deny the implications against him, and at last coming to a rest by the piano upon which he played disconnected chords in soft accompaniment to the conversation, he asked, "What do you mean by 'awakening expectations?' I have not the least idea that Miss Frankie imagined me sentimentally inclined toward her-'interested,' is the orthodox term, isn't it?-she would encourage it one moment." 
               "Perhaps not. But most young ladies who come South to teach, perceive nothing very disagreeable in a husband beyond the ostensibly cherished blackboard; particularly if a fortune and an agreeable person are accompaniments." 
                
               "Thank you," he replied bowing good humoredly; and not caring to continue the subject, he took his hat, and with much ceremony walked out, leaving her quite unable to decide upon his sentiments relative to the subject which not a little interested her. 
               Though Frankie observed that the Dr. nearly always accompanied them, now, when Howard took her and Nettie out for a stroll, she did not attach any importance to it beyond a slight uneasiness lest it should prove a cause of offence to Mrs. Dennison, and even this subsided as she observed that so far from any such effect being produced, she often, herself, would call him as they three sat out, pleasantly proposing that he should join them, and warning him to make a good display of his gallantry, when, with much playful ceremony, he offered his arm to Frankie, and all bowed their adieus. Thus affairs progressed for some time; but observing that the young people seemed perfectly satisfied with the arrangement, while the Dr. positively enjoyed it, her active mind conceived another suspicion, and a visible cloud swept over her face at every attention offered by him to the quickly observing Frankie, who avoided them in every possible way. 
               Howard reaped the reward of his patient good nature, as they were at last left again to themselves after lesson hours, and mentally decided that overly-suspicious guardians offer a high premium for hypocrisy. Even the vigilance of Mrs. Dennison herself, seemed completely off guard, and in her exclusive attention to the deportment of her husband, all uneasiness regarding that of Howard, ceased. An uncontrollable fascination kept him ever near the room in which the young ladies sat before their easels, and persuading himself that he felt a real enthusiasm for the art, he uncompromisingly entered and sat by while the painting progressed amid much pleasant chatting and cheerful little snatches of song. It was to be regretted that no more profitable occupation employed his hours; but he endured his idleness with supreme philosophy, and could be traced all over the house by the evidences of his whittlings, for which accomplishment he possessed a yankee talent. Frankie smiled at his dominion ion over Nettie's easel, attributing to her, the evident attraction which rendered him unable to content himself among his own pursuits, while Nettie's prepossession for him was perfectly visible to every one but himself, and the three lived on very happily together, unruffled by the occasional storms below stairs, whose traces were visible in the faces of the master and mistress of the mansion. 
               The special object of Mrs. Dennison's ill will now seemed one of the servants, a very pretty, light mulatto girl, who had been born and reared in the house, and she often threatened her that she should be sold, never failing to urge the project upon the Dr. when any accident or oversight brought the girl into notice. Frankie observed with pain, that Lucy often could not restrain her tears under the harsh reprimands she received from her mistress, sometimes concurred in by her master himself, who was irritated that she should excite remark by any sins of commission or omission when her very position in the family was so troublesome; and she was often puzzled by the peculiar look not unmingled with contempt, with which Howard glanced at the contending parties. Nettie, who was as free and communicative as a child, accidently enlightened her, by remarking, "How singular it is that ma should be jealous of Lucy! She has always been petted in the house, here, because she was the child of the first Mrs. Dennison's maid, and actually named by her mistress for herself. She actually asked me once if I didn't fancy a strong resemblance between the Dr. and Lucy, and when I couldn't help laughing at the absurd idea, she took up another, and I'm right sorry for it. The Dr. is a heap above ma's suspicions." 
               "Oh Nettie! is it possible"- 
               "Quite so, I assure you. It often happens so among us at the South, and half the women I know, fret themselves old and miserable in the same way. You Northerners must be a mighty happy people. You can't have the half to trouble you!" 
               "I don't know, Nettie. The world I suspect, is pretty much the same everywhere. I can't see that its troubles are any more easy to be borne in one part of it than another." 
                
               "Miss Frankie, have you any troubles, that you speak so wisely?" 
               "Oh yes, you've painted that figure in your foreground with the face on the wrong side; or is he imitating Mrs. Lott?" 
               "He does look salt-wards, it's a fact! Thank Florida for turpentine," and effacing the offending individual's upper regions, she worked away in silence for a few moments, removing the countenance from its guard over the back, and leaving it to be presumed to exist where a face ought to be, during which operation Howard walked in, as usual whittling, and stood looking over her head at the picture, and at last curiously exclaimed, 
               "Do tell me, Nettie, what on earth that respectable looking old gentleman is doing in so wild and unpromising a region as that. He won't find hemp enough there with which to hang himself, as an escape from starvation." 
               "Oh, he's hunting up echoes which have run astray among the rocks, I reckon. Don't be too inquisitive, for his personal appearance is prepossessing. Don't you see there's grace in his steps and-" 
               "Probably a patch on his breeches, if you wern't ashamed of it." 
               "Not a speck of it. There's your patch, and of another color too, as, true to life and its experiences, the original pantaloons timber is all used up," and while explaining, she had painted on a most faithful patch exactly where such a reinforcement is usually first necessary. Frankie laughed, as she noted the effect, giving a ludicrous suggestion of a human avalanche down one of the slippery rocks, and Howard assured Nettie that if she could perform that repairing process with a needle and thread as skilfully as with her brush, she would make a rare little wife for some mortal; a remark which brought a more vivid tint to her always rosy face, which the stupid fellow did not interpret, much to Frankie's vexation. 
               Howard saw, at last, what direction Frankie's suppositions had taken, and he was desponding enough, as he saw. how little success her cheerfulness and evident pleasure under his supposed addresses to another, boded to his real suit. It became unbearable, at last, this suspense and evident misunderstanding, and the change in his manner would have impressed the real truth upon her, even without the few impassioned words he uttered in a chance unaccompanied moment. A stunning confusion overwhelmed her, as she was thus compelled to meet it openly, and she would not have been human had she failed to consider all the advantages such a marriage would bring her. She was poor, literally earning her own bread; for what to her were the fair paternal acres in which she had no share, and the hoarded possessions from which she had seldom enough received a dollar, nor probably ever should; while this union would bring her at once wealth and social position. Howard certainly was not exactly the style of person she would have chosen in a husband; but he was young, and purpose and dignity would come with years, while his cheerful disposition, his pleasant manners, and thorough goodness of heart, were forcible pleaders for him. But Nettie-what would she think and feel? and Frankie reproached herself that she should not first have thought of her. But sophistry came convincingly to her aid. Nettie was very young, prepossessed in his favor by their relative positions, and doubtless fancied him in a romantic little way, only because she had no other shrine for her imagination to worship at; and as Frankie thought all this, she wavered. 
               She remembered the heart flutter occasioned by Houghton's mention of her in his letter to Tam, but what was it, after all? A possibly evanescent sentiment whose very continuance hinged upon the chances of success or failure, very liable to fade out entirely in the pursuit of his ambition, and its necessary absorption of his faculties, and destined never to be even confessed if he should fail; for she knew he would never breathe it to her unless he were abundantly able to place her among surroundings which would content him; and he was not easily satisfied. She knew that he had been admitted to the bar of his native state, and also of a western one where he had commenced practising; but she knew, too, that years might elapse before he could attain any eminence, or even a liberal income; and she would have persuaded herself that it was her duty to provide for herself by a settlement in life while she might do so advantageously, and thus effectually prevent any accident from throwing her a pensioner upon Tam, to become a poor, relation-bone of contention between him and the wife he would doubtless soon enough take unto himself. But often as she would have decided, she was unable to do so, and resolving to leave destiny to decide, as it would, at last, for all her own resolutions and despite all her decisions, she dismissed the subject from any farther mental discussions, and floated down the eddying current of her life as she found most agreeable. 
               Thus the short winter, more resembling a mild spring than anything else, passed away, and the fierce heats of summer came on and brooded over the little city. But for the blessed trade winds the sultry weather would have been unendurable, and Frankie wondered what it would become when the July heats should succeed to the as yet comparative mildness of late spring. Cool, fresh pictures of northern latitudes played ever before her fancy; but she waved them off as she remembered what her last visit home would have been save for Tam's opportune arrival, and recalled her sensations as her native state faded from her view when she last left it-an earnest wish that she might never see it more. 
               She had resolved to pass this entire summer in the South, and she would do so if she perished; and bathing her aching head she would summon her fortitude and proceed with her tasks. The domestic life had in no way changed in the Dennison establishment, save that a comparative quiet for awhile succeeded the sale of Lucy, who had been disposed of to a friend of the Doctor's, and all knew that it was more to save her from Mrs. Dennison's persecutions, than from any other motive, that her master had at last been induced to part with her. 
               It was the first time in his life that he had ever sold a family servant, and he showed that it put him to shame even now. But the temporary peace thus established was in part a consolation, though each looked, with apprehension, to discover who was probably to be the next sufferer under the ban of her displeasure. It fell at last upon an unexpected, because absent object-her son Harry-who, tired of the loneliness of his plantation life, had married a young lady in his native state, and actually without consulting his mother, or having so much as apprised her of the act he meditated. 
               Mrs. Dennison was politely enraged, and manifested her deep sense of injury in many comments upon the undutifulness of the children of this generation, and of sons in particular, who had quite outlived the old fashioned custom of seeking a parent's advice; and she witheringly denounced the arts and wiles by whose practice designing young ladies secured husbands. In fact, if her implications were founded upon justice, Harry was a young innocent at large, who had been decoyed from the paths of peace and virtue by a designing woman who had taken advantage of his defenceless condition to illegally seize and unlawfully detain him, and by divers and sundry arts, wiles, and incantations, proceeding from evil intent, and malice aforethought, had overcome his better judgment and induced him to marry her in gross violation of the laws of filial reverence, and against the peace and dignity of the people of the state of Mississippi. 
               Mrs. Dennison scorned petty worrying, and never luxuriated in more than one deep wrong at a time; so that a blessed season of rest and quiet descended upon her immediate household, and the Doctor's company smiles beamed every day. Nettie was gradually becoming distant and reserved toward Frankie, who was at no loss to trace it to the maternal counsels, so unnaturally did it sit upon her; and occasionally she made some remark that showed she half resented Howard's evident preference, while Mrs. Dennison revealed to Frankie, with much assumed frankness, that it was a cherished plan of hers and the Doctor's, to unite Howard and her daughter as soon as he should manifest any tender regard for her, which, she confidently reasoned, could be only a question of a little more or less time, as, in constant intercourse with so lovely and winning a creature as Nettie, he could not fail in time to love and admire her. 
               Frankie perfectly understood the maneuver, and really rather thanked Mrs. Dennison for so evidently appealing to and relying upon her honor not to defeat the family project ject; but without appearing to have seen anything remarkable in this sudden communicativeness, she steadily pursued her own course, attending faithfully to her duties, and seldom affording to Howard any opportunity to utter the ardent words ever hovering round his lips and speaking from his eyes. 
               Frequent letters from Tam cheered her by the contagion a letter from one near and dear always brings with it; and the intelligence that he and Houghton, who had paid him a brief visit, had a splendid speculation on hand, in which they were partners; but that not a word or hint of it was to be given any one till the result should astound the round world and they that dwell therein, awoke a smile of curiosity and an ardent sympathy in the ambition which thus could brighten everything, throwing its own peculiar charm over even such a life as he must lead amid his half isolated surroundings, and, she doubted not, cheering even the quiet Houghton upon his struggle up the hill of science and of fame. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               THE fervid midsummer heat came and beat down upon them on the Floridian coast, and the sea lay like a heated mirror under the tropical sky unspecked by a cloud. The hot, garish sunshine burned its way through one's very brain, and the light itself streamed in at every opened window with sight-destroying intensity, and when the breeze, weighed down by the terrible heat, was unable to rise, the very atmosphere was salt, hot, and suffocating. They longed for rain; yet when the breathless, rainy season sat in, it was worse than before, for with it came that scourge of the South, the yellow fever. 
               Day by day, and night after night the Dr. pursued his ceaseless round among the ever increasing victims, and the undying roll of the hearses by day was succeeded by the rattling of the dead-carts by night. Scarcely an hour intervened between the death of the sufferer and his hasty, unattended burial, and all through the rainy yet suffocating nights, above all other sounds Frankie could distinguish the cautious, finger-tips-given raps three times repeated, which succeeded the pauses in the muffled rattle of the cart, which would be resumed when it should have received its freight. She learned, too, that awful, grating jar it made under a heavy load, and while it proceeded as if groaning down the street, she thought how horrid a harvest death was reaping. The fever increased in malignity as it was fed, and the dreaded black vomit added its horrors to the pain-racked bed, from which even the native born citizen ceased to be exempt, and night and day the screams and ravings of its delirious victims were audible in the otherwise hushed streets. 
               The Doctor's own family escaped unscathed until they ceased to dread it for themselves; but, a few days restless, capricious headache and laughing at her "rheumatiz," left Nettie in its grasp; and her mother was in such a state of anxiety and alarm for her that she was worse than useless in the sick room. 
               In the doctor's official capacity he positively forbade her entrance there, impressing upon her the positive necessity of keeping Nettie free from all alarm at her condition, and as there were not now enough of the well to nurse the sick, upon Frankie devolved the task of attending her. With her unconquerable coolness and self-possession, she raised the aching head upon the pillow, to receive the potions left by the Dr. while absent among his arduous duties, replaced the covering over the restless, tossing arms, and laid cooling rose leaves over the pained and blood-shot eyes. Her hand supplied the glass of ever craved ice water, and her head bent low for every murmured wish that issued from the parched lips; till, nauseated and faint from the atmosphere of the fever-tainted room, she stole out for necessary air and exercise, leaving the ever ready Howard to fill her briefly vacant place. Never had he seemed so thoroughly good and kind as now, and she almost loved him as she watched him tenderly lifting the aching form of the unconscious girl, while fresh pillows were substituted for the heated ones, and she thought the subdued tenderness of his present manner, far more inspiring than his usual careless good humor. 
               Little by little the fever was beaten off, and Nettie lay in that prostrated interval during which it is doubtful whether the fever will return with redoubled strength and obstinacy, or leave the victim for which it has so fiercely struggled. It passed by, and slowly intellect resumed its sway in the still giddy, ringing head, which warned her to move it carefully, and whose sudden shooting pains cut every idea which struggled to assume some connected form. She was moved into a fresh, pleasant room, away from all taint of the fevered air which lurked persistently within the darkened room where she had suffered, and her mother attended her convalescence, leaving Frankie to rest from her labors and anxious watching. But she knew that she should not escape the infection in which she had so long lived, and against which she had battled with a feeling that she must and would resist till she could resign her care of Nettie; and she was not surprised as, after a night of restless tossing, with each individual bone aching upon its own responsibility and quite independently of the general misery, her glass reflected blood-shot eyes and swollen lids,-indicators of her own attack. She bade Dora seek the doctor very quietly and ask him to come up to her, and gave her other directions which she was to fulfill without alarming any one, and it was not till dinner time that any one else knew she was attacked, supposing that she had merely over slept the breakfast hour. Howard's anxiety was uncontrollable, and hour after hour he walked up and down the hall past her door, till hearing him, at last, and pitying him through all her own suffering, she wrapped herself in a shawl, and just opening a crack in the door, she assured him that she was doing well and should be out in a day or two. He was deceived by her cheerful tone and smiling lips, not plainly seeing in the obscurity of the room her angrily flushed face and unnatural eyes; and impulsively kissing the fingers which held the door, he went away far happier, while she, wrung anew by the torture the effort had cost her, crawled painfully back to her bed, and brave as she was, cried unrestrainedly. 
               It seemed to her that torture-filled day was lengthened into years; but little by little the sharp pain wearied itself out, and worn and weakened by its savage warfare, she fell into a stupid, quiescent state, which was neither waking nor sleep, but a supreme indifference to all things past, present, or to come. 
               For days she knew little that transpired. Half lucid intervals revealed familiar faces around her, and mysterious, delicious thrills of coolness evidenced that kind hands were ministering unto her; but in the very effort to recognize them, her mind went off again into circling, ever widening eddies, and varying cadences sounded in her ears, and intellect went back to its own mysterious regions, and quite forsook the body in whose pains it felt no fellowship, and of which she herself was quite unconscious. 
               It seemed to her that she had been in an endless troubled bled slumber, when she awoke one day to consciousness amid the hushed darkness of her room; and feeling some cool substance on her forehead, she put up her hand to discover what it was. A napkin of ice cold vinegar and water, recalled to her mind her first sick day, since when she remembered little more; and Nettie came to the bedside, as the motion revealed that the sleeper had awakened. 
               "So, little Nettie, you are my kind nurse! How long have I lain here?" and she raised the thin fingers, scarcely believing them her own. 
               "Oh, days and days! Poor darling Frankie! And you made yourself ill attending me! Oh, Frankie, Frankie!" 
               Tears were streaming over the face of the grateful and impulsive girl as she kissed again and again the pale cheek on the pillow, and Frankie thought such sincere affection well worth the price at which she had earned it. Even as she felt blessed and comforted by it, sleep weighed down her weary eyes, and as one long unbroken sleep followed another, each one bringing back visible health and strength, she felt that never before had she appreciated its life giving luxury. 
               Yet how slowly vigor returned! It seemed as though she should never gain strength to go down stairs; and when at length that feat was accomplished, she looked out with wistful eyes upon the oleanders blooming unceasingly out upon the green banks, and as she looked out over the hot sea, and upon the leaves of the palm trees burned yellow by the unrelenting sun, a heavy gloom settled down upon her sick spirit, from which it seemed as if she never should escape. 
               Howard, too, seemed sadly oppressed and embarrassed, seldom seeking any society but his own; and she knew not to what to attribute the change. She tried to draw it from him by additional kindness and familiarity; but this only seemed to disturb him more; and waiting for time to solve the problem, she turned to her old pursuits for recreation. For the first time in weeks, she woke the slumbering echoes of the piano, and as she played she grew calmer and happier. Howard, too, drew near, and resting his head against the instrument, seemed likewise to gather strength and resolution olution as she played on through the melodious changes of some grand "symphonie." 
               "Tell me," he said at last, bending near that she might not cease the thrilling tones, "What do you consider the worst sin that can be committed towards one who trusts and believes in you." 
               "Withholding of confidence, Howard." 
               "Did you intend to say betrayal of confidence?" 
               "I said, and meant, withholding of it." 
               "Let that withheld confidence involve what it may?" 
               "Undoubtedly, if justice to one's self or others demands the revelation. Of course that governs the whole subject." 
               "Suppose it would overwhelm us, where we most long for respect, with a scorn and contempt as hard to be borne as it is just?" 
               "The respect that will not follow any act of justice and honor, is unworthy of the name." 
               "Frankie, you are a noble woman, and I know I never was worthy of you." He had taken possession of one of the passive hands resting on the keys, and was proceeding earnestly in his remark, when the entrance of Mrs. Dennison interrupted him, and uncertain how much she might have witnessed, he could not retire and leave Frankie to endure the possibly unkind remarks she might utter, though he felt in no mood for conversation, nor as if he could endure it. But whether, or not, she had observed anything unusual, her deportment gave no manifestation, and telling Frankie that the music had attracted her after so long a silence in the house, she kindly requested her to proceed with it if not fatigued. The wish was gladly complied with, and other members of the family soon entering, Howard felt that he could honorably leave, and walked off to the sea beach, amid whose splashing waters he resigned himself to whatever emotion possessed him. 
               The frequent gales of late September, and the occasional cool days, checked the fearful ravages of the fever, and those who were yet seized by it suffered little in comparison. Mrs. Dennison was visited by a mild attack, but so slight as scarcely to confine her to her bed for a whole day, and slowly and surely it passed away and left the city, filled with invalids, it is true, but free from any active scourge. 
               Frankie and Nettie, neither of whom regained strength very rapidly, proceeded slowly with the lessons when they felt inclined.; but Howard seldom joined them now, and when he did was silent and reserved, much to the trouble of Nettie, who thought him permanently saddened by the suffering scenes among which he had been an unceasing minister, scarcely allowing himself sufficient rest for his own health. Frankie's earnest eyes often sought to read him, but the resumed vigilance of Mrs. Dennison effectually prevented any confidence between them. She watched closely his manner toward Nettie, thinking he might at length have awakened to a sense of the attractions she possessed in no ordinary degree; but he was precisely the same toward her as to all others, if anything avoiding her more, and completely baffled, she again resigned herself to the patient developing of the riddle once so nearly solved. 
               She was sitting listlessly on the veranda one breezy morning, idly speculating upon the past, the present, and the future, when Dora brought her two letters; heavy, life-inspiring, triple postage treasures, whose western post mark was not necessary to reveal from whom they came. She opened Tam O'Shanter's first, perhaps upon the principle which prompts children to leave the rarest bits always by way of dessert, and unconsciously, as she broke the seal, her lips curved into the pleasant expression they always wore under the influence of his epistles. He commenced with his usual half sarcastic enthusiasm, informing her that he had reaped the reward of his patient toil and praiseworthy virtues, in a golden plum, in comparison to which Johnny Horner's was nothing beyond a mere "reward of merit" purchasable for a sixpence; that, looking at his fortune in the most modest and humble spirit, it was amply sufficient to afford him a handsome income, and that he had concluded to bring it to the lower world and plant it in some good investment, and upon the interest set himself up as gentleman at large; and he urged her to give up her working life and enter into a co-partnership with him in his proposed business of enjoying life. 
               Then followed many amusing incidents of life among the Cornish miners, and of the wild country in general, closing with an account of a Cuban friend he had made, who had so inspired him with interest and curiosity in his country, that he had resolved to pass the coming winter, at least, among the novelties of that siempre fiel isla, whose language he had already learned to murder beautifully, and he begged her to accompany him, promising her in addition to his own excellent society, no end of Don Mocovadoes who should perform scientific carving upon each other for her fair sake, and very possibly give her a personal proof of their skill in that art. But his letter contained that so called feminine adjunct, a postscript, the very wit and pith of his discourse, and she read it thrice without breathing. "I don't suppose it lies in my province to tell you of Fred Houghton's good luck, since I know he will tell you of it himself in a more able manner than I possibly can. But I must tell you that that blessed lady mother of his came into the unexpected possession of a fortune by the lucky dropping off of some not progeny-ridden distant relation, and she had the superhuman beauty to make Fred a present of a nice little capital with which to start in life. He came up here, looked around on things, and being satisfied 'that they were good' invested with me, and is up in the lucky throw, beyond his most sanguine expectations, and-further this deponent saith not." 
               It was with a throbbing heart that she opened the other letter, patiently biding its time as its writer had done long years before it. A long, eloquent, because heart-felt letter, told her of his brightened prospects, and told her, too, of the patient years of toiling for such a moment in which he might avow his love for her, and ask her to share his fortune and his life. The home whose thought had so long lent energy to his efforts, was now his to offer her; and he asked her that one question upon whose answer hinged her destiny. 
               The letter seemed a portion of his own earnest self; the friend of so many years, her ideal of what a young man should be; and she looked forward through the happy years in which hers would be the proud task to cheer and aid him in his ambitious career, and hers the honor of sharing in the destiny which she felt assured could not be otherwise than enviable. She had scarcely realized, herself, the enduring regard and true affection living deep in her heart for him, and she now resigned herself to the thrilling happiness which pervaded her. 
               It was Howard's voice that roused her at last, and with its sound returned the memory of their relative position toward each other, and how much evident, if unspoken encouragement, she had given his suit. She stopped in momentary embarrassment how to proceed; but her natural straight-forwardness quickly decided, and writing a brief note, she directed Dora to give it to him in the yard where he was lifting up and arranging supports for the yellow jasmine clusters which drooped low from pure inability to support their luxurious beauty. 
               Her note contained only a request that he would accompany her in a sea side ramble after sunset, and she saw him nod and smile as he read it. 
               "He did so," reported the faithful Dora, giving an imitation in ebony of the smile and nod with which he had signified assent to something, she knew not what, "and he done look mighty tickle, Miss Frankie; I tell you dat. When I come roun de corner agin, ole missus, she done call me, and she ask mighty high and mighty, 'What for you speak to your young massa, when he no call you?' But I only make mighty fine courtsey, and say, 'please ma'm I mus be a leffin, as Miss Frankie done call me dis minute.' All us niggars, we see how she spy roun on you and de young Massa Howard." 
               "There Dora, stop. Never speak disrespectfully of any one, and above all, not of your mistress." 
               "Laws, Miss Frankie; she an't my missus by a heap! Miss Nettie is de owner ob me, and I's wuth fourteen hundred dollars now, yes, dis blessed minute! I jes calls her 'ole missus' like de low priced niggars, case it spectful like. No more an't de young Massa Howard my massa, nor neber will be if dis chile got eyes! Lord how he look at you Miss Frankie, wid eyes shinin like cats, and he done speak soft as"- 
               "Dora, go away. You talk too much," said Frankie in displeasure, for she never could bring herself to like the indulged loquacity of favored servants, particularly dressing ing maids, who too often become the repositories of their young mistress's tender secrets, and are encouraged to repeat all they see and hear which is in any way flattering to their vanity. 
               Indeed they were often perfected into most efficient intriguants-all the more so because unscrupulous-as a darkey seldom falls into any pitfall from which he cannot extricate himself either by flattery or falsehood, and she often thought the race must have been created purely to illustrate the point of perfection to which the art of lying could be carried. 
               All the leisure hours of that day, she devoted to answering Tam's letter, which was to reach him in the old home where he purposed to spend a few days before proceeding to Cuba; and the thought of the familiar scenes amid which he would read it, lent inspiration to her pen and animation to her before flagging spirit, and page after page fell from her pen. 
               The last rays of the setting sun shone across the waters in a golden glow, as Howard joined her for the proposed walk, and Mrs. Dennison's usually well bred brows slightly arched themselves in involuntary surprise at the utter coolness with which they both made their parting salutations and went out through the gate with an air which plainly betrayed a pre-arrangement. Nettie, too, saw them from the upper gallery; but the bright smile Frankie bestowed upon her, stifled the rising sigh, and mentally exclaiming, "I might have known it was inevitable, for how could either of them avoid it?" she turned again to the open page and tried to proceed with her reading. 
               Meantime Howard and Frankie walked on in a half constrained silence, each wishing but dreading to speak the thoughts which crowded too thick for utterance, and at last she said- 
               "Howard, do you recollect an interrupted conversation between us, that first day I went back to the long silent piano?" 
               Yes indeed, I was about to make you a confession which would have proved me a man, when my worthy stepmother transformed me again into a boy, and I've been degenerating into a coward ever since!" 
                
               "I believe, Howard, that you then intended to make some confession for which I had in advance promised thorough respect; or at least so I meant you to understand me. It is my turn, now, to sue for yours. Howard, you must believe me when I vow to you that I did not intend to play the part of a coquette toward you. I did respect, feel honored by your regard for me, and I thought I felt for you a sentiment that would in time become all you could wish it-but-Howard, forgive me. I was mistaken." 
               He had seized her hand, which he pressed convulsively as she proceeded, and bending his flushed face he looked into the clear eyes that mirrored the truth she uttered. 
               "Frankie, what has led you to this? Am I responsible for the change in your sentiments towards me? Have I in any way hurt or offended you?" 
               "No, Howard, no. You are blameless, and so am I. I received letters to-day which woke me to a deeper self-knowledge-one letter-Howard, you are worthy to know it-which makes me strong to tell you all, and to beg for such charity as you can give me. I believe that for a long, long time, unconsciously to myself or but half realized, I have loved another-" 
               "Thank Heaven, Frankie! Why Frankie, this is just what I would have confessed to you, before, had I been strong and good like you; but I feared you would despise my fickleness." 
               "I don't know how it happened that loving you as I did, and do in a certain way, thoughts of another came into my heart and absorbed it. I think I learned to love her in those days when we cared for her together, Frankie; when I lifted her little sick form in my arms, and tried to still her sufferings. But I did not really know it, till during those long days of her convalescence when she was so helpless and dependent; and in the alarm we all felt for you, she would actually have suffered from neglect, save that they let me nurse her, still. She was so patient and generous, and cried from pure inability to nurse you as you had done her. How could I help it?" 
               "It was natural and right, Howard; you need no excuses." 
                
               "Yet I was ashamed to look you in the face, Frankie, and felt that I was unworthy of either of you; a changeful, capricious boy, I seriously meditated running away, in juvenile fashion." 
               "And how did Nettie receive you, Howard?" 
               "Do you really think I would do that, Frankie? No. Boy as I felt that I was and ever should be, I did not stoop to that, I have never given her one word or sign, nor would I have done so till your lips had bidden me." 
               "Then we have neither of us any cause for self-depreciation, have we? Upon the contrary we have now a tie of sympathy, and like good children, deserve our reward. I think we shall like each other really better, now." 
               There was not a shadow of constraint between them, now, but a more generous, joyous liking than ever had blessed them, as arm in arm they strolled along the quiet beach as the gorgeous clouds following in the train of the vanished sun changed from one tint to another in ever varying caprice, while a miniature cloud Vesuvius seemed to rise out of the water, blazing up in an ever widening flow of crimson and gold, wreathed round with purplish cloud smoke, standing out clear and distinctly from a back ground of purest azure, for a few moments, and then the brilliant hues floated in together, and all the admiring, bright-hued crowd vanished with it, leaving only the grey of quick coming evening. 
               Nettie was still alone upon the gallery when they returned, and Frankie went on to her own room, as Howard approached the solitary figure, well knowing that her absence was a more priceless boon than any society could prove in the hour to come. She sat happily entertained by her own musings, when Nettie came up, and softly clasping her from behind the low chair, blinded her eyes with her hands. 
               "Who comes here?" asked Frankie, 
                     inprisoning
                     imprisoning
                   the white, dimpled little articles; and for answer she felt a soft warm cheek bent down upon her head, as Nettie whispered, 
               "So you know it all, Frankie?" (She never called her Miss Frankie since those sick-room days.) 
               She drew her around, and taking her on her lap as she would have done a child, rocked her silently, while Nettie, loving the protecting tenderness of the arms which cradled her, lay very quietly nestled in them till Mrs. Dennison's ever restless steps came upon them, and reproving Nettie for so thoughtlessly fatiguing her friend, drew her off to her own room. Frankie well knew the interesting topic upon which Mrs. Dennison was impatient to descant, but confident of the result of Nettie's welcome revelation, she dismissed all sensitiveness under the evident displeasure of the liege lady, and sat very contentedly where they had left her, till the chilling night breeze warned her to escape from its rude caresses. 
               Nettie's and Howard's engagement was made no secret in the family, and their marriage was decided to take place in the ensuing spring, when he should attain his majority and come into the full possession of the fortune left him by his mother, whose dower it had been upon her marriage, and faithfully secured to her and to her heirs, by the doctor's own act. Meantime, Nettie was to continue her lessons up to the expiration of Frankie's engagement as her instructress; only allowed more freedom and society than before, in virtue of her increased importance as fiance to the heir of the Dennisons. 
               Frankie had pre-determined that no arguments should win her from her duties, amid which she was now very contented, as in addition to her own heart spring of happiness, her position in the family was far more pleasant since she was no longer feared as a rival to Nettie. She wrote a long letter to Ida, arranging many delightful plans for the future in her own busy mind; but all so depending upon Ida's own celibacy, that she could not refrain from asking her outright if matrimony formed any portion of her plans for the future. She felt that she was building upon a sure foundation, as Ida's letter was most satisfactory upon the subject, assuring her that all the single gentlemen of her acquaintance were egotistical and capricious, and the old ones unendurable because more so, and in addition, tyrannical; and she decidedly objected to falling into any widowers' dens, which she declared were alone offered her; and expressing the idea that she was born to be a governess, raised Frankie's spirit to the summit of content. A long letter upon the subject was written to Houghton, who was certain to coincide with her wishes, and she found herself contemplating her new relationship with more satisfaction than she had deemed attainable by any woman. 
               She was writing another of the endless epistles so frequent now, one breezy October morning, when Nettie came in exclaiming-"Oh Frankie, I am sure your Howard has come now; I heard some one asking for you; so I peeped over the stairs to get a look at him, and I can tell you he's mighty stylish, with the handsomest curling brown hair-" 
               "Oh Nettie!" exclaimed Frankie; and without waiting for explanation, or one preparatory primming before the glass, she ran down stairs and was caught in the extended arms of Tam O'Shanter himself. 
               "This is my brother, Howard," she said, presenting him as Howard that moment came to the door, and, thinking he had intruded upon a tender scene, was retiring; and the two gentlemen having cordially shaken hands, he passed on and left them to themselves. 
               "Oh Tam, how good of you to come and see me! Is your Cuban friend with you? and how did you leave them all at home?" 
               "Hold on, Frankie, I've a bad memory! It is selfish of me, because I came to see you in obedience to my own wishes, and not because I was asked to do so. My Cuban friend, Senor Don Felipe Maria Ramisez y Gonzalez, (she gasped and opened her eyes at the multitudinous name) is around at the hotel, and I left them all well at home, except mother, who has gone into the patching-phobia, and Maria, who has fallen into a chronic mania for smiting every body hip and thigh." 
               "And your friend of the compendious title, how do you call him when time is limited and therefore precious?' 
               "Don Felipe; but he's married, Frankie, so of course a living blot upon the fair face of creation-or should I state it-before the faces of the fair part of creation? But who is this 'Howard?' Did you go through the yellow fever here for his fascinating sake?" 
               "Hush! no, Tam. Now talk to me good, for you have a whole year to go over for me." 
                
               "Am I to commence at the beginning, (no Irishism intended,) I mean from the time I left you on board the steamer, bound South?" 
               "Yes-go on-'once upon a time'" and having given him the key note, she sat leaning against him while he proceeded. 
               "And now what sort of burg is this you are vegetating in?" he asked, when at last his conversational machinery, being but masculine, had broken down under the draft upon it. 
               "Oh, it possesses all the requisites for a village in the north, and a city in the south, which is the persevering growth of years, instead of the Jonah's gourd production of a night, like your western ones. It has good scandal manufactories, labelled Milliners and Dress-makers' shops; a few first families whose heads rise figuratively above their neighbors because there is less in them; and the 
                     usnal
                     usual
                   aspirer for matrimonial martyrdom, who earns his subsistence by proposing to every lady under an uncertain age. Then there is the ministerial terror of little boys and girls (do you remember Tam, how many times we have nearly frozen out in that cold old barn, while he was lying in wait for us by the warm parlor fire, ready loaded and primed with the catechism we dreaded more than the cold, blue little mortals as we were, and often enough supperless for his unwelcome sake?) and there is the cheap lawyer, who wears his hair at odds and ends to look abstracted, and having 'shistered' up a client, nurses one foot upon the other knee, in the manner for cheap lawyers made and provided when they wish to make an impression. Then there is his compeer, with a larger shingle to correspond with his larger intelligence, who would be sociable, but tangles up his ideas among so many words that it is impossible to discover them, and as no one likes to seem a regular niddy noddy, every body escapes before his conquering presence; or that of his words." 
               "Frankie, how old are you? It strikes me you are precociously savage, or else you are older than I thought you." 
               "Oh, I was born a woman, and am entitled to the perquisities. But now I must show you to the family, and call Nettie, who is probably still laboring under the delusion that you came with sinister designs, as she mistook you for my 'true love.'" 
               "So she peeped through a carefully prepared chink in the door panel, did she? Was there ever a family of young ladies who had not some such surreptitious arrangement for reconnoissance?" 
               "There; that comes of having unguarded sisters! They are responsible for a fearful amount of betrayal of feminine strategy. One can detect the possessor of sisters, among any number of gentlemen." 
               Frankie was completely happy during the week of Tam's stay, and everything possible was done by the family for their entertainment, and for that of his friend Don Felipe, both of whom were persuaded from their quarters in the hotel, and made honored guests in the house. 
               Tam was consoled for her firm rejection of his every way proffered generosity, when he learned that she would become the wife of his old friend, Houghton, during the following spring, as she persisted in fulfilling her engagement with the Dennisons up to the latest named period in the contract; and he left her, in perfect satisfaction with all her projects. She did not tell him that Ida was to be the cherished companion of her new home, for she hoped he would return to his old affection for her, and did not wish him to suffer any annoyance relative to her, or to hear so much as her name unwelcomely, as a possibly unpleasant reminder of what he termed his "boyish folly,"-in which idea she did not coincide with him. 
               Things, after his departure, moved on in a quiet routine in the well regulated household, and save for occasional storms over the lingering illness of some of the doctor's fair patients, at which he made a good humored pretence of spreading his umbrella, Mrs. Dennison was very kind and pleasant. 
               The Fall hurricanes lent variety to the usual placidity of the landscape, and the green waters leaped suddenly in air and dashed themselves into spray in their wild play with the wind which inspired trees to send their roots out airing, and housetops to go flying through the air. Far away the wind commenced its moan, rising ever as it neared, till it burst in a shriek upon all resisting objects, and scattered them before it. 
               I know not what thoughts filled the minds of the two young ladies as they elaborately adorned minute holes in bits of muslin, and folded away piles of snowy linen, as if that department of a lady's wardrobe were afflicted with great mortality, and forever cut off from reinforcements in that bourne toward which they were hastening. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIII. 
               "SEE, amigo mio: There is Castle Morro," said Don Felipe to Tam, as from the deck of the steamer they obtained a view of that much vaunted Cuban tower, hours after the purplish outline of the hills had heralded their approach to Havana, and foot by foot came out to welcome them. Tam looked at the fortification closely, as the steamer rounded in to the harbor, and his expectations fell to the reality of a by no means impregnable fort built upon a sea-washed, rocky point, and guarded by a few uncasemated guns, and so far from meeting his preconceived ideas of its grandeur, seeming scarcely capable of containing the immense number of men said by its proud countrymen to be necessary for working its artillery. Just at its rear stood the Fortress Cubana, and opposite, the round tower in which Lopez perished for his efforts to liberate his oppressed countrymen, who allowed him to fall a prey to Spanish retribution, without making one effort for their own independence, despite the promises held out to the liberator, and their undying hatred for their oppressors. 
               "We are an abject, good-for-nothing nation, my friend," said Don Felipe sadly, as they passed this monument to Cuba's shame. "We sigh for independence, and sit tamely down waiting for some other nation to come and achieve it for us. You can form no idea of our hatred for the old Spanish, who hold us down in a shameful slavitude, giving us no redress for any wrong perpetrated against us by one of their own countrymen, holding every civil and military office as they do; and one of them may knife us in the street, without any notice being taken of it by the dispensers of justice-one had better say dispensers with it. The daughters of any one of the provinces belonging to old Spain, who would marry one of the hated blood, would incur the abhorrence of all her friends." 
               "And what do you think of us Americans?" asked Tam, curiously. 
               Don Felipe laughed as he answered, "That you are a shrewd, energetic, acquisitive race, into whose hands we shall by-and-by fall, being infinitely bettered by it. But we shrink from imitating the virtues we admit, and religiously believe that any innovation upon our time-honored customs, would be a relapse into barbarity. Yet I tell you, hating Spain as I do, that her government is the only one fitted to us as a race. An elective franchise like yours, would in the island of Cuba be an element for trickery and corruption unimaginable, and you could never impress its people with a sense of its dignity." 
               "You are severe upon your countrymen, Don Felipe." 
               "You may think unjustly so: but, only occasionally, you will find among us one who knows enough to look at things as they are among us, and it is a pity that ten such can not save the city now, as in old times. I really do not know what safety or refuge there is for Cuba!" 
               They were moving slowly up the harbor, in the deepening grey which follows so quickly upon the sun-setting in these latitudes, having passed in by the Morro even as its flag descended in signal that there could be no more entering the harbor till it waved in the next morning's breeze; and as they anchored off above the city, amid a swarm of small boats manned by all nations and colors, waiting to convey passengers on shore, the lights from the early illuminated city streamed out over the dark green waters. The seemingly unended ceremonies of health officers, and custom house emissaries, were at length over, and passengers were permitted to descend to the small boats, passed down by the watchful sentinel who permitted no packages to elude his practised eyes. 
               Don Felipe had signalled what appeared to Tam a floating Pennemite wagon, and they were assisted into it and to the seats running round its sides, and placed back under the canvas covered stern, whose low arch compelled them to bend like human rainbows, and the Chinamen who manned the craft shoved out from the Babel like crowd who still waited for passengers, swearing at collisions and other small accidents, each in his own vernacular, and laughing and shouting in a confused medley. 
               There was still enough of daylight mingling with that of the gas in the streets and open shops, to afford a good view of the foreign looking surroundings which greet one with the first glimpse of the soil, and they rode up the narrow streets in a volante, a sort of caleche top with a leather screen extending from the dash board to the arch, tetering unceasingly between two huge wheels at one end, and two long shafts at the other, between which struggled a negro-ridden, shrunken-skinned mustang pony, meekly enduring the immense postillion's saddle and heavy rider in addition to his lawful carriage load, and submitting to the further indignity of a braided tail pulled round to one side and fastened to the rigging over its hungry looking ribs, and Tam paid the twenty cents only due for the at least two miles ride, with a feeling that the experience was worth the price. 
               To have taken such a drive as that up Broadway, would have collected such a crowd of spectators as even Barnum's Museum never saw, and incited the shouts of all young Gotham. 
               Tam insisted upon going to a hotel till Don Felipe should have undergone the first ceremonies of his welcome home from a four months' absence, and prepared his family for the reception of a possibly unexpected guest. The volante stopped, and Tam made his way through a wide, stone-paved entrance, seemingly leading off into innumerable spaces and alleys, and proceeded up a stone stair-case to a second landing, where he met a waiter of whom he demanded a room, and was immediately shown into one opening off of a narrow balcony hedged in by a wooden railing. It contained one window, commanding a prospect of a dirty back something, half yard, half kitchen entrance, and was furnished with two broken chairs of ante-diluvian structure, a superannuated wash-stand with a gaudily flowered wash bowl minus its pitcher, and a cot bed hedged in by a musquito net curiously held up by strings which intersected the room upon their mission, while its stone floor was checked off into red and some tint that was "clean for yellow, but dirty for white," as it imagined itself. 
               Tam shook his head and said decidedly "no sirve;" and the waiter led on to an infinite series of others of the same breed, but gradually improving, till at last Tam signified that one was endurable; but he looked with such undisguised contempt at the poverty-stricken appearance of even this, that the waiter went out grumbling something about Americans being "muy particular" and never satisfied, which Tam thought very likely to be the case if these accommodations were a fair sample of the whole. 
               He had scarcely made his toilet after the dirty sea voyage, when a waiter from some rival hotel made his appearance, urgently persuading him to leave this house and go to the one for which he was runner, where he assured him he could have a much finer and larger room, and better fare, for less money; but Tam knew this honorable little trick of the trade Cubans, and fortifying himself with the probably similar siren songs of some runner from this establishment to the new comers at others, politely requested him to "va a diablo," and the injured Spanish innocence departed upon his further round. 
               He contented himself en casa for this evening, looking off the balcony at the throng of volantes filled with bare-headed ladies in a highly elaborated condition of toilet, who passed in a style of Cuban magnificence, the two horse vehicles richly adorned with silver, and even with gold, while the novel arrangement of the horses looked singular enough, one hitched between the shafts, and the other leading off half length ahead, from long straps attached to the shafts, and mounted by a smartly liveried postillion in high top boots, with huge spurs extending from his lengthy heels, which kept the usually handsome American horses in full gallop. 
               Tam stretched his respectable but outraged feet over the end of his brief, canvas-covered bed-frame minus any mattrass or anything else except a linen sheet and a weak consumptive pillow, and politely revealed no tidings of the unwelcome swarms of Cuba's nightly pests, who are also not ashamed to streak it over the floor in the light of day, and are utterly unexterminable. 
               Breakfast was announced at ten o'clock next morning, and he made his way to the dining room, where new wonders awaited him. There were but few ladies present, and he rejoiced to recognize these as his own country women; but a large number of masculines sat round the table, most of them with their hats on singing snatches of song, and occasionally puffing a whiff or two from their cigars, which lay lighted on the table near chafing dishes of burnished silver, containing the indispensable live coal; and invariably when one completed his meal, he sat still and smoked after it, till the air soon became redolent of smoke, and the unacclimated coughed as they strove to complete their own. 
               Much as Tam relished a cigar in its proper sphere, this un-American freedom with them did not inspire him with unbounded respect, and he glanced at the ladies to see how they were impressed by it. They endured it with as much grace as possible; but he overheard one of them call her husband's attention to a Spaniard, 'feeding' near, whose face bent low over his plate, was literally shining with oil, which formed the staple of every dish, and which extended its gladdening donations almost from ear to ear. Tam smothered his involuntary smile in the glass of wine supplied liberally to all, but hastily put it down and raised his napkin to the complaining lips. 
               "Permit me, sir," said the gentleman to whom his wife had spoken, and tossing the puckering contents of Tam's glass unceremoniously upon the not fastidious floor, he refilled it from his private bottle, saying good humoredly, "This Cataline wine requires a cultivated taste to appreciate it, as do the Spanish oil and garlics. These people must have strong constitutions." 
               The conversation became general among the Americans, who are very little inclined to stand upon ceremony when they meet in other countries, and Tam ceased to be annoyed by the disagreeabilities around him. 
               "These are the national drinking vessels!" said one of them, as upon their way to the parlor they passed a shelf set out with a congregation of small, porous stone jars, with little ears protruding from each side as an elevating medium. They were filled with water for the million, and whoever would, drank from them without money and without price, from the stranger whom experience had not yet taught better, down to the beggar, to whom they were welcome. 
               Don Felipe came round in his own carriage for Tam, assuring him that he would be far more comfortable in his house, little as he might relish the Cuban style of living; for that he had passed enough time in the States to know how to mitigate the chief evils, and that he would always be at perfect liberty to make any suggestions he might choose, for his own perfect comfort. 
               Tam was very gracefully and cordially received by the young Senora of Don Felipe, and her mother and sister who also lived with them, not to mention a brood of little Cubans, for whose troublesome sakes their mother had withstood Don Felipe's pleadings to accompany him upon his northern tour. This lady and her younger sister, Lola, might easily have been mistaken for each other, so perfect was the resemblance between them; both rather above the medium height of the usually small Cubans, with well rounded figures, which might in time bloom into the not meagre proportions of their mother. Their dark complexions were lighted up by the same large eyes of deepest blackness, and a profusion of the blackest, glossiest hair he had ever seen, could scarcely be arranged upon the perfect heads which contained it. They were remarkably graceful and animated, and he was very favorably impressed with the beauty of the ladies of la belle isle, whatever he might be with their customs. It was quite worth his trouble to walk past the open, illuminated houses, in the early evening, through whose unscreened, enormous windows, little knots of them sat, very conscious of their prettiness, upon which every third person passing by complimented them, and very willing to be admired, enduring all observation with a most demure air of artlessness. Each parlor was almost the fac simile of another, and any orthodoxly compounded old maid would have gloried in the precision with which the same chairs stood always in the same places, never moving ing their well trained toes from the exact border of the three yards length and two yards width of carpet which lay at one end of the room, and to which guests by common consent always proceeded, rocking socially side by side in the oppositely placed line of arm chairs. 
               Everything seemed arranged for coolness, from the marble, or stone, checked floors, to the cane chairs and sofas which, in miles of houses, looked as if all cut from the same piece. 
               Every piano was playing the same popular national dances, and the same songs, of limited number, might have been all one for any palpable difference in a stranger's ear between the crooked melody, and the unrhyming lines into which it was often difficult to crowd both the tune and an unlimited and unequal number of words. 
               There was but one drive for the throng of volantes filled with the fair and fashionable, which poured through the narrow streets from all directions, towards the "paseo" which led out to the Captain General's country palace, near which a turn around a fountain decorated with a statue surrounded by flowers, permitted the throng passing down to see and admire the throng passing up, and occasional equestrians were the observed of all. This fashionable drive closed at dusk, and at eight o'clock all repaired to the Place de armes to listen to the music performed by the band in front of the Captain General's city palace, and after receiving ices and sweetmeats in their carriages before the restaurant doors, proceeded home, never wearying of the same round, which they took day after day. 
               Tam was charmed with the gay appearance of the Place de armes, and lost no time to pay it a visit by day. It was a large circle, surrounded by rare old trees of immense growth, throwing a wide shadow over the seats ranged under them and extending round the circle, inside which was a broad pavement thronged at evening by gay crowds of promenaders, and ornamented in the center by a square of beautiful flowering shrubs surrounding a magnificent statue of Christopher Columbus. This was the center of attraction for all the capital, and especially for afflicted lovers, who here found opportunity for a whispered word, despite inexorable parents and cross governesses. In the Cathedral fronting the place, repose the ashes of Columbus, thus near one of the gayest scenes in the world of his discovery; and near by an iron railing encloses the spot upon which he offered up the first mass in the new world, and where yet, periodically, masses are offered for the repose of his soul. 
               "Do you know what Cuban ladies were made for?" asked Senora Ramirez of Tam, a few days after he became domesticated among them. 
               "I have as yet too little acquaintance with them to decide, unless I am to judge them all by the ladies of Don Felipe's family," he replied, bowing his prettiest in anxiety to efface their universal scepticism regarding the chivalry and politeness of American gentlemen. 
               "That compliment was almost Spanish! But I can tell you that they were created solely to look pretty and show themselves off in volante, and few of them will do anything else. I don't know what would become of us if we were treated as you Americans treat your wives. You are almost as uncivilized in that respect as the English," and she raised her plump shoulders quite out of her low dress, in her strong disapproval of what she deemed American barbarity. Tam only laughed, thinking it useless to reason against the charge, from the entire dissimilarity of their ideas as to what constituted chivalry; but Lola said reprovingly-"You are wrong to speak what you do not know, nor believe. You know you often envy the American ladies, who go where they please, and promenade the streets as independently as the gentlemen." 
               "And is this supposed to be the height of feminine felicity, Miss Lola," asked Tam, smiling at the naive assertion. 
               "Por cierto; and if you had lived penned in behind grated windows, as long as we have, you would appreciate it, too. Think now, of never having a beau to ones self! I think I should be quite happy, if I could have one evening in my life quite unspied over, and every word addressed to me not strained through other people's ears, first." 
               Her mother raised her hands in horrified surprise, that such a sentiment should fall from Lola's lips. 
                
               "Why Lola, what are you thinking? You know it is not proper for young ladies to entertain company alone. There are very few that can be trusted out of sight. 
               Tam wondered if the sweeping assertion were true, and thought that if it were not, such a theory would have astonishing success in making it so, and he turned proudly to his own country-women in silent contrast. Lola had only blushed indignantly in reply, and Mrs. Ramirez said carelessly, 
               "If you are going to turn apostate, Lola, you must wait till ma is out of hearing, and I can tell you that a Cuban husband wont be any improvement upon her, so that I don't see any escape for you in prospective." 
               If this were a possibly intended hit for Don Felipe, he did not wince under it, but drawing up the chafing dish he lighted his cigar and handed it to the ladies, each of whom lighted a paper cigarette in presence of their guest, but, as Don Felipe laughingly asserted they would, no sooner were they left to themselves than they brought out their "prime Havanas," and inserting them between their pearly teeth, smoked away in supreme enjoyment. A monkeyish Chinese boy who was dining-room and parlor servant, furnished Tam many glimpses behind the company curtain, and so comically, that it was impossible to reprove him. Tam had observed that the ladies always came down to breakfast with stylish reticules suspended from their wrists, and had often speculated upon what the ever present receptacles might contain; but he remained in profound ignorance upon the important subject, till the grinning rascal stole up with it during his mistress' momentary absence, and opening it to display its contents, chuckled "Mira, mira, Senor! Senoritas fuman estos" (look, look, sir,! Young ladies smoke these) and there lay as fine a collection of the choice "weeds" as any smoker could have desired for a twelve hours' supply. But discovery was unavoidable at last; for having entered the street door unperceived one day, he glanced into the parlor, separated from the hall by a partition containing a full length grated window like those looking into the street, and there at the piano sat Lola, regaling herself with an encouraging smoke as she practised the "miserere ere." She blushed vividly as she saw herself fairly detected; but as it was too late for concealment, she only said, "This looks very ugly to the Americans, doesn't it!" while her jeweled fingers turned the fragrant roll round and round in visible temptation. 
               "Oh, I have seen very nice old ladies smoke in my own country," replied Tam reassuringly. It is singular how artless the people of another nation seem to one, and how innocent everything sounds uttered in a language not our own; and as Lola stood there, wilfully clinging to the practice she condemned as "muy feo," he thought her the most artless, captivating creature he had ever seen, and really feeling that in the graceful all things are full of grace, he gave expression to the idea, and was rewarded with the compliment "Usted no parece Americano," (you don't appear like an American.) 
               "Es possible?" he asked, smiling. "How then do you think Americans appear?" 
               "Oh, very cross to the ladies, never saying any pretty things to them, and always helping yourselves first, if you do not forget them entirely. You are not polite." 
               "Come, Miss Lola; let us take a quiet smoke together, and talk over all that at our leisure. There is not so polite a nation in the world as we Americans. Don't we treat our wives as well as ourselves, and better, instead of caging them up like you poor creatures here, who live as if in prison?" 
               "Oh, that sounds very well; but the reason is, you are so indifferent to them you don't care what they do." 
               "Not by any means; and the American who betrays jealousy of his wife, is a subject of perfect ridicule. Tell me now, honestly. Don't your countrymen tyrannize over their wives?" 
               "How should I know? I never was married." 
               "Consider that answer then-'in some cases,'-but you will admit that they require and exact the most implicit obedience. Now in all this my "barbarously" treated countrywomen are free as we lords of creation, and every sensible man scorns the idea of marrying a mere household appendage, instead of a wife he can respect and upon whose good sense he can rely. Any lady can travel alone from one end of my country to the other, and every gentleman is ready to afford her protection, and redress any wrongs she suffers, as if she were his own sister. Now which is of the most value; an unending fire of extravagant compliments which mean nothing, or downright honest esteem and protection?" 
               "Yes, I know; a Spanish lover vows to be true till death; and he means till to-morrow. But they make love splendidly while it lasts." 
               The old lady, who had remained vigilantly listening to the conversation, here came spiritedly to the defence. 
               "There are no kinder, more devoted husbands in the world, than the Spaniards, and all who have the same blood in their veins; and if they leave a lady-love on every corner, they enter their own doors with a tender greeting for their wife. 
               A woman is certainly happier to be deceived with the idea that her husband loves her, than to be left in doubt upon the subject by his indifferent manners toward her. It is better that a husband vow falsely than not at all." 
               Lola raised her shoulders and arched her eyebrows in the silent idiom for "I don't know," and ventured a question upon which her sex and nation feel much curiosity. 
               "Your country women are very extravagant. Do they never go out in anything but silk, and are they always dressed up?" 
               "Every lady is always neatly dressed, in my country; but that doesn't mean extravagantly. How is it here, eh Miss Lola?" 
               "If you ever catch a glimpse of our opposite neighbors, before evening, you must know. They certainly do look like wrath all day, as a general thing; scuffing around all day with stockingless feet run into old slippers with the heels doubled in, minus crinoline, and with heads in the over night frowze. If there is a knock on the door, they run away out of sight; but at night these same young ladies rig out in great style, and you would never believe them any way related to the day brood. But there are some exceptions, Mr. Tam, you must admit." 
               They all called him by his first name, according to their custom, which seldom pays any regard to the surname, and even grey haired old men and women were styled in the same way, quite Quaker like. Even married ladies were designated as "Fanchita, who lives in calle San Nicolas," "Fanchita of calle de Industria," and so on to an indefinite extent, till it seemed that half the ladies in the city were named "Fanchita," and even the old beggar women who came round on their profitable business every hour in the day, with their little black shawls drawn over their heads, were greeted as Dolores, Anita, &c. and led into the parlor and handed a cigar as though they were honored guests. Indeed, from the many repetitions of their visits they came to be regarded such. Those who were less intimately acquainted, extended their wrinkled hands between the wide spaced grating of the windows, and begged in the set whining phrase, "a charity for the love of God," and if, as was seldom the case, she was refused, it was in the stereotyped "pardon me, sister, for God's sake." It was astonishing to Tam to see how patiently the kind hearted people submitted to the ceaseless demands upon them, and the fat, happy looking well dressed beggars were certainly in a paradise, where they laid up fortunes easily. 
               To whatever criticisms these people are liable, the generosity and simplicity of their characters strike a stranger gratefully. 
               Imagination seemed to flourish orientally, and a common criticism even among themselves, upon some unusually proportioned munchausenism, was a laughing accusation of telling "a Cuban story," or, as frequently, a quick, hard scraping of one finger tip against the surface of some substance, as an insinuation that the story went against the grain of credulity; and no one ever thought of resenting it, only repeating the story by way of swearing to it if conscience permitted, or dropping it with a little laugh. 
               The perfectly child-like transparency of their characters, was a novel feature and an attractive one to Tam, and he was never weary of watching its development. Their quick, vivid anger blazed up as suddenly as lightning, and as unrestrained; and even in their hypocrisy they were so easily read through and through that it became a harmless little weakness, rather than a real fault. Their table deportment, too, when unrestrained by the presence of strangers, was the most natural and unsophisticated possible, as, quite ignoring the use of knives and forks, they gathered up their cherished rice and black beans with their delicate fingers, and transported it to its destined receptacle, with the farina trickling down to their very wrists; and as familiarity bred confidence, he was informed that until he could thus dispose of "
                     arrog
                     arroz
                   con frijoles," he would never become a Cubano. The care of Don Felipe relieved him of the necessity of testing the strength of his resolution with the national cuisine whose chief components seemed onions and garlics and rancid oil and he was not surprised at their dislike to butter, when he saw the bottled, frowey oil, dignified by the name, dipped out with a spoon. The wide spread fear of ice, existing in its full intensity in Don Felipe's family, created nameless terrors at the liberal supply luxuriated in by himself and Tam, who had learned by experience that it was not such an inflictor of certain death, and Tam thought with much truth that if a stranger were to abstain from everything so decided upon by the death fearing natives, he would inevitably die of pure inanition. 
               Another amusing feature, was the style in which marketing was done. To each doorway came the loaded mules, standing patiently while every vegetable was cheapened, as everything invariably is before being purchased in this country, where a third part of the first demanded price is taken at last, affording splendid profits at that. Then came the venders of milk driving the cows to the door and milking into the "jarros" brought out for the desired "real" or "real fuerto's" worth, never failing to occasion a bickering between the seller and buyer, the former insisting that he had supplied the money's worth, and the latter that the jarro contained half foam, the matter being at last ended by the tinkling of the cow bells as the herd were driven unyieldingly off to the cry of "leche, leche: quien quiere leche." (Milk, milk: who wants milk. From morn till dusk, unceasing venders of all varieties of merchandise, from vegetables to dry goods and jewelry, called their wares through the hot streets in every imaginable key and variation of voice, generally some scrap of tune; and the orange venders, in particular, from their multiplicity, kept up a continually varied cry, each one being distinguishable to his regular customers, by his own peculiar change, as he sang through his nose "naranja de China; que bueno," (China oranges how good!) or, "noranjas de China; catorce por un medio," (fourteen for five cents,) and Tam thought what a scampering such a chance for a bargain as that would create among the juveniles in New York. Then the sellers of the dulces forming the national dinner dessert, composed of the various preserved fruits of the country; and he pronounced all these things very good, with the one exception of meats, which soon ceased to be fresh, carried for hours and hours exposed to the torrid sun, and swarmed upon by millions of flies. Then on every corner stood a bodega, a sort of sixpenny-trading grocery in which a dime's worth of flour, sugar, &c. were purchased at most enormous profits to the seller, and where money was changed at a liberal discount to the holder unfortunate enough to need such service. 
               At sunset the universal amusement of kite flying, commenced, and fathers, sons, and daughters, flew them side by side from nearly every azotea (the square house-top,) with apparently equal enjoyment. All varieties of horrid and ridiculous figures were painted upon these kites, and grinning negroes soared side by side with devils, and sardonic monstrosities of all shapes. 
               "Simple, childlike, happy people," thought Tam as he recalled the jaded, careworn, thought-lined faces of his own countrymen, contrasting their unlimited and life-destroying ambition, with the careless, not over educated existence around him, whose only requisites were enough to eat and drink, and a fine carriage in which to display themselves. Yet he was sufficiently fastidious to consider the non-possession of horses preferable to stabling them in the house according to the Cuban custom, since they actually lived with their noses in close proximity to the cook room, if not intruding into it, and every dish upon its way to the dining table passed closely by them; and the carriage stood monopolizingly in the entrance to the dining room partitioned off a little way along one side to form at once a sort of hall and the side wall of the parlor, containing a grated window as if for the purpose of displaying a good view of the vehicle to the parlor observers, who upon occasion stepped from it into the properly accoutred convenience, and rode out of their own doors into the street with all the sang froid imaginable. Not unfrequently, visiting cavaliers rode their horses directly into the house, where they stamped and ranged round at their own curious wills, till broken crockery and jingling accidents called some servant to the rescue. 
               The democratic way in which people and their domestic animals lived together, might have shamed a nation which boasts of its equality in all things. The proud father of the roost led his harem boldly into the dining rooms and crowed his loudest from under the crumb-bestowing table; and not unfrequently a fine black pig basked in serene enjoyment in the sun which streamed in upon the floor. Opposite neighbors being legal plunder, the wide world over, Tam became intimately acquainted with the habits and customs of his. Three young ladies had there struggled up into meager maturity, and one lover having served his first year's apprenticeship at the window, was duly admitted within the enchanted domicil, while a second had commenced his siege outside, and was yet compelled to dodge suddenly away from the iron bars through which his honied words were flowing, whenever the watchful parent appeared upon the scene. These young ladies emerged from their "tattered and torn" condition in the evening, and the one admitted lover dispensed his endearments among the three, kissing each in turn when the prying eyes of the others chanced to be turned away. 
               "How long must this other poor unfortunate do penance in the mud, before he can go inside the envious window, like a Christian," asked Tam of Lola, as they had for sometime looked in sympathy upon the "window wooing swain," who was evidently ruining his best gaiters and Sunday breeches in the slippery mud which rendered the mere strip of stone walk running close by the window, a most unreliable foundation. 
                
               "Oh, it depends upon circumstances. If he is rich he will soon get in; but I think he is poor, as this is his third month, and he dodges yet when the old lady comes near." 
               "Oh Dios mio!" laughed Tam. 
               "You Americans are not ardiente enough for that I know. If one lady love costs too much trouble, you look up another, Si?" 
               "Si, Senorita! Why; if I must spoil my clean clothes and things like that poor fellow there, now, I'd keep my old ones, and buy me a pair of stout cowhides for such abominable work." 
               Lola looked angry for a moment; but then her good humor returned, and she only sighed "Los Americanos notienen carazons." (the American gentlemen have no hearts.) 
               He did not feel so certain of that, and at times only wished he did, as day by day he felt himself more enamored by the artless, beautiful girl, and in impulsive moments he felt a wicked wish that sudden illness, or temporary blindness, would put the elderly female sentinel off duty for a little time, at least. But it never did, and the vigilance by which she honored him, outwitted his most strenuous efforts to see Lola one moment alone. He spoke to Don Felipe upon the subject, at last, confessing his uncontrollable sentiments toward Lola, and asking if there was no hope of the old lady ever being unavoidably detained from her post. Don Felipe smiled, readily comprehending Tam's difficulty. 
               "Oh never mind her, mi amigo. All the courting in this country is done in the presence of the old people, or at best of elder brothers and sisters. The old lady will pretend not to hear you." 
               "Oh that I ever should come to this! What, grind out one's fine speeches and romantic ideas for a third party, and an old one at that, to hear, understand, and inwardly digest?" 
               "Make use of the 'natural language,' then! You will find the old one accommodatingly blind, and the young one quick to interpret." 
               "Honestly, Don Felipe; do you think there's any hope for an Americano? Will she overlook my national lack of what she calls 'chivalry?'" 
                
               "Not a doubt of it. My countrywomen declare you have neither politeness nor hearts: yet some way they have indefinite expectations of bettering their condition in becoming your wives. But take care, my friend, that you don't run into trouble! You can never make Lola like one of your own country-women, and as far as I have seen, few marriages between those of different nations turn out happily. I would never so choose a wife, and the woman who marries a foreigner is never contented with him." 
               These words of wisdom rang faintly in Tam's head, but only had a more stimulating effect as a sort of opposition of his own brain against his heart, and he made such good use of "the natural language" referred to, that the old lady, not yet showing any indications of accommodating blindness or inaction in any other sentinel-like quality, kept her energies additionally upon the qui vive. However, a relief was experienced when the family carriage was driven out, and the old lady transferred her vigilance to the thieving Chinese servants, who could not be trusted to remain in the house by themselves; and as Don Felipe and his pretty wife were in Tam's interests, he found many opportunities for revealing all he felt it wise to say, and fully realized that he was upon the brink of an unknown gulf, balancing in the doubt whether to plunge boldly in, or to draw back and run for life. 
               So passed Christmas, with its midnight feasts upon the noche bueno, (good night, or Christmas, eve,) and the Catholic rejoicing incident upon it, and the sixth of January drew near, the famous holiday of the negroes, celebrated in real African country style, and termed aguinaldo. 
               With the first peep of light upon the gala morning, every body was awakened by a confusion of many noises; horns fearfully tooted, bells ding donged, and a vigorous-beating of the rude drums formed of hollow logs with leather drawn over the end. All negro-dom was loose, rigged fantastically in all colors and descriptions of dress and disguise, some with masks and others with their faces painted hideously or ridiculously, and came dancing, and performing antics down the streets, passing a contribution arrangement to every white person, for the stray bits of silver which they considered their lawful perquisite upon every return of this annual festival. All day the noisy mob poured down every street, in which volantes were unseen, white people and their rights and accommodations being in total abeyance to those of the colored race upon this whole day, and on many a parlor floor reposed the old black grunter destined to be barbacued for their delectation at night. The usually shut up houses by day, were now thrown open, and the wooden shutters which closed the windows upon the street, were folded back, that every one of them might become an observatory, and at them sat the natives with their ready dimes seemingly as much entertained with the programme as the actors themselves. While Tam looked disapprovingly out, pre-determined not to be amused by the absurd parade nor to give a dime to it, a strapping young wench advanced directly to the window, singing a crooked, jerky little tune, accompanying her voice with a huge child's rattle, and dancing with a grotesque affectation of airiness most ludicrous to witness, while her gay dress adorned with a string of spools from the waist, and the little tails of her braided hair decorated with streaming ribbons of all colors, and a liberal supply of flour smeared in a great patch in front of each ear, forced every one to laugh at the tout ensemble, and Tam tossed her a quarter, involuntarily. 
               Knights met fair (black) ladies in a coming group to whom, stricken with sudden admiration, they knelt and presented wooden sword and tin helmet, and, raised by her gracious hand, fell to dancing in mad pantomine, after a reasonable acting of which, their personal and armorial effects were returned to them; and wiping her streaming face with his handkerchief he pressed it in ecstacy to his sable nose, and each went on their conquering way. There was no end to the fine ceremonies performed, and no cessation to the headache provoking din of every thing capable of producing noise. Night closed the street festivities, and sent them to the ball room, from which they dispersed near morning, having broken all white people of their rest, and inconvenienced them in all ways; and as Tam turned crossly on his sleepless bed, he grumbled, "What a ridiculous people, to submit to such a nigger row as this where the good for nothing rascals cap the climax of their all-the-year-round impudence, by dunning you for a reward for their superhuman tortures inflicted upon this awful day of aguinaldo. I'd like to get a New York police in among them once!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               MOVING round in the harbor of Havana at night, one obtains perhaps the most unique view of the city. The revolving light crowning castle Morro, throws its fitful gleam over the foreign looking entrance bound round by its rocky coast, crowned with singular looking buildings of heavy structure, and across the waters, from which with every dip of the oar, phosphorescent light is evolved, playing for an instant on the surface, and then going down with the mingling waves, and disappearing. Nearest the city lie the Spanish crafts, as if warning off those of the dreaded Yankees, which lie farther up and on the opposite side, while the ships of all nations lie quietly at anchor, like sentinels at watch around the walls. 
               Passing out by the Spanish goletas one may hear the measured, broad-sided twang of the fishermen's guitars, as they strike off an accompaniment to some betwisted, monotonous bit of tune into which are tortured and crowded an unlimited supply of words, tossed edgwise and struggling for a foothold, or balancing over the edges of the notes, vainly essaying to fall into place in the measure all too brief to contain them. Thirty long-metred, unrhyming verses deplore the sorrows of some love-lorn swain, condemned by unrelenting fate to struggle on with the pangs of his "ardiente corazon," and an equally long winded complaint is sent up by the similarly suffering dulcinea, which wears the tune quite threadbare. Then follows a chorus of more vigorously twanged strings, by way of finale to one musical production and prelude to another, and the cook, released at last from his manufacture of fearful compounds, plants himself upon the bulwark, draws his red cap more firmly upon his head, while his orchestra dispose themselves flat upon their backs on the deck, making every preparation for a lengthy siege. Slowly the musical cook gets his voice under weigh; but warming into pathos as he proceeds, it winds in and out among the turns and corners of some nasal airia in which a love sick lady (she must be young) for she calls upon her "primero hombre," (first man) "querido hombre," and "hombre precivo," (dear man, and precious man) in strains which might move a stone to most anything. Long, nasal and monotonous is the doleful wail, amid whose unending cadences one is fain to shove off, thinking how much in the main features the primitive songs of all countries are alike. 
               On another craft the "zapatero" is going on with its four note music, as enthusiastic feet perform the shuffling dance of the country people; or some darkey, inspired to perform the "demon dance," paws vigorously out with both arms and legs bent like Cupid's bow and far more active, as they come over, and in, with a twisting motion resembling nothing save the worthy fellow who gives his name to the figure. 
               Up among the ever narrowing green banks, studded back by grand old palm trees, or out into the open sea beyond the entrance and out past the Morro, glides the little boat, obedient to the will of her masters, and coming back at last in the fresh gale which fills the sail till every wrinkle in it is swollen into rotund proportions, one hears the successive cries of the watchmen, "las once y sereno," as one after another takes up the musical call signalled from the clock on the Captain General's palace, telling to the sleeping city that it is eleven o'clock, and that the Serenos are keeping watch and guard over it. Faithful, ridiculous Sereno, with thy huge caped cloak and slouched hat; in one hand thy cumbrous spear too long for convenience and too short for use, and in the other the lantern, whose far gleaming light says to all mischief doers, "lo here cometh the Sereno; run and hide thyself for a moment." 
               But far more pitiably ridiculous are the patient oxen, drawing in their heavy loads of produce from the country, to which they return at night, deprived of the freedom of oxen without gaining the advantages possessed by horses, by the cruel rope drawn through between the swollen, panting nostrils from which long lines extend by which to guide them, while they are ceaselessly goaded and pricked with a long pole containing a sharp spear in the end. Worse, if possible, is their condition than that of the public volante horses, who, from hour after hour of heavy labor under the beating sun, go reeling blindly on their way through the hot paved streets whose very stones are softer than the hearts of the burly negroes who add their disgusting weight to that of the occupants of the volante, till the poor creatures drop down from pure fatigue. 
               It seemed to Tam that the happiest animal on the island, was the negro. Not, perhaps, in the country, where they are over worked and under-rested, through an insufficient supply to perform the necessary labor; but the city darkey is a different institution. 
               Protected in all ways by the laws, he can neither be over worked, or beaten, and when he wearies of his master, can force him to dispose of him for a mere portion of his actual worth, giving him three days in which to look for a purchaser willing to give it. The most sacred names are lavished upon him, no uncommon ones being Emanuel, and Joseph Jesus-only softened to English ears by the pronunciation and spelling, Jose Jesu. 
               It requires no boding bird of evil to predict for Cuba the fate of San Domingo, unless saved by foreign intervention before it bursts, as nine tenths of all the murders and crimes committed on the island are perpetrated by the negroes, who seldom go unarmed as the law directs the white races on it. Indeed, more than one American, who has been detected carrying his revolver for self defence alone, where much is so desperate, has languished in the city prison, forced to march daily through the streets upon his way to labor in the chain gang, while every negro carries a knife about his person, and is not unfrequently hired to put some private enemy of a white man, out of the way. 
               The lazy way in which they set about the labor they consent to perform, furnishes a striking illustration of "how not to do it," and as the laundresses stand over their wash tubs, it would be difficult to decide whether they honor most diligently the linen in its supply of cold water with the necessary corn cob for a rasper, and a little bottle of acid whose concealed contents pounce upon the offending garments liberally till they become clean and holy by the process, or the cigar protruding from their lips at an angle of forty five degrees up towards the eye protectingly closed from the smoke, which occasionally obscures both; and the performance of this weekly ceremony extends through at least three days, and often more. 
               The heart of an English housewife would ache at the fadeless records of preceding years' dirt overlaying every door, which liberal structures themselves gave ample proof of abundance of material, serene in the majesty of ten feet upright boards forming double, barn door like arrangements, even to the hasp and hook for fastening, and painted green on one side, and blue or red on the other. Even bedroom doors were of the same ponderous style and proportions, and in the pride of his heart Tam could not forbear thinking what a change "the universal yankee nation" would make in the order of things if they ruled among them, and of the different order of amusements which would soon surround his more fastidious people. 
               The Tacon theater, and one or two inferior ones, the drive on the paseo, and the gathering on the Place de armes in the evening, seemed now to constitute the whole variety, and various side shows, which would disgrace a northern travelling circus, called spectators into various quarters adorned by flaming handbills and pictured representations, accompanied by the all powerful and wrongfully assumed name of Barnum. 
               Then there were the vaunted "Elysian Fields," nothing more or less than a fine field for gamblers, with the many ingenious inventions for practising this national occupation, and shooting galleries, in which the fast and the merely scientific, shot side by side. The other arrangements might have amused the children of other lands, but the citizens would scarcely have effervesced in delight in a circle of wooden vehicles behind wooden horses whirling round by some suspending machinery, or in taking a ten yard ride in a railway conveyance which combined a circular and a straightforward motion at the same time, upon its unwinding way. 
               The winter furnishes an opera so dear as to be beyond the reach of the many, whose acme of delight is reached in the masked and fancy dress balls conducted upon the general democratic principle, and at which not unfrequently some white person appeared in the very dress worn by some negro upon aguinaldo day these disguises being hired by whoever chose to patronize the establishments where they were rented out to customers. 
               Carnival commenced with the usual festivities celebrated in all Roman Catholic countries, and upon its last day, in particular, all Havana seemed gone mad, or as the monkeyish Chinese boy pronounced it, "mucho loco." Masked faces and grotesque figures crowded the streets, representing every imaginable pantomine, and not unfrequently going to the Scriptures for tableaux. Thus Christ and his Apostles were represented in garb and deportment which illy comported with anything like evangelity, riding round in a fantastic old vehicle with one of the Apostles for the mule postillion, and the whole number appearing as if decidedly the worse for liquor. Large figures with little heads, and little figures with preposterously large heads, went calling at the houses of the sporters' friends, much to the mystification of the elder members of the family, and the screaming terror of the younger ones. Masked balls called the revelers from the streets to the "Tacon" and "Escauriza" at night, which favorite dance rooms were filled to suffocation with the number of ugly disguises, very few of the wearers of these arrangements making any pretences to more than mere concealment. Red, white, blue, yellow, black, green, and spotted caretas (little silk covered pasteboard face forms) gyrated round the room, and tin helmeted warriors with painted gutta percha faces, or natural faces sporting merely a huge false nose, ridiculous figures with watering spouts on their heads, and ugly dominoes of all colors, mingle together in inextricable confusion, and managed to perform the favorite slow gliding waltz-which is almost the only dance in use, and this imported from the San Domingo blacks, and danced hour after hour a whole night-despite the crowd of curious spectators tors which hemmed them closely in, following with persistent determination, to catch a glimpse of some face whose graceful figure had aroused their attention, boldly drawing up some loosely flowing sleeve to see the contour of the extended arm, while dancing, or pushing aside the dress to look more freely at some petite slippered foot, whose delicacy only aggravated their curiosity to know the fair possessor. 
               Attracted by a graceful figure whose little Venetian mask scarcely concealed the smooth forehead above it, and left quite exposed the round chin whose dimpled mouth was half visible through the little curtain of lace falling over it, and through which gleamed two rows of pearly teeth in contrast with the scarlet lips which might have tempted an anchorite, Tam pursued it with ardent devotion. He invited the charming incognita to partake of an ice cream, and she accepted very gracefully, accompanying him to the saloon with most tantalizing freedom; but all his efforts to coax a single peep behind her mask, were unavailing, as were his finally spiteful efforts to convince himself that she was probably old and ugly. 
               "I would give fifty dollars this minute to know who she is," he said in English to Don Felipe, who like himself, was unmasked. 
               "What would a certain fair lady of my family say to that?" laughed his friend, and interpreting it to the lady on his arm, her amused laugh revealed under a changed mask, Don Felipe's wife. 
               Tam bowed gallantly under the discovery, and remarked apologetically, 
               "Every body knows that a man who can thoroughly appreciate one pretty face, can't well be blind to another." 
               "I speaky a poco Inglese," remarked the tantalizing masker, archly, and the accent revealed her as his own parrot-taught pupil." 
               "Lola; you have betrayed yourself, despite all this change of mask and toggery!" You deserve the fifty dollars," said Tam, as he led her in delighted triumph to a seat. 
               "And you deserve-I dont know what-for your fickleness to me!" she replied angrily in her own language. 
                
               "Now, mi alma;" ventured Tam, taking one of her little hands in his. She snatched it away pettishly, exclaiming, 
               "Yes, you do! Ave Maria! I was mad enough to bite you with the '
                     exqusite
                     exquisite
                   teeth and mouth' you have been complimenting for these three hours! Oh, you Americanos are a sweet race to reprove the inconstancy of Spanish vows! You are models!" 
               "And must I never see any pretty face but yours, Lola mio?" 
               "Por supuesto! I don't know how it is with your country women, but mine can not tolerate that another lady should be praised and complimented by either lover or husband." 
               Her jealous pique was really more fascinating to him than any other humor he had ever seen her in; and gently imprisoning the hand she had withdrawn from him, and struggled to do so now, he said with persuasive art, "How can Lola be angry that Lola's self has thus enchanted me even in disguise! Do you want a more convincing proof of your power over me?" 
               She was conquered by the masculine advantage taken of a weak place which might have wrecked him, and drawing a sharp quick breath which faded into a sigh, she murmured, "Estoy muriendo con amor, y celos." (I am dying with love and jealousy.) 
               "Angel mio; take your revenge. Make me your prisoner for life if you will. I await the happy sentence." He bent low to catch it, and it was pronounced; and as he drew more closely through his arm the hand that was henceforth to rest upon it, he felt supremely happy and content. 
               How, in his impatience that their marriage should take place, Tam anathematized the long season of "Lent" during which no good Catholic would think of marriage; and he looked forward to the semana Santa (Saints week) which would close the time of probation, with more eagerness than the fair sex who were driving their dress makers day and night for the different toilets prescribed for every day of that holy week. Lola thought him a savage, as she patiently explained why they must wear one dress one particular day, and another upon the next, and why all must wear black on Friday, and that nothing but solemn music must be performed all through the interval, in which people were to devote themselves to religious ceremonies. He blushed as he contemplated the hypocritical profession of her religion which he must make before he could become the husband of a Catholic; but he looked again at his temptress, and thought the reward worth the temporary sacrifice. So he accompanied her very patiently to view the religious processions, and waited patiently in the cathedral through the seemingly unending services, refrained from smiling at the dirty looking faces bearing the ash cross upon ash-Wednesday, and donned his blackest suit upon the mourning Friday. It must be feared that such praiseworthy conduct was influenced less by religious zeal, than dislike to spare her continually from his sight. 
               He hailed, as a herald of his own approaching happiness, the sudden shout and ringing of bells in rejoicing, which, as the ten o'clock gun was fired on the day of Resurrection, burst from every house and hovel, and unprepared for the execution of Judas in effigy, he started involuntarily, as life-like figures were suddenly hurled from upper windows and hung suspended over the streets. Every body clapped their hands and shouted "Hallelujah," and unfortunate dogs made the fastest puppy time down the streets, with tin pails and old iron kettles tied to their persecuted tails, their own pitifully frightened shrieks interpreted into a swelling of the chorus, "Hallelujah." Fired at the undignified, seemingly blasphemous cruelty, Tam rushed in among the crowd, who, with shouting and clapping of hands were lending madness to one poor creature's terror, and rescued it, much to the touching exhibition of its gratitude; and a deriding shout of "heretic," from its persecutors, alarmed Lola, who begged him to be quiet before the police should seize him. 
               The unearthly din ceased, at last, and another series of balls was to commence at night, to revive the spirits, depressed by a whole week of religious formulas, and sensation flew from one extreme to the other. 
               The consent of the church was bestowed upon the approaching marriage, upon Tam's giving satisfactory evidence that he was a Roman Catholic, and the ceremony was to be performed in the Cathedral, at twelve o'clock at night, that it might be sanctified with mass; and invitations were given for the wedding feast to follow it, at the house of the bride. Not one word with Lola, alone, was yet permitted him, and the old lady was so dissolved in tears, in which Lola joined her from contagion, that he really feared all the bride's color would be in her eyes. The old lady would not suffer her one moment from her side, and Tam was excusable for rejoicing that with this day her dominion would cease forever. 
               He performed his part in the important ceremony, with as much grace as could have been expected, and having received the holy benediction upon his nuptials, handed Mrs. Winthrop into the magnificent carriage in waiting, and the gay wedding procession moved off, Tam's eyes admiringly followed the complimented and certainly lovely bride through the succeeding entertainment, and it seemed utterly impossible to him that he had any legal claim upon her. She could never be any thing to him but "Miss Lola," the beautiful and unapproachable, he felt actually certain; and he wondered at the sing-song, matter-of-fact deportment of most married couples, who of course never could have felt for each other the chivalrous admiration he did for Lola. 
               Poor Tam! It is to be feared that his young wife gave him an unusually speedy realization of why the wedding day is styled the happiest day of one's life, "for, considering that in her marriage with an American, she had herself become one, she claimed all the rights, customs and privileges of one in her own country, sadly curtailed even to them, as they are in Cuba, where women are most despotically hedged in; and unfitted for her assumed freedom, as she had been, by the strictest vigilance and restraint unrelaxed till the very hour of her marriage, while remarkably liable to criticism from her own people, who frown upon the degree of liberty in each other which they magnanimously accord to strangers, she was a source of continual anxiety to him. But she resented his deprecations, with all the fire of her nature, and her lips curled witheringly as she asked, "Have you not always boasted that your country-women are as free and unrestrained as you are?" 
               "Yes, nina, and so you will be in my country; but here it is against the customs as binding as a law, which I am powerless to remodel, and your countrymen are different from mine. I am ready to accompany you anywhere you wish to go, or if I am unwanted, take a servant with you when you go into the street. I cannot see what can tempt any lady out among such a chorus of hisses and pantominic kisses as these puppies in pantaloons inflict upon her." 
               "It is quite an evidence of good sense when one forbears to comment upon matters they don't understand. The exclamations and kisses you so charitably refer to, are intended as compliments, and as such considered by us. You Americanos display your gallantry by passing a lady without seeming to see her." 
               "Exactly; our talent for chivalry doesn't lie in staring at and embarrassing its object. However, we wont quarrel, nina. You will of course do as you please. But I will break the head of any puppy whom I consider insults you, and if you are now an "Americana," you will change your opinion of what constitutes a compliment." 
               "You would not speak so to one of your own country women, in whom you "do not like to marry mere household appendages," (you see I remember; those were your very words.) You insult me because I am a daughter of poor, despised Cuba! You gentlemen have one code of treatment for your own people, and another for us, and I tell you that if I am your wife I will enjoy all the rights and privileges you would accord to one of your own blood." 
               "Well, Lola, go out alone if you will; but do come back before night, as you ought." 
               "And pray how ought I to come back, if not as I always do! Am I to come on my head?" 
               It was useless to argue with her; and hoping that her natural good sense would triumph over her willfulness, he resigned himself with as good a grace as possible, mentally recalling a wise bit of advice he had come across in a book which deserved to have been sainted-"Get a wife and then be patient." 
                
               He thoroughly enjoyed the charm of her piquant, vivacious society relieved from the vigilance and restraint of a third party, and when she was contented to spend an evening at home with him, he was captivated and happy with her. But these occasions were rare, as, having presented her a splendid bridal trousseau, she could not resist any possible occasion for displaying it. She pursued the round of amusements, limited as it was, with unpalling delight, and night after night beamed magnificently from her opera box, where she was the admired of all observers, and particularly interesting as the young bride of an Americano; and as he himself looked on and admired her, he felt it to be very natural that she should covet the applause which was her birthright. Tam liked music as something rather agreeable to listen to; but to say that he really appreciated and loved it would be stretching too many points in his favor; and he was not unfrequently quite banished from the box, into outer confusion, his matter-of-fact interpretations of the indications of tender suffering depicted by the actors, quite bereaving the most affecting scenes of all romance. Lola laughingly pronounced him a bear, and was far better pleased with him when he accompanied her upon the various parades, whose sole object was to see and be seen. 
               In fact this gana a pasear seemed the ruling passion of all ages and conditions; and as Lola turned from her mirror to enter the carriage in which her sister often relieved him of the wearying attendance, Tam felt a glowing pride in her beauty, which was one of the few compensations now left him. But if the wisdom of Don Felipe's warning regarding his marriage with her, recurred to him at times, he gave no evidence of it, treating Lola always with the same forbearance, rejoicing in her when she was good, and when she tried him to the limit of patience, thanking fortune she was no worse. Thus has done many a good husband before him, and so will many to come, till husbands and wives shall cease to be. 
               The friendship existing between him and Don Felipe, remained unimpaired, and together they visited all the notabilities of the place, first of which in interest, was the Beneficencia, a large foundling asylum under the protection of the government. Every appointment of it seemed perfect, from the turning receptacles placed in the solid wall, so communicating with the street that from it the little wayfarer was deposited in them, and announced its arrival without betraying the person who placed it there, and careful nurses received and cared for the stray little waifs. Not unfrequently, some trifle, by which the child might afterwards be distinguished, accompanied it; and this was faithfully preserved, proving its identity when, as in many cases, the proper parties came and claimed it when circumstances permitted. Here, too, the children of laboring people were received and cared for during the day, and taken home again when the parents returned at night. At a certain age, those uncalled for, or unprovided with homes, are sent to the orphan asylums, where they are educated by the good sisters of charity, and qualified to fill many useful positions in life, not a few of them becoming competent teachers, and not unfrequently marrying well and becoming the mistresses of happy homes. 
               With no prepossession for the Spaniards as a race, Tam could not fail to see much which was well worthy of admiration, and he was constrained to concur in Don Felipe's assertion, that the government was one every way suited to their wants, if only worthily administered. 
               The convicts, marched every morning from the prison out to their work on the highways, presented a spectacle of pitying interest, dressed in their striped uniform drawn by lot from the general supply, so that not unfrequently a small man with a uniform a world too large for him walked near a large one in clothes painfully small, rattling their chains as they proceeded under a guard of soldiers. 
               Tam always observed that two poor fellows who were chained together in the long line going to and from their work, were never by any-chance the length of the chain apart, but with bended heads, and hands firmly clasping, seemed to notice and care for nothing but each other. It was really a touching spectacle, this tender little flower of sympathy blooming amid the stern surroundings of their lot. He would have given worlds to know the history of these two fate-tossed men, certain that it contained some woful wrong and injustice, here, where every petty "Justice tice" can at will, imprison with little show of examination, or little pretence to justice. 
               The military system, too, was another source of oppression and cruelty. The drafts made at intervals, condemned every fifth young man capable of bearing arms, to go into regiments, forming a home guard, and every morning at six o'clock they were called out to drill and parade. The contemptible barbarities of the Spaniards who officered them, made honest blood boil, inflicted as they were for the most trivial causes. A recruit not sufficiently perfected to fall readily into his place, received a stinging blow in his face from the officer's sword, or a wrench which tore his whiskers from his bleeding face, by the handful; and a bugler who was not quite au fait in his role, was compelled to practice it through the parade, with a swarthy upstart Captain's unrelenting grasp upon his ear, which at every imperfect note was harshly jerked till his neck was literally bathed in blood before the close of the exercise. Certain and instantaneous death is the penalty of any revolt against such unfeeling cruelty, and it is little wonder that many a Cuban sword burns to sheathe itself in the heart of the dastardly oppressor. 
               Don Felipe's cheeks would blaze and his eyes flash as he saw these things, and he asked in smothered tones, 
               "Do you wonder that we hate Spain and the Spaniards? Kicked, cuffed, and spitten upon, we live under the very heel of the tyrant, and every born son of this island lives, even in his own house, under a system of martial laws which is intolerable. If we were not as a race, fickle, slothful and treacherous, we should have liberated ourselves long ere this; but Cuba may groan many a weary day ere another Lopez comes to her deliverance." 
               Tam could only maintain a sympathizing silence; and after a moment's silence in which he pressed down the first bitterness of his feelings, Don Felipe resumed, 
               "Do you know, my friend, that were I this moment to meet here in the street, a man who had robbed me of a thousand dollars, and he were ready and willing to restore it to me before being given up to the authorities, I dare not receive my own back again, but must allow it to be given up to the Spanish authorities, who will consume three quarters ters of it in perquisites, leaving me to consider myself lucky if I recover any of it. Oh, it is a thieving, knavish, dastardly rule they hold over us! Yet, outnumbering them as we do ten to one, we are so untrustworthy and treacherous to each other that no one dare move in any enterprise to overthrow them. Oh, there were Cubans, a few among the base scum, who wept as tears of blood, when our martyred brother, the brave and gallant Lopez, was led out to die; and that, too, through the very cowardice and treachery of those he died to save!" 
               Beautiful, unhappy Cuba! Her fair soil will yet be drenched in blood, but with what result, God only knows! There lies the very garden of the world; but its music is hushed, and its fair flowers blighted, by a despotism more absolute and cruel than ever stained the pages of history, or blotted out a land from the sight of Heaven! 
               "Lola, come here please. There are ladies at the window," called Tam, going to the door of the room in which his wife was closeted with her mother, according to her usual morning custom. 
               She obeyed the summons, expecting to encounter some of her friends, who usually were conducted, negro maids and all, into the parlor where Tam sat reading, and kept up the customary feminine clatter, with woolly heads in close juxtaposition with their own; much to Tam's contempt for the democracy exhibited. But upon this occasion it proved to be only a couple of ladies soliciting alms for an invalid, according to the religious formula of begging from door to door in humility of spirit. Lola turned to Tam, exclaiming, 
               "Oh, mi alma, give me some change. I gave my very last real to Anita, this morning." She bestowed her alms, and was retiring, when he detained her. "Nia, who is Anita?" 
               "Why, the vieja you know; la pobrecita." 
               "Oh, the disgusting old crone who fingers over all the pieces in the sugar dish when she comes to table with us, and afterward smokes your cigars in the parlor, and spits all over the floor, till she looks like a human island in a pool of her own producing! I do wish, Lola, that you wouldn't fraternize with such old crones. Coming up the street the other day, I actually heard a snarl of them here, bawling at the top of their harsh voices, as they always do in their edifying dialogues, so loudly that every word was distinct to the third corner; and mingling with them I heard my little wife's voice, strained till it seemed splitting, and causing fearful suggestions of the to come, in my brain. Don't fraternize with them, nia-give them what you choose and send them off; do." 
               "Oh, you democratic Americano! Ave Maria! You tire me to death with your nice ideas. You are too fine for me." 
               "But, Lola, you claim to be an American, too, now, and I can assure you that in our 'native country' your ideas of the equality of all conditions and colors wont be appreciated. The negroes, even in the free north, are never seated side by side with the white people; and beggars, however benevolently they may be treated, are no happier for being brought to your level, where you must suffer their not fastidiously clean companionship. Virtue in rags is commendable; but its odor doesn't recommend it for table association. If we were always to stay here, I should not mention all this; but by-and-by I want to take you to my own home and country and show them, there, what an uncriticisable treasure I found here. Wont you try to be as good, and au fait in deportment, as you are pretty?" 
               "Que disparate! If you like your own country women best, why didn't you marry one of them? It was a pity to throw yourself away upon a poor untaught Cubana! I suppose you wanted something in the obedience line," and with a scornful curl of her lip she passed by him. He continued his interrupted reading, with much serenity, and was not surprised when shortly afterward two warm arms were thrown round his neck, and Lola herself was pleading for pardon. Such was always her quickly varying temper, and he hardly knew whether he admired her most in her childish naughtiness, or in the artless fervor with which she sought for reconciliation, after it. She was piquant and tantalizing in all humors, and if he was often seriously annoyed, he had also his recompenses, and in the end she generally yielded assent to his requests. 
                
               The invalid for whom the alms had been solicited became worse, and proving to be the mother of the three meager young ladies opposite, Tam watched with much curiosity the preparations for a religious ceremony performed for her restoration to health. Early in the evening the wide doors were swung back, opening the house to the street, and handsomely dressed ladies, friends, and relations, poured in till the neighboring houses were called on to swell the army of chairs dotting every foot of territory within the invalid-inhabited house. Volantes quite blocked up the narrow street, and while the priestly ceremonies proceeded within the house, outside of it the horses stamped and fretted, and their caliseros swore, and laughed, and quarreled, till it seemed as if the gathering were to test the sick woman's remaining strength and fortitude; and Tam thought that if she lived through all that, she was "good" for a long time yet to come. At length the volantes were re-occupied and driven off in procession, and lines of pedestrians moved down the street, each carrying a lighted taper, while every neighbor, in honor of the ceremony, displayed a lighted candle in their own doorway, and the pianos broke out into a march. 
               The procession disappeared on its way, and Tam saw it no more; but, as might have been expected, the old lady was discovered to be much worse the next day, and despite all these interpositions, finally died and was carried out to the cemetery in a hearse decorated with nodding plumes; but alas, poor defunct lady! with one arm protruding from the unfastened coffin whose lid was beating a tattoo upon her long thin nose, according to the frequent catastrophe in this easy going country. 
               Indeed, the jaunts out to the old dead yard are not the least singular feature of the customs, to a stranger. 
               Nearly every funeral procession winds up with a miscellaneous collection of men and boys who pass the bottle freely, and such a row is raised as would place a States policeman in the acme of his official glory. It is a sad latter end to an imposing commencement of nodding plumes and hired mourners, whose combined expense is not less than three or four hundred dollars; and the "ovens" in the cemetery are rented by the year, and when not promptly paid for, the occupant is shoved out and makes way for a better customer. Sic transit gloria cadaveris!
                
               But a stylish negro funeral, surpasses all description! The laughing rabble who have contributed for the display, come huddling after the hearse, with noisy boasts upon the elegance of the burial, and the death carriage itself, if money enough is given, may be the same one used for any noble in the land; and every one is attracted by the merriment and loud voices. 
               Here, as everywhere when permitted, among the negroes, wakes are held over the defunct brother, and the strength of wind and unflagging scorn of fatigue they display as they pour out their psalms and hymns in one uninterrupted volley, is a subject for surprise and wonder! From night till morn, no resting place is found between the end of one watching hymn and the beginning of another, and unappreciating neighbors rejoice when his friends have "seen him through" to their entire satisfaction, and daylight puts their vocal organs to rest. Even the obsequies of exceedingly young infants, are conducted with much ceremony. The bit of humanity, perhaps never having given any evidence of its consciousness of its own life, is laid out in state, with four wax tapers burning at the corners of the table upon which it reposes amid satin cushions, robed in all the gorgeousness of satins, laces, ribbons and artificial flowers, and incense is burned over it. At the appointed hour for its first and last promenade, it is carried through the street in the arms of its godfather, in a manner best calculated to display its magnificent attire, and so laid away in the cemetery, out of the wicked world whose pomps and vanities have been renounced in its name in time to save the little soul from eternal torments. 
               It seemed as if the graceless Tam O'Shanter would never learn to avoid the faux pas he was continually perpetrating amid his unfamiliar Romish surroundings. He had never before chanced to see the miniature representations of "our blessed lady and the holy child," and was one day attracted by the entrance of a very gentlemanly personage, who stood with his hat raised, while a lad accompanying panying him exhibited a canopied bedstead made luxuriously cosy by white satin mattrasses and pillows, upon which reposed a daubed waxen figure of a hale and hearty looking Virgin Mary, comfortably put to bed of a smaller, well fed and conditioned waxen image, whose staring eyes and puffy cheeks represented the child Jesus. Tam, in the innocence of his heretical heart, thought it merely a very pretty toy, probably designed by the respectful gentleman, who seemed soliciting alms, though no word had been spoken; and wishing to bestow, doubtless a timely charity upon a gentleman in distress, he was about striking a bargain for it as an adornment for his wife's room, when Lola herself accidentally appeared upon the scene, and bowing low and crossing herself, took out her porte monnaie and gave a liberal alms for the church whose catch-penny it was. 
               Tam had not a drop of stingy blood in his veins, and would willingly have given any amount for the support of his wife's religion; but this seemed to him like childish nonsense, and he turned away impatiently. He often, too, felt like questioning the authenticity of their information, as he read upon the church walls, "this day three souls will be delivered out of purgatory." But such positive intelligence was doubtless a relief to the minds of the relatives of the departed, if not to their pockets long contributing for this result; and heretic as he was, he envied the implicit faith thus imparting supreme content. 
               The religious processions were also unfailing sources of enthusiasm to the display-loving people, and out in the Cerro, where there was room for it, great preparations were made. Long before the hour in which it could be expected to pass in the evening, the street was blocked up with the crowd of people who would stand for hours in some favorable location for obtaining a good view, and the balconies of private houses were crowded with spectators who were hospitably afforded standing room. A staging gaily decorated with lights and banners extended across the street at an elevation of twenty or thirty feet, upon which a band of musicians were stationed, playing the lively Cuban dances in which the ever present clarionet justly deserved triple pay-if wages were in proportion to the amount of labor, and the drums beat a scampering tattoo till they were out of breath, while Cuban feet kept irresistibly beating the time and dancing inside their slippers. The music of the at last approaching procession, kept every one breathless with expectation, and it came into view preceded by a mounted guard, who, with their swords, and prancing horses, pressed back the eager crowd blocking the way. 
               Then came the priests, and the elevated "Host," seemingly nothing more than a vast frame covered with all shades and varieties of artificial flowers, at whose appearance every one must kneel; and following this were men, women, and gaily dressed children, far more intent upon their fine appearance than upon the lighted tapers they bore, to the imminent danger of igniting the outworks of their neighbors in the throng. As the Host passed under the staging, a volley of sky rockets was sent up, accompanied with the usual less ambitious pyrotechnic explosions of fire crackers, torpedoes, &c. and horses became unmanageable in consequence, to the endangering of life and limb among the multitude, which dispersed with anything but solemnity, many to congregate in the various dance rooms illuminating the line of the procession, from which the music sounded in no Sunday measure to strict Protestant ears. It is no wonder that excitable people readily embrace the Roman Catholic faith, particularly in Cuba, where no Protestant can even hold property, this religion, protected and fostered in all ways by the government, combines with its tenets so much of display and gayety that it could not fail under any circumstances to be popular with a nation with whose chief characteristics it so perfectly accords. 
               The change, from the somber faces crossed with ashes upon one holy day, to the wild gayety and excitement of the next, is admirably adapted to their changing dispositions, while for the permanently disappointed and discouraged, there are innumerable convents, from which every Saturday at twilight issues the nasal chanting of the nuns, performed as unmusically as possible, to avoid the worldliness of sweet sounds; and huge monasteries lift their gloomy walls up over the streets, as useless and dead as the life within them is to the great world beyond. 
                
               "Eel Dios Protestante no tiene familia;" (the God of the Protestants has no family) is a common exclamation among the people, and never unaccompanied by a visible horror of so isolated a being, who is cheered by no Virgin Mary for a wife, and no family of children; as they consider the Saints. Their own children are universally named in honor of the Saint upon whose day they are born, and upon each yearly anniversary they receive as a matter of course the birth-day gifts and compliments, seldom neglected by their friends. 
               Their customary style of gift-making strikes a stranger at first as something beautifully generous. Any commendation of an article belonging to them, is followed by their immediate proffer of it, with the polite remark, "a su disposicion," (at your disposition) but no offence is taken at an equally polite phrase declining the gift, which if accepted will nine times in ten be borrowed soon, and never returned. Still, in cases of suffering, no politeness detracts from the real bona fide nature of the gift, which would be of their own last "real," did the sufferer need it more than they themselves! Their charity is boundless, and any real feeling, fully equals their protestations under false assumptions of it. Tam wearied of the round of monotonous events, and looked longingly back to his native land; and Lola, too, wishing a summer's sojourn in it if she might only return to her beloved native city in the winter, they made their arrangements accordingly, and Lola did violence to her national propensities by really applying herself to the study of English, that she might not be completely dependent upon an interpreter in the unfamiliar land of her husband's birth. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIV. 
               FRANKIE had received the announcement of Tam's marriage, with much regret; for though far from wishing to assume any active responsibility where his happiness was involved, she had always believed that the secret of Ida's remaining unmarried through all the eligible opportunities she knew she had received, was connected with him; either that his place in her heart had never been effaced, or that the trial of faith to which he had subjected her, had rendered her skeptical upon all matters of trust, and loth to repeat the experiment of placing her own upon any one. She had hoped much from some future meeting between them, feeling that as a man he could not fail to appreciate and admire, even though an old "sweet heart," the elegant and amiable woman whom Mrs. Houghton had never suffered to leave her, but loved and respected as an own daughter. She felt something like real pique against him for having disappointed her hopes and expectations by thus choosing a wife, and that, too, from another country, whose strange ways she felt sure she should never like; particularly a Cuban, for which race she had conceived neither admiration nor respect, and she momentarily wished him "enough of it," in that charitable way to which females are prone under aggravating circumstances. But she was ashamed of the sentiment as soon as she realized it, and in atonement wrote a particularly affectionate letter of congratulation, cordially welcoming her new sister; and in the very effort, she found herself not only reconciled, but rather pleased; and when she learned that they were going to the old home in the north, for awhile, she determined to accompany them, and to smooth the thorny path she felt sure would be spread for the stranger in the home where no rival in Tam's affections tions would ever meet a cordial welcome, and particularly not one of foreign birth. 
               Even sooner than she anticipated, her return home was resolved upon, in consequence of letters which spoke of her father's rapid decline, and his unceasing wish for her and Tam. He had quite ceased to leave his bed, now, and her heart bled for the feeble old man amid his loveless associations. 
               She wrote a brief letter to Tam, informing him of her intention to return home immediately, and begging him to come, too, as soon as possible. She grieved to part from the Dennisons, with whom she had so long found a home, and latterly a pleasant one; and Howard and Nettie, happy as they were upon the eve of their approaching marriage, felt a real regret in the separation. 
               She took her last farewell of the beautiful landscape by visiting in detail every familiar spot; and as she for the last time saw the sun sink behind the golden waters, and watched the ever varying, always gorgeous panorama of the clouds tinting the heavens even after night shut down upon the earth, she felt that saddening influence which always pervades us as we view any fair scene conscious that it is for the last time. It seemed to her that the golden fruits had never hung so gracefully upon their stems, the flowering shrubs never been half so gorgeous, and the cocoa trees seemed waving her a fond adieu as their graceful foliage floated fringe-like in the breeze, and the very mocking birds, with their rival brotherhood, seemed to swell their sweetest, fullest chorus in farewell. 
               Majestically the steamer moved out into the ever restless, mysterious Gulf stream ever sharply defining itself upon the otherwise pathless ocean, and in a few hours the mariner-dreaded Florida reef lay far aport, beneath the treacherous, death-embracing waves upon which the horizon shut down. Still her memory lingered among the scenes she was leaving. The dreary waste containing the salt ponds, with the one grey, weather-beaten house whose clapboards rattled each one in a voice of its own, refusing to blend into any universal medley, and so bare and melancholy in its whole physique that many believe the tale that it was haunted; even the deaf, half blind old darkey who kept watch and guard over it in its owners' judicious continual absence, came back to fancy with a real touch of romance; and she recalled as beautiful, even the narrow drive cut through swampy tangles of mangroves, hemp, and cactus, in which the flaming "prickly pears" thickly studded the stinging green leaves, looking at a little distance like dark, purplish crimson roses; and it seemed, now, a fantastic, unique drive, whose like she should never see again. The homeliest object lingered tenderly in her remembrance, and she wondered how she ever could have called them lone and dreary. They were things of the past, now; and turning to the onward, present with a sigh, she watched the waves which bore her thinking how like the restless current of destiny they were, tossing and buffeting us at pleasure, and against which our strongest will is scarcely any impeding obstacle. 
               Tam, too, hastened his departure upon the receipt of her letter, and one bright afternoon stood on the deck of the steamer where Lola sat. As they moved down the harbor, the blue, white, red, and yellow walls of the city disappearing as they merged their individuality in the general mass behind them, as the foreign-looking entrance was gained; and looking down into stagnant water scarcely disturbed by the revolving wheels, he remarked to a gentleman near, who was evidently indulging in kindred thoughts, 
               "This harbor is a reeking little hole, with its dirty water never cleaned up by any tide; it has been the death of more poor seamen than ever perished by fire and shipwreck." 
               "Yes sir, yes sir! There is more unbearable heat in it when Cuba is hottest, more sickness when Havana becomes one vast plague hole, and more rampant death at all times, than in the combined harbors of all the world. It has made more widows and orphans, than plague, pestilence, and famine." 
               "Its risks are certainly greater than those of fire and shipwreck. Had they such a harbor in New York, some means would be found to purify it. A little Yankee invention would make a new thing of many Cuban arrangements." 
                
               Lola, who, like all Havanarians, resented any criticism upon her ideal of all a city could or should be, retorted, 
               "New York, New York, forever! Ave Maria! I shall be glad to see it, if one can look upon it and live! I declare, I believe you New Yorkers think all the world born outside of the state limits, actual barbarians! I never knew one of you who could claim birth in that favored part of creation, who was not always boasting of it and all it contained, and estimating everything in heaven or upon earth according as it compared with it! I don't know what use there was in making any world outside of it!" 
               Tam pressed his hand on her head as he said laughingly, "Have mercy, nia; you strike hard. Every one's own country is the emporium of the world. You will soon 
                     recieve
                     receive
                   the answer to your often repeated question if there are as many carriages in Broadway as upon your lauded calle de muralla. Why, Lola; you'll see more of them in one half hour, on Broadway alone, than all Havana contains." 
               She tossed her head impatiently, at the assertion, forming the natural resolution not to confess it if she did, and above all, not to manifest any surprise at anything she might see. 
               She did not prove the most delightful compagnon du voyage possible, as when she was not sick she was frightened at being upon the sea, and altogether so childish in many respects, that an 
                     enegetic
                     energetic
                   old lady who had cheerfully followed Solomon's advice in the rearing of a numerous progeny of her own, remarked very audibly, "it's a thousand pities that young woman is too big to be slapped! It would agree with her, wonderful.' 
               She complained fretfully of the disturbance she suffered in the noise attendant upon the eight o'clock breakfast; and consoling herself for so early an awakening, with a dish of coffee, she relapsed into slumber, and took her own breakfast, according to Cuban custom, between ten and eleven o'clock. She was excessively jealous of every attention offered by Tam to any of his country-women, and as she knew just enough of the language to understand now and then a word or sentence, the troublesome ideas she associated with them were sufficiently ingenious to have entitled her to a diploma. 
               "You have been making love to some lady on deck," she said as he came below to see if she were yet awake. 
               "No, nia." 
               "Mentira! I heard you say 'geeve me a kees,' as I sat here under the skylight." He laughed heartily at her imitation of his words, rendered still more ludicrous by her accent, and explained, 
               "Oh Lola, I did very wrongly to teach you such sentences. But, seriously, I was playing with a little child, and the words were addressed to it. A little four year old, Lola!" 
               "Belonging to some pretty lady at whom you looked expressively as you caressed the substitute." 
               "No, no; all wrong. The mother is as ugly as you could wish; and her husband, who sat near her, has no blind side to get to the leeward of for any such tender pantomime. His eyes are as sharp as your ears, and less liable to mislead him. I tell you, Lola, I am the best husband you ever had, and when you have experience with a few more, you'll pronounce me a model. Come now; get your veil and parasol and come on deck, wont you?" 
               "A Spanish husband would get them for me. You Americanos have a cool way of asking ladies to wait on themselves." 
               "Mille perdons, querida mia," and having duly equipped and escorted her up stairs, she became good natured and amusing for a few moments; but then relapsing either into sleepiness or sea-sickness, she insisted upon going below, again, and could not endure him out of her sight through a waking moment; and one day was a sample of all. 
               Whether he thought her more precious, or troublesome, he gave no sign of anything beyond supreme good humor and loving patience, and if he often repeated his favorite maxim from the good book aforesaid, it was under his breath-"get a wife and then be patient!" 
               Nor were his own slumbers rendered more profound by the family troubles of a woman with a batch of hard-fisted children in the adjoining state-room, who suffered the usual wrongs and hardships of children cruelly "put upon," by each other. It seemed that of three fine youngsters packed into the upper berth, master Tom, as the elder, insisted upon his birth-right of the "foreside," while Dick complained that close acquaintance with the partition at the back, snubbed his nose, and Harry was no less indignant at being "scrouged into the middle when there wa'n't no middle to lie in, and hotter'n wrath at that." They were occasionally "taken all aback" by their mamma, and when sleep had followed in the wake of the soothing administration, and lulled them into temporary peace, the baby would be seized with sudden colic, and her screams exercise some mysterious influence upon the rotatory power of another fledgling stowed away in some mysterious corner, who forthwith entertained himself with the innocent amusement of rolling from his quarters and falling with a resounding bang upon the floor. 
               Tam heard the afflicted woman telling another that she was "nervous-like, and somehow couldn't sleep well o' nights," in which respect he thought she had many sympathizing neighbors. 
               That these interesting offspring had a father, somewhere, was probable; but he evidenced his good sense by occupying other, and more sparsely inhabited regions, leaving "his woman" to manage her own children. 
               The voyage terminated at last, as most voyages will when sufficiently long drawn out, and Tam hailed once more the happy family of stars and stripes waving over his native land, never loved so proudly as in and after an exile from its fair shores. 
               "So this is New York," said Lola, looking out upon its spires and steeples as they came up the river. Fully predetermined as she was not to admire or confess any successful rivalship conflicting with the pre-eminent honor and glory of her own native city, she could not restrain her enthusiasm as they became involved in the whirl and rush of Broadway, and fairly clapped her hands in delight at the pedestrians thronging the side-walks, each of which were nearly as wide as the Havana street. 
               Tam wisely said nothing to rouse her partizanship, but directed her wondering admiration to the various novelties they passed. 
                
               Her admiration of the hotel magnificence, so far exceeding the palaces of her native country, was a source of congratulation to Tam, who silently hoped she would never wish to return to Cuba, at his escape from which, a great relief seized hold of him. 
               His anxiety to reach home, forced him to argue against her pouts and frowns at leaving the city after a few days' sojourn, for he knew she would be no more willing to depart at the end of a month than now; and having duly informed her that at a certain hour he should leave, she concluded to accompany him, but in so sulky and lowering a mood, that he had ample, uninterrupted leisure in which to indulge his mirth at her childish pet. Her amiability enjoyed quite a rest from its labors; but she recalled it, at last, with her usual suddenness, as something new attracted her attention, and pulling his sleeve a second time to secure his attention, she called for explanation. 
               Her national vivacity of manner, in which her whole body talked with her lips, and the redundancy of her gestures, attracted much attention among the less demonstrative 
                     northeners
                     northerners
                  , who evidently thought her as artless and winning as did Tam himself, and his always joyful coming home, was now additionally bright, as he looked upon the little wife whom he was sure would be a favorite with all. 
               Hour after hour we had expected their arrival, and Maria, who pursued her knitting near the window, at last exclaimed: 
               "Here they come: and I declare if Tam hasn't hired a fine carriage to bring them in from the city! I suppose he was ashamed to let his foreign wife know he grew up in the old stage." 
               Frankie went at once down the yard to meet them, and my mother, who was putting on a clean apron and shaking and smoothing herself into company shape, preparatory to appearing upon the scene of action, peeped through the slats of the closed shutter, and remarked, 
               "Well, she don't handsome much. What an awful black eye she's got!" 
               Yes, two of them, for that matter, and don't they look snaky, eugh, eugh!" and Maria made a pretence of shivering ing in the way belonging to ladies who boast of weak nerves. "Oh, do see, Frank! She has kissed that black looking squaw," she added contemptuously. My mother had gone out to welcome them, and having kissed Tam, led her new daughter condescendingly into the house. 
               "This is your sister Maria," she said with assumed cordiality, leading the half reluctant Lola towards the stiff, unsmiling figure which had not stirred from its first position, but extended a cold, bony hand, around which the warm clasp of Lola grew chill, and she cast an imploring glance, back toward Tam and Frankie, who were a little in the rear. As yet Lola had not opened her lips, for she was sensitive under the strong accent with which she spoke the limited English she had learned; and despite the many times she had mentally repeated the salutations proper upon the occasion, the timid tongue now proved recreant, and, she saw, much to Maria's dislike, Tam came to the rescue, and as Maria's chilling manner warmed under the ever present pride in him, she said apologetically, 
               "I didn't know what to say to your wife. Doesn't she understand any English?" 
               "Yes, considerable, and she speaks a little very nicely. Come nina! Frankie will go with you to your room, while I go to father, who is very impatient for me, I know." 
               Lola gave her little hand to Frankie, with a smile that was doubly fascinating in contrast with her preceding seriousness, and as they went up stairs together, Maria asked Tam, 
               "What's that you call her? Neenya? I thought her name was Lola." 
               "Oh yes, so it is. 'Nina' is only a little pet title of her country, meaning literally 'child,' but a little more, and very common there," and Tam walked on to the room where the feeble old father awaited him, as my mother exclaimed-"Well, if this aint an event! Mercy sakes; that a son of mine should take a wife like that! There's neighbors girls in plenty that he might o' had for the ask-in-good thrifty housekeepers, too-without puttin up with a strange young woman like that. I don't know how his poor father'll stan it. I suppose, though, that grace will somehow be given us, and it an't for us to complain, Maria!" 
               Had Tam's sole object been to gratify my father, he could not have done so more than in marrying. Upon him devolved the important duty of perpetuating the family name, for the Winthrops had run so largely to females, that my father now represented the sole male line of the house, which, in common with most of humanity, he felt it a pity should go out from among the lights of the earth. He would have cherished any wife of Tam's, less for her own sake than for that of the destined supporters of his name and dignity; and Lola's artless manners quite won his heart. The respectful, yet affectionate deportment toward old age which seems a part of the character of her nation, particularly exalted her in his regard, accustomed as he was to the not always reverential manner of some of his own daughters, while she, prattling her imperfect new language by his bedside, and quite devoting herself to his amusement, seemed really to love him; and she also took Frankie into some warm corner of her heart; but for the other members of her husband's family she felt a dislike she make no effort to conceal, and between her and Maria there was kept up as continual a skirmish as their natural difficulty in understanding each other, allowed. A stricture in language, was an obstacle of all imaginable ones the most aggravating to be borne by Maria, and as she more than suspected that Lola's frequent assertion of not understanding, was an ingenious subterfuge intended to be, as it was, particularly enraging, she laid violently hold of Tam's "Spanish without a master," and soon possessed a vocabulary whose mispronunciation she would not believe was not thoroughly comprehensible to the object for whose interesting sake she had acquired it. It was impossible to shield Lola from these contests, which she sought and provoked with persistent naughtiness, in contempt of all Tam's arguments and persuasions and Frankie's soothing interpositions, and concluding that the best regimen for the health and comfort of each, was to let them pursue the bent of their own inclinations, they ceased their restraining efforts, and the two ladies finding escape valves in each other, were unusually sually tractable to every one else, and Tam experienced more quiet happiness than he had done since his marriage. 
               As for my mother, there was no end to the continual shock she received from her daughter-in-law's habits and customs! It was bad enough that she would never rise to breakfast with the family: but as she had a servant whose 'special duty it was to wait upon her, the rice and eggs cooked at ten o'clock, and the "picadillo" of meat chopped fine with onions and warmed in lard, were suffered to go to her room unmolested, from which she in due time emerged with a suspicious perfume of cigar smoke lingering around her. My mother resolved to see if it really were possible; and one day took occasion to go herself for the breakfast tray, having sent the servant conveniently off guard. In response to her knock she received a careless "entre" from between the half closed teeth of Lola, who, leaning back in her rocking chair, with her feet elevated upon the seat of another, was enjoying a prime "Havana," with half closed eyes and a general serenity of deportment at which my mother only raised both hands and looked over the top of her spectacles in horror. Quite certain that her own position in the premises was tenable, being in her own room which was her "castle," Lola gave a little nod of approval as the old lady gathered up the tray and retreated in as good order as possible. She returned to the kitchen, and putting her apron to her eyes cried as much in anger as in sorrow, and here Tam accidently surprised her. 
               "What's the matter, mother?" he asked, smoothing back the grey hairs which peeped out from under her cap. 
               "Oh my son, my son! That it should a come to this! That your wife should not only a turned the house topsy-turvy with her strange doins and unchristian foreign gibberish, but actually smokes like a man, and right in the parlor chamber! Yes, I seen her with my own poor old eyes, that never seen the like afore!" 
               "Oh mother, that isn't trouble. Why smoking is as much a natural institution in Lola's country, as Fourth of July in this; and every gentleman there goes provided with a little pocket arrangement of wick and flint, with which he lights his cigar at your very table, if he chooses, and then passes his light around among the ladies with a polite little ceremony customary upon the occasion. I am only surprised that Lola confines this, ordinary proceeding to her own room; for the little paper cigars are considered admissible anywhere, almost, and young ladies carry them where it is said our country-women carry their love letters." 
               My mother had uncovered her face, to listen, and as he concluded, she said reproachfully, "How could you take such a young woman as that for a wife? She'll never put butter to your bread, depend upon it; and so many o' the young women right here in the neighborhood, would a made you honest, serviceable wives!" 
               "Never mind, mother. I'm a big boy now, and can butter my own bread; and as for these "serviceable wives!" I'd rather any day have a hired servant, who wont put on airs and be saucy." 
               "Oh Tam, don't speak so! There's deacon Brown's oldest girl, Betsy; she can cook a good meal of victuals for a hungry family, any day, and there an't a more shamefaced, quite young woman goes to prayer meetin! And oh, she mends the clothes of her little motherless brothers and sisters, and spanks 'em when they want it, in a way that's beautiful to see!" 
               Tam laughed at the idea of their "wanting it," and some household duty requiring my mother's attention, she went to perform it as Lola came tripping down stairs singing a fragment of some little Spanish song which Maria declared was a foolish thing about hoop skirts, as that was the meaning of the frequently repeated "malakof." We all submitted to her judgment in the matter, as, had she bestowed half the care upon the proper understanding of the charitable precepts contained in her Bible, which she wasted upon Lola's detached sentences in her own idiom, she would have been a far pleasanter companion for this world, not to mention any other. 
               Mrs. Duncan improved the first leisure day of her husband, without whom she would not have appeared upon any so important occasion, to pay a family reception visit to Tam's wife. 
                
               There never was any certainty of the direction in which her sympathies might impel her, save that she would espouse the cause where most opposition could be well displayed. Had she found Lola a universal favorite, she would have disliked her; had she been persecuted, or neglected, she would have championed her: but as it was, the popular opinion was so evenly balanced pro and con, that it became an interesting query how that very superior woman would deport herself. 
               Lola seemed quite in awe of the rather stout, fair woman, every line of whose expressive face bespoke her resolute character, and kept in the shadow of Tam's protecting presence, with a little air of dependence which appealed far more strongly for her than any savoir vivre she could have exhibited would have done. 
               Tam was sunshiny with content and good humor, and my father seemed happy under the unusually placid aspect of affairs. The four masters Duncan were honoring the union school with their delectable presence, and so failed to accompany their mamma, which she explained with due formality, and without seeming to hear Maria's "that's lucky for us," she proudly presented her youngest, Miss Caroline Isabella, and urged her to "give the new auntie a sweet kiss, now," from which donation Lola shrank with fear and trembling, the maternal handkerchief in this instance as in many similar ones, neglecting to perform the ceremony which alone could render the caress endurable. Miss Caroline Isabella was too considerate to perpetrate such an infliction upon one who had never wronged her, and drew back among the capacious folds of the maternal robe, which she drew around her as she whined, 
               "No, me unt tiss she. Her's too black to be tissed." 
               "What do she say?" asked Lola, not having understood the child's remark beyond the "black," which she had felt painfully she was, even before Maria's frequent enforcement of the fact upon her. 
               "Oh, she is a very retiring child; she will become more familiar after a while. Give her your watch to play with, or if you have any pretty books with pictures in them, she'll like them. She is a very careful child, and never spoils anything." 
                
               Despite the universal matutinal assertion, the trustworthy young lady contrived to demolish everything within her reach, and at last, being pleased with the gay colors of Lola's dress, crawled unobserved behind her, and with a pair of scissors given her by her mamma, evidently that she might display her dexterity in avoiding her eyes with the sharp points, she snipped out a fine assortment of pieces "for make a bed kilt of," as she explained; and the mortified Mrs. Duncan administered a back handed slap, which unlocked the secret repository of her squalls which she poured out so generously that she was led off the field, and shut up in the china closet to moderate. 
               Mrs. Duncan had not yet enjoyed any opportunity for venting the long pent up remarks prepared for Frankie ever since she had first learned that she was coming home, and she availed herself of the opportunity afforded by the setting of the tea table, to relieve herself of the strict propriety enjoined upon her by Lola's presence. 
               "So you have come back to bestow the light of your presence upon this unworthy town, have you, after all?" 
               Frankie perceived the battle not afar off, but she calmly proceeded arranging the cups and saucers upon the dumb waiter according to the time honored usage of the family, as she answered, 
               "Yes, for a while, and if it sufficiently appreciates my condescension, I may remain indefinitely." 
               "I'm surprised at that! I infer that you did not succeed in captivating the Southern Prince you 'went out for to see,' and the 'hard fisted blacksmith,' doesn't seem so horrible in prospect as he did before you learned that it is difficult to soar without wings! You may find even the blacksmith not so readily obtainable; for honest men are not usually extremely anxious to marry young ladies who roam from one end of the country to the other, alone, Lord knows for what!" 
               The old look came back into Frankie's face, set with a determined assumption of indifference as though she heard nothing, and she went quietly back to the china closet for the second edition of tea service. As she moved the door a little in reaching for what she wanted, a sudden yell startled her, and Miss Caroline Isabella emerged to view, screaming laudibly as she shook one hand, whose fingers had been imprisoned in the crack of the door behind which she had fallen asleep, after having filled her capacity with a variety of preserved fruits stowed in jars at the back end of the closet, where she had been quite forgotten in her banishment. 
               My mother glanced at the liberally besmeared face and hands of the young lady, and rushed in to learn the extent of the mischief, quickly emerging with a jar in each hand, through whose brandied paper covering a generous rent had been made by the descending fist upon its way for supplies, and finger marks suggestive of wholesale clawing, lined and diversified the remaining contents. 
               "Mercy sakes alive!" exclaimed my mother, as she surveyed the ruin. "That sinful child has et up as much of my best perserves as ud lasted company all the season, in them new fangled little bits o' sass dishes. My apple jell," and crab apples biled in molasses at no end o' cost! I hope she'll have a good rousin belly ache till she repents o' her wickedness! I'd spank her like stacia, if she was mine!" 
               "Serves you rightly for keeping such things on the floor. If you had placed the jars on the shelf at the north side of the pantry, as I do, you'd have saved all this. My children, or any body's else, are welcome to all they can find on my closet floors." 
               "Then keep em there; but don't bring em to beggar other folks. Caroline Isabelly, you want a good goin over, and if you was my young one, I tell you, I'd whip you out o' your skin." And my mother re-tied the melancholy remainder, and replaced the jars, in mingled grief and anger. 
               The young lady had ceased screaming, and stood in unabashed confidence to see the result of her misdemeanor. Mrs. Duncan took her out to the pump, to remove the sweetness that encrusted her, where she expressed her satisfaction in a manner that would have softened the heart of any cook not responsible for losses. "Me likes gyanma's house; it dot dood sauce in jars. Me likes jar sauce, don't me, mamma?" 
               Taken altogether, Mrs. Duncan was more complaisant than usual through her visit, and urged Tam to bring his wife to her house, and remain a week or two at least, and as much longer as they should find agreeable; and she patronizingly pronounced Mrs. Tam as "very pretty indeed;" at which Maria vented a contemptuous "pish, and a sweet tempered little creature she is, too;" and retorting "it takes wit to judge wit," Mrs. Duncan escorted her husband and daughter to the carriage. 
               An intense melancholy had settled down upon my father, from which even Tam was often unable to rouse him, and he lay with his face turned toward the wall in a silence he would suffer nothing to attract him from, for hours together. He was patient and uncomplaining, and nothing annoyed him so much as to think he gave additional trouble to any one. In such a condition were affairs when an unexpected arrival broke in upon the monotony of the household, in the form of a sister of my father, and her husband, from Connecticut. They were a thin, wrinkled, grey old couple, whom long companionship had given a strong resemblance to each other, and the old lady's upright figure was a bequeathal of the straight backed chairs to which she had served apprenticeship from her youth up, and which even yet refused all companionship with the luxurious cushions of more modern days. She dressed invariably in black calico interspersed with small white sprigs, or checks, with a black, "bombazine" for Sunday wear, and bobinet caps with broad ruffled border and short strings, and her stout shoes emitted a brisk report when she walked, which formed a strong contrast to her slow enunciation in conversation. The presence of "sister Polly," as my father always called her, revived him as nothing else could have done. She had been the playmate of his youth, his favorite sister always, and her husband had been his school fellow and companion in those far away days of youth and expectation, young people are so apt to forget old ones have ever known. It was pleasant to hear the three old time companions retrospecting in their slow, measured way, the bygone sports and interesting events in which they had sustained an active part, and it seemed difficult to believe that those two old gentlemen had once been the gay young bucks whose pranks they would have been loth to recite in presence of progeny who might go and do likewise. 
                
               "Sister Polly was a great belle in those days, I can tell you; far handsomer than any of you;" my father would say proudly, looking around on us, and "sister Polly" would unconsciously sit a little straighter in the remembrance, though she humbly replied, "Oh that is carnal vanity in the young, which by and by the wrinkles of old age reprove us for. Teach your daughters that han'some is as han'some does, brother. That's wisdom." 
               "Sister Polly's" industry was marvellous. Knitting seemed chronic with her dextrous old fingers, and she folded away stocking after stocking of stout woolen yarn, long in the leg and wide in the calf as old time stockings honestly were, and recounted how when she was a young woman, no girl was thought fit to be married till she had "knit a pillow case full of stockings, having done the spinning and all. But no'wre days young women go wheezing round in flimsy cotton things that's sure receipt for consumption, and makes' eni old and ugly when in my time they was just in their prime." She was strongly opposed to what she considered the unnecessary expense in living adopted by the present rulers of the age, particularly west of "the land of steady habits," and after every meal she reached as far around the table as possible, collecting the dishes, which she piled ready for carrying out, in her desire "to help," the stout Irish servant girl Tam had insisted upon enstalling in the kitchen, much to my mother's fear of eating her "peck of dirt" too soon, and her rather suggestive way of counting her spoons every day to see that none were stolen, much to the 
                     heightning
                     heightening
                   of Biddy's natural color. 
               "Why don't you make room for Biddy? The table is big enough and to spare," said "sister Polly," to which my mother importantly replied, 
               "By no means; it an't the custom in good society. My children say so, and wouldn't stan it. They know what's what!" 
               "Well, I can't say how it is in York state; but in my country we say if a girl an't good enough to eat with us she an't good enough to cook for us. I don't know what the world is coming to, with its fine notions." 
               "The world is all well enough, sister Polly, and if the folks in it don't go right we can't help it; and who wants to be head and ears behind the times! People as han't no children to spur them up, never knows what's what. 
               "Sister Polly" said no more till the family gathered in my father's room, when she commenced, a little hurt, "Brother, do you believe people are any happier now than they used to be afore they got so fine?" 
               "No, nor half so happy. Now people fret continually to excel their neighbors in finery, instead of being thankful that they are as comfortable; and the cost of living is beyond all account!" 
               "You may well say so, brother! We used to be unsparing with good things on Thanksgiving; but the way your table is sassed, and pied, and puddinged out, is like Thanksgiving the year round." 
               "I know it, I know it, sister Polly; but I can't help it. I never did approve of it; it is ruinous to the health and to the purse. But I'm an old man now, and the young people carry things with a high hand. I regulated it when I was up; but if I don't die soon, I shan't have enough property left to give me a respectable burial." 
               He often spoke of yet, foreclosing the unraised mortgage on Ellen's homestead; but Tam put him off successfully, and he felt that his son disapproved of it, which was perhaps as great a cross as could have vexed his soul. His pride in and reliance upon Tam, was really touching to witness, and it was very evident that he strove to modify his conduct, and as far as possible his thoughts, by his. 
               "Sister Polly" and her husband were Baptists of the most unyielding persuasion, and as my mother was a staunch Presbyterian, upon Tam devolved the duty of conducting the old people to their separate places of worship upon the first Sunday of their visit. Provided with a plentiful supply of "dill," "sister Polly" drew on her black cotton gloves, and, true to the feminine instinct, bestowed a few adjusting twitches upon the collar and stock of her husband's Sunday wardrobe; and signifying that she was ready, they sat out, my mother leaning on Tam's arm with an air which plainly said "My son is no prodigal one." 
               As Tam sat again in the family pew where he had so often accompanied his parents when he, too, "was young," vivid recollections not altogether solemn, came upon him. There in the body pews lingered smile-provoking ghost of dextrously shied pease, which, springing from the elastic thumb of youth, woke the slumbering old deacon to a sense of the ceremonies proceeding around him, and doubtless to a fervent wish for the punishment of the offender, for whom he in vain looked sharply around among the sedate boys' faces, Tam's in particular, sandwiched between his sleeping father and a row of girls, wearing a sanctimonious expression as he looked the preacher right in the eye, according to the injunction laid upon little boys entrusted with a huge portion of the Sabbath "to keep." There, too, at one end of the old fashioned pulpit, stood the table covered with green baize, which, extending to the floor, formed a store room for the communion wine, which being purchased and placed there upon the Saturday before the communing Sunday, afforded strong temptation and good opportunity to two little boys, one of whom being the son of the deacon who furnished it, felt his lawful right to a portion of it, which he craved for his "stomach's sake." He had seen his father so deposit it one day before the session meeting began, which, as the weather was cold was held in the basement, leaving the pulpit region conveniently retired. The deacon's son signaled Tam, and the two stole in under the friendly baize, and possessing themselves of the coveted fluid, regaled themselves with alternate swigs of it till their astonished brains were driven into strange gyrations. The deacon's son mistook it for the prickings of conscience, and pausing with the bottle half way to his mouth, said "I wonder if we an't sinning! something makes my head feel queer." 
               "It don't make any difference about what we think 'sinning.' The minister says we do wrong all the time in the sight of God, and that we'll all be condemned if he so chooses; but let's just take one more pull apiece at the bottle, and clear out," which was accomplished undetected, and the innocent sexton became the suspected absorber of the minus quantity, which was supplied with some sour currant wine, which sat tears of repentance (for having swallowed it) rolling from many a hardened eye. 
                
               The deacon's son now sat reverently in his father's old place, and Tam O'Shanter was a family man; considering which, the old table stood in unaccusing silence, rejuvenated since then by red moreen, to correspond with the "society" donated pulpit cushions replacing the old ones banged out with much expounding of the word. And Tam remembered, too, how, forced to sit unwillingly through the tedious sermon time, and even till dark to keep the Sabbath so strictly, he had wondered what would be the most efficient way to break it thoroughly, and when he first succeeded in doing so to his entire satisfaction, as most of us can if we choose to retrospect. In this very seat he had sat very attentive to his speculations upon how, when he became a man, he would whip Queen Victoria for being a woman and governing England; and how, having built a huge castle with a drawbridge out in some nearly impenetrable morass, he would shut her up in it for life, and keep the secret from all the world, who should be excited and mystified by the event. And then when all England should be aroused by this feat of an American, and should come out to war against the nation, how he would raise a regiment of which he would be Colonel, and the deacon's son major, perform such valiant deeds as should astonish the whole world. 
               Even as memory recalled all these aspirations, the service drew to the last singing, exactly as it used to do in the old times musings, and as he walked down the aisle at the conclusion, he saw the descendants of the very Mrs. Cogswell, from whom the family patterns were obtained; and as if the fearful talent had been handed down in the blood the little grandchildren were still as outlandishly gotten up as ever were their mothers in the time before. As he bowed to the youngest lady of the family, he could not repress a smile in remembrance of the pranks played upon her by a younger brother who was very skillful in drawing her shortly cut hair through the ornamental holes in her knitted bonnet, during the sitting by the stove in a cold day, through the first prayer, from which she went to the family pew, very red in the face from the ardent heat, and infinitely ludicrous back of the ears from the unsuspected performance of the little boy's fingers. He remembered, too, the father of the mischievous brood, who possessed the wondrous gift of grinding his music through his nose, and who, crowded out of the pew by unlimited numbers, took a seat directly in front of it, from which he occasionally reached back and quieted juvenile disturbances by tweaks of ears, and little jerks of the short hair on the backs of their necks. Altogether the prosy village sermon was worth sitting under if only for the reminiscences it called up; and my mother, pleased to see that so far from seeming ennuied he was unusually animated, felt prouder of him than before, as she contrasted him with the neighbors sons, who occasionally came back, careless and ungodly, and seldom went to church at all, or at least looked down upon the old fashioned quiet ways of the village, and despised it. She felt that all her years of hope and expectation in him, were fulfilled, and as she and my father talked it over that night, his highest meed of praise was pronounced as each asserted that "though it had cost a sight of money to raise him, he was worth it all, if any son could be." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVI. 
               THE summer days passed on, stifling and hot, and my father visibly failed under their effect. "Sister Polly" lingered near him, and was so evidently preferred to my mother as a nurse, that she became jealous to a degree that would, under other circumstances, have been amusing. 
               "Why can't I take care of you, now?" she asked complainingly, as the favored nurse was absent for a moment. 
               "Don't fret about it, Bessy. You're very good on poultices and broths; but I don't need poulticing now, and toast and tea gets insipid after three months' steady use. Sister Polly understands just what I want. She is just as our mother was, in all her ways, and does me good." 
               "But Mr. Winthrop, if you'd only let me, now! I know I'd suit you." 
               "No, you mean well; but I don't like to be tinkered like a lying-in woman, and bolstered up in bed with my back going out of joint over a chair covered with sweltering pillows. Sister Polly never went through all those things herself, and she knows how to make me comfortable in another way." 
               My mother submitted to the inevitable; but she dealt out so many innuendoes about "relations coming between man and wife," that the old lady was rendered as uncomfortable as possible. 
               "My son, I want to talk with you alone, awhile; close the door," said my father one morning after a night of unusual suffering. 
               "I am convinced that I have not much longer to live, and while I can, I want to tell you how I wish you to close up my estate. My will lies in the middle drawer of my bookcase, and you will find the key of it in that old chest, near the northwest corner," and he indicated a large red chest of the past century style, which contained his personal effects; various large morocco wallets filled with papers, being interspersed with all his half worn clothing of the past five years, and his old wedding vest being carefully folded at the bottom of all, near which reposed a string of keys with a tiny conch shell attached, reminder of fancifully decorated mince pies which flourished in Tam's childhood. My father continued, 
               "You know, of course, that you are my heir. If you were worth a million, I should leave you my property instead of bequeathing it to daughters, who would pass it out of the name; and if your son will bear his grandfather's name by and by, and in time settle here on the old place, I believe I shall rest happier in my grave for it. You have always said that you wished to provide for Frankie; so I have not cut up the property to give her anything, though she don't seem one of the marrying kind; but to Maria, who is unfortunate in her temper, I have left a small sum which you must invest for her, as she will have to board out, by and by if she keeps getting worse. 
               "I suppose you will keep your mother here in the old house as long as she lives, and I want you to foreclose. Baker's mortgage (yes, it will have to come, now; I've been patient a long time, but it goes out of my keeping, now,) and make any arrangements of the amount, that will support your mother well. Mind I say well-just comfortably-for she is a little inclined to run into extravagance, your mother is; yes, quite inclined that way of late years, (shaking his head lamentingly, much to Tam's astonishment) and you must keep an eye on her. Women are poor weak creatures, and I have a great deal of sympathy for them; but they can't bear indulgence in money matters," and here my father fell into a meditative silence in which he was doubtlessly reckoning the cost at which he had learned that fact. Tam interrupted it. 
               "I will be a good son to my mother, depend upon it. Is there anything else?" and he took out his memorandum book and pencil, that my father might see he was attentive. 
               "Oh yes, I had forgotten. If the other girls marry, as may be they will-women are so hard to calculate upon-see that they are dealt with just as the first ones were, when they went to house keeping. You will find a contingent fund set aside for that in the will, which otherwise will go to you, because you know old maids have no use for cookstoves and tables." 
               "But father, the money would be equally as useful to them, and I think that if they never marry, they need it more." Say that in any event they shall receive the same." 
               "No, that will cost a codicil. I've paid for a whole will, and whole it must remain. Besides, every woman ought to marry. What right has any one of them to live single for her male relatives to support? I provided for Maria, because her unfortunate temper will keep her unmarried; but for an amiable woman who can make a choice in the matter, it is different. 
               "I say, now, as I always have said,-'give your sons a fortune and let your daughters marry one'-Don't worry me any more about it, my son. I'm sure now I have forgotten something. Oh yes; about the property when the girls married. I don't mean to give them much, but I want to be perfectly just and impartial with them all. Your mother has a little book in which she put it all down; but after Elizabeth was married a long time, she had some extras, and I want you to see that they all have the same. They cost just one dollar and six shillings; put it down in words, for figures are not explicit, nor always clear, and memory is treacherous. 
               And now my son, I want to speak about my funeral. Don't be extravagant in it. I shall rest just as well in a deal coffin as in a mahogany one; and when the women make up their mourning, don't let them have but eleven yards to the dress. That's a plenty-if it isn't they can wear smaller hoops-and cotton gloves are better than kid ones, and go off and on easier. And my son, always remember that I have tried to be a good father to you all, and you in particular. I was happy the day you were born, and you have never caused me a sad one since. What I felt before, does'nt signify; you came into the world in spite of all my fears, a boy. I hoped Frankie would have done the same, but she disappointed me. However, she is a good girl; be a kind brother to her, as you always have been. Now open the door, Tam. Your mother is a nervous sort of a woman and may 'fly off' if she thinks it closed against her." 
               He failed so rapidly day after day, that he could at length no longer speak; but the fond, eager way in which he turned his eyes unceasingly upon Tam, spoke more than any words could have done, and he fell into his last sleep clasping the hand which alone he had suffered to smooth his pillow or wipe the death damps from his brow, and Tam's had been the last name upon the now forever silent lips. 
               With reverent hands he composed the limbs whose weary journey was now over, laid the thin old hands across the pulseless breast, and as he closed the eyes which could follow his footsteps no more, he sighed, 
               "Poor, dear old man! Gone with all his virtues, and the faults which shall be remembered of none of us." 
               Frankie's marriage which had been postponed from the month of May first contemplated for its consummation, upon account of my father's illness, was again indefinitely put off upon that of his death; and the voluminous packages carried by the mail, afforded ample scope for Maria's criticisms. 
               She also wrote long letters to Ida, full of her every day life, as friends' letters should always be; speaking very affectionately of Tam's wife whom she really loved, and containing whole pages of him, what he did and said that was worth transcribing, and what he seemed to think generally, which she knew, instinctively, Ida would like to hear, though no definite remark was ever made upon the subject. 
               Tam had encountered his own difficulties in administering upon his father's estate, as in addition to frequent allusion, of his own absorption of the lion's share which assailed him not unfrequently from some of the sisters who justly felt wronged at their own neglect, anticipated as it was, he was vexed in making more equitable arrangements. The first step, was to pay from his own income the note secured by Baker's mortgage so long held over his head, and to give Ellen a deed of the place in her own name. 
               My mother thus received from him the sum especially designed for her by my father, which she regarded as quite an independent fortune, and was immensely gratified in its possession. But Maria, who quite concurred in the "smiting hip and thigh" doctrine, as Tam had once remarked of her, insisted that this was a wilful perversion of my father's wishes, and urged the legitimate foreclosure as always contemplated, and foolishly forborne, till seeing Tam's spirit was thoroughly up, and dreading to what a pitch of generosity he might proceed if goaded on by what he considered lack of charity, she held her peace "to prevent him from making princes and princesses of all the ragged little Bakers;" as she declared. 
               The bank stock left him by the will, was transferred, every dollar to his sisters, lifting some of them into comparative independence, and enabling Ellen to place her daughters in school independently of Tam, who for the last two years had kept them there; and the fortune so carefully saved for him through years, came into his possession only to pass immediately out of it. 
               "Sister Polly" and her husband remained with us long enough to prophecy that want and ruin would certainly overtake so uncalculating and improvident a family, and that it was certain retribution would befall the son who thus refused to carry out a father's last wishes; and then left us upon their round of visits to the other members of their family, and we were left to the quiet of our own home. 
               The death of my father was a severe shock upon Lola, from which she did not recover, and the continual, nervous way in which she glanced over her shoulder as if feeling that something pursued her, was painful to witness. We thought it mere nervousness, at first, from which she would gradually recover when the house should become quiet again; but instead of improving, she seemed to become worse, till at last she dared no longer even to sit where it was possible for anything to approach her, unseen. 
               Either Tam or Frankie remained continually near her, and because convinced that she was suffering from extreme superstitions;-a prolific source of discomfort to most persons reared by colored nurses, who among themselves, and before children, recite the most strange and horrible ghost stories, which, taking a strong hold upon the minds of the ignorant and the young, become legendary, and are perpetuated from one generation to another. 
               Lola was tormented with this curse to a degree experienced only by her nation, and it was useless to reason against it. 
               Admitting that her horrible fancies were impossible of being real, they were none the less vivid and fearful to her, and much as she had loved my father in his life, she would never pass the room in which he had died, and she shivered with the dread of meeting him at every turn, insisting that she was awakened from sleep by his cold hand passing over her face, and the fluttering of his garments near her. 
               Her room looked far out over the hills whose old trees lifted their branches high into the air, and the prospect beyond merged into a purple haze concealing another range of interminable hills, beyond it. Particularly when the western sun shone softly across the hill-tops, shutting the valleys into cool shade and bringing out every turn and winding among them in darker colors, the prospect was serenely beautiful; and Frankie would open the window looking out upon the most lovely portion of it, feeling that Lola would be soothed by its peaceful influence. But she turned entirely away from it, and gazed through an opposite window, commanding a prospect singularly bleak even in this glorious summer time; of a grey old hill whose verdure was crisp and dead, and whose trees creaked in the wind, all gaunt and bare as if some epidemic had rioted among them and left the far reaching limbs as monuments for the lifeless trunks scarcely able to support them. 
               In vain this dreary view was shrouded out by closed shutters and doubly falling curtains; she put them aside, herself, till patience became exhausted, and then ordered her servant to take away the curtains entirely, and to fasten back the shutters. Tam ventured a remonstrance 
               "Don't look out upon that bleak old hill, nia. See how sweet a prospect you have upon the other side." 
               "Yes, it is lovely, and I used to look at it for hours. But now I love this grim one best. It is so like life. When it was green and full of vigor, you thought it beautiful, too; but now that it is in grief, you wish to banish it. It seems to me those dead trees shrink and scream because their souls are suffering in purgatory, and no one will deliver them; and sometimes when they call to me in the long nights, I try to pray them out. They fill me with pain and sorrow, yet I love them. Sometimes, when I try to close my ears, and turn on my pillow to sleep, the wind comes in a horrid form with staring black eyes, and leaping upon the window sill, rattles the panes with his hands and screams at me so that my blood turns cold!" and she shivered in remembrance of the horrid vision. 
               The only hope of winning her from this semi-insanity, was to take her away from the objects and associations which excited her; and until Tam could arrange affairs for an indefinite absence from home, he prevailed upon her to go to Mrs. Duncan's; and in compliance with her wishes, Frankie accompanied her, uncongenial as the home of that "superior woman" was to her. It was intended to be, and universally conceded, as a model household, so far as the domestic arrangements of its mistress were concerned, and in it she suffered no servant girl to preside or officiate. She considered servants, in common with land-ladies and wash-women, one's natural enemies; and with her own hands she baked, washed, and brewed, and brought up her own children, whose unmannerly conduct made them the nuisance of the neighborhood; and it was really painful to sit at the table over which she presided, burned and weary from her labor in preparing the dinner which would have been more palatable of herbs, than as the production of a mistress whose jaded appearance was such a reproach to her guests. She could be very kind and hospitable when she so pleased, and seemed really gratified that Tam O'Shanter's wife had thus come to her quite in a family way. Even Frankie was made welcome, and would have remained contentedly had she not felt herself a burden upon her already overworked sister, who refused all her offers of assistance, and resisted all Mr. Duncan's pleadings that she would submit to the unwelcome presence of a servant, if only to place their guests more at ease. 
               The four heirs were in school through the day, so that with the exception of their noisy quarrels in the morning, and their cross yells, when made to go to bed at night, the house was comparatively quiet. 
               Miss Caroline Isabella, who, as the only daughter of the Duncan family, absorbed all the immunities and privileges which in our own had been accorded to the only son, was allowed to sit up much later than her brothers, whose avenging angel she seemed to be for all they inflicted upon others, and a suspicious silence upon her part would be speedily followed by a roar upon theirs, as they called out choked with anger, "Ma, sissy has poured cold water all over us," or "Ma, come and take us out and shake the sheets! Sissy has crumbled crackers in the bed," and there would ensue a vigorous putting of little boys to rights, and a planting of the offender upon a high stool to vegetate in silence for a certain length of time "by the clock," into whose progressive condition she enquired so frequently, that the punishment fell more heavily upon the family than upon herself, and the time of penance flew. 
               Occasionally it happened that Mr. Duncan remained out after the customary half past nine at which he was wont to return, and upon these events his wife would be seized with an extraordinary fit of industry. 
               Punctually, as the clock told ten, she brought out an unfailing supply of her husband's garment afflicted with ripped pockets and various stages of defaced linings, upon which she fell to work with an ominous expression of countenance, surrounding her neck with a cut and braided skein of thread; and here, at the dread hour of eleven, the recreant would find her pursuing her labor of love and economy, in deep reproach at his delinquency. It was vain to urge her to stop, even then, and she pointedly remarked that she "never found time to go galivanting around, day nor night," and that "man's work is from sun to sun, etc." and the kind-hearted, peace-loving man stooped to be a hypocrite as he went touchingly to bed and feigned a sound slumber; soon after which, the never completed repairing, ceased, and the obliging breakages were stowed away in the closet to await the next similar occasion. 
               Frankie looked on and observed; and when the programme was ended she mentally exclaimed, "Oh woman, thy ways are wonderful! 
               There are two things which are too wonderful for me; yea, three which I know not. The way of a man with his sons versus daughters, the way of the world toward a woman; and the way of a wife against her husband!" 
               Lola endured existence here, as she seemed to do everywhere independent of outward circumstances, and the varied changes of her character which had constituted so piquant a charm, making her in one moment an intelligent woman and in the next a pettish, impulsive child, had vanished entirely; and a patient, unearthly look had grown into her black eyes now continually swimming in a soft, misty light which was not born of tears, but rather seemed as though her soul were oozing out through them, Her former most unreasonable fits of anger, and ebullitions of sarcasm, were preferable to this quiescent state in which nothing disturbed her, or roused one spark of the old fire. 
               Remembering her delight with New York city, Tam decided to carry her back there at once, and with Frankie for a companion, they went during the early part of September while the fierce heats were yet scarcely moderated; but Lola was so chilled by the cool winds sweeping down from the hills around the homestead, that he hoped even the heat of the city would benefit her. She did revive under it, and was temporarily roused from her stupor by the novelties around her. 
               "Let me go out alone just once; not even Frankie, this time. I never in my life have put my foot upon a side walk quite alone, and I want to know the sensation." 
               "Well, Lola, go if you like; but don't walk too far, nor get lost by leaving Broadway. I wouldn't like to get the police after you." 
               "No mi alma; but you shant watch me in any way?" 
               "No; adios," and she went down the stair-case and out into the free air, like an imprisoned bird released. The utter freedom of spirit she experienced, for once in her life actually unaccompanied, and unspied upon! The pleasure she had felt when she defied custom and rode out alone in Havana, was nothing to this; for no one annoyed her by seeming to notice her, and she really felt grateful for the American lack of gallantry in this respect, which she had so often rebuked. 
               It was a little act to yield her so much gratification; but only one reared as she had been under continual restraint and espionage, and living as Cuban ladies do live, in a continual imprisonment, can appreciate the first taste of liberty thus descending upon her. It was glorious! 
               They did not dampen her enjoyment of it by a single question when she returned, and, weary from the exertion, she lay upon the sofa and fell asleep with the first smile they had seen upon her lips for weeks. 
               A pleasant and not entirely unexpected addition to their number was made one bright morning by the appearance of Houghton, who unceremoniously took possession of Frankie quite as a matter of course, and extended one hand around her to Tam, who looked the pleasure he felt. 
               Lola, too, manifested her liking for him, in her own graceful way, and his presence seemed just the one thing before wanting to make the party complete. Lola's acquirement of the language now enabled her readily to understand the long conversations, and her languid, but contented smiles, added gayety to the laughs invoked by the many amusing recitals. Each had his own laughable adventures to relate, and each found that best aid to a happy recital-an appreciative listener. 
               "By the way, Tam O'Shanter, what was that joke you got off with the Cornish men after I left your metallic regions? You always neglected to tell, as many times as I have asked you with an 'N.B.' prefixed." 
               "Oh it wasn't worth the writing, but will do to tell. You remember that squirt of a whats-his-name there-who was figuring to get the office of supervisor, so that he could get his mine in for less of the assessing dinero? Every body disliked him, and there was a sort of understood contest between him and a wag of a lawyer who was in the interest of the opposing party. The would-be supervisor visor gave a grand party one night, and, to secure votes invited about forty brawny Cornish men who knew just enough about wine to find it very good, and poured down glass after glass of it till they became considerably weaker around the edges than is thought necessary in society generally, and the lawyer who had opened bottle after bottle for them by way of repaying the invitation extended to him because he could not well be passed by, agitated the ladies to get the fellows singing. Of course they took it up, and the lawyer instructed them what to call for. 
               "They have a fearful song which is a great favorite among them, requiring four mortal hours long drawn out, to accomplish, and which commences 'The first he was a great wise man,' three times repeated. 'The second he was a three bull pups,' also three times declared, 'The third he was a pea green saint,' ditto done to; and so on, enumerating and three times repeating everything in nature and out of it; and then it goes on to tell what the first did to the second, and the second to the third, etc, through the whole catalogue, and then what came of it, in a way to which 'the House that Jack built' was mere moonshine, in comparison! It has a little tune in it, but the performers soon get tired of putting that in, and so drone forth the words, beating time with not elastic feet. They were well under way with the thing, when supper was announced, and the bored company hoped 'here endeth;' but the faithful fellows imitated General Scott and took 'a hasty plate,' after which they fell to work again with renewed energy, and the other guests being unable to endure it, while the host was afraid of the political consequence of putting an injunction upon it, the party was really broken up, and the song completed to the host and his family who alone 'remained whence all had fled.' Oh, but he was a wrathful man next day, and murmured not blessing upon the head of his adversary, the lawyer; swearing he would never let another Cornishman inside his doors for any price; The assertion came to the ears of the fellows, who with their whole clan voted the opposite ticket in pure spite, and the discomfited can't bear any allusion to the 'great wise man' since." 
               "I didn't tell you that they want to thrust political honors ors upon me, did I, Tam? Actually nominated me for the Legislature; but I declined figuring in the political line, where honesty is at such a discount. If I can become a real, thorough lawyer, it is as much honor as I aspire to, and if I am permitted to pay the board and personal expenses of some amiable woman who will submit to the inevitable destiny of a lawyer's wife, and mine in particular, that will make the happiest 'House' for me." 
               Frankie looked as though the field of his ambition found favor in her sight, and 
                     pronouced
                     pronounced
                   him a romantic individual. Tam turned his eyes from what it was not their province to note, as he laughed, "I hope your "house" wont be kept a la Cuba, if I am to be an admitted visitor into it. Hungry relations fare badly, there, as after each meal there isn't left in any corner so much as a nugget of bread for any emergency. They buy every time, just enough of everything for one meal, and it is useless to cry for more in any accession of numbers. Be sure you have a good old fashioned plenty. Be well fed and you'll be virtuous-consequently happy." 
               "Carriage waiting, sir," said the waiter at the door, and they sat out for the daily drive. As they moved down the busy streets toward the ferry, a vivacious gathering attracted Lola's attention, and she asked what was going on. 
               "That, mi chiquita, is an auction, as we do it. Rather different, isn't it, from a Cuban one, in which the auctioneer sits complacently fanning himself as he deliberately repeats the slow bidding, as if he were just about asleep, looking around indifferently at everything going on in the street. Isn't it singular, Fred, that the ruling characteristics of all tropically born people, are mental fire and physical laziness? The very street sweepers, in Havana, go about their business with a sluggish, elbow supporting motion, half squatting as they perambulate their splint brushes in the easiest, least effectual way; their pantaloons rolled up as high as possible and tied tightly around their legs to prevent the fleas from taking refuge in them; for it is the very paradise of fleas, and every variety of similar small game." 
               "By the way, Tam, did you attend the bull fights there?" 
                
               "Shades of knight errantry forbid that any one should go a second time! One may as well look in upon any other slaughter pen as that arena in which the poor, inanimate creatures are goaded and tortured into some weak instinct of self preservation, and being unable to escape are butchered by inches. It is mere wanton, cruelty unredeemed by one really exciting feature! The cock fights are infinitely preferable, as in them there is some pretence to a fair fight, being at worst but cock against cock. They used to patronize the yankee gamesters; but since the trick of one who stripped the betraying feathers from a bald eagle, and entered him for the contest, in which he was wonderfully expert in dodging his antagonists' leaps, and then clawing them up and unblushingly swallowing them, (that's positive fact,) they are suspicious of us, and an 'American fighting cock' is an object of distrust. The yankee race acquire about the same reputation the wide world over." 
               "It is well known that the Catholic priests are the pioneers of civilization, and it might be as generally asserted, that first in their wake trudges a yankee clock or patent-right peddler." 
               "I never wanted to secure but one patent right; and that was for the dress of the children on the 'garden island.' It is singularly unique, consisting of a complete suit of bare-skin." 
               "What's that, Tam?" 
               "Positive fact. It is nothing uncommon to see a lady dressed in the tip of fashion, with Lord knows how many thousands of dollars glistening around her in diamonds, accompanied by a youngster without a rag on it! The streets are full of them just after sunset, and they lie around loose on every parlor floor. Well may one exclaim, looking upon lady and child, 'extremes meet.' Then, too, long before there is any visible wearer of them, ladies sit around in the most matter-of-fact way, making the most wondrous infantile head gear, consisting of a huge flab of a thing for the rear part or lean-to, and a straight piece for the front, rigged out with no end of bows and loops made of narrow ribbon, red, yellow, or black in color; and in due time they will hand you for admiration a little red baby not twelve hours old, with nothing on its corporosity except this cap, or whatever they call it, making it look as top heavy and ridiculous as possible. They are embarrassingly communicative, too, upon all subjects, and quite put a modest man to the blush." 
               "It is a fine thing, Tam, that we all have a country of our own, whose ways and customs seem to us wisest, discreetest, and best, however they may appear to others. I often wonder what, if he were a possible personage, some outside observer would think of our strictures upon each other. I'm afraid he would arrive at the inevitable conclusion that human nature isn't a very charitable compound, to say nothing of its capability for improvement in honesty. I begin to see why lawyers, in particular, from always living in contact with the worse side of it, are sceptical and suspicious, and believe more in the ruling motive of interest than in any other which actuates the world at large. It really seems, sometimes, as if men are incapable of being honest, or even telling the truth when it is for their manifest interest, and every be-lied to attorney sees hours when he could kick all creation for the useless trickery running rampant in it! I don't believe the practice of the profession is just the best possible sphere in which to keep one's mind unacquainted with evil; and I do believe it will crush the natural faith out of any man! Were it not that it imparts a talent for reading what faces say and think, we should all turn emulators of old Diogenes." 
               "Yet, I assure you our countrymen know nothing of the art fibbing, in comparison with some others. Our's is mere equivocation, instead of a whole cloth production, and 'young America' no more compares with 'young Spain' than a little boyish imagination in story making can compare with the greatest assumption of manhood in reciting duels and other fearful exploits, and narrating love adventures innumerable. I suppose this talent, requiring unusual acumen to circumvent, is the foundation of their law, requiring its disciples to study ten years before they can be admitted to the bar. It's a long stretch and they know nothing at last." 
               Lola made a little gesture of impatience, as she said with some of her old spirit, 
                
               Ave Maria! You Americans are a strange race of gentlemen! You talk over the dullest topics for any length of time, quite forgetting there are ladies present to whom you owe any entertainment." 
               "I beg your pardon, Mrs. Tam. Travellers, like soldiers, must relieve their experiences in narration, and lawyers are proverbial for talking nothing else," said Houghton apologetically lifting his hat; and the conversation became general, much to her satisfaction. 
               It was not unnatural that Houghton disliked to return to his western home prepared for their reception, without Frankie, nor that she preferred sparing him the necessity; and Lola, who was rapidly relapsing into the condition from which the change in her surroundings had for a time roused her, seemed even more impatient that their marriage should speedily take place, than did they themselves. She was oppressed by gloomy forebodings, and dreaded lest she might become the agent of still farther postponing their union, which she declared was a bad omen, and fatal to all happiness if occurring for the third time; and the subject was not allowed to rest for a day. 
               "I am sure, Frankie, you are not governed by the usual superstition relative to being married in mourning?" asked Houghton. 
               "No; besides, you see I am not in black, which I put off because of its effect upon Lola, and I do not intend to resume it. It is a senseless, absurd custom at best, and only calculated still farther to harrow the feelings at the time of all others when they most require soothing." 
               "Ever sensible Frankie!" said Houghton, smoothing her shining hair approvingly, and altogether as though it belonged to him. 
               "I should say you were a widower, if I did not know to the contrary," she laughed, detaining with her own the caressing hand. "Few unmarried gentlemen ever learn that when you smooth a woman's head, you smooth the crotchets out of her temper, be it never so fierce." 
               "Thank you. I shall remember that in provision for the future." 
               "What is the conclusion then, children?" asked Tam "Do you really consent to be made 'happy,' or must you 'wait for more coaxing?" 
                
               "You know what my answer must be, and Frankie has only to decide, if she really has faith that I am the 'right one.'" 
               "Oh, as far as that is concerned, it doesn't matter so much as inexperienced people think. In any decision, you are certain to be perfectly content the first year, certain you couldn't have chosen better; and discontented ever after, sure that none could have been worse! Isn't that true, Lola?" laughed Tam, drawing her head to his shoulder. 
               "I don't know. Our first year has not yet expired, and when it shall have done so you will be alone." 
               "Oh no, Lola; don't say so, nor think it. You don't wish to leave me?" 
               "No; you are very certain of that. But I tell you I have received three warnings, and need no more. Once your father came to me when you said I was asleep and dreaming; but I was not; and again I heard my own father, dead many years, call me just as distinctly as I hear you to-day; not in the night, either, but one still, bright morning, when I was thinking entirely of other things; and then last night didn't you hear that dog howl under my room? All nations accept that as a prophecy; so you can't call it Cuban superstition." 
               "Oh nia; that was only some poor puppy who had been shut up and left by his master, and got nervous in consequence." 
               She shook her head, smiling faintly, nor could the most logical persuasions, nor the tenderest soothing, win her from her fantasy. 
               Frankie's quiet wedding took place in the hotel without attracting the attention of its busy guests; for both she and Houghton thus preferred it, though they knew the Houghtons would be disappointed in not celebrating the occasion in the old Virginian style, long having looked forward to the festivities in contemplation of this event. Frankie sent cards to Howard and Nettie, whose own she had received soon after she left them, and accompanied her husband upon a brief visit to his parents, who impatiently awaited their arrival. 
               The little fellows who had so ardently admired her during her previous visit, were now sufficiently older and wiser to read their own Bible stories, and retained an amused remembrance of her narrations, relative to which they often attempted to bring her to confession. 
               "Come now, Miss Frankie, I mean Miss sister Frankie; you didint tell it just as it is in the book, did you?" 
               "Wasn't it just as interesting, you little ingrates?" 
               "Oh yes; but what became of your little Joey? You never told what happened to him when he got put into the lion's nest." 
               "I don't remember; I don't believe I ever heard." 
               "Do you know, Frankie," said Houghton, "that exploit of yours quite completed my captivity? I liked your style of story telling vastly, and determined to place you in a larger field for your talents as soon as you would say yes to my project. You deserved an appreciative audience," and the old amused light came into his eyes, as when he listened long ago. 
               "Oh yes; you wanted to pen her up somewhere, and have her tell stories to your little boys. I know you, Fred," said Larned, resenting the appropriation, and not yet reconciled to his own secondary position. 
               "God forbid!" exclaimed Houghton, earnestly, pressing her closer; for not one earnest sentiment she had ever expressed to Tam was unknown to or forgotten by him, theme of their conversations, as she ever was. She looked up with a quick, glad light in her eyes, thankful that he knew her feelings upon the subject, and respected them. 
               Mr. and Mrs. Houghton seemed perfectly unchanged in the years which had elapsed since the happy visit Frankie remembered as the first real sunlight of her life, and she felt both proud and happy to know she was fondly cherished as a daughter in the home whose good will had ever been with her. Mrs. Houghton told her, now, how Fred had revealed his hopes and aspirations regarding her, even in that old time when she herself did not suspect them; and she listened appreciatingly to Mrs. Houghton's assertion that nothing else would have won her approbation to his leaving his college career so soon after its commencement. This, then, was the secret of his sudden resolution; and Frankie loved him the more, as she realized the years of unceasing struggle, lighted by the one hope and purpose warm in his faithful heart. Such love as this, was almost worth being a woman, to secure! 
               Ida, whose long companionship with Mrs. Houghton had made her singularly like her for one who possessed so much individuality, seemed like a daughter of the house; and as Frankie looked upon her perfect womanhood and winning features, she wondered that she should have been chosen before her, by one so appreciative as Houghton. Yet the kind fraternal sentiment they cherished for each other, was the more natural result of Ida's position in the family, which was rather that of elder sister, than governess, to the pupils she instructed, and Mrs. Houghton really seemed to love her more than her own daughter, Ettie, who had bloomed into a beautiful but haughty, unaffectionate girl, who accepted no companion except the brother Robert with whom she had been reared. He, in return, seemed to care for no one but her, and together they led a life of as complete isolation as the family regime permitted. It seemed to Frankie another rehearsal of the old story; discording tastes, or cool indifference between parents and children, springing sometimes from the fault of one or both, and oftener by the very antipodes of their natures, incapable of assimilating. 
               The old grandmother had closed her earthly journey, and the little boys often discussed the probabilities of her having gone to Heaven, generally closing with shaking their heads in melancholy doubt. "Grand'ma would put 'em all out with her shaky old singing; wouldn't she, Miss sister Frankie?" asked Lemmy, confidently. 
               "Oh you offil goosey!" exclaimed Larned, contemptuously, in his superior wisdom." She wouldn't have to sing praises with her old shaky things! She'd have a new liver, and a new gizzard, and all new things, wouldint she, Miss Frankie? Lemmy is a littil fellow, and don't know all." 
               "Oh, the oldest don't always know the most! I contemptions little fellows like you who feel so mighty big," and he looked magnificently upon his brother's presuming upon his birthright, as children so comically will. 
                
               "You didn't 'contemption' me the other day, when I went and whipped the old pig away so you could shin down off the stump where you hooked green apples. You loved me a heap then, and if you take it back you wont go to Heaven," and he shook one finger at him warningly. 
               "No more wont you; you called Jerry 'a nigger' the other day!" 
               "That's cause he didint do like I told him, and then he was 'a nigger.' Black childrens don't go to the black good place, nor the cooks, either, if they don't do as well as they can, and Jerry's ma was bad, too, when she burnt the sweet potatoes. I know them things just as well!" 
               "Here, little fellows; your own chances wont be improved in this way. Little boys should be good, and let the large ones do the quarreling, and no one but the ministers must send people to the bad place," and Houghton led them out upon the gallery for a play. 
               Two weeks had flown rapidly by, when a letter from Tam decided them to go immediately back to the old home, to which Lola had begged to be carried, away from the ceaseless noise of the city, which annoyed her; for Frankie could not stay away from the half solitary stranger dying so far from her own home and the familiar faces which would have lighted her pathway. Ida was to accompany her, and sad as Mrs. Houghton was to part with her, she felt that the change would be beneficial to one who had seen so little gay society, and who seemed to have been born with the clouds and troubles of womanhood around her. Fond but cheerful adieus were spoken, and as Frankie again looked back upon the house they were leaving, she contrasted her present happiness with the sadness that settled down upon her in that other adieu when it seemed to her she should never know a happy home again. She had her little world around her, now; her husband, and Ida, more truly a sister than those so called because the same blood coursed through their veins-how often the very cause of the bitterest alienation-and she was going to Tam. She felt supremely happy, and as she turned to her husband he read her glance aright, and the warm pressure of two hands involuntarily meeting, spoke all that either cared to know. 
                
               Ida saw, and her own lonely heart and objectless life stood out bare and cold in the light of happiness around her. No such love could ever dawn for her, no such tie would ever link her isolated life with another's; and if for a moment she felt more than ever alone, it was not that she yielded to any weak sentimentality, but because she felt, with every child of nature, that life is not worth having if it must be borne only for one's own self. The care for another which smothers that for self, the fond, unselfish sympathy whose very existence brings with it a blessing, and the love which instead of failing will but cling the closer when we need it most, these alone render existence endurable, and God pity him who never knows them! These are every living being's birthright; and if Ida felt that an unkind Fate had cut them off from her, she suffered as thousands have done, and will do, while this world persists in setting wrong the plans and intentions of that nature whose throbbing pulse beats in every true heart among us all. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVII. 
               THE October sunlight gleamed like fire upon the window panes, and lighted up the gorgeous maple leaves blazing out in tropical colors from the many tinted background of more conservative trees which still clung to their fast fading robe of green, fearing to be too fine in the bright tints autumn sends her favorites, while those who first of all had donned their gay apparel to bask in the September sunshine, had bloomed in it magnificently for a brief time, and then seen it fall to the ground in a shower of sober brown, where it now lay in warning to the yet gay crowd waving so joyfully above it. The lake, as ever, lay nestling in a picture of loveliness framed by its cedar crowned banks, as Houghton remembered it so long ago-years and years it seemed; and he smiled to find them but little more than four-and the old Lombardy poplars stood erect and proud as then, faithful to their guardianship over the limpid waters which never wearied of reflecting their images upon their grateful bosom. 
               There lay the little nook in which the old boat had been moored upon the well remembered fishing excursion; but the "nutt browne maide" from whose dripping garments he and Tam had helped to wring the water, was now his wife, and he had become a man, with more serious aims than then banished sleep from his pillow. For this very reason, it seemed to him that a good run among the hills, and a row out over the plashing waters to whose music the bleached old snags still danced in time, though grown still whiter with fatigue, would be more exhilarating than he found them there, fresh from his college cramping. He recognized the very old stones by the way side where he and Tam had sat to rest after a long tramp, and the log on which they had cracked butternuts by the hour, talking as youths will of all things past, present, and to come. There lay the little pasture from which they had corn seduced and wilfully abducted that terrible down hill horse after go-to-bed hours had locked the unsuspecting family safely into the palace of dreams, and away over the hills reposed the house among the withered laurels of the quilting frolic into whose rustic gathering they had carried their "store clothes" and "boiled shirts," much to the admiration of the young women, and to the ill-concealed dislike of the "hummade" suited and hickory shirted young men; and he smiled as he remembered with what good will the sturdy gallants had thrown off their coats and boots, and fallen to dancing till shirt sleeves stuck tight with the moisture which peeped out from every pore, and toes came out of not reliable socks, to see what all the fiddling and scampering were about. 
               He remembered too, how Tam O'Shanter's good clothes had overpowered the constancy of one fickle fair one, who had for their genteel sake quite deserted her old beau, who seemed to her really vulgar in comparison, amid his vigorous dancing, perpetrated with arms a-kimbo and open mouth, while his knees, bending into a peculiar and indescribable curve, sent animation into the soon stockingless heels which beat the floor with a hearty thug a little in advance of the whole flat foot which followed as if in pursuit. 
               Summary vengeance had nearly overtaken the conquering Tam, who in response to the fair one's complaint that she was "dry" made a voyage to the brown stone pitcher, which he was bearing off in triumph, when a stout fist approached his nose which an angry voice bade "smell o' that;" and only a suddenly interposed cane, whose tripping up powers became manifest, prevented a mark of "satisfaction" from adorning Tam's too winning countenance. It was a thrust in time-quite a Damon-like blow for Pythias-and Houghton had felt like a guardian angel after it, while the baffled swain was more crest-fallen than before. Even as his lips curled over the retrospection, the carriage stopped. 
               "I wonder what all the neighbors think to see so many fine carriages driven up to my door;" remarked my mother, proudly, as she looked out upon the new comers. "Maria, is my cap on straight? and my collar, seems to me its all wee-wau! Do some of you pick up the broom and brush away the litter; behind the fireboard, that's quickest; and Maria, just rub your hankerchief across that lookin' glass; it's smudgy, and the ladies 'll be lookin in as soon as ever they get their things off, if not sooner," and she went through a process of self-shaking and putting-to-rights. 
               "The ladies!" sneered Maria, interrogatingly. 
               "Yes, the ladies, Maria! Your sister is Miss Houghton, now, and of some consequence in the world. If you hadn't such an unfortunate temper you might be Miss somebody, too. It's a thousand pities!" 
               "Can't you ever learn to say Mrs? It's aggravating enough, to hear you old ladies call each other, and every body else, 'Miss.'" 
               "You're gettin to be touchy at the title, an't you? and no wonder, poor child! Them as never had no chance to get married thinks so much of it! Law sakes, how your sister Mrs. Houghton is ragged out! I b'lieve that's a brown silk travelin dress, and bunnet to match! And that young woman with her; She's nothin but a governess; I shouldn't think her pay'd support her, and kid gloves to travel in." 
               "You'd look far better opening your doors to them, than peeping that way through the blinds to see what they have on their backs." 
               "Mercy me; so I would! But I wasn't speakin of the young woman's back, Maria. She's got her gloves on her hands, and my mother went out to meet them, rubbing her hands off upon each other as though something stuck to them, as people will when feeling that they ought to do something, and don't know just what. 
               Frankie met her as she always did, with a mere shake of the hand, entirely free from any hypocritical affection which had never existed between them, and asked eagerly, 
               "How is Lola?" 
               "Well, Lola is perty sick, but she 'enjoys her mind.' It's dretful to see her do it, and she a Catholic!-So this is my new son?" 
                
               "Yes, madam, I am happy to say; and this is my 'sister,' Miss Ida." 
               "Oh, I wan to know! I'm glad to see you, Miss. I really thought you was that governess, Frances, I mean Miss Houghton-was so dretful took with; though, thinks I when you drove in, 'she don't look very governessy;' and I'm glad it an't so." 
               "Yes ma'm, I was, or am if you so please. Mr. Houghton calls me his 'sister' because his kind mother has so long been truly one to me." 
               "Oh well; it don't signify much now. Come right in all the same," and she led the way, as Frankie silently clasped Ida's arm, with the compressed line of her lips shutting in her mortification as it shut in everything else, within that uncongenial home. 
               Frankie conducted Ida directly to her own room, and hastened alone to Lola. Tam met her in the hall by the door, and as he clasped her in his arms, said, "You are well come, Frankie. Lola misses you sadly, and will not be comforted in your absence." 
               "Poor girl. How is she, Tam? Very bad?" 
               "Oh Frankie! My little son that was to have been, was prematurely born last night! His little eyes were never destined to see the light." 
               "Oh Tam! This is dreadful!" 
               "Horrible! Oh my God; I feel as if I had murdered her!" 
               His face convulsed in agony, and he struck his forehead with his cold hand. Frankie was frightened by his pallor, and clasping the clenched hand, she said soothingly, 
               "Oh no, Tam. Lola was so happy in the prospect! You should have heard her talk of it before those sad days came upon her. She was perfectly happy." 
               "Poor child, poor child!" he murmured pityingly, and bending his forehead down upon Frankie's head, the hot tears fell one by one and plashed down upon their clasped hands. All the light and life seemed crushed out of him, and softly she led him back to the bedside he scarcely quitted. Hour after hour he leaned by Lola's pillow, tenderly smoothing back the heavy hair from her forehead, and turning round his own her delicately moulded fingers so pale and listless. Hour by hour her life seemed visibly to ebb away, though she smiled contentedly, when, occasionally rousing from her stupor she saw Frankie by her side, sharing Tam's vigils and sorrows as she had so long shared his joys and pleasures. 
               "Where have you buried our little baby?" asked Lola faintly of Tam. 
               "Out on the hill-side under the maples, mi preciosa," replied he, wondering what had prompted her to speak of it now for the first time. 
               "El pobrecito! You will lay me there by it, wont you, and offer one mass for us both. Promise me this." 
               "Yes, anything, everything, nia. I have sent to the city for Father McCormic, who will soon be with you." 
               "Gracias;" she murmured gratefully, and the weary lids again closed over the dark, lustrous eyes. 
               Between Ida and Tam there seemed to arise no memory of the past, and she performed the little she could do for Lola, with an affectionate interest which spoke more plainly than any words could have done, how gladly she would have performed more. 
               My mother's horror under the arrival of the priest, passed all bounds, and she fled from the house and took refuge at a neighbor's till she saw him depart. 
               Lola had received extreme unction, and lay upon her pillow in a holy calm, her lips parted in a peaceful smile which caused my mother to beckon Tam from the room. 
               "My son, it is too shockin to see her enjoyin her mind in that way, when we know she will be cast into everlastin burnins if she don't embrace the true faith now while the day and the hour of grace are left to her! I feel it my duty to tell her so; I must talk to her." 
               "No, mother. Her faith is sufficient unto her, and this is no time to disturb it with any doubts, even were that possible." 
               "But my son, her everlastin, undyin soul!" 
               "The Power that created can save it, and will." 
               Lola lay as though sleeping, heeding nothing around her, for the few brief hours she yet remained among the number of the living, and not even Tam knew the precise moment when the feeble pulse ceased to flutter, and the almost most imperceptible breath ceased entirely; and she lay with so sweet a smile upon her face that it was difficult to believe that her sleep was dreamless, and that she never again would wake to human accent. 
               "See, Frankie, how exquisitely beautiful she is!" said Ida, softly, and after a moment's contemplation of the fresh, early innocence that came back into the hushed face and grew upon it, she added, "Oh, how gladly I would change places with her! Life is so cold, so surpassingly dreary, that when one thinks of the eternal peace and quiet she has entered into forever and ever, one could hate the fate that condemns him to live on! I wonder what is the first thought of a freed soul." 
               Tam, who was bending his throbbing temples against the cool window pane where he had pillowed his head upon his arms, looked up at her in surprise, even in such a moment, at the deep earnestness of her words under so calm an exterior. 
               Houghton laid his hand upon his friend's shoulder. 
               "Come, Tam, let us go out into the fresh air, and the sunlight. There is nothing for you in here, now; come with me," and they went out into the cool breeze which showered the dying leaves down upon them, and by a common impulse sought the lake. 
               Neither of them spoke till they gained the shady bank below which the water gurgled and washed up against the intruding logs in the never ending effort to beat them off. 
               Tam drooped wearily down upon the grassy bank fast turning sear and sombre in the Autumn frosts and chills, and sighed, 
               "Oh Fred, to be 'a boy again!' It seems to me I would give my whole future life, for just one day of the old boyish, care-free feeling I knew when you and I came here together last! It seems to me life was all sunshine then." 
               "Think again, Tam. Would you really have it always so if you could? Don't you think we all require, perhaps, the very troubles we experience, to make us what we were meant to become?" 
               "I don't think there was much intention about it! It is probable that we all become wiser, but I much doubt if better men, for having known trouble. However that may be, I for one would prefer to be a little less good and blessed in the future, if I could so avoid the heartaches of the present." 
               "This is the first time in your life I ever thought you ungrateful. You have lived thus far a careless existence unruffled by a breeze of trouble, and now forget how singularly fortune has favored you. Remember, Tam, that the saddest bereavements to the survivors, come as welcome messengers to nine in every ten of those who are thus released from life and its trials and sufferings." 
               "How easy it is to philosophize when others suffer! Tell me, Fred, were it your young wife lying dead up there in that silent house whose light she was, would you thus cooly offset the bitter blow, against the trivial pleasures of a lifetime?" 
               "Oh Tam! I have talked like a fool, and deserve your rebuke! No, God knows I would not." 
               "I tell you, Fred, the pharasaical ranting about being "resigned under affliction," makes me mad! No one ever was, and if they thought they were so, they deceived themselves. To say, when every heart-string cries out torn and bleeding, that we 'submit to the will of Providence.' We don't. We submit because we must, and wait for time to assuage or wear out the grief nothing else can. Every one who has truly suffered knows this. It is useless sing song, too, to argue that 'what is our loss is their gain.' Grief, like the love it is born of, is selfish; and ought to be so if we are true to ourselves. We love people for what they are to us; not for what we are to them, and as we love, so must we mourn! 
               "Oh Fred, how long will the old story go on? God only knows the worlds upon worlds of suffering mortals who 'count life by heart-throbs,' nor what is to be the grand, universal result of all! If one could only see it, how much easier we could endure the evolving griefs." 
               
                   
                     "'Tis well for us some bright hope lies 
                     Deeply buried from human eyes." 
                  
                
               "Do you remember that exquisite thing, Tam? We can only wait for the 'angel' to 'roll the stone from its grave away,' and so live out our lives such as they are, according to the measure of the strength that is given us." 
                
               "Yes, and that is painfully inadequate to the bitter calls upon it! We say we 'outlive' them, because we have yet physical sense and motion left. But how often do we see the mind and heart, which are all there is of real life, half broken down by misfortunes we cantingly say 'have disciplined' and 'toned them down.' Oh, there is a world of ranting hypocrisy and self-delusion in these things!" 
               His long pent up feelings were finding relief in expression, and his friend drew it forth till all the aching bitterness went from his heart out into the air and warm sunlight around them, and he came back home at last, sad and brow bent, it is true; but with the tenseness gone from the muscles of his pallid face, and the strained look from his eyes. 
               My mother was destined to receive continual shocks from all things connected with Lola's presence, no less now than when she had lived and moved among us; and the excited way in which she employed her handkerchief over the whole surface of her indignant face, spoke of an unusually severe blow upon her prejudices. 
               "Only to think!" she exclaimed in horror. "They have rigged her in one of her handsomest dresses, which'd make over beautiful, Maria; and braided her hair as she use to wear it; and instead o' crossin o' her hands like a christian's, they've gone and put one o' 'em under her cheek as if she was sleepin. It's irreligious, this triflin with death in that way! What ever will the neighbors say; and so many o' 'em was sayin' what a beautiful body she'd make, and was a comin to look at it. I'm quite ashamed o' showin 'em such doins!" 
               "If women can't find anything better to do than to go around pampering their curiosity in that way, they an't worth borrowing any trouble about. They are just like blue bottle flies; always huddling around something horrible, and they must have 'a bornin' or 'a buryin' every day to keep their digestions in order. Just you tell them that brother Tam's dead wife isn't upon exhibition; for if you don't, I will; I wont have such works." 
               "And, Maria, that an't the worst, neither. They an't a going to have her carried into church nor nothin! because she hadn't the Protestant sort o' religion, and they think she wouldn't a-liked it to be done. Oh dear me! What'll become o' us if the old buryin fashion goes out along with others? How we used to take 'em into church and have a long sermon over 'em which made the mourners cry so beautiful and touchin when the minister come to the comfortin part o' it, and spoke so solemn o' the awful loss each one o' 'em in particular had met with; and we used to sing 'China' and them funeral tunes; and then every one was invited to go up and look at the body, which was so beautiful in a windin sheet and ruffled cap. That was afore this new minister's time, you know, Maria. This one's too fashionable for us old folks, by half! And then, too, the idee o' buryin Lola out on the maple-hill! I wonder if our buryin ground an't good enough for her. Mercy sakes, if Tam should have as many wives as some men do, (and he's young and healthy;) and they all have to be buried there, that little patch o' wood land 'll be all cluttered up with 'em! Though, to be sure, its his own, and he's a right to give it up to 'em if he takes a notion to." 
               "Well; have you quite run down, or only stopped for breath? I don't suppose Tam has any idea of stocking 'that patch o' wood land' in any such way. I should think he'd had enough of matrimony now. 'A burnt child dreads the fire,' and Lola wasn't an angel in this world, whatever they may make her in the next." 
               "What a hansome, likely wife your sister, Miss Houghton, makes! I'd no idee she'd do so well. Her husband wont soon get tired o' matermony!" 
               "You needn't throw my 'sister' in my face now, for I sha'n't lose my temper to oblige you, if you do. That's an amiable little trick of yours when you get the worst of an argument." 
               "It don't signify; she's a livin reproach to you, and you know it, havin your support here as you allays have, and a pervision in your father's will atop o' that." 
               "If people will have children they must expect to take care of them, and I'd hang on by the skin of my teeth but what I'd have what honestly belonged to me! I didn't live single from necessity. I might have been 'Miss somebody' as you say; and become a wonderful woman, too, as some way, girls always seem to when they are well married ried and out of the way; but I didn't choose to. But I will accept the next offer, if I'm to be worried in this way, and twitted of being wilfully born, all the time." 
               "Your deed an't so good as your word, Maria! More'n fifteen year you'v'e been sayin you'd take up with the first offer, and at your time o' life it don't look becomin to threaten any more. Now look smilin, do; for that governess is comin down stairs, and it don't look proper we sh'd be cetched arguin when affliction is in the house. I wonder what new. knik's up now." 
               In spite of gossiping neighbors and scandalized old women, they laid Lola out on the hill-side as she had requested, and Father McCormic performed the ceremonies of their religion upon the occasion. 
               A few friends of the family there were, whose charity was perfect enough to recognize any and all forms of religion, independent of sectarian jealousy, and these paid their last tribute of respect to the dead, and sympathy for the living. But as a whole, the denizens of the benighted old village were too horrified to do more than shake their heads and prophecy all manner of evil to come upon children who thus forsook the ways of their fathers, and married foreigners who seduced them over to strange gods. 
               Yet for all these dire forebodings of their parents, the young ladies showed no fear of the consequences of placing themselves industriously in Tam's way, with faces expressive of the most tender and profound sympathy, and they came to the house for afternoon visits and tea drinkings in a familiar way, which evinced extreme regard for some member of the family, but which one it was difficult to decide save by the penetrating Maria, who, despite all their amiability under her insinuations, gave each one a rasping in her invitation to "repeat the experiment." In very shame at her deportment, Frankie often assumed a cordiality scarcely warranted by her limited acquaintance with the newer residents of the village, and after one unusually trying occasion, ventured one of the few remonstrances she had ever offered under that roof. 
               "Do you wish to drive every one away from the house by your unprovoked attacks? for to that it will certainly come, if you persevere in them." 
                
               "'Unprovoked attacks,' eh? What do the artful things come here for? There's a row of grease spots on the wall paper the whole length of the lounge, where they've rubbed their heads in their eternal sittings; and what brings them here, do you suppose?" 
               "Feminine weakness for visiting, partly, and a wish to pay some civilized mark of attention to our guest, Ida." 
               "'Our guest Ida' be fiddlesticked! It's our brother Tam they're after. Don't you see he's a rich young widower now? The artful jades! and the sods not yet dry on his wife's grave! The only attention they ever paid Lola herself any 'civilized marks' of, was to 'come round to see how she looked;' and your friend Ida might whistle for all the courtesy she would receive, if Tam was off out of the house, as I suppose he soon will be. I would'nt live in the house, nor leave any of my things in it, if any of these town girls ever come to rule in it." 
               Tam, himself, remained in modest unconsciousness of the plans whose centre he was, not being so skillful in penetrating the secrets of the feminine mind, as his more astute sister, or women in general, who possess a natural talent for divining each other's weaknesses; and being absorbed in his own ideas, scarcely seemed to notice the conspirators against his comfort and independence, beyond the general politeness he extended to their whole sex, old or young. 
               Houghton, and Frankie, and Ida, prepared to leave for their western home, and the long consultations with Tam behind closed doors, revealed that some new arrangement was in progress, though it was not announced to us who waited and listened for it, till the quiet succeeding the departure had descended upon us. Then we learned that Tam had decided to leave us for a few months, to call back by travel and new associations, his former life and energy, which had sadly faded out, much to the sorrow of those whose idol he was now as he had ever been. Much as we dreaded the loneliness which always attended his absence, his project received the most entire approval; for there was little in the quiet, puritanical village, to attract his attention from his trouble, or waken any slumbering bering ambition in life. Everything for the comfort and convenience of those who now looked up to him as the head of the family, had been carefully arranged, and he left us when the first snow flakes began to fly, and the icy winds swept howling among the hills, creaking the rugged limbs of the forest trees, and waging battle with the rheumatic doors of the old houses scattered along by the wayside, with their smoke flags waving from the broken chimneys. All through the long, cold winter, these winds would shriek in our ears, chilling to the very bones the hardy farmers who would drive into town with sled loads of snow-spotted wood, drawn by huge oxen, from whose nostrils the breath streamed out to be converted into frost. The poor would shiver over their cold hearths while the snow lay drifted around their miserable homes, and even the most fortunate, who sat in their warm chimney corners and tried to forget the stinging cold without, would barely endure the winter as an inevitable necessity, and long impatiently for spring. 
               It was a cheerless prospect for all except the school boys, who saw snow forts and mimic battles in the fleecy drifts, and abundant opportunity for sporting the new mittens, which, securely fastened upon their neck embracing cord, hung over the nail, awaiting the proper time to sally forth. My mother fed the winter fires, and looked at Maria as if measuring forces with her for a long, unmitigated season of close companionship. However, nothing is ever as bright or as dark as we had anticipated it, and the monotonous prospect was broken by the advent of the teacher of the union school coming to board with us. He had been referred to us by the minister, and my mother was too much flattered by the implied compliment, to resist it. Singularly, too, Maria concurred in the plan, perhaps the first time in her life that she had ever assented to any proposition emanating from my mother. A stove was put up for his comfort in the cold "parlor chamber," my mother reasoning that they should "not be apt to want it for company durin' the winter, and if we should we can manage to dispense without it, and put 'em into a room not so nice, may be, but far comfortabler, as them company rooms is allays the coldest ones in the house; though to be sure it's the fashion for company rooms to be so;" and the boy Tam had hired to live with us to render himself generally useful, was installed to build the school-master's fires, and black his Sunday boots, and grease the every day ones. 
               Maria, herself, worked her temper hot, and our endurance cold, by ironing his shirts into polished brightness; and altogether the household care was worthy of a more agreeable object. 
               The lanky length of Mr. Maloney's person was not remarkable for grace, nor was his butternut-colored, rather scanty suit of "full-cloth" the best calculated to display what little he possessed. His hair was so red that it had evidently overpowered his own eyes, which he encased in spectacles sometimes blue in color and sometimes green, and his long, sharp nose indexed the temper which had probably extended him his call to teach, as tempers, like water, will find their level; and his frame had come up to the requisite proportions "for whipping the winter school boys;" a qualification ranking higher than any amount of learning, in the estimation of the trustees, who were better judges of the one than of the other. My mother pronounced him "a very fine young man," whose only failin' seems to be that he's methody! I never did take to the methodies, and never shall." 
               But Maria came spiritedly to the rescue, in her own convincing way. "I wonder if religion was meant for anything on earth except to keep christians by the ears! It's my church against your church, and old school against new school, till Christ's church and his school are quite lost sight of!" 
               "You an't a professor, Maria; unfortunately none o' my children an't. If you was, you'd feel different about it. Morality an't christianity, Maria; no, they're two different things, and morality an't goin to save none o' us. It's better to be even a methody, than nothing at all! That's why I say Mr. Maloney is a very fine young man. It's beautiful to hear him pray o' a Sunday night, though it's the least mite through his nose he does it. But Maria, don't it seem to you he's an uncommon eater? Now if you wouldn't put all the best things at his end o' the table ble, but spread 'em around, like, he wouldn't eat o' so many o' em, and it'd maybe be better for him, and a certain savin to us! A dollar a week for board and somethin extra for fires, and a little somethin for washin and ironin an't no great shakes for money makin, no how, and we'd ought to 'conomise in somethin." 
               "Maybe if we weren't to mash the potatoes he'd eat less of 'em," said Maria, with a faithful imitation of the maternal enunciation. 
               "Yes, Maria; that's a good idea, and I've often thought a bad bakin o' bread once in the while, would spin out the flour amazin!" 
               Mr. Maloney remained in blissful 
                     unconsciouness
                     unconsciousness
                   that he was ever unpleasantly discussed, an event whose very possibility never entered his mind, and he favored us liberally with his society, often quite monopolizing the fire in the way he spread himself in front of it, standing with his back toward it and his coat tails drawn round towards his front, to expose his coldest portion to the invigorating glow. The very way in which he rose from his chair, was worthy of observation. Spasmodic twitches seized him in the back, extending, after a little, down to the ends of his pantaloons, which agitated themselves for a moment, when, with a hoist from his hands upon the arms of his chair, he got fairly under way, and gradually lengthened himself up. If the hand of Providence were known to be but half the size of the capacious members he called his own, all sheep's knee knuckled as they were, it might furnish a reasonable solution of the frequent figures of speech tangled round it upon so many occasions. 
               He spread them out in appropriate gestures as he discoursed at 
                     elequent
                     eloquent
                   length upon the glories of "the singing schools up country where he came from," and was readily 
                     pursuaded
                     persuaded
                   to display his proficiency in "Thou art gone from my grave," and "Oh no, I never mention him," which he declared were all the better because not exactly new, and when Maria would graciously name some "other pretty song," he hummed it through, directly; and having thus convinced himself that his remembrance of it and his machinery for producing it were perfect, he would sing that, Maria not unfrequently joining her own voice, while my mother sat by in eye closed attention, extending her black stockings and low shoes out to the fire in serene enjoyment. He possessed, too, a fund of amusing recitals of which he had been the hero, not unfrequently the unwilling and melancholy object upon which feminine hearts had stranded and gone down for lack of a reciprocation of their fond feelings; and then he looked into the fire through his green-eyed glasses, and sighed in a way which did credit to his sensibilities. Sometimes these sighs were breathed when Maria herself seemed the object at which they were aimed, and her conscious manner, when they fell upon her ear, evinced that they had hit deeper. They became so frequent, at length, as to excite my mother's attention. 
               "What ever on earth makes you sigh so dretful, Mr. Maloney? Don't your supper set good on your stomic? Them biscuit was too rich, and I told Maria when I see her makin em, that they wouldn't digest more'n nothin!" 
               "Oh yes, ma am; they were uncommon nice." 
               "Yes, like enough, but 'nice' aint 'wholesome,' and I advise you to take down somethin physical when you turn in, to-night. Them vegetable pills, now, Maria. You know they cleaned you out in jes no time, and your stomic must a-been dretful. They'll operate beautiful, Mr. Maloney, and you're as welcome to 'em as can be!" 
               If Maria had not carefully hidden her talent from Mr. Maloney's observation, my benevolent mother's face would have aired another expression but she was content to hide her light under a bushel, when its rays might enlighten the unsuspecting Mr. Maloney; but as fortune willed, his eyes were turned from her at the moment, and she made amends for her enforced silence, by darting at the old lady a glance which plainly told her she had "done it" in some way, though she failed to perceive just how. 
               After that unfortunate mark of the maternal observation, each Sunday evening saw a fire blazing in the parlor, and Mr. Maloney went in unto it and sat himself down within its radius as if certain that he was the object at whose shrine it was lighted. My mother came upon them at last, sitting in a fond attitude, which awakened her to an idea for sometime struggling to gain a foothold. "Mercy sakes!" she exclaimed, taking off her spectacles and rubbing them. "If I don't believe Mr. Maloney's at the bottom of that fire! What does Maria mean, ridiculous in herself in that way? I'll have Miss Duncan come and straighten it all out." 
               Mrs. Duncan came; but for a long time Maria refused to be forced into any defence or explanation. Mrs. Duncan waxed vigorous. "If you are only entertaining yourself with a little quiet sparking, the experience is probably worth more to you than the wood and lights you consume; but if you are contemplating matrimony with that brilliant specimen, I can tell you at once that you never shall make such a fool of yourself and bring ridicule upon the whole family. It is too absurd to be thought of!" 
               "You married when and whom you pleased, didn't you, Elizabeth?" 
               "That is altogether another affair. Mr. Duncan was a gentleman, and a rising lawyer; but your long, huge-fisted gawky, red-headed gander of a domine is only making love to you for your money; which, little as it is, looks an immense amount to him, teaching away for a starving sum a year, and not always certain of employment at that. He'll ruin his constitution boarding round and flogging the boys, and then have nothing to fall back upon." 
               "So no one could ever love me for myself! You are the fortunate being to inspire disinterested affection! I'm more particular than some of you, who I marry, and because I choose to wait till I could satisfy myself, you say I am playing fool." 
               "Maria, how old are you?" 
               "That has nothing to do with the subject. All authors, though, would support me if I granted it had; for they all say that the love that comes late in life is more fervent than any other." 
               "So; you are of a sentimental turn, after all! But the plain fact is, you have denied your age so long that you really don't know it yourself. You are at the least, older than your lover, if so you consider him, and neither of you have the most flattering prospects of felicity with the other." 
               "No, we can't expect it; that's all monopolized by Mr. Duncan. Ordinary mortals must be content under ordinary fortune, and Providence didn't make us all Elizabeths." 
               "That is all very well, Maria; but here I am, and here I intend to stay, till I see this foolish affair settled; and when that school master comes in, I'll give him just fifteen minutes in which to pack up his traps and calamities and be off. If you are too much a child to take care of yourself, I will take care of you." 
               "I'm no child! I'm thirty-eight, years old, and have some right to do as I please, or ought to have by this time," sobbed Maria, with her hankerchief to her eyes. 
               "There, Maria; that's right. "Open confession is good for the soul," and as your memory is brightening, already, perhaps your senses will follow suit after I've cleared your true lover out." 
               The storm of driving sleet without, was nothing compared to the tempest within, when Mr. Maloney appeared for his supper after school had closed for the day. A few forcible words from Mrs. Duncan, informed him how despicable his conduct appeared to all people of sense, (he interrupted her to enquire if she were one,) and ordered him to pack up and be off at once. He turned in mild surprise, or a good assumption of it,- 
               "Marier, my love, what is the meaning of all this?" 
               "It means that I've have always been persecuted here, and that they wont let me marry you if they can prevent it." 
               "Marier, will you desert me for persecution? Are my young-I mean first real-affections to be blighted thus?" 
               "No, James, no. I will go with you to the ends of the earth!" 
               "Who is to pay the traveling expenses?" asked Mrs. Duncan, facetiously. 
               "She says you want to marry my money, instead of me," sobbed Maria. 
               "Do I look like that, Mrs. Duncan?" he asked, bracing himself into a look of outraged innocence. 
               "I can't say that your personal appearance would promise much success in that way. However, it is very probable you would indulge such ambition, as a little money looks tempting to those who have none. However, I don't intend to waste words with you. You've already lost five minutes of the time I gave you, so you have little enough left. Here is the door, sir." She opened it, and he walked up stairs, while Maria cried, 
               "Oh, I wish Tam was here; he'd see that I had my rights!" 
               "Yes, I've no doubt he'd put you in a lunatic asylum at once; but I'm doing the best I can for you, in his absence." 
               Mr. Maloney came down ready for his departure; and, a little mollified by his obedience to orders he might have given her some trouble to enforce, Mrs. Duncan invited him to remain to tea. He shook his head in silence, and as he reached the door she said, 
               "Mr. Maloney, you ought to thank me for thus keeping you out of trouble; but as you are not, perhaps, aware of the extent of your obligations, I excuse you, merely telling you for your own satisfaction that Maria is, and always was, the most unmitigated, aggravating shrew in a genteel way, which ever afflicted any respectable family, and the very money which makes her seem amiable in your sight, was left her by our father because he knew she was so outrageous we might not be able to have her live with us, and he would have no child of his dependent upon strangers, or the cold charity of friends. You are well rid of her, and had better delve away at stupid heads for a school-master's pinched salary, than to fall into a domestic tophet for a little money; and I assure you she has but very little. Now good day, sir; and if you don't spread this disgraceful story, you may be very sure we never shall," and she shut him out; fully establishing her claim in my mother's mind, as a very superior and capable woman. 
               Maria moved around, a living example of injured and persecuted virtue and blighted affection, with that expression of features which says audibly "my feelings are too deep for utterance," and little by little, as he came not, she lost the fond hope which had cheered and supported her under the first bitterness of her wrongs. 
               A gossiping old woman brought the first direct intelligence which confirmed in her mind the dread that she was deserted. 
                
               "What's all this about your Marii and Mr Maloney?" 
               "All what, Miss Cummins," asked my mother innocently. 
               "Why, he came roun to the house with my ole man an I thought he seemed 'stonishingly anxious to git at all the perticlers o' your family, an about Marii in special, an my ole man he kinder let out that somebody'd been tellin Mr. Maloney that Marii is-a-leettle misfortnet in temper, you know; an seein how he was hankerin roun the subjec, my man, he brings him to the house; fur ses he to me, if the truth's to be told o a woman, set another woman to 'tell it.' So I told him what I had to say, softenin it as much as I's able, fur I's afeared it might git back to her, someway; an when he seemed to get sort o' satisfied like arter awhile, he ses to me, Mr. Maloney did, 
               "So the young lady han't no great o' property then? an ses I, 'well no; cause you see Miss Winthrop, money an't property, exactly, is it?' He looked sort o' wamble cropped for a while, an I guessed he'd bin makin up to Marii but o' course I didn't ask him. It's more like neighbors, to come right to you, besides you'd be twice as likely to tell." 
               Poor Maria! The last little flickering ray of hope died out entirely as she listened in the next room; and when, shortly after, she heard that her false knight had transferred his "first affections" to the elder Miss Cummins, she put away her tender experience deep in her heart for convenient reference; and when, after that, she sometimes sought to comfort those who were afflicted and in distress, she would assure them that their sufferings were nothing to those she silently endured, and that they ought to rejoice that their's were so comparatively light and trifling-a species of consolation not unfrequently poured into the bruised hearts and wounded spirits of earth's weary sufferers. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XVIII. 
               SPRING came at last: that delightful season of drenching rains, and wrenching, dislocating winds, which one in vain essays to think warm and balmy or giving any sign of becoming so; and the roads became almost impassable with the sticky mud through which the horses' feet sank squelching up to the fetlocks in search of bottom, and then gave up in despair, coming out again with a forcible report of suction; while wheels, attempting to revolve, till perseverance ceased to be a virtue, showed symptoms of a desire to transform themselves into runners and slide through the affliction. Umbrella thatched figures struggled on their way, fully impressed with the fact that the paths of life are slippery and filled with pitfalls for the unwary and backsliding; and even dogs, whose pugnacity had, through the inciting agency of boy-power reached a most wondrous yet reliable degree of elevation, drooped their tails meekly as they passed each other, too much bowed down by the common misery to cherish personal enmity, and even the war cry of "steboy" accompanied by the usually inspiriting hisses and spatting of hands, failed to elicit more than a dogged turning back of ears, which plainly said "do your own fighting, gentlemen, I can't 'steboy' in such traveling as this!" Even the early blue-birds and robins, who had come north for fashion, shared the common fate of those people who do likewise, and shivered till their teeth chattered, while they sought the most sheltered spots and stood for hours with each aching foot alternately drawn up among the melancholy feathers which vainly strove to afford warmth and comfort to their miserable little bodies. 
               Everything spoke in unmistakable accents, the universally sally felt, yet seldomly acknowledged truth, that the much lauded spring-time is only endurable because it is the half way station between winter and summer, and so holds out a promise of better days to come. 
               In her western home Frankie looked out upon the village streets through which the omnibus Jehus lashed their discouraged horses, while the passengers who had arrived by the last train looked dismally out through the misty, rattling windows of the vehicle, too melancholy to keep up the customary thumping and jarring long chronical in its constitution, scarcely feeling the exhilarating effect of the western boast that "it is a fine thing to possess a soil deep enough to afford such mud." Dray horses looked wrinkled and tanned from long soaking, and the internal fire still smouldering on unquenchably sent out through every pore a smoke which spoke of willingness to dry the sorry looking surface, were it possible in such a continual drizzle. 
               "See, Ida, how this rain, cold as it seems, is unfolding the lilac buds. Here is one nodding little cluster as fragrant as any tropical sunshine can produce, and sparkling with rain drops from stem to tip. We can well afford to endure some discomfort for the sake of these blossoms of the rain, so much sweeter than any the mellow summer can offer. Don't you remember, Ida, the little forest flowers every child has missed half its childhood not to have gathered almost out of the very snow? The delicate blue, and pearl white, or rose-tinted liverwort blossoms, and their brotherhood; and, later, the clustering meadow-daises, and golden adder-tongues? It is no wonder that old people retain so vivid a remembrance of the incidents of childhood, when we who are younger remember them so fondly." 
               "Yes, doubtless the most miserable childhood has some bright hours, which, little as they may be recognized at the time, come back to memory in after years like departed blessings. I wonder if any child of straight-laced parents ever forgets the first novel it read, or how it contrived to do it? I have laughed a thousand times in remembrance of the aunt-evaded hours I lay patiently under the protecting valance of a high, old-fashioned bed, deeply buried from human eyes while absorbed in the fascinating pages of the 'Female Pirate Captain,' and others of its stamp borrowed from the neighbors' children, and smuggled in under pocket protection." 
               "I'm sure I remember just such surreptitious proceedings perpetrated out under the butternut trees, from which I returned with digits properly stained; and later, when I wanted to read Shakspeare and mother forbade me lest I might come across 'that dretful Don Juan,' how I burned the tallow through 'the wee sma' hours ayon the twae,' looking for that very production, and marvelling that I found it not. It is a fine thing for this rising degeneracy that the good old prophet's bears have died out from the land." 
               "I'm sure I've seen enough parents who would gladly see the institution revived. Seriously, Frankie, I suppose parents do love their children, and there must be some mothers who are all loving kindness, or so many people would not have written of them. But I must confess, that, with the one exception of good Mrs. Houghton, I never saw one. I have often thoroughly rejoiced that I cannot remember my own, who died while I was an infant; for now I imagine her as I would have loved her; but it has seemed to me a thousand times, that mothers in general make of their children only escape valves for superfluous ire. The virtue inculcating birch is a ready engine for bringing relief, and children suffer it, a hundred times, for no earthly or unearthly reason except that their mothers are angry at something, and the poor little fellows happen to wink out of season. Had I a hundred children full to the very eyes with mischief and pure willful ugliness, they should never experience the bitter hatred and humiliation following a blow." 
               "Yet, Ida, think how old women's hands would be up-lifted, and their tongues set wagging, were you to advance that sentiment at some 'sewing society!' 'Wise Solomon' is responsible for more bitterness between children and parents, in his abominable 'rod' advocacy, than ever sprang from all other causes combined! Yet, tell the 'old school' discipliners so, and they will make the sterotyped wise remark 'that's cause we did'nt whip 'em hard nor often enough.' My father broke up that institution in his family when Tam O'Shanter came as a shining light into it, and the only way he was ever punished was in being made to undress and go to bed. On unlucky days, when the maternal affairs went wrong and the biscuits burned, he used to perform this ceremony a dozen times, and I don't suppose I upset the moral effect of the tiresome inaction, when, upon 'dinnerless' sentence occasions I contrived to smuggle up to him a plate loaded with bon bouches. These were rather happy times for me, because then he would read and explain to me with much patience, as it all went toward filling up the hour, though I can't say he liked it, thinking as he did of so many more agreeable ways of passing time." 
               "Some one ought to write a book of instructions upon making agreeable corporeal punishments. Come, Ida, are'nt you an aspirant for fame and juvenile gratitude to the end of time?" laughed Houghton, who was enjoying a leisure day with the latest law report, at home. 
               "I pray thee tell, good man, if thou be'st able, how a studious man in his quiet corner contriveth to attend to his books, and to the discourse of his women, at the same time." 
               "Oh, it all joins in and mingles beautifully! For instance; I learn here that the Supreme Court of the United States recently gave a decision in a case of manslaughter perpetrated upon a little boy worn threadbare with being made to undress and go to bed too many times; and that the Legislature of Illinois has repealed all Solomon's laws, and reversed the judgment of old women in the cause of the United States versus John Johnson, etc. And I learn, too, that a recent decision changes the aspect of the generally received laws for the management of the old generation, who are to be placed under the jurisdiction of the old prophet's bears, and the young generation is to assume the reins of government, in their place and stead." 
               "Most erudite limb of the law! Illinois will yet reap additional legal honor from the effulgent glory descending upon the brow of a son of old Virginia! Throw aside that report, now; for a half-and-half student never learned anything which could prove a 
                     propeling
                     propelling
                   lever. It is like trying to mix love and sense; you only spoil them both, and strain your constitution." 
               "Well, Ida; you are the oldest, and doubtless know best. There goes the report," and he tossed it upon the table. 
               "And an evil report it is, if you refer to your own, just uttered. You are two good years, which are twenty-four months, and many more weeks, my ancestor; and you know I haven't yet begun to 'do' my front hair into the twenty-five years old curls for that age made and provided! Ungallant specimen of the matrimonial power of corrupting good manners! You were as much a prodigy as every one else by their own story, 'before you were married.'" 
               "Now Ida, if there is one divine spark in your breast, you will be 
                     overwhelemed
                     overwhelmed
                   with self reproach for that false rendering! I was referring to judgments; in which universal consent awards three years of maturity in a woman; so by your own showing I can owe you one year's worth of allegiance, which I'm trying to pay." 
               "There is one gift of straight forwardness, and another of evasion, and a third for getting out of tight places; but greater and more to be prized than all, is a talent for saying pleasant things in a pleasant way; and some there are who possess it. 
               "No sharp shooting, young people. Words are the 'edged tools' referred to which children shouldn't play with,'" interposed Frankie. "And now mon ami, if you would win that good boy's cake, run around to the office and see what this mail brought us; and don't forget to come back again without hunger and sleepiness to propel you. See; the rain has stopped purposely for your pilgrimage." 
               "Oh yes, and the sticking plaster has all dried up out in the streets, and the wind wont almost take me off my feet when I turn the corner! I'll go in instanter. But mind; if I go up and don't come down again, or down and don't come up again, you are responsible for all damages, and must n't complain if you have to wear mourning in hot weather." 
               She bade him "good b(o)y" as he took his umbrella under his arm, that in case of extinguishing accident she might be "able to recognize the body," and the door closed with a spring bang behind him. 
               "How comfortable a dark rainy day is, after all, when one is favored with a generous mail!" said Frankie settling herself more comfortably in the large chair by the window, while she turned over the assortment of letters, papers, and magazines, in her lap, to choose which should be read first. "Miss Ida Vincent," she announced, tossing one to Ida who was impatiently waiting for such a document to be evolved. "'Mrs. Frederic Houghton,' I'll look into that. 'Mrs. Frances Houghton;' I'll see who's tinctured with woman's rights there. 'Mrs. F. Houghton;' that's fair at all events. I think I'll keep the rest, Ida; no, here's one more for you, after all! Kind fate forbid that any visitor should come to day, 'because it's so rainy and gloomy at home.' Sometime I'm going to write a moral production entitled 'home gloom;' and it shall be so overflowing with good advice that no one will read it through; particularly the women, for whom all the good advice is forever written," and having now broken the seal of a well fed letter, she applied herself to its contents with the running ejaculations incident to such occasions. "Maria has been disappointed in love! 'Oh what a fall was there, my countrymen.'" "The down hill horse has had to be shot as cure for a broken leg, at last. Many is the time he was near breaking my honor's respectable neck!" "The new minister' (he was new ten years ago, and it seems he wont become acclimated,) has been 'making up' to the first deacon's daughter, and the sewing society don't approve of it because she's 'too set in her own way' for a good minister's wife." "No news;" and number one made way for its successor. 
               Tam's, with a European post mark, or rather, a congregation of them, was reserved till the last, as she always reserved the most highly prized one, and a sudden exclamation roused Ida from the finely written, interlined pages which said "female correspondent." "Tam is coming back home in the course of the summer." Well, that is sufficiently definite for a man. Who is it expresses the idea 'indefinite and unsatisfactory, as a man's letters always are?' I am glad to see he is more cheerful. This letter is quite like his own old time self. Mon ami, if I were to die to-morrow (I don't intend to; you needn't look so animated,) how long have you any idea you would remember me?" 
               "Why, Fanissimus?" 
               "Oh, grief is the most evanescent of all sentiments! 'Happy as a young widower' ought to pass into a proverb. The Chinese philosopher gave a grossly partial impression in writing the widow story, and I believe it influenced some of the southern states' law givers, who definitely declare in the legislative code, that no widow should marry a second husband till the first one has been twelve months under the sod. Heirs-at-law being not so dependent upon the other side of the house, a widower, being outside the embargo, does well if he waits six months." 
               "Ma petite femme, was 'man made' only 'to mourn?' How easy it is to be uncharitable without intending it." 
               "You might say how easy it is to be unjust and unreasonable! I believe I'm growing old, and possibly ugly. You have a mild way of offering ideas, haven't you, Fred? But you must remember that we all thought Tam much more than human, and it seems strange now to see him suffering and forgetting just like the world in general." 
               "That is the penalty for having been too highly exalted, even though innocently. Tam certainly loved Lola. But does it follow that he is to remain inconsolable all his life, or was she, with all her fascinations, made up of her very weakness, one to inspire such depth of feeling? The circumstances attending her death, shocked and pained him far beyond the death itself, sad as it would inevitably have been. I am certain you will never find any reason to rebuke the spirit in which he remembers her." 
               "What else does he say? My letter is missing this time." 
               "Here is mine: read for yourself if you like; and if Ida ever finishes there, she can have the same privilege." 
               "He doesn't seem in love with England or the English, does he?" observed Houghton, after a few moments' perusal. 
               "No, and I don't imagine any of us would be, even without that brotherly love sentiment instilled into the minds of nursery Americans, in the 'Fee fo fum, I smell the blood of an English um,' as the little ones always recite it. I wonder what old 'Mother England' thinks of the unfilial 'dead or alive I will have some.'" 
               "'Mother England' is a gone up old lady. Her American brood proved like the old hen's ducks, and took to their natural element despite the old fogy cackling on shore." 
               "That 'Boston tea' proved a glorious dose, and old ladies have reason to sing the praises of the decoction, and gossip over it. What he says of their steamers, is notoriously true. They are the dirtiest, worst ventilated, most abominably vermin-inhabited, and cross-officered coops that ever mortal was put to starve in, on insulted civilized waters! England will have to wash her face and hands and spruce up a bit, or she wont pass muster in good society much longer. The idea of their calling us vulgar. They will insist that we eat the whole dinner course, including 'pie and sweetmeats' off the same plate, and with the same 'knife,' and they quite ridicule the idea of a republican 'lady.' Barnum would realize a new fortune very quickly if he could advertise upon exhibition, 'a man who loves England-warranted not English.'" 
               "I suppose that an English-man who loves America, would be equally difficult to find; and women wouldn't like England if only because it uttered the sagacious permission for a man to whip his wife-he to be the judge whether or not he does so-'reasonably.' I don't believe our sex are any more forgiving on one side of the Atlantic than the other. It is easy to read in most every country, which sex and what specimens of it make the laws. It strikes me as passing singular, that with our dislike to everything pertaining to England, we should adopt her code, faults and all, for our own law courts." 
               "Yet the laws themselves, supposed to emanate from the combined wisdom of the nation are nothing to their administration by those specimens of its combined stupidity,-the justices of the peace. They are literally like 'necessity' in knowing 'no law,' and yet, never content in their own luckily limited sphere, assume to administer upon on all things earthly and unearthly! If I ever felt any respect for a man, it ceases the moment he accepts the office, which ought to be bestowed upon four legged jackasses instead of two. It is worth being an attorney if merely to air one's sense of the ludicrous over a justice's 'findings.' They are the universal butt in every court they are so unlucky as to get into. Here, but the other day' Justice Ghalleger was putting through a 'breach of promise' case, without even the form of a jury, some sharp-nosed, red-cheek-boned old virgin of the Irish persuasion having charged her blighted affections to the door of a poor fellow who scarcely knew her by sight; and the old fellow, pronouncing it a clear case, was rendering judgment for the plaintiff, in dashing style, and fining 'for contimpt o' coort,' every one who raised a voice against the illegality of the proceeding, anywhere, as he lives in a continual condition of court holding, and fines an offending individual upon the street or anywhere else. I believe to my soul he would have condemned some of the young men here to be hanged in chains upon conviction of 'piracy on the high sase,' upon which indictment he had them before him, they having borrowed without permission a leaky old craft (whose owner, if it ever had any, no one knows,) to go upon a fishing excursion. I'd give something to know the component parts of the flesh of which Justices are made. It can't be the universal 'grass' variety." 
               The bottomless condition of free soil awoke terra firma at last to some idea of consistency, and ever brightening into better temper, the capricious mixture of clouds and sunshine glided into the more reliable smiles of May, and the songs of the frogs out by the brook side, piped up more confidently. Three times had they come out as warm weather had cried encore, and three times the icy hisses of freezing cold had banished them, but April had steadily supported, and May cast laurels at their throats, and the chorus rose to a jubilee. Steadily the fresh green grass had spread its old dominion over the hill-sides, and the lowing cows pasturing contentedly in the village lots, returned their thanks in a wealth of rich, creamy milk, whose stiff, sparkling foam, as it was brought home in the brimming ming pail, might have tempted a gormand to come back to first principles. 
               Then the country girls swarmed into the village to barter for groceries and calico, the yellow rolls of butter all fancifully spatted and adorned, and the fresh eggs deposited in "the buggy wagon" drawn by that shaggy quadruped known as "a woman's horse" with head stretched out like an inclined plane extending from its ears to the tip of its nose, accompanied by the careless colt, only kept in the train by frequent whinneyings of its uneasy mother, and stopping to let it catch up. Here came an old woman whose red, puffy face looked like a full moon in a high wind, perched on guard over her fat figure, jerking the reins that guided the slow animal which held the bits in some knowing way of its own, so that all her yanking and twitching offended no sensitive nerve; and there jogged a well-to-do couple in a "Tiff" buggy, with one little one sitting in a low chair in front, and two more dangling their legs from their tucked up position in behind; for in this time of trade, the hitching posts in front of every store were on duty from dawn till dark. Now, too, housewives were sorely vexed in spirit wherewithal to provide for their tables every day, "let alone company times," this being as they declared 'neither seed-time nor yet harvest,' and the stored winter supply of vegetables having first run all to eyes looking for some way out of their dark cellar captivity had then sprouted out in all directions at a venture; while, the amalgamation pies of dried apples and 
                     geeen
                     green
                   currants, meant at best but to call up invidious comparisons with the genuine, palatable article, became too much at discount at home, to be kindly received by visitors. 
               Then upon Sundays, it was worth sojourning through the noon intermission at church to see how the good country people passed the interval in the all day service they were never known to miss. Baskets of molasses gingerbread were hospitably passed around, cheese, or pickles, forming the accompaniment; or home-made crackers, hard and thick and ornamented with fork prickings, were exchanged, the particular variety of the soap used in washing the hands before "kneading them up" doubtless imparting some difference of flavor to the otherwise twin "dough-boys." Just outside the door, ranged round and upon the steps in the comfortable rays of the sun, the worthy farmers calculated the probable amount of wool they should shear from last year's lambs, speculated upon the price of steers a head; and prognosticated about the growing "crops," and those which having been put in, refuse to put themselves out. Occasionally they formed the acquaintance of some one's relation out visiting just from "York State," and then came comparisons of the state of matters and things here and there, filling the time till the bell rang for afternoon service; and all went back to the pews where they dozed away the long sermon, with the comfortable prospect of a hot supper, one of the family had remained at home to prepare in readiness for their return. Homely, peaceful customs, and simple pleasures! In their midst lies the real enjoyment of life, and cankering care and discord have no right among them; or if, entering by stealth, awake no revelation in the world outside their doors. 
               Ida sat by the window, looking out upon the homeward bound congregation so evidently peaceful and contented, each one certain that they were in their own sphere, and finding it sufficient unto their wants; and the fit of melancholy which oppressed her, grew heavier in the contrast between them and herself. She clasped her own restlessly interlacing fingers more firmly together, as she said, 
               "See, Frankie, how unmitigatedly grey and melancholy the sky is. The heavy, opaque clouds are crossed with coarse, rough lines running at hap hazard, as though their painter had cleaned his brushes on them. There isn't a spark of hope in such a sky as that for anything on earth, and one feels as if, were he to sit perfectly hushed and breathless, grim death would sweep by and bear one off bodily, to his own quiet regions." 
               "So you haven't stirred, nor made one sound. Confess, Ida, that you haven't even breathed for full five minutes." 
               "I suppose I have, unconsciously; but Frankie, with your cheerful, energetic temperament, you never know the heavy, oppressive weight which overpowers, at times, those less fortunate and philosophical, an actual, throbbing sadness that fills the office of the half pulseless heart." 
               "Yes, I have known it, Ida! It was the natural result of a childhood than which no one ever had a more miserable. Except for the brief hours passed with Tam when he came home from school at the end of the week, or afterward during his college vacations, there was actually no brightness in the present nor joy for the future. The shadows of childhood lie wide and far upon the path of after years; and more than once, since, I have felt the influence of that old, sickening, boundless imprisonment which shut me in like one set apart from all the ambitions and pleasures of the world. Such a childhood would ruin any naturally good disposition, which mine was not; for I endured everything, even the most provoking taunts, with the complacency born of pure obstinacy! I would not show that they hurt; and I felt a spirit of antagonism toward all things, which became so fixed a habit that I tell you, even now, if Fred were not the very embodiment of goodness and patience, the clouds would often lower around us. It is a fearful task to overcome habits forced upon us by long years, perhaps in very self defence, but which have become absolutely a part of us." 
               "Do you know how I tell when you and Fred have narrowly escaped being involved in those same clouds?" said Ida smiling. 
               "I hope to heaven you don't see me trying to 'manage' him! I have a mortal horror of that feminine talent, and if I had ever expected, or prayed for a husband, I would have added the postscript, 'and oh Lord, suffer not that he should be obedient unto me.' How do you tell when I have been aggravating, or at least not good." 
               "When I see you unusually becomingly dressed, and looking in all ways your most fascinating, I say mentally to my absorbing self, 'now la belle Frankie has vexed the spirit of her lord, and is anxious to win him into forgetfulness.' That's an amiable artifice, and I observe, an unfailing one, as his eyes shine again, and his face laughs immediately." 
               Frankie laughed. 
                
               "I am dimly conscious of that fact, myself, Ida; but you must understand that we have no 'bad seasons,' nor naughty words. I suppose two people never did, nor ever can, live together without some little obscurations of sunshine. It is'nt in the nature of things to do so; for don't we, with all our self love and cherishing, often enough become thoughtfully vexed with ourselves? Two atoms of good sense will teach any married pair that as they are to live together, they must, if only in self-consideration, try to do so happily. Life is too short for any one to willfully throw away one hour's happiness. And let me tell you, Ida, that those who have no children, never know real family trouble. The responsibility of one's own self, with ever so much capability for creating dissension, is nothing compared to the heart-aches that follow responsibility often without the least power, over others. I've seen enough of that, and been told enough by those who thus suffer, to know. Now tell me, Ida, what makes you sad to-day. Not the grey sky and unpleasant weather, certainly. These quiet, sleepy days contain the very quintessence of comfort!" 
               "Perhaps so, to one who has a contented heart; that is the alchemist which transforms everything. But look at me, Frankie. Educated even, by the begrudged charity of relations-for my father died poor and broken down in all ways by repeated business failures-growing into womanhood with no prospect of being anything but 'a poor relation,' (little does the world know the bitterness of those words;) remembering the bitterness of the portion when I was younger, and the very servant-given insults in consequence of it, I positively ran away the night a distant relative of my mother's took me away from school, and started out in the world, resolved to earn my bread as a governess. Kind fortune sent me to Mrs. Houghton, through her city agent, to whom I chanced to apply, and with her I lived as happily as my circumstances would permit. But do you suppose that I never feel the intense longing natural to us all, for some one of my own to care for, and to care for me? Can any one live a life of isolation from all these natural ties and not suffer in it?" 
                
               "My dear Ida, I forbid all such thoughts! Better far is even this, than to feel an estrangement from those of your own blood, amounting at times to contempt or hatred! Those are not the truest friends whom one mother rocked in the same cradle. Ida, to feel that if it were possible, you would open your own veins and squeeze out from them drop by drop the blood you hate, because it flows in veins you are forced to acknowledge kindred! Be content, Ida; you do not know what you are sighing for. Come here, come! I have not a sister in the wide world, save you. No one, save Tam, made relative by kindred blood, or even friend." There was a mist veiling her dark eyes as she held out her arms, and sitting upon the arm of her chair, Ida bent her head till their faces were side by side. 
               A brief silence followed, broken by Frankie, who, recovering herself, said more calmly while she softly stroked Ida's hair, 
               "You must not think I am in open warfare with all my family. I believe some of my so-called sisters are good and amiable; but we extend through so many adventing years, that I scarcely remember the elder ones, who married and went away while I was a mere baby; and Mrs. Luce, the only amiable one I really know, is too weak minded to make her simple good nature any virtue, or to make any lasting impression upon any one. But let them all pass, now; as long as I have you, and Fred, and Tam, my immediate world is large enough; but Ida, if I cannot save you from such lonely, heart-sick hours, my love is worthless enough. Tell me how to make you happy." 
               "I am an ingrate, Frankie! Don't remember my seeming thanklessness, which only rises upon rare occasions. I don't see the same hopeless, grey sky now; it seems, as you say, 'comfortable.' Your alchemist has touched it. Better is one true friend of the heart than many relatives by birth; and every deserving heart will find its own blessings. Do you suppose men ever feel such souls sinkings, as if they were born in vain and filled no place in nature that would not have been better unfilled." 
               "No, not just that; they have spirit sinkings, of course, but of another kind: because every ambitious man has some particular sphere of action, and works for some definite object; while we sit with folded hands as if born only to be taken care of, and eat the bread of idleness and dependence, which is sure to be that of discontent and bitterness. Had we equally legitimate fields for the employment of our energies, and the gratification of our ambitions, we should be infinitely pleasanter companions and better friends. Not one of us but is ashamed of our uncharitableness and evil speaking as a sex, and most of us can, if we will, confess that few feminine friendships can survive the test of finer appearance and more fortunate position upon one side. Yet this is a subject for pain and chagrin, rather than for ridicule, showing as it does, the unmet want in our lives. I have many and many a time wished that I had been born a servant girl, either white or black, that active, useful employment might prevent my body from persecuting and preying upon my mind. Unfortunately, other birth has given me different tastes, and as I am, that life would be only a more galling chain. Happy is even the wood sawer, born to his calling and contented in it!" 
               "You and I hold so nearly the same opinions upon most subjects that I am sure you must be right, and we have no field for argument. I do confess that I look with something very like envy upon a real, thorough egotist, unpopular as self praise is in the world! What can be more delightful than to feel so perfectly satisfied with one's self, that all things pertaining thereunto seem faultless for that very reason? One can almost afford to be disagreeable to all the world, for the sake of this individual felicity." 
               "That is a strange sentiment for a woman to advance, Ida, when of all things in the world we most prize popularity and the admiration of others. Even fine dress, that first love of our souls, is of little value if no one is to look appreciatingly upon it save ourselves, and very few of us would take the trouble to look fascinating for our own dear sakes-the surest test of a woman's indifference. I suppose it is all well enough, for all our fathers and husbands-our law givers-ever ask of us, is to be good humored and ornamental. 
                
               "Had I forty little daughters, I would rather see them playing horse and leap-frog in the highways, than nipping and primming like 'ladies,' and nursing dolls in a high state of adornment. I thank Providence that I never played at rocking rag babies, nor patched a bed quilt; much to my mother's horror, who was certain something was altogether wrong in my constitution; and I shunned all girls and their plays with a persistency that fully warranted my title of 'Tom boy.' Do you know I think it is a sad mistake having any elder sisters in a family? They are the kill-joys of those who come after, and wont even endure their making faces before the glass to 'see which can look prettiest.' One or two in a family who 'have seen the folly of it,' upon every occasion, are enough to drive any child distracted. They are like croaking ravens in the house." 
               "My observation decides equally against elder brothers. Did you ever see one (except your own, of course) who did'nt keep his sisters crying half the time under the weight of his displeasure, never by any chance approving of anything connected with their doings or sayings, and particularly savage toward their beaus, whom they invariably pronounce either 'spooneys' or 'clowns?' They seem to possess a guardian-angel talent most melancholy to become the objects of! It is no wonder that sisters almost equal widows in the art of man flattery, appealing upon all occasions as they do, when they think it worth while, to the masculine love of superiority, and deferring to their judgment upon matters as familiar to themselves as the air they breathe. 
               "There are two kinds of flattery to which men as a class are singularly vulnerable; these are the Achille's heel in their mental constitutions,-deference to their superior wisdom, and a feminine clinging upon their protection. These are to them what pretty compliments are to us, though they do not recognise it themselves, and we seldom confess the strategy of our warfare against them. I wonder if some queer developments don't transpire after matrimony has set in?" 
               "You don't suppose that a wife, in the actual present, has less use for the talent than one in prospective, do you? Every weak power depends much upon flattery as a protecting agent against a stronger; and I don't suppose any nation or individual ever ceased to be a hypocrite and sprouted out a saint, as long as there was any useful field for the talent. If plain, and heretofore unsuspected truths are often spoken in matrimonial confidence, self love and vanity turn aside the shafts, thinking them mere expressions of temporary pique; and the next compliment confirms the happy delusion and hardens the armor. Flattery is the universal hinge upon which the world swings, and all honor to him who invented it-though, if I recollect rightly, it was wise Lucifer himself. At all events, it is a panacea which brings no jarring reaction, and is very agreeable to take if skillfully administered. See, here comes Fred, and the chickens are cooling on the table. Come to dinner, Ida." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XIX. 
               JUNE, with its first fruits of the new year, its fair flowers and torrid skies, passed amid the domestic treasures Frankie had gathered around her home. The pleasure she enjoyed with all things homely and homelike was due in a great degree to the years of homelessness she had felt among scenes in which she felt no right or part, and she came back to the simple pleasures and familiar objects of her childhood, with a real zest. Nowhere could be found such broods of chickens with brown, black and white little heads, as her old hens led importantly round the yard, and even into the sacred precincts of the garden; and as they waxed larger they became more impudent, like young broods of all species, and as if in penalty, quite lost all promise of the beauty prophecied for them in earlier days, growing up into awkward poultry-hood, who exercised their long legs with much dexterity as the indignant cook chased them from her dominion, upon whose privacy they intruded with magnificent contempt for the weak-stomached advice, that if you wish to eat, you should shun all acquaintance with the cook room. Escaping with much good fortune the kitchen furniture aimed at them, the young Shanghais mounted a wood pile by way of a suitable stage, and conjuring up an imaginary audience, crowed by the job, with a fearful exhibition of lung power; and not content with the paternal teaching consisting of a good wholesome "hoot" and done with it, added an extra flourish at the last end, in the form of a squeaking "ca-a-w," which, however, falling short of the effect intended, was like the spelling of "Caddy Jelleby's" lover, meant for the best, and would doubtless improve as their voices became less in need of lubricating oil upon the hinges; and the way they flapped their ragged wings by way of beating time through the rehearsal, and in applause at its close, would have wakened a happy sympathy in the breast of any orchestra leader. Flocks of pigeons wheeled round the woodhouse over which they were provided with quarters, and an occasional "squab," venturing too early from the nest, lay in innocent trustfulness in the hand that carried it back to its tarrying Jericho. 
               Out in the lot beyond the yard, where the young apple trees had early in the spring put exultingly forth their first fragrant, many-tinted blossoms, withholding their fruit, however, as if 
                     conccious
                     conscious
                   of having done enough for the first year, lived the red blushing mother of a sleek calf, who commenced its song every morning with the first peep of light, "to wake the maiden all forlorn that milked the cow with the crumpled horn," that it might take the benefit of its own after perquisites before fashionable breakfast time being a primitive believer in and admirer of, "the early bird" system. Through this lot there gurgled a stream scarcely deep enough for the brood of ducks, who, with noisy quacking, expressed unlimited capacity for "more," while the sand at its margin, worked by school children into tempting "mud pies," and other juvenile invented pastry, spoke of the culinary talent running to waste; and the bank above this sun bakery, excavated into mills, a tested the industrious proclivities of the imitative young populace engaged in absorbing wisdom within the walls of the village school-house, standing in a thriving little patch sown to seedy tin pails and dippers which had become pass during preceding terms' servitude; and the board fence which extended down the road side hill, was rendered at once serviceable and picturesque during every intermission, by squads of girls and boys riding down it, bringing up with a sudden chug when they reached the foot of the hill where the fence suddenly ended its career, and turned a sharp angle upon another one running due east. No whizzing of the birchen twig ever woke the deprecation of the school-room walls, for the west has little sympathy with the customs of New England, in which the unadulterated old Puritan Fathers' ideas seem to be an unleachable ble element. Everything here was joyous and progressive; and for all the old conservatives styled it "a wicked little place," a due amount of cheerful wickedness renders a place very pleasant to live in. So thought Frankie, and so felt all, and particularly when "the glorious Fourth of July" drew near, there was enough gayety and spirit in it for a hundred old fashioned towns. Every one, great and small, contributed to the fund for all suitable jubilations, the little ones putting in their dimes with a very different feeling from that with which good children in church, in response to much nudging deposit the precious sums upon the contribution plate, having vainly made excuse to go out before it was passed round. There were no frowning eyebrows, and clenched hands shutting in the reluctant coin now; and something better than scoke berries dried the innumerable flags born for this occasion to all expectant juveniledom. 
               It mattered little that no one but the greatest dolt in town could be induced to pronounce the oration, for upon such occasions a dolt possesses the advantage of any talented man, inasmuch as he feels edified with his own remarks, his vanity making them appear really quite like scintillations of 
                     orginality
                     originality
                  , in his own opinion. A fete champetre was arranged to take place in the hotel side yard, as the most convenient and well shaded location, and all was upon the largest scale of liberality. 
               How patiently the different "orders" in their regalia marched under the noonday sun to the music of the brass band, and the deep undertone of the drum inspired horses and young girls with an indefinite sensation in the stomach, as much like fear as anything well could be and fall short of it. 
               Out on "the fair grounds" where board seats rough and backless forbade the Sunday sermon time naps, the orator of the day discoursed to his audience from an elevated stand fearfully liable to accidents, and looking over the array of smart dresses and best bonnets in which all female-dom was arrayed, the ever ready minister "did over" an old prayer into a patriotic one, and affairs progressed. Another stampede in response to the drum which "piped all hands to mess," found them seated round the tables laughing with their own abundance, and when popping corks signaled the toast-inspiring fluid, how conscious women blushed at the compliments to come with patriotic couplings! 
               There sat the young woman who had come in from the country in a lumber wagon, containing all her neighbors, carrying her own baby upon the back seat where she sat magnificent in the white bonnet she wore all the year round; and she blushed, too, feeling that she had her portion in the "toasted" womanhood, humble as it might be. What mattered it if grown people felt uncomfortable after the national feast, and children were instructed to lie down on the side that ached? He who eats most dinner displays most patriotism, and shame to the craven who shrinks! 
               The "unhallowed, earthly sound of fiddling" issuing from the ball room, spoke of more cheerful martyrdom for the occasion; and enthusiasm vanquishing the heat, throngs of the country girls and boys poured up the stair case, and after an hasty smoothing down of hair, and putting in of more pins around unreliable places generally, with some not overly skillful spreadings of flour to prevent faces, and necks, and stout arms, from turning red and vulgar, waiting swains, feeling warm and pinched in their best suits, were rejoined by their fair partners, who, defying fatigue and moisture-inspiring atmosphere, led "up and down the outside and then down the middle" with active limbs and animated spirits. 
               Each fair one, aiming most at what was becoming independent of strict fashion, displayed her own taste in attire, in short skirts or long ones, of all shades and patterns, the prudish ones, who didn't approve of low necked dresses, concealing their uncompromising bones under high ones; and if cotton gloves covered red hands they deserved better treatment for their friendly shield than the continual finger sprawling to which they were subjected, not unfrequently to the infliction of an unseemly rip. Head dresses gotten up regardless of taste and expense, crowned hair suspicious of many days' undried wettings, and the proud "artificials," which, refusing to bend and loth to be broken, stood in upright grandeur around some head, with a fond feeling for gay colors, were unique, if not exactly beautiful in effect. 
               Occasionally some unfortunate young woman, who, in over eagerness to rejoin her waiting swain had scarcely looked into the niche of mirror above the heads of the monopolizing first arrivers, appeared with an old ivory fine toothed comb in the advanced stages of decay, perched just above the nugget of her back hair, where it had served to hold on her bonnet, none of her companions having performed the office of reminding her to remove it, true to the custom of half her sex, who philosophically endure any degree of the unbecoming and ridiculous in another. 
               More aristocratic apartments were decorated for the more exclusive circle of pleasure seekers, whose merry making was to succeed the pyrotechnic display; and after a brief time serving as amused spectators of this festival of the 'sovereign people,' Frankie and Ida went home to rest and dress for the evening. Frankie possessed that rare and not despicable qualification of good taste and decided talent in all matters pertaining to dress, and assumed despotic sway in that respect over the less ambitious Ida, who never troubled herself as to what she was to clothe herself withal, well knowing that at the proper time she should find her bed spread out with what was most becoming to her, no article of which was ever forgotten, from gloves to slippers, and the very bouquet lying in fragrant readiness. 
               They went early upon the balcony selected, to secure seats for a view of the gunpowder jubilation, and a merry crowd who had done the same, passed the waiting interval very pleasantly. 
               "Ida, look there; just behind that circle by the door; yes, it really is Tam O'Shanter!" and Frankie rose excitedly, waving her handkerchief to him, as it was impossible to get out of the crowd which hemmed her in. He saw her, and smiled and nodded as he essayed to wedge himself through the mass; but it was a vain effort. 
               "Do faint, some kind person," cried Frankie in laughing despair. There is my 'long lost brother' making heart-breaking efforts to burst his imprisonment, and like the poor starling, 'can't get out.'" 
                
               The crowd gave way, laughing, and Tam availed himself of the right of way, followed by Houghton, who had piloted him from some unknown region. 
               "Now tell me how you happened here upon this particular occasion, Tam; and have you and Fred a magnetic attraction for each other, that you met in all this crowd and bustle? The last I knew of him, he asked me to keep his seat for him while he went home for something he had forgotten. That isn't purely a feminine mishap," said Frankie after the first greetings were over, and they were reseated. 
               "I came by downright intention, and there was no 'happening' about it, except the breaking down of the running machinery which should have brought me here yesterday. I meant to celebrate this Independence day with you, but so missed it. I obtained your domicilio at the depot, and was making myself at home with all your effects except your sacred tooth-brush, when Fred came in upon me; and when we had allayed his surprise by a sociable smoke, to render ourselves respected by the ladies, who will doubtless prefer keeping at a distance from us in consequence, he led me to your Highness. Is that satisfactory?" 
               "More so than you can imagine. Why, Tam; how well you are looking! 'Forindge' countries seem to agree with you wondrously." 
               "Yes, but let me tell you ma belle sur, native land is the place, after all. I can say with the wanderer from Erin's isle, 'no more I wish to roam.' I could settle down into a country parson or anything else, however prosy." 
               "Do you sigh for a log cabin in the woods, and a good 'woman' to bake your griddle cakes under a huge iron 'crane' hanger, with a row of pot hooks dangling near, in a fire-place heaped up with blazing logs? Does the picture of a feather-bed covered with a patch-work quilt, standing in the corner of the all rooms in one, and an upstairs road of a ladder, seem an earthly paradise to you? Because if you haven't arrived at just that pitch, you are not tired of the world yet." 
               "I have almost, at times; and I want to gather 'pussy-willows,' and 'cat-tails,' and wade the swamps for rushes and sweet-flag. Did you ever have that feeling, that you so well know it?" 
               "Yes, or something nearly approaching it. What are you going to do now, Tam? How will you amuse yourself and pass time?" 
               "In admiring your majesty, and playing the amiable to your friend, if I am graciously permitted. As for the future, let it take care of itself. I know it not, and respect it not. Ida, how does this young lady conduct herself at home? Is she sufficiently amiable to render life endurable to a new comer, or do her 'spirity' hours include every one as well as Fred?" 
               "Try and see, Sir Tam O'Shanter. What is endurable to one, is entirely something else to another. She hasn't brought my grey hairs on in sorrow thus far." 
               "Hist, Ida," cautioned Houghton. "Don't mention your grey hairs in a mixed company. At your time of life it isn't safe to set people looking too closely after them." 
               "You miserable! If you could possibly cram one short sentence fuller of downright malice, don't favor me with it. Next to that woe-begotten insinuation, 'at your time of life,' which should have strangled the person who invented it, telling another not to speak so loud, is worst! As some say, 'I'd whip you for that sooner than for anything else.' One year more of matrimonial experience, will demoralize you entirely, and spoil you for any gallant purpose under the sun! You are giving your politeness too idle a life." 
               "Ida, you scold like a termagant! You'll ruin what little matrimonial prospect you have left, if people hear you." 
               "I'm glad you have come to set my household in order, Tam. Fred is unmanageable, and Ida's tongue is fearful," remarked Frankie in assumed horror. 
               "Halloo; there goes the first rocket," exclaimed Houghton, as a whizzing sound, accompanied by juvenile shouts, rent the air. 
               "How many poor widows' loaves were burned up that time?" remarked Tam contemplatively. 
               "Not one which is not gladly foregone for the purpose, I'll be bound," replied Houghton. "Besides, in this land of plenty poor widows' loaves grow on every bush, and I'll venture you wont find a case of real destitution in the country." 
               "Thank Heaven we are not a nation of starvelings and cripples! It is pitiable, traveling through England, to see the poor, dwarfed, and deformed, which swarm in every town. I believe it is not an unfair average to say that every family has two of these poor beings, whose afflictions are incurable, and the 'old families' fare the worst. Uniting kindred estates, is not, unfortunately, equivalent to uniting health, beauty, and intellect, in the inheritors." 
               "Now Tam, if you have come home egotistical and pedantic I will never forgive you. Most travelers are unendurable. Beside, upon this day thou shalt not do any grumbling." 
               "I stand rebuked, Mrs. Fanissimus, and return peaceably to the exploding of the national powder. But what have you got on all your pretty fixings for? Going to dance, or something?" 
               "Yes, both. If you have any prettying process to go through, we have a private room in there, which we'll lend you." 
               "No, thank you. I'm in my best looks; so while the fire plays away I will recall all the fine things said upon such occasions to young ladies. I recollect that you have an inconvenient habit of repeating them to each other, which is very trying to the gallant inventive talent, and sometimes leads to embarassing reminders coming too late as to whom, they have already said which; or to whom they have said what, when and where." 
               "Oh it ought not, in the least; for there is literally nothing new under the sun, in the little nothings gotten off to ladies! I can assure you, as a wet sheet to your aspirations, that one gentleman's compliments are as nearly like unto another's, as though cut from the same piece. I never knew but one exception, and when the talented inventor fell into disgrace by unfortunately repeating a very fine thing to a second young lady in the very presence of the first, and she resented it, he excused himself by gracefully regretting his mishap, in the assurance that as many hundred times as he had probably uttered that same compliment, he never made so unfortunate a mess of it before." 
               "Oh, Frankie; thank fortune all ladies are not so painfully frank! They don't laugh us in the flattering face-which is all we experienced ones ask of them. There goes the first blast of the music. Who is Ida's devoted?" 
               "Half the town, as you will see." 
               "No, I mean yes; but who is her cavalier for the evening?" "Ask her, and see if she wont say 'you.' She shuns beaus, and is under Fred's and my protection." 
               "Here, Tam, do take control of Ida. I can't endure any more acid now. I'm sure my nose must be red, now, with inward indignation." 
               "That wont answer, Fred! You gaped, a moment since, which is the best evidence that you are not even roiled. I shall be thrice happy to exchange you for a more complimentary subject." 
               Tam made his best bow, and all adjourned to the room from which the music pealed in inspiring cadences. 
               "I must confess, Ida, that these finnyfied dancers are not half as attractive to a spirited youth, as a good Dutch ball, with plenty of lager bier in a barrel in one corner of the room; and I never figure better than when being whirled over the stove, and everything in general, in a sort of dance 'promiscus' by some muscular Dutchess, whom I convulsively grab in the junction of the skirt of her dress with the waist, while she only asks of me that I keep my feet paddling a little, and when she has done me out of all pretence to breath, lands me safe and sound in one corner, with a glass of beer in one hand and a 'pretzel' in the other. There is more downright, reliable dancing, in five feet four inches of Dutch girl, than in all American belles combined." 
               "I am fain to rely upon your authority. Women are so much more easily contaminated than men, that many avenues of amusement are unyieldingly closed against us. I suppose the grand feature in which your Dutch belles excel us, is in being self-supporting institutions; as fragility, though very romantic, is somewhat fatiguing in an exercise more dependent upon muscle than romance. I have often envied the muscular talent 'up to' all the accomplishments of ball-room all night, and kitchen next day, and suppose that upon some similar reverence, some parents adopt the principle of imposing unusually early rising, and unexampled diligence in all the duties of life upon their daughters during the terrible 'next day' which succeeds. I believe many a girl marries that she may sleep as long in the morning as she likes; and it is a well assured fact that many a boy marries for a larger piece of pie." 
               "Of all strange caprices, those which impel people into matrimony are the most varied and singular, and of nine in ten it might be prayed 'Lord forgive them; they know not what they do.' Ministers have much to answer for. Let us waltz." 
               "I must pay you a very deserved compliment, Tam," said Frankie the next morning as they sat in the parlor awaiting the late breakfast bespoken for the occasion. 
               "How upon earth have I deserved a compliment? My conscience is perfectly guiltless of it, and as little boys say 'I didn't go to.'" 
               "You didn't overdo the matter in the least, last night. One wouldn't have suspected you a widower." 
               She started and stopped as the word passed her lips for the first time in his presence, but he did not notice it, beyond a passing shadow which flitted into a smile as he asked, 
               "How so, Fanissimus? Are widowers set apart from the world of humanity at large?" 
               "In a manner, yes. There are few ladies of so limited experience as not to be able to detect one at a glance. They are as plainly labelled as if the word were chalked on their backs. What do you think of our beauty and fashion-i. e. pretty girls?" 
               "I think your society, like that of most western cities I know anything of, is very pleasant and gay. There were a number of exceedingly pretty faces present, last night." 
               "Handsomest of which was Ida's. Every body says so." 
               "I can't agree with them. Ida is too cold and white to be striking. I like fire in a female face; something that shows character. Ida is like an unpainted doll." 
                
               "You never would do her justice, Tam! She is as far from doll-like as possible, and as for 
                     chatracter
                     character
                  , those haven't most who make display of it. You come nearer vexing me, upon that one subject, than all others combined! Men never do know anything about women till they are fairly married." 
               "Yes, that's just it. They are past all finding out as long as it is worth while to keep the worst side hidden, and when matrimony brings it to light, it is too late for us to profit by it. That is just the rock many a fellow founders on!" 
               "Plase mum will you be afther havin the brakefast now? Miss Ida requists you wouldn't be afther waitin for her. It's sick she is mum, enthirely, and she's but jist comminced dressing." 
               "Yes, bring it in, then, Bridget. It always annoys her to be waited for, upon any occasion." 
               "Where is your liege?" asked Tam, as they sat down to the table together, from which a most delicious fragrance of coffee arose. 
               "Oh, in his office, three hours ago. He has a custom of going to it sometime in those small hours between one and five in the morning. His whole ambition centers in his profession, as he declares a whole lawyer is the noblest work of science; and to tell the truth I've much his way of thinking." 
               "That, I believe, is considered an evidence of a good, if not obedient wife. But how about your friend Ida? She said, last night, that most girls marry that they may sleep late at morning. Is this complaint of can't come to breakfast, chronic with her constitution?" 
               "Oh, my friend Ida eats and sleeps industriously, like most women," she replied with a determined air of nothingness; for she had determined to be vexed no more by any misjudgment of her, but rather to outdo him in it, if possible. 
               "That look wont deceive me, Frankie. When your face tries to be stupid, it says most, to one who, like me, knows how to interpret it. You'd like to box my ears, this minute, for my ugliness relative to Ida; but they are personal property and not boxable! Here; soothe your temper with some of this boiled milk in your coffee. Your Bridget is a sensible girl, not hampered by the darkey-servant fear of 'drying up the cow by boiling its milk.' Come, now, warm up to your friend's defence. It has been so long since I heard a handsome woman scold, that it would be refreshing." 
               "Yes; thank you for the milk; but the defence I 'come up to' no more. Talk of feminine obstinacy and persistency! You can call Ida a Hottentot, with perfect impunity for all of me. Here she comes, to defend herself." 
               Ida came in pale and disfigured by a severe headache, and Frankie was savagely glad that she looked her very worst, and that she called for "toast and tea" in the most matter-of-fact way possible. Tam felt no respect for toast and tea-in fact, abominated it as an institution which she had often heard him contemptuously declare was only invented to disgust and persecute sick people; and she looked up now, to see how he was affected by the order, which he certainly would attribute to Ida's old maidishness, and "doll-ishness of character. She was quite surprised to see him regarding her with a look of interest he had but once before bestowed upon her since the old lovers' days they both seemed entirely to have forgotten,-a look which spoke the sympathy he did not otherwise utter. And Ida felt it, too; for she said with a faint smile, 
               "Oh, it is nothing but a little of the Fourth of July, left over. It will pass away by and by. I am unfashionable enough to show the effect of late hours. How were you pleased? I believe that is the stereotyped?" 
               "Very much. But does Fred never become horridly jealous? If I ever saw 'Eat, pretty creature, eat,' unmistakably engraved upon any living face, it was upon that of the fiercely moustached little doctor, who surfeited Frankie with sandwiches, and cheese, and sliced beef, and similar milk for babes and angels, while she was looking hopelessly yet affectionately at the cake and pickles disappearing beyond! What says Frederico to that individual of moustaches and physic? Or, what is more to the purpose, and full as reliable an index of feeling, what does he say of him?" 
                
               "That he is the only honest physician he ever saw. He doesn't look hypocritically melancholy when usual sickness prevails, but when enquired of relative to the times, he says, rubbing his hands, 'Please God it isn't so fearfully healthy as it was, and there is some hope that the sickness will continue to spread.' Or if there has been an unusual time of health in which no old maid's tooth has so much as grumbled, he says mournfully, 'It's a very bad time now. We doctors shall all starve to death if there doesn't mercifully come some sickness soon.' He is reckoned a down right good fellow, in consequence." 
               "I believe he is one. One can afford to endure sandwiches while others get the nice things, for the sake of an honest man. I forgive him his ferocious appearance, and all his unknown sins, for that one virtue. I even forgive him for being an M. D., which is only another name for unmitigated and conscienceless jackass, as a general thing. The cool way in which one of them will tell you how many patients he lost in experimenting with different treatments, forms a forcible example of 'original sin!' The only wonder is how any sick person contrives to survive one of them. It's a true case of constitution versus ignorance and presumption. Who cures souls, here?" 
               "To confess a manifest truth, soul curing is at a discount in this age; but we have a pleasant, talented clergyman, who cures diseased sensibilities (often mistaken for soul,) with good, wholesome logic, and common sense views of old, beranted subjects, and preaches the love of Heaven instead of the fear of the hot place, which wins him the respect alike of the old and young. I quite pity the next generation, which can by no possibility make the rapid strides in all things pertaining to the arts and sciences, which we have done." 
               "I don't waste a bit of pity on the next generation! It will, in all human probability, be an irreverent upstart, who, looking back upon us, will, in a superior way, pronounce us ignorant and superstitious, and wonder how we contrived to enjoy good health, knowing so little! I expect our great great grand-children will eat their bread and cheese among the mountains in the moon, and think us fools for not having done so before them. There is no doubt of it, and I hope they will!" 
               "Oh Frankie; you quite take away my breath!" laughed Tam. 
               "If I seriously believed that future generations would possess so few of the elements now thought indispensable to human existence, and skulls sufficiently hard to endure the shock of landing there after the now incomprehensible journey, I should think the age of transformation, Arabian nights, and every thing else, were to reign supreme! Man must be more or less than human before he can relish a slide down the hill-sides of the moon, where he wont be very well prepared to see his way out; and I often think dame Nature must smile to see one thing unattainable by us. Come Ida; throw toast and tea to the dogs, and rise to the glory of biscuits and coffee." 
               "Talk of the glory of any stove oven biscuits! That shines in full effulgence only in the short cakes baked before the fire in an old Florida-out-of doors oven. There it stands, a brick structure precisely like the old house-end climbing chimneys, with a place for a hoe-cake board, or a portable tin oven, in front, and a huge dripping-pan arrangement for roasting, further up. It is the very poetry of cookery, and the handsomly browned, fat short cakes creased into diamond shaped decorations by some accomplished spoon handle, would make an epicure laugh! Then what ashes for potatoe roasting!" 
               "Verily, Frankie, somebody lost a good cook when you dropped down into our family. You should have been born in a turban, and white apron. Now, how are we to pass the day?" 
               "You asked me last evening if I ever had sighed for primitive surroundings. Now come with me and see how nearly I have approached them. I have chickens, pigeons, ducks, and a calf." 
               "Really, you are the mother of a fine family. Show them up, by all means. Will you come too, Ida?" 
               He called her "Ida" in the old, familiar way. There was no Miss-ing and Mr.-ing among them. Did he remember what she had once said about formality being the torture of friendship? 
                
               It was not likely, she thought, as she looked at his half indifferent exterior, betraying no hint of any former acquaintance. 
               The pleasant stroll, and amusement of feeding the little flocks dependent upon their care, and gathering closely around them, did her head good, and the soft breeze brought the color back to her cheeks, and as they came back through the garden and Tam cut the morning bouquet and afterwards helped to arrange it, he, too, lost the half feeling of restraint against which he had resolutely struggled, and became really and thoroughly happy. Such moments come suddenly to us all, when battling with some feeling which we know ought not to exist; or, in forming some new acquaintance, there dawns some particular moment when we feel that it is made, and as if we had known them for years; and after that initiating moment, as one looks back upon the gulf thus passed, how one recognizes the naturalness of thinking each new acquaintance a creature entirely different from one's friends in general, and to be quite seriously dealt with. The outs and ins of mentality form a curious labyrinth, and he who most uncompromisingly restrains his cordial impulses, is usually least to be trusted. 
               Frankie received no farther provocation relative to Tam's opinions about Ida, and as she saw how thoroughly he now seemed to appreciate her, she recalled his old love of teasing, and strongly suspected that he had aroused her purely for his own gratification; but like a sensible woman, she never mentioned it, and characteristically gave no sign of observing anything out of the ordinary course of events. Houghton himself was so absorbed in his business that he found few leisure hours, and his evident attempts to "leave the office behind him when he came home," won him as much approbation as if he had been successful. Frankie wisely forbore to talk to him when she saw he did not hear, and, if really necessary to attract his attention to something, after the second unsuccessful attempt, softly placed her hand upon his shoulder, and he woke from no matter what abstraction. Tam honored her for her good sense in feeling no feminine pique, and thought her a marvelous woman; but she had cherished her own ambitions, and remembered the fretting distractions which so long postponed success, and as she had wished others to show some consideration for her, so did she cheerfully practise consideration towards them. Besides, she thoroughly sympathized with her husband's ambition, and if in some sensitive moment his seeming inattention wounded her, she had only to remember the long years he had hoped, and labored, looking steadily forward to their united home as his best reward, and she was content. She would have despised a husband who would even for her sake rest in ignoble content without one effort to rise to eminence in the intellectual world, and as Houghton thanked her in his soul, he realized that she was one of the few, precious women created for a student's wife. Her own pen copied pages of the documents needed in some emergency, and each was to the other a true partner in all things. 
               Her joyless girlhood was reaping its compensation, now, as all suffering sooner or later does; for nature's impartial balance portions out to all a more equal allotment of joy and sorrow than many acknowledge or believe. 
               The first hot September Sunday was passed by Houghton and Tam in the old boyish freedom of the woods. There was something decidedly comfortable in once more reclining on the moss-covered logs under the wide spreading branches which threw a quiet shade over and around them, and the shy denizens of the silent old forest, seeing them so peaceably inclined and evidently harmless, came nearer and nearer to see what manner of men they might be. The breeze softly rustled last year's dead leaves, and broke off useless dried twigs blotting the fresh green of the tree tops, which came down and down by slow degrees, and so were whirled gently among the decaying earth foliage which uttered a little murmuring of welcome as they all nestled down together around the roots of the old monument which had once borne them proudly aloft, and would do so again when they should have won their way up through it's very life's blood. Even now, they had commenced the patient, insidious process, and they sang a fluttering little song to the capricious summer wind, as if winning it to pass them by unmolested. It was a peace-giving scene, and each felt it in the long silence, broken at last by Tam, who sighed, 
               "How wise you were, Fred, to come west to live, and how fortunately you selected a location. If I had such a home as you have, amid such a country, I would be contented!" 
               "Yes, I am happy, and, better yet, I know it. How often in looking back upon years which passed away all unappreciated, we think, 'how happy I was then had I only known it.' If I can only, now, rise to eminence in this bar-and let me tell you, if you do not know it, that Illinois has the finest bar in the United States-I shall be content. This is enough of honor for me." 
               "I used to expect you would strike out in the political line; you were so ardent a champion for all varieties of the oppressed, and so earnest a rectifier of injustice, that nothing save legislating upon the laws affecting them should have contented you." 
               "Granted, were politics anything but what they are. There is one point I could, even now, almost plunge into the melee to advance." 
               "What is that, Frederico?" 
               "You will curl your moustache into the syllables 'woman's-rights, man;' and I submit to the innuendo in so far as I meant it by protesting against the shameful arrangement which forbids widows and other female property holders, the right of suffrage. Tell me now; is my wife, were she left a widow to-morrow, less qualified to exercise a voice in a subject so nearly concerning her, or more liable to corruption in doing so, than the uneducated Irishman born to cutting ditches through soil less hard than his stupid head, and who sells his vote to the highest bidder, or, at best, unconsciously surrenders it to the magic influence of a drink? Shall every adult male specimen who contrives uselessly to survive his allotment of measels and whooping cough, in which his entire mental possessions went down forever; exercise his 'sovereign right' while intelligent wealthy females are not acknowledged to possess any interest in the matter?" 
               "You can't muster up any argument with me there. An argument implies two sides to a question, and here there is and can be but one. It is an unmitigated shame that the many intelligent women are thus compelled to suffer for the good-for-nothingness of the mass; beside, I'm not so certain, after all, that they cut a less imposing figure than men as a class. I see numb-skulls among us every day that most women would blush for, and I have known wives relieve their husbands of business matters entrusted to them by some hatted specimen who confessed himself incompetent to perform them, while they neither asked nor needed assistance, despite the sneer of 'a woman's way of doing business' dinged in their ears upon so many occasions. There never yet has been offered one respectable argument against responsible female property-holders exercising a right in which they are so closely involved as their brothers, and an honest man ought to blush that it is so, while he continues to deny them the privilege." 
               "No honest man does or will so deny them; but as long as tricksters control politics for themselves and their emoluments, what better can be expected? It is a subject which has become trite without any remedy having been discovered. I often seriously think that if some organic revolution were to sweep over us and obliterate all old land marks, we should come out of it in a far better condition. But God only knows; things might become worse when reorganized, as, even in such a purification, the rogues would survive while honest men went down. One scamp will out live two good men, any where." 
               There was an interval of silence during which they idly switched their boots with the twigs which knife blades had elaborated into a high state of the fanciful, when Tam asked curiously, 
               "How many changes and re-changes of opinion entitle an individual to the distinguished honor of being a fool?" 
               "That depends upon the nature of the subject. He may be entitled to the honor of a wise man through a hundred of them; at least he couldn't be denied to be a thinking one, which is wisdom's highway." 
               "You doubtless remember a confession I made you long ago, relative to Ida? Tell me why you made the half-mocking remarks I well recollect your airing upon that occasion." 
                
               "Because I knew, Tam, that you were too much a boy to abide by your own choice. I had no idea your penchant would outlive the period it did, and I knew too, or at least I thought it would be more to her than it could or would be to you. You were, if you will pardon me for saying it, quite inclined to be impressionable, and the next pretty face would more than likely banish her's entirely; then while your disposition was gay and careless, hers was calm but earnest, and she was cursed with a good memory. I knew her, even then, better than you did, because I observed, while you were fascinated and therefore blind." 
               "I was worse than that, afterward. She never seems to think of that old time, now; I only wish she did. A piqued woman is far better to deal with than an indifferent one." 
               "Bless my soul, Tam! What are you driving at?" 
               "Yes. Call me fickle, foolish; anything you will. You can't see me, or call me, as I do myself. But I tell you, Fred, I am soul-sick for love and companionship! There is no contentment for me anywhere, and I would actually rather be the honest wood-cutter going humdrumly home to his faithful, waiting spouse, and the family who will smile upon his coming, than to be the unloved, homeless possessor of my thousands. Lola, God bless her, was all she could be to me; an artless, unaffected child; and I remember her tenderly. But man cannot live happily upon remembrance alone, and every echo in my soul cries out for some fond, living companionship; a wife who shall command my respect and admiration, and who shall be to me what Frankie is to you; the cherished of my heart, and the light of my home. I am not 'wife hunting;' I have more dread of, than reverence for, the race of wives; but recognizing, as I now do, the one being who could make my home what yours is, it is no wonder that I cannot be happy without them. She is not woman to me. I am afraid of women; they bloom into such astonishing development upon intimate acquaintance, and those who seemed most perfect, prove least endurable." 
               "What brought you back to Ida, at last? Because you prefer encountering the faults and infirmities you know, to unknown ones which may be worse and the more overwhelming because unsuspected?" 
               "Not altogether that. I came because the man sees that to which the boy was blind. Do you suppose I have lost all power of reflection in this useless life I lead! No, quite the contrary. Yet I am actually ashamed to tell her what I now feel. I deserve to lose her entirely, and I suppose I have done so. What has kept her unmarried?" 
               "Distaste for matrimony and its responsibilities, I suppose, though Frankie has a theory of her own by which she accounts for it; but then you know Fanissimus is younger than we, and more romantic. How the romance dies out of us as we grow older, doesn't it?" 
               "We do our utmost to make it. We shut in and cover up the best part of us, in our grasping for 'sound common sense,' and refuse to believe in any sentiment not sufficiently hum-drum, or half swamped in steady-minded matrimony, and we cut down our very sympathies to fit the world's small measure of tolerance. If, after all this, we sometimes feel the old sensations pulling at our toughened but not callous heart strings, we cramp them down again, and beware of giving them any expression. What is the philosophy of all this? It is sad enough when one's fresh, warm 
                     impluses
                     impulses
                   die a natural death. But to choke and strangle them prematurely, is the wickedest, because the weakest, of all murder." 
               "Tam, I always knew you were a good fellow! Do not infer from my remark that I am thus committing murder, nor judge me by my frequent want of gallantry during my pr-occupations. Heaven knows it is not because I feel coldly, and Frankie knows it, too. I love her as much more now than when I married her, as I know her better; nor do I forget to tell her so. When I said 'romance,' I meant just that; not honest affection." 
               "By the way, Fred, do you know what has become of Crittenden since he sought Canada as a refuge in his "spavined for life" condition? I've lost all trace of him." 
               "I sometimes obtain some item of intelligence in the fast papers, under his fast name. It seems his governor objects to the family name winning notoriety in the race course, and he has thrown around it the protecting mantle of a nom de guerre. The soul of a jockey is in him, and he is doubtless reaping the success which springs from natural talent legitimately directed. If I had a son who possessed a natural talent for brick-making, a brick-maker he should be. It is of little use to attempt to worry into one what nature did not put into him. Half the people in this world live and die without discovering what they were made for, and wonder why they don't succeed in professions, when their manifest calling was horse shoeing, and vice versa; and we have all of us seen a good wood chopper running to waste in a poor but vigorous minister whose whole talent lay in his fists. Is n't it singular, in recalling one's college friends, to see how few of them are making any mark in the world! They sprout and flourish promisingly within the protecting and stimulating halls of science, and leave them to enter upon an interminable rest from all effort." 
               "Yes, Clinton is absolutely in Europe showing off his ears. 'Of all the boys who were schoolmates then,' only he and Crittenden seem to have kept their talents from rusting. You and I did not give much wonderful promise, so the success you will achieve, and the lack of any ambition upon my part, are quite different from the subject in mind. But see there Fred; the sun is actually in the advanced stages of decline, and waiting dinners make cross wives and hostesses." 
               But despite the fact that dinner had been waiting two whole hours, the cook's was the only clouded face. However, even hers smiled again under the application of the compliment a cook best loves, and good appetites ignored the ungraciously offered excuses that everything was "done to death entirely." 
               "Now tell us what you have talked about all day, to become so lost to time and the prospect of cross faces at home, upon the inevitable return, to come sooner or later," suggested Frankie, as coffee was brought in. 
               "We didn't slander our neighbors, or even 'talk them over.' Can you and Ida say as much?" 
               "We scorn your insinuation, Sir Frederic. But you wont learn what we have been about in our deserted condition dition, in any such way. You've no quarrel to make in self-defence, for inasmuch as this is Tam's last Sunday with us, you are fully forgiven for monopolizing each other. People are usually good to you just as you are going away. I well remember upsetting my mother's parting peace offering of an extra fine dinner, once, by remarking that in old times people killed the fatted calf when the child returned home; but that our family feasts of rejoicing were celebrated when we were about to depart." 
               "Yes, and didn't some mild sister 'hope you'd have a dozen children of your own, some time,' to teach you all the virtues, or punish you for not possessing them?" 
               "Certainly; but you wouldn't deprive loving sisters of that species of charity for each other would you? I believe father always thought that his multiple 'responsibilities, were inflicted upon him because once when one of his married sisters left him a squalling youngster to attend during her visit to a neighbor, he went and laid it out among the currant bushes, to lift up its voice to its own content and nobody's annoyance. His sister wished him a dozen, and he looked for the curse to be fulfilled." 
               "Yet how happy large families seem. I have often envied some possessor of seven sisters," said Ida. 
               "To ridicule your beaus, and prevent you from being too conceited generally. If young gentlemen only knew the shafts sent after them by half a dozen of their dulcinea's brothers and sisters, they would beware of venturing among them. I remember before Mrs. Luce really decided 'who shall he be?' and was continually engaged to some one suffering under the paternal bann and the fraternal ridicule, she was literally concealed behind swollen eyes, and a nose puffed up with its importance in being located in so well watered a region. The girls never gave her an hour's peace upon any peculiarity pertaining to the preferred individuals-for she was continually changing in hopes to encounter better luck-and I used to think matrimony was some estate only to be entered upon through much affliction. She wept her way up to a very fine fellow, at last, upon whom, as her husband, she places such implicit reliance, that, not finding any use for own mind she has quite merged it into his, and is as serene rene a nonentity as ever took her allowance of dumplings in peace." 
               "What does it matter, Frankie, if she only 'finds a happy issue out of all her affliction.' Happiness is the one thing aimed at, and the fortunate servant girl who expends her dollar a week in gay fixings for holidays, is as happy as those who are above and beyond her. You know even 'a small thimble may be full, and a large one can be no more,' so it matters but little just where the limit lies," and Houghton passed the cigars while Frankie and Ida went back to their books till they should be finished. 
               Already September's choristers were singing the drowsy, monotonous songs which made the days dreamy. Out in the yard where the once green grass lay ripe and yellow, dropping its seeds upon the ground because no one came to gather them, the crickets and their kindred seemed offering their chorus for that of the migrating birds, never stopping even in the soft aired nights, for rest or sleep. Tree-toads attuned their voices to unique melody, and nature surrounded her children with an orchestra of her own training. 
               Tam leaned listlessly against the window near which Ida sat at work, and watched her fingers as they, with supple grace evolved, inch by inch, some fairy-like production whose very use was wrapped in mystery, and which, too unsophisticated to know, and too well trained to ask, he waited to declare itself by assuming some definite shape. 
               "Ida, what fancies do you weave into that series of variegated meshes and singular devices?" he asked at length. 
               "None. I never could understand all the romantic wisdom written upon those 'thought-provoking woman's avocations!' When I count stitches I can think of nothing else, and when I place those which require no counting, then my mind begins to work and my fingers respectfully stop. I suppose that is a sufficiently unromantic confession, but it is positive experience." 
               "Why should not any and all truth be spoken, custom notwithstanding? The world is full of all manner of romantic mantic theories whose only wonder is that they should ever have been thought of. Most magnificent of these, is the 'first and only love' doctrine. Every living being has proved its unsoundness; yet they continue to uphold it, by nursing some delusion which they at times torture into some resemblance of what it is supposed to be, could one only satisfactorily decide where 'puppy love' ceases, and the genuine article begins. Isn't it true?" 
               "I don't know. My experience has been limited, and I have no sisters to give me convenient information, or to become scape goats for that dubiously acquired." 
               "Ida, who an what are you?" 
               "A young lady, I hope, since I shrink from the prospect of becoming and old one." 
               "'Merely this and nothing more,'" quoted Tam with a sigh, but a teasing smile. She raised her head suddenly, and the color brightened in her cheeks; but the parted lips closed again over the unuttered words, and she went steadily on with her work. Tam looked at her closely. 
               "Ida, are women forgiving, or not?" 
               "It depends entirely upon individual disposition. One is no sample of the whole sex, and I should regret that the few should be judged by the many. Forgiveness, in all cases, depends more or less upon the amount and peculiar variety of feeling involved. It is easy to forgive when one has suffered little." 
               "Supposing you had once been wronged, perhaps bitterly, by one in whom you trusted. Would you ever forgive the wrong, or trust the offender again?" 
               Her fingers visibly trembled over her work; but she replied carelessly, "Where is the use in supposing cases? We very seldom act as we had supposed we should, or even imagined possible, under actual trial. Theories and patents for conduct are as false and wrong-headed as any others." 
               She was extremely baffling. He could catch at no salient point in her replies; and with a little vexation he turned and 
                     loked
                     looked
                   out into the garden where the fruited asparagus was waving its graceful foliage in the breeze with a lightness and gayety of manner that mocked his self-created trouble. 
                
               He turned back toward her with sudden impulsiveness. 
               "Ida, I am heart sick! If you only knew all I struggle to confess, yet am unable to utter, you would extend me one little ray of comfort. You do not, or will not see that I suffer, and your indifference amply avenges any suffering I may have caused you in by-gone years. I do not know that you ever loved me; judging by your present manner it were presumption to assume it. But if I ever caused you any mortification, or pain, forgive it, and pity me." 
               "I have nothing to forgive. If I suffered it was no fault of yours. I knew you better, then, than you knew yourself, and I was incapable of retaining what was only temporarily, if really mine. You were impatient under any attempt to awaken you to the fact, and I did not annoy you by persisting in my prophecy, which you may remember. I assumed all the risks, perfectly comprehending them, and I never felt one hour's bitterness toward you. Be assured of this." 
               "What was it then? Contempt?" 
               "You need not ask the question. Where I feel contempt I make no effort to conceal it. The responsibility lies in character; not in willful fault. Now let it all pass." 
               "No, I cannot so easily. Ida, I am a man now. Do you believe I know myself better than the boy did? Would you trust any man whose youth had been so fickle and unreliable? Were I now to say as I then did, 'I love you,' would you place any faith in the words? Oh Ida, I have been worse than foolish, but I have paid the penalty. I come back to you now, humble and repentant. What will you do with me?" 
               "What shall I, Tam?" 
               "Take me for what I am; for what I will be for your sake! Trust me till I again prove recreant-which I admit, with deep chagrin, you have a poor guarantee I will not-but love me, Ida, and if you can become the wife of such a man as I am, I promise you I will become no worse." 
               Her work lay upon her lap unheeded now, and the fair hands had found another resting place; and as Tam bowed his face upon them, her words thrilled through his heart. 
               "You need not plead for what has never ceased to be wholly yours. I have loved you in all this weary time since the old days, knowing, always, that someway and at some time you would come back to me. Thank Heaven that it is while we are yet young and have many blessed years in prospect!" 
               Tears swam in her eyes, and he was not ashamed that his own grew misty. He felt unworthy of the love thus poured out upon him during his careless, undeserving years. 
               He could not tell her how longingly he had often remembered her even during Lola's capricious life; would not hint of the ceaseless cry for companionship she had been powerless to still, for he would not cast one seeming reflection upon her memory. Her very faults were a part of her, and he was silent. But Ida needed no revelations. She had known it all, and even had she not, he would have been the same to her. 
               Happy now in his affection, she only cared to know that it was hers; and the faults and caprices of the past were nothing to her. In her inmost heart she felt that she had nothing to condemn; and he loved her more for the perfect charity born of a faithful affection it was difficult to believe had so unceasingly been his. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XX. 
               THAT Frankie was delighted with the denouement of affairs, her long cherished hope of it was sufficient guarantee, and unobservant as she had appeared, not one indication of this much desired result had passed unnoticed. Houghton, too, rejoiced in his friend's happiness, long enough prophecied, despite his assertion regarding Frankie's "romance" upon the subject, which he had shared to a greater extent than he ever confessed to any one except her, and Tam came back home, at last, full of a quiet happiness which was contagious, even in our habitually somber house. 
               Maria half forgot her tender disappointment, and the very marriage of her faithless lover with the ruddy and well dowered Miss Cummings, scarcely ruffled the serenity which settled down around her spirit after Tam's coming. Her melancholy had really preyed upon her health, as sorrow either real or fictitious will, if cultivated; and she had fanned hers with sighs and bedewed it with tears till it attained a marvelous growth; but it wilted beneath his genial presence till only a few dried up, sickly weeds of it were left to come forth for an occasional airing. 
               My mother still retained her old objections against the waste, dirt, and expense of a servant girl, as she considered them, in common with boarding-house keepers, and laundresses, one's natural enemies; and despite her increasing years which still left her a large quota of physical strength, as if absorbing and feeding upon the original mental supply, she insisted upon 'ruling in her own kitchen,' which she considered every woman's castle. 
               It was Saturday morning when Tam arrived, and the windows and floor were drying their tears after a scrubbing, and the diligent old lady with her calico dress skirt pinned up around her waist to keep it out of the water which ran in puddles around her, was raising the wholesome echoes of the door steps under the application of the scrubbing broom. "Halloo, mother," he exclaimed as he came unperceived behind her, "are you still keeping company with that cleaning machine? Why, most old ladies of your age, are bolstered up in the corner, groaning with the rheumatism." 
               "Why my son! Is that you? I wan' to know! Yes, I'm more'n sixty years old, and I wont give up to nobody yet. We're dretful glad to see you! I an't fit to touch you more'n nothin, now; but I'll come out as slick as a kitten bymeby. Walk right into the house." 
               He sprang over the slippery steps, and was received with open arms by all, as both Mrs. Duncan and Mrs. Luce chanced to be home upon a visit, and questions and rejoicings were showered upon him from all sides at once. My mother soon appeared, and having donned a new calico dress that "never had touched water, yet," she came with her mouth full of the pins she was inserting in the sleeve-cuffs and all other pinable places with fearful liberality, sticking the two that were left, high upon her waist "against a time of need." 
               "Now tell us all about everything. How are you, and how is Miss Houghton and her husband, and the governess and all? What kind o' house does your sister live in, and what sort o' furnitur's she got in it? and do she and her husband agree? She was a bit spirity, Miss Houghton was when she was young; but she may live agreeable with her husband for all o' that; He seemed a nice young man, and he's rich, too, an't he?" 
               "Have mercy, mother! I'll unwind all that in the course of time. They are all well and happy, which is the main thing, is'nt it." Where are the young fry, Elizabeth?" 
               "Maria can't endure the noise, she says, and as I don't wish my children to be in any one's way, I left them at home with a girl I have taken to bring up. Master George Luce is out hunting eggs, as he has bargained for a baked custard for his supper. My boys can eat bread and butter, as they ought, but master George is a white-stockinged, morocco-shod, young gentleman, and must have 'something nice.'" 
               "That's right. I like to see the little fellows particular in everything. There is nothing like instilling gentility into them when they are young, though every body likes good children if they are not quite as au fait in deportment." and having thus administered a soothing syrup to each maternal faction, he felt that he had repaired all possible damage arising to either out of his question, asked solely to gratify maternal pride. 
               "For the land's sake!" exclaimed my mother looking up at the clock. "If it an t 'leven o'clock this minute. Its high time the pot was on for dinner. I was goin to give em a kind o' picked up dinner, to-day, Tam; but I'll give you some good old fashioned Johnny cake, and a cup o' coffee, and I've got some rousin apple pies as an't cold yet." 
               "That is the best of all, mother. When I was little you used to give me a piece as large as my foot-many is the time I have measured them side by side to see that there was no fraud-and if you do the same now, I shall fare well. Let me make the fire for you." 
               "See how my floor shines. My kitchen is all'ays more to my mind than them company rooms. I don't feel nateral like, in em." 
               "You don't know how the sight of a floor yet undried after a wash, takes me back to old times, mother. I used often to think of them, as some hotel floor showed just these dry and wet streaks, and had this same cool, fresh atmosphere around it, and I have often enough leant out my window watching the Bridgets who scrubbed away in total ignorance that they were doing anything beyond the most simple house cleaning, or thus 
                     invokoing
                     invoking
                   the lights and shades of the past in the mind of any wanderer. I am tired enough of best rooms and best things, and I would far rather sit in your clean kitchen and watch nice white hands mixing dough, than to live in a place officiated in by black cooks. I never yet could resist the feeling that the color rubs off of their hands into the mixture, and beefsteak gravies are repulsive when I remember the reeking black face that bent over them." 
                
               "You'll be takin a wife and settlin down somewhere, shortly. I'll warrant! I hope you'll have better luck, next time, too. Lola wasn't the right kind of a woman for you, was she Tam? She was all'ays upsettin the house with her queer doins, and bein a off ox on all 'casions! She was a strange creetur." 
               "Don't speak so of her, mother, I don't like to hear it." 
               "Like enough you don't: that's nateral like. But as I was goin on to say, it's all in marryin the right kind; for what they don't know at first they'll learn after a little." 
               "Ah, but how to tell 'the right kind,' mother! That's just the difficulty." 
               "Take them as is pious, and industrious, and savin, my son. They're the right kind, depend on it. As your father said to me after we'd been married a spell, 'Bessy,' ses he, 'I hadn't no great idee o' your talent, and your edication wasn't nothin to brag on; but I married you because you was pious, industrious and savin!' And I allays made him a exceedin good wife! I did, maybe, bring him too many children; but the hand o' Providence was in it, and he knew it and was patient. I don't think he ever blamed me for it, though, to be sure, he said a good deal about my havin em a-most all girls. Still, the ways o' Providence is mysterious, and I don't reproach myself for even that, and there an't none on em we could dispense without, now, my son, not one o' you-though on second thought there's Maria; if she hadn't o' come we shouldn't a missed her. She was born unfortunate in her temper, 'pears like. But as I was sayin, or goin to say, me and your sisters was a-talkin it over this very mornin, over our breakfast: and we all agreed that if you'd take another wife-there an't no law agin it, you know, and a man may take a dozen so as he don't take em all at a time-we'd be suited with whoever suited you. But Tam, take a Presbyterian, this time, wont you, and don't be a-runnin after strange creeds and things so." 
               "Shall I take a deaconess, mother? Some one who will be a pillar in the church-and a thorn of all the virtues at home?" 
               "That don't foller, Tam. Them capable women is good in all places. I'll give up rulin in the kitchen if you'll bring a capable wife into it: though o' course it'll be hard enough to give up and come under a daughter-in-law. I don't take very naterally to folks-in-law, no how, and perticerally women folks o' em is a most umpossible to get along with. But your wife, Tam, as is to be-if she don't know how to darn, and patch, and such like, I'll show her all I can; and I'm a good hand at it. It shan't be said I ever held back and wouldn't give a daughter-in-law her belongings, and more. I didn't do that bad to the one as is gone, with her queer doius and upsettin ways-but I wont speak o' em if you don't like to hear me-and after all, my son, she'll do as a 'xample in a few things and a warnin in a good many to remember, too, and in that way may be a real advantage to you. I've seen offle high strung young women as was second wives, come down beautiful under them illusions to what 'my first did, and didn't do.' You see women is curous, and can't bear to have the first wife throwd in their face and eyes. It takes the starch out o' their high feathers, wonderful! It an't a good plan to let em think they're as good as the first one was, neither. Don't forget that, my son: so it's far better to take one as never know'd the first, so she can't throw nothin back at you when she gets to bilin over. There's so many things to be thought of in gettin married!" 
               Tam was half pained, half amused by the old lady's remarks offered in the best faith and with the most wise expression of countenance, and was relieved by the entrance of Master Georgey, in most woeful plight however. The yolks of broken eggs streamed down to his ankles from the treacherous pockets where they had come to grief in an unlucky tumble of the transporter, whose face was plastered with a thick coating from mother Earth's brown bosom, and the sprawled fingers of each hand were covered with a mixture of eggs and best mud, which awoke my mother's horror to witness. 
               "Mercy sakes alive! What have you gone and done to your clo'es and things! It's lucky you'll wash; but them cashmere panties with all your mother's expensive needle work on em is ruinated forever! Take em off this minute before they get any worse-though to be sure you an't fit to go to bed while they hang out to dry, till you have a good scrubbin. How did you ever do so much mischief?" 
               "The old hen flied off of the nest and would'nt lay any egg, and I wanted to put her on again, and make her do it. I don't like balky old hens, and she was stingy, too, and wouldn't let me have her egg when I just wanted it to make six for a big custard. So I was running her down, and just as I thought I'd got her; the spiteful old thing dodged and let me tumble into the mud, and 'whack' went all the eggs in my pockets! That's the way of it; and if to-morrow was only Thanksgiving, wouldn't we put that old biddy into the chicken pie first thing! See here, Uncle Tam; wont you take me out to the pump and wash me? I han't got a bit of a clean hide from my pocket to my toes; and so my custard has all gone to smash." 
               "Never mind; if we can't find some more eggs, I'll buy some and go shares in the custard. Come on here, now, and we'll get up a fight between the dirt and some water, and then you go to bed till I hunt you up some new breeches." 
               "And mind, uncle Tam; don't let aunt Duncan know it. She'll be so tickled, cause her boys are awful bad, and always cut up lots of mean capers. I didn't go to do this; but she'll say so." 
               Tam took him out for the cleaning operation, which he endured heroically, and at last he said, 
               "Oh my, uncle Tam! I didn't ever make such a fuss before in my life; and all for one mean old hen, too! Do you know how aunt Duncan's boys do? One of em, he just trots up sly to another one, and rubs a mess of dirt or something right squat into his face, and then he says 'there; now if you're anybody you'll fight!' and then you know that makes a boy mad, and he'll pitch in, and then Bert Duncan (he's the meanest) he'll let him have just as tight as he can fetch, and then run away. He don't do anything in the world, fair! and, sir, do you know what he says he'd do with dandy, girl-boys like me? (yes, that's what he calls me!) He say's he'd make em into peach gum." 
               "Into what, Georgy?" 
               "Peach gum. That sticky stuff, to chew, that grows on the peach trees; dont you know? He says an old man told him that the way that gum comes there, an old witch puts a mess of little childrens into a big bag, and then whacks 'em up against the tree till they're all mellow, and what runs out of the bag makes the gum. Do you think that's apt to be true, uncle Tam?" 
               "No, of course not, Georgy. Old men ought to be in better business than telling such stories to little boys. Give me the other foot, now, and we'll be through with this job. Now clip it into your ma's bed room, and I'll fix you up in no time." 
               All knowledge of the misfortune was, at his request, kept from Mrs. Duncan, and he appeared at dinner in a new suit from the tailor's shop, whose history was known only to themselves, and my mother, who did not think to recite it. 
               For all my mother's philosophy under the speculation of Tam's marrying again, neither she nor Maria endured the announcement of such an intention with any thing at all approaching christian resignation. 
               "Mercy me! Going to be married, really!" exclaimed the old lady surprised out of her usual loquacity, and thumbing the glasses of her spectacles absently. 
               "Well, Tam, you will of course do as you please about it," said Maria, offendedly; "but I can tell you I shan't stay in this house when your new wife comes to govern it. I shall take my feather bed, and bedding, and everything else that belongs to me, out of it; I can tell you that. She'll have no good of me or mine." 
               "Going to be married! So it's really come to this, my son, and your old mother can't do for you any longer! I've been a hard workin woman, Tam; a hard workin woman, and it an't very cheerin to be turned out o' my own old home by a daughter-'n-law at least. O' course you're goin to take a 'Merican wife this time, and she wont be like the other one. 'Merican women is more ambitious like, in their own houses, and she'll consider this one, as is yourn, likewise hern. I must do as the hymn says, 'take my staff and travel on!'" 
               "Oh no, mother; it wont come to that. You and Maria can live here as you always have done. I would not for one moment think of disturbing you by bringing my wife here." 
               "Well, that's a little grain o' comfort. We'll be dead and off out o' your way, before your son comes into the keepin o' the place as your father looked forrard to." 
               "Don't mention that, mother," said Tam with an involuntary shiver, as he quickly rose and walked to the window. 
               "Law sakes" said my mother, gravely looking at him; but he continued, 
               "I never had the least idea of coming back here to live; but I want to make some comfortable arrangement for you here, in my absence. Suppose you rent part of the house to some good man and his wife who will see that you are not deprived of what you cannot obtain for yourselves." 
               "Jes as you like, my son; jes as you like, so as I'm left to go my own ways in my own fashion. That's the main thing. But who are you thinkin o' takin for a wife this time?" 
               "Miss Ida Vincent; a young lady I have known a long time." 
               "Ida, Ida; why that's the name o' that governess Miss Houghton lots on so dretful! I hope my son, it an't her. I do hope it an't. One wife a foreigner and another 
                     a a
                     a
                   governess, and no guessin who 'pon earth the next'll be! That would be too much for your poor father to lie still under in his grave!" 
               "Be content, mother. Miss Vincent is not teaching anything nor anybody. She is a beautiful, amiable young lady, whom you or any mother might be proud to see her son's wife." 
               The old lady brightened under the dissipation of her fears, and Maria, who understood the equivocation, was too much vexed with the obtuseness which failed to detect it, to offer any explanation. It mattered little to her whether the lady were governess or anything else, so long as she was not to live with her, and she quite relished keeping to herself any information the old lady was desirous to obtain. My mother settled back in her chair, appeased, as she said. 
                
               "I'm dretful glad it an't so; I mean, that it is as it is School marms make the dretfullest wives, and wants to be orderin somebody round all the time. They's the overbearinest creeturs there is, and after tunkin little folks over the head so much, they seem to get in a habit o' it, and wants to tunk everbody! I'd be sorry enough to see you a livin under the tew-irons day in and day out! You've been careful raised, my son; careful raised, and your constitution would'nt stand much o' that sort o' thing. It's all for your own good I'm so sot on some things, Tam. The ways o' life is hard, and tryin, and mankind is ungodly-particularly women folks-and if it was'nt that 'He holds us right in the holler o' his hand,' we should all go down under the waters o' original sin," and she sighed deeply. 
               "If I were you I would let that subject rest," suggested Maria. "When people so continually bemoan 'original sin,' it is only fair to suppose that they do so in the consciousness that they possess a liberal allowance of it. I do not know what it has to do with the present subject, any way, since Tam doesn't propose to marry you, and if you feel so overburdened with the commodity, why don't you diminish it?" 
               As for the sisters in general, whatever Tam O'Shanter chose to do, was wisest, discreetest, and best; and Mrs. Duncan in particular, warmly approved of the project. 
               "You are sensible to the last, in not bringing your wife to live, or rather to die, with the women there at home. Maria is either groaning or scolding all the time, and as mother grows older, her loquacity increases. She would gabble any ordinary mortal to death in a month's steady company. I have often regretted that I didn't let Maria marry that fool of a school master. She would have found life another affair, under his administration. I'm not sure but a little judicious affliction would mightily increase her chances of a comfortable seat in the next world. As she is now, she would scold all the angels out of Heaven in three hours, and then fret herself to death in the conquered territory." Tam could not restrain a smile, and under its effect, she, too, relapsed into good humor. 
               "I wish, Tam, you would build a nice house just at the head of the lake, where you could live pleasantly through the summers, at least, if you could'nt endure the stupid town through the rest of the year. Mrs. Tam could have a nice flower garden, and a summer house full of birds if she fancied that sort of thing, and your wife could just lead the society of the place, if she cared to rule over such behind-the-times subjects." 
               "No more, por Dios, Elizabeth, if you love me! It is a dangerous experiment for any man to bring his wife in contact with his relatives, and I wouldn't risk it for forty lakes! One town ought never to aspire to hold them; for if anywhere on earth, 'envy, hatred, and malice, and all uncharitable' run rampant, it is between what mother calls 'folks-in-law.' With one's family relatives on one side, and his wife on the other, a man might as well be in purgatorial fires and done with it. Every man's mother is a saint with whom any one may live, and his wife is more and better; but they make hot work when you put them together; and from sisters-in-law, good Lord deliver any wife, and he who willingly pits them against each other, deserves to suffer the inevitable result." 
               "Now Tam! Don't you believe I would be a good sister to any wife of yours? Did you ever know me to 'express sentiments' to any one who did not deserve it?" 
               "You have always been a good, kind sister to me, Elizabeth, and that we may always remain good friends, I will keep all possibly disturbing causes far away. You will like Ida then for my sake, as you might for her own if you knew her, and then again you know you might not, which would be unfortunate. The west is the country to live in, and I shall build my 'family seat' on the lot next to Houghton's, and hope to live 'happily ever after' like the heroes in the good old stories." 
               "Is Frankie really anything of a woman, Tam?" 
               "A magnificent one, as you yourself would admit could you see her presiding in her own home which is just what a home should be. I hope Ida will prove just such a wife as Frankie is." 
               "I'm glad if she is well situated, and presentable in herself. We were none of us too happy in our old home, and she, in particular, had a hard portion. If we do make mistresses of happy homes, it must be from pure instinct, for it isn't from education. I don't know how we amount to as much as we do." 
               "Oh, ours is a talented family, and didn't need as much outside aid as some. Now good bye. I start for my little edition of 'paradise' to-morrow, where you will always find a warm corner awaiting you. Bid Duncan good bye for me, and tell him when he gets tired of fighting his way up, here, the west is ready and anxious to receive him, and will help him up the ladder of fame and all other desirable elevations in the quickest time." 
               My mother bade Tam farewell as if he were for the first time destined out into a wicked world, and we all felt the old sense of having lost him, when he went to claim a wife whose place must be above and nearer than ours. Maria, with many tears begged him not to forget her misfortunes and mournful disappointment, amidst his own happiness; though she did not mention what useful purpose a vivid remembrance of them might serve; and after his departure she shut herself in with her returning melancholy and only accepted the consolation afforded by a snuff-box which sometimes peeped surreptitiously out of her pocket, much to my mother's horror; however, she concluded that discretion was the better part of valor, and as an unprecedented exhibition of that virtue, she said nothing regarding it. The neighbors did not know it, consequently said nothing of it; and, often all, snuff-taking not coming in the category of "original sin." my mother cultivated patience under the trial. But she never ceased to mourn, that, exceedingly good wife as she had striven to be, she should have cast a slur upon her otherwise shining family by giving birth to one who, "wouldn't o' been missed if she hadn't a come, and who was dretful unfortunate in her temper." 
               When Mr. Maloney's first child was ushered into the family, Maria sent a pair of little stockings of her own knitting, gay with all the intricacies of "clouded" manufactures, and simply accompanied by a card which read "from an unknown friend;" but Mr. Maloney was at no loss to verify the donor, and entertained his wife with a highly elaborate recital of Maria's unreciprocated affection for him, at the close of which Mrs Maloney charitably regretted that she should have deprived her or any one else of him, in a suggestive manner which elicited a "hold your tongue, madam," from the irate husband and father who felt himself painfully unappreciated in the bosom of his family. Maria heard vague reports of domestic bickerings, which strengthened her belief in the natural uncongeniality of any woman save herself, with the object of her affections, and if she felt the exultation usually so poorly concealed by women who have similarly suffered, she did not manifest it, but nursed her tender romance and the retribution which seemed to have overtaken its dissolver, together. 
               In due time, when the hazy air and dreamy accompaniments of the Indian summer were around us, we received Tam and Ida's bridal favors, and a full account of the merry making upon the occasion, and afterwards of a more magnificent one upon their installation in their own house, which was also definitely described to gratify my mother's love of particulars, and she never wearied of descanting at length to any one who had time to listen, upon the elegant style in which her children lived "out west," and how Frankie, who had been the most unpromising of all her daughters, had married the most advantageously, and that her husband, who was "already District Attorney out there, with no end of prospects, was a likely young man as was a honor to even our family;" and she universally concluded the narration with the philosophy. "It don't make no difference, nor signify in no way what calculations you set on your family! Them as you sets the least by is likelier'n not to turn out at the top o' the whole lot, and my son Tam is the only 'xample to the contrary I ever know'd, that if you make too much o' a only son, he's sure to turn out, at last, the black sheep o' the flock." 
               As for Frankie, proud of her husband, and happy as the honored mistress of his heart and home, she learned to think that the fate of being born a woman has its mitigations if not reconcilements, and as each morning she and Ida in their adjoining homes looped back the curtains, cheerful nods and morning greetings floated over the grassy little space which separated them. 
                
               Tam, in employing a portion of his fortune in public works for the ever increasing town, which would raise him a most honored monument, seemed sufficiently happy although he did not constitute the fulfillment of my father's family ambition, his sole aim in life, and even though he knew that with him the respectable name would go down into oblivion with all its faults and virtues clustering round it. 
               THE END. 
             
         
       
       
          
             
            NEW BOOKS And New Editions Recently Issued by CARLETON, PUBLISHER, 
            NEW YORK. 413 BROADWAY, CORNER OF LISPENARD STREET. 
            N.B.-THE PUBLISHER, upon receipt of the price in advance, will send any of the following Books, by mail, POSTAGE FREE, to any part of the United States. This convenient and very safe mode may be adopted when the neighboring Booksellers are not supplied with the desired work. State name and address in full 
             
               Victor Hugo. 
               LES MISERABLES.-The only unabridged English translation of "the grandest and best Novel ever written." One large octavo vol., paper covers, $1.00, . or cloth $1.50 
               LES MISERABLES.-A superior edition in five vols.-Fantine-Cosette-Marius-Denis-Valjean. 8vo., cloth, each, $1.00 
               LES MISERABLES-In the Spanish language. Fine 8vo. edition, two vols., paper covers, $4.00; or cloth, bound. $5.00 
               THE LIFE OF VICTOR HUGO.-By himself. "As charming and interesting as a novel." 8vo., cloth. $1.75 
             
             
               By the Author of "Rutledge." 
               RUTLEDGE.-A deeply interesting novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
               THE SUTHERLANDS.- do. do. $1.75 
               FRANK WARRINGTON.- do. do. $1.75 
               LOUIE'S LAST TERM AT ST. MARY'S.- do. $1.75 
               A NEW NOVEL.-In press. 
             
             
               Hand-Books of Good Society. 
               THE HABITS OF GOOD SOCIETY; with Thoughts, Hints, and Anecdotes, concerning nice points of taste, good manners, and the art of making oneself agreeable. Reprinted from the London Edition. The best and most entertaining work of the kind ever published. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
               THE ART OF CONVERSATION.-With directions for self-culture. A sensible and instructive work, that ought to be in the hands of every one who wishes to be either an agreeable talker of listener. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
             
             
             
               Mrs. Mary J. Holmes' Works. 
               DARKNESS AND DAYLIGHT.-Just published. 12mo. cl. $1.50 
               'LENA RIVERS.-A Novel. do. $1.50 
               TEMPEST AND SUNSHINE.-do. do. $1.50 
               MARIAN GREY.-do. do. $1.50 
               MEADOW BROOK.-do. do. $1.50 
               ENGLISH ORPHANS.-do. do. $1.50 
               DORA DEANE.-do. do. $1.50 
               COUSIN MAUDE.-do. do. $1.50 
               HOMESTEAD ON THE HILLSIDE.-do. do. $1.50 
             
             
               Artemus Ward. 
               HIS BOOK.-An irresistibly funny volume of writings by the immortal American humorist. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
             
             
               Miss Muloch. 
               JOHN HALIFAX.-A novel. With illust. 12mo., cloth, $1.75 
               A LIFE FOR A LIFE.-do. do. $1.75 
             
             
               Charlotte Bronte (Currer Bell). 
               JANE EYRE.-A novel. With illustration. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
               THE PROFESSOR.-do. do. do. $1.75 
               SHIRLEY.-do. do. do. $1.75 
               VILLETTE.-do. do. do. $1.75 
             
             
               Edmund Kirke. 
               AMONG THE PINES.-A Southern sketch. 12mo. cloth, $1.25 
               MY SOUTHERN FRIENDS.- do. do. $1.25 
               DOWN IN TENNESSEE.-Just published. do. $1.50 
             
             
               Cuthbert Bede. 
               VERDANT GREEN.-A rollicking, humorous novel of English student life; with 200 comic illustrations. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               NEARER AND DEARER.-A novel, illustrated. 12mo. clo. $1.50 
             
             
               Richard B. Kimball. 
               WAS HE SUCCESSFUL?-A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               UNDERCURRENTS.-do. do. $1.50 
               SAINT LEGER.-do. do. $1.50 
               ROMANCE OF STUDENT LIFE.-do. do. $1.50 
               IN THE TROPICS.-Edited by R. B. Kimball. do. $1.50 
             
             
               Epes Sargent. 
               PECULIAR.-One of the most remarkable and successful novels published in this country. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
             
             
               Miss Augusta J. Evans. 
               BEULAH.-A novel of great power. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
             
             
             
               A. S. Roe's Works. 
               A LONG LOOK AHEAD.- A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               TO LOVE AND TO BE LOVED.-do. do. $1.50 
               TIME AND TIDE.-do. do. $1.50 
               I'VE BEEN THINKING.-do. do. $1.50 
               HE STAR AND THE CLOUD.- do. do. $1.50 
               TRUE TO THE LAST.-do. do. $1.50 
               HOW COULD HE HELP IT.-do. do. $1.50 
               LIKE AND UNLIKE.-do. do. $1.50 
               A NEW NOVEL.-In Press. do. $1.50 
             
             
               Walter Barrett, Clerk. 
               OLD MERCHANTS OF NEW YORK.-Being personal incidents, interesting sketches, bits of biography, and gossipy events in the life of nearly every leading merchant in New York City. Two series. 12mo. cloth, each, $1.75 
             
             
               T. S. Arthur's New Works. 
               LIGHT ON SHADOWED PATHS.-A novel. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               OUT IN THE WORLD.- do. do. $1.50 
               NOTHING BUT MONEY.-In Press. do. do. $1.50 
             
             
               The Orpheus C. Kerr Papers. 
               A COLLECTION of exquisitely satirical and humorous military criticisms. Two series. 12mo. cloth, each, $1.50 
             
             
               M. Michelet's Works. 
               LOVE (L'AMOUR).-From the French. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               WOMAN (LA FEMME.)-do. do. $1.50 
               WOMAN'S PHILOSOPHY OF WOMAN.-By Hericourt, do. $1.50 
             
             
               Novels by Ruffini. 
               DR. ANTONIO.-A love story of Italy. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
               LAVINIA; OR, THE ITALIAN ARTIST.-do. $1.75 
               VINCENZO; OR, SUNKEN ROCKS.-8vo. cloth, $1.75 
             
             
               Rev John Cumming, D.D., of London. 
               THE GREAT TRIBULATION.-Two series. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
               THE GREAT PREPARATION.- do. do. $1.50 
               THE GREAT CONSUMMATION.- do. do. $1.50 
               TEACH US TO PRAY.- do. $1.50 
             
             
               Ernest Renan. 
               THE LIFE OF JESUS.-Translated by C. E. Wilbour from the celebrated French work. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
               RELIGIOUS HISTORY AND CRITICISM.-8vo. cloth, $2.50 
             
             
             
               Charles Reade. 
               THE CLOISTER AND THE HEARTH.-A magnificent new novel, by the author of "Hard Cash," etc. 8vo. cloth, $2.00 
             
             
               The Opera. 
               TALES FROM THE OPERAS.-A collection of clever stories, based upon the plots of all the famous operas. 12mo. cl., $1.50 
             
             
               J. C. Jeaffreson. 
               A BOOK ABOUT DOCTORS.-An exceedingly humorous and entertaining volume of sketches, stories, and facts, about famous physicians and surgeons. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
             
             
               Fred. S. Cozzens. 
               THE SPARROWGRASS PAPERS.-A capital humorous work, with illustrations by Darley. 12mo. cloth, $1.25 
             
             
               F. D. Guerrazzi. 
               BEATRICE CENCI.-A great historical novel. Translated from the Italian; with a portrait of the Cenci, from Guido's famous picture in Rome. 12mo. cloth, $1.75 
             
             
               Private Miles O'Reilly. 
               HIS BOOK.-Rich with his songs, services, and speeches, and comically illustrated. 12mo. cloth, $1.25 
             
             
               The New York Central Park. 
               A SUPERB GIFT BOOK.-The Central Park pleasantly described, and magnificently embellished with more than 50 exquisite photographs of the principal views and objects of interest. A large quarto volume, sumptuously bound in Turkey morocco. $25.00 
             
             
               Joseph Rodman Drake. 
               THE CULPRIT FAY.-The most charming faery poem in the English language. Beautifully printed. 12mo. cloth, 75 cts. 
             
             
               Mother Goose for Grown Folks. 
               HUMOROUS RHYMES for grown people; based upon the famous "Mother Goose Melodies." 12mo. cloth, $1.00 
             
             
               Stephen Massett. 
               DRIFTING ABOUT.-A comic illustrated book of the life and travels of "Jeems Pipes." 12mo. cloth, $1.25 
             
             
               A New Sporting Work. 
               THE GAME FISH OF THE NORTH.-One of the best books on fish and fishing ever published. Entertaining as well as instructive, and full of illustrations. 12mo. cloth, $1.50 
             
          
       
   
