
    ----CITATION----
        Arthur, T. S. (1809-1885). Seed-time and Harvest, or, Whatsoever a Man Soweth, That Shall He Also Reap .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5641
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               SEED-TIME AND HARVEST 
               OR, Whatsoever a Man Soweth, that shall he also Reap. 
             
            By T. S. ARTHUR.
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               LIPPINCOTT, GRAMBO & CO.  
                     NO. 14 NORTH FOURTH STREET. 
                  
               
             
            1851. 
             
            Entered according to act of Congress, in the year 1851, by T. S. ARTHUR, in the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
            
               Stereotyped by L. Johnson & Co. Philadelphia. 
               Printed by T. K. & P. G. Collins.
             
          
          
             
            PREFACE. 
            THE title of this book explains with sufficient clearness the important doctrine it is designed to teach. "Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap," is a truth that must be palpable to every one of sound mind; for an effect always bears in it the quality of its cause. If men's actions are governed by selfish and evil purposes, a re-action of evil will follow as certainly as like produces like. From this law of existence there is no escape; and, this being so, every wise man will take heed unto his ways. 
            The illustrations of our subject presented in this volume, the ninth of the "LIBRARY FOR THE HOUSEHOLD," are not a tithe of what might be given. Enough is written, however, to make the truth we would teach so plain that even he who runneth may read. 
          
          
             
             
            CONTENTS. 
             
               ACTION AND REACTION. 7
                
               A LIFE LESSON. 24
                
               UNFADING FLOWERS. 42
                
               THREE SCENES IN THE LIFE OF A CONSUMPTIVE:-  
                     Scene First. 55
                      
                     Scene Second. 64
                      
                     Scene Third. 73
                      
                     The Sequel. 78
                      
                  
                
               THE OVERPAID CHECK. 83
                
               THE TWO ACTS; OR, "THEY HAVE THEIR REWARD." 104
                
               THE LOTTERY TICKET. 120
                
               THE MOTHER AND SON. 137
                
               BETTER TO ACT THE GENTLEMAN. 160
                
               PRINCIPLE AND INTEREST. 172
                
               IS IT SAFE? IS IT HONEST? 186
                
               HARMLESS GLASS OF WINE. 210
                
             
          
       
      
         
            Seed-time and harvest, or, Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap 
             
             
            SEED-TIME AND HARVEST. 
             
               ACTION AND REACTION. 
               THERE is a law governing in the affairs of life, with its award of good or evil, according to the tenor of every one's obedience or disregard thereto. Ignorance of this law exempts no one from unhappy consequences; and yet at least four-fifths of the human race appear to be utterly unconscious of its existence. The law is that of action and reaction, which may thus be stated, in order to make it clearly comprehensible. 
               Every act of man's life, whether good or evil, has a reaction of consequence. Whatever we do, affects others or ourselves in some way; for there cannot be such a thing as an act without an effect proportionate to the action. 
               This, upon a little reflection, will appear self-evident. 
                
               The importance of a life in obedience to this law must strike every one at a glance, for happiness or misery here and hereafter depends upon it. In great things, so to speak, all see and acknowledge the existence of the law we have stated; for examples of its unerring visitation are of daily occurrence. How sad and various are the consequences that flow back upon men for evil actions! But in little things, as they are called, where no violations of penal statutes or public opinion take place, and where no reaction is apparent, we imagine that none will ever come; that what they have done is but as in a void immense. This is a fatal error. There is not an act of a man's life, little or great, good or bad, that does not, sooner or later in life, react upon him with its full quota of consequences. A philosopher has said that the stamp of a man's foot upon the earth will shake the universe. The remark is more likely to be true than false. We can believe it more easily than we can disbelieve it. And a single word, a look, or smallest act of a man's life, forgotten by him in the next moment, may shake his soul to the very centre. 
               Alonzo Turnham had never heard of the existence of the law to which we have alluded. But that was of little consequence. He would not have credited the fact, if he had heard it stated. The law which he laid down for his government was, to seek his own gratification in all possible ways that it could be done, without so far trespassing upon the rights of others as to give them the power of retaliation. At the age of twenty-one, he started in life with a determination to succeed in the world. He saw that wealth gave the means of self-gratification to almost any extent, and he resolved upon its attainment. He had been for two years engaged in the study of law; but the law he perceived to be too slow a means of attaining the object of his wishes, and he therefore began to look around him for some quicker mode of advancement. He possessed some literary ability, and had indulged an early passion for literary pursuits by writing for the columns of a weekly newspaper. This made him, to some extent, acquainted with individuals connected with the press. Conversing, one day, with the owner of a periodical, the latter enumerated many instances of persons who had become wealthy in the publishing business. Turnham caught at this, and pondered it in his mind. He had a few thousand dollars, with which, after mature deliberation, he determined to purchase a half-interest in a newly-started weekly paper, the projector of which found himself in difficulties and compelled to take a partner. 
               Upon this new pursuit in life, Turnham entered with great spirit. There was a newspaper in the city, of the same class. It had been in existence for some years, and was firmly established. Before coming into the business himself, Mr. Turnham had been a regular subscriber for this paper, and written for its columns. He had always liked it, and considered it a very excellent publication. But now it wore an indifferent aspect in his eyes, and he never took it up without a disparaging remark. 
               "Isn't it astonishing," said he, to his partner in the business, one day, "that a paper like this should have such a circulation? It isn't comparable with ours." 
               To this the partner readily assented. 
               Turnham commenced reading the number of the paper upon which he had just commented. 
               "Just listen to this," said he, suddenly; and he read a few paragraphs. Then he added, "What do you think of that?" 
               "I shouldn't like to see that in our paper," the partner answered. 
               "No; it's enough to kill any concern. I'm sure that no parent, who sees it and reflects upon it, will allow another number of the paper to come into his house. Very certain am I, that I would order a discontinuance instanter." 
               "So would I," returned the agreeing partner. 
               After sitting silent, with his eyes upon the floor, for some time, Turnham said, speaking slowly- 
               "It would be a capital move for us, just now, to take this matter up, and remark with some severity upon it." 
                
               "And get a storm about our ears for our pains." 
               "There is nothing that I would like better. It would be the very thing for us. We circulate six or seven thousand, and they twenty thousand. The controversy would make us known to all their readers, and known as the advocates of religion and a high morality. We should have the public all on our side. Without doubt, in three months, their list will diminish at least five thousand, perhaps more, and ours increase that number. It is a tide in our affairs, depend upon it, that we should take at the flood. If you do not positively object, I will fire a Paixhan gun upon them next week, and then prepare my batteries for a regular fight." 
               "Just as you like," returned the pliant partner. "There is no doubt of its doing us good." 
               "None in the world. This false step of our neighbour is a lucky thing for us." 
               In the hope of building up his own establishment by ruining his neighbour's, Turnham opened upon the rival newspaper, with his Paixhan gun, as he called it, and then waited anxiously for the return fire. A week then passed by, and, at length, wet from the press, and, to his imagination, smoking with wrath, came the paper he was so anxious to see. He opened it with eager hands, and, starting at the first editorial column, ran his eyes over the whole inside page, in search of the rejoinder he expected. But, to his mortification and disappointment ment, not the slightest allusion was found to the violent attack he made. But, in his search, one paragraph, more conspicuous than all the rest, attracted his attention. It was this: 
               
                  "ENLARGEMENT.-The publishers of this paper have determined to enlarge and greatly improve it. They have ordered an entire new font of type, and will add a column to each page, and increase the length of the pages several inches, so as to give at least a third more reading matter. Their large and rapidly increasing subscription list enables them to do this. In advance of every other paper in the country, it is their intention to keep in advance, spite of all competition. To this they stand pledged to the public, and prepared to redeem their pledge."
                
               Turnham read this over twice, and then laid aside the paper, in a very quiet and deliberate manner. He had been completely outgeneraled; and he felt it. Instead of breaking down his neighbour and building up himself, his movement was likely to result in the establishment of his neighbour on a broader basis, and the complete overshadowing of his own concern, that would be in danger of growing feeble for want of sunshine. He took it for granted that the determination to enlarge and improve was the mode taken to answer his attack; and he was right. It was the reaction upon his selfish attempt to ruin a neighbour, in order to build up himself. 
                
               Ashamed, after having written so warmly against the rival establishment, and after promising to refer to the subject again, to drop the matter, Turnham concocted a still more bitter article, in the hope of provoking a reply. To this, he received the effectual and silencing rejoinder of an enlargement and improvement. The appearance of his neighbour, so superior to his own, completely disheartened Turnham. It was plain, that unless a paper of equal pretensions were published, it would be of no use to struggle for an existence. The list they had, by no means justified increased expenses. The profits were yet only in prospect. But it became a question between enlargement and abandonment, and they chose the former. 
               Not six months had elapsed from the time Turnham entered the business of newspaper-publishing, before he was heartily sick of it, and determined to sell out his interest for the sum paid for it, which was three thousand dollars-more than double what he now considered it worth. He had a young friend, just of age, who had been smitten with a love of the muses, and who imagined himself to possess literary 
                     abilties
                     abilities
                   of no common order. This person received, at his majority, some six or seven thousand dollars, the income from which partly contributed to his support while he prosecuted the study of law. 
               Upon this young man, whose name was Wheeler, Turnham fixed as the scapegoat who was to bear the evil of his false step. For a month or two he managed, whenever he met him, to turn the conversation to the subject of newspapers and periodicals, and the fortunes that were every day made by publishers. His own fortune he considered as made, for the paper of which he was part owner was increasing in patronage almost beyond precedent. He affirmed that ten thousand dollars would not tempt him to sell his interest. 
               In this way he kept the young man's thoughts in one channel, and filled him with a desire to exchange the slowly-rewarded profession he had adopted for one that promised such golden harvests. At length, he vaguely hinted that, if he were not in so good a business, he would be tempted to join a friend in opening an office as an exchange-broker. An allusion to this was more distinctly made soon afterwards-so distinctly, that the friend could not help remarking thereon. 
               Finally, by gradual approaches on the subject, and by a system of false representations ingeniously made, Turnham created an eager desire in the mind of Wheeler to buy out his half-interest in the paper, and actually to make a proposition to that effect. This proposition was met by certain well-timed remarks going to show his reluctance at giving up so certain a means of fortune. At last, he agreed to take five thousand dollars for his part of the paper, which was paid to him in cash. 
                
               "A lucky escape!" he said to himself, when the bargain was complete; and so full was he of self-congratulation at this fortunate turn of affairs, that he had not a thought or feeling of sympathy for the friend he had deceived, and who lost every dollar invested, and became involved in debt, by the breaking down of the newspaper in a little over a year. 
               Wheeler saw, after he had been in the establishment about a month, that he had not been fairly dealt by; and he also saw that, unless the subscription-list of the paper could be greatly increased, ruin was inevitable. He struggled hard to overcome the difficulties of his position, but he struggled in vain. The subscription increased but slowly, and the paper was published at a loss from the day he bought it until it stopped for want of means to carry it on. 
               But the young man, deeply as he felt the wrong he had sustained at the hands of Turnham, never uttered a word on the subject to that individual, although his manner towards him became reserved, and their intimate intercourse was not continued; he set him down in his heart as a dishonest man, and determined to mark him as such. After retiring from editorial life, Wheeler, who had been admitted to the bar, entered upon the practice of his profession, determined to rest there all his hopes of future success. 
               In the mean time, Turnham had opened an exchange-office, and commenced operating among a class of men quite as sharp-witted and far more experienced than himself. His success, during the first year or two, was by no means equal to his expectations; but after that, he understood the operation of things better, and knew how to take advantage of the almost hourly fluctuations created in the money-market by the eager spirit of gain. 
               At the age of twenty-five, Turnham began paying his addresses to a young lady who was known as an heiress. Her parents were dead; but she lived with an aunt, for whom she had a most tender regard, and in whose judgment she reposed great confidence. It happened that Wheeler made the acquaintance of this aunt shortly after Turnham commenced visiting the niece; and it also happened that, from some allusions made to the young man, the aunt was led to ask Wheeler if he knew him. 
               "Yes, and to my sorrow," was the unhesitating answer. 
               "Why do you say that?" asked the lady. 
               "I was his friend and confided in his honour, and he deceived me," replied Wheeler. 
               Nothing more particular was alleged against Turnham, but this was enough. The lady took the pains to ascertain that Wheeler was a man of truth and integrity, and therefore believed what he said. 
               When Turnham called next time upon the young heiress, with the intention of making known his sentiments, he was told by her aunt that she did not wish to receive his visits; and so all his present hopes of obtaining a fortune by marriage were scattered to the winds. But he never dreamed that this was merely a reaction upon his own conduct; nothing could have been farther from his mind. 
               In entering into the exchange business, Turnham had not contemplated a partnership with a friend, as he stated to Wheeler; he had only said so in order to make up a good story. He commenced business alone, upon the five thousand dollars he had received for his paper, and continued it, with more or less success, for ten years; during which time he had married a lady, older than himself by many years, who was reputed to be worth fifty thousand dollars. The fortune turned out to be only five thousand dollars, and this the lady had taken good care to have so secured that he could not touch it. At the end of ten years, by a sudden change in the stock-market, and the explosion of two or three fancy-stock concerns, Turnham fell short thirty thousand dollars-more than all he had made. The extent of this loss he concealed, and soon after he began to look around him for a partner with capital. It was not long before he found a young man whose father was a wealthy merchant, and inclined to furnish him with twenty thousand dollars, if he would make a good connection with a well-established exchange-broker. 
               This was just the thing for Turnham; and he so represented his business, and gave such good references as to standing and capacity, that he succeeded in his wishes. A copartnership was agreed upon. The terms of the connection being settled, they were placed in the hands of a conveyancer, who was directed to prepare therefrom articles of agreement. Before these were signed, the father, who was a prudent man, submitted them to his lawyer, who happened to be Mr. Wheeler, now in a good practice, and standing high at the bar as a man of talents and great probity. 
               "Mr. Turnham, did you say it was?" remarked the lawyer, with an expression of surprise, when the business was stated to him, and before he had looked at the papers. 
               "Yes, sir," returned the merchant, who was struck by the peculiar tone and manner of Wheeler. "Do you know any thing against him?" 
               "I should hardly like to see a friend of mine connected with him in business." 
               "Why?" 
               "Because, to speak freely, as I deem it my duty to do in the present instance, I do not think him an honest man." 
               "Not an honest man? You astonish me, Mr. Wheeler. What evidence have you of this?" 
               "I will plainly state to you the fact upon which my conclusion is based, and leave you to make up your own mind on the subject. I have no wish to injure Mr. Turnham, but I feel it to be my duty to warn the innocent, when I see them run into danger." 
               Wheeler then gave the merchant a plain history of his newspaper speculation, and concluded by saying-"I have stated the circumstance as it occurred; you must make up your own mind in regard to it." 
               On the day that the merchant waited upon his lawyer with the articles of agreement between Turnham and his son, the broker found himself exceedingly hard pressed. A number of heavy drafts for funds in his hands belonging to his correspondents in New York, Boston, and New Orleans, were presented, and had to be cashed; also several notes given for stocks that were not now worth ten cents in the dollar. By the most strenuous efforts, he succeeded in getting through, but he was fully convinced that it would be impossible for him to stand for another day without important aid. From nowhere could this come except through his new partner, whose appearance, with the articles of agreement having his signature attached, he had been looking for hourly; but, up to four o'clock, he had looked in vain. Fearing that he might not come in before morning, and dreading the consequences of even an hour's delay, he deemed it best to call around at the store of the young man's father, and thus give matters a chance of coming to a close. If a good opportunity for doing so occurred, he meant to ask to have a few thousand dollars advanced on the next day. In fact, the hope of getting hold of the money was the only reason he had for venturing to press matters to an earlier issue than they would come if left to themselves. 
               Turnham found the merchant in his counting-room alone. His reception he thought formal and even cold. 
               "Is your son in?" he asked. 
               "No, sir," was replied; and then there was silence. 
               "Will he be in this afternoon?" 
               "I think not." 
               Turnham felt oppressed. There was something in the manner of the merchant that he could not understand; a marked change, that was 
                     unacountable
                     unaccountable
                  . After sitting for a short time, Turnham arose and retired. The merchant bowed to him low and formally as he did so. 
               "Something is wrong," he muttered to himself, as he walked hurriedly back to his office. 
               The evening mail brought notice of drafts at sight, amounting to fifteen thousand dollars, all, or nearly all of which would, probably, be presented next day. This made ruin certain unless very important aid could be secured. 
               The time until evening was spent in efforts to obtain money. He talked largely to those upon whom he called, about the co-partnership he had formed, and the great command of capital it would soon give him. All this was credited; but the parties had not the money to spare from their own operations. 
               "When is this connection to be formed?" asked one of the persons to whom he applied. 
               "Immediately," was answered. "The articles of agreement are drawn up, and nothing now remains to sign but them. This would have been done today, only Mr. H-wanted to submit them to his lawyer." 
               "Who is his legal adviser? Do you know? 
               "I do not." 
               "Let me see-I did know. Yes, now I remember. It is Wheeler. He's a sound lawyer." 
               "Wheeler! are you sure?" 
               "Oh, yes. I recollect now very well. Wheeler is the man." 
               Turnham went back to his office, thinking more seriously about his conduct towards Wheeler than he had ever thought before, and feeling anxious and alarmed lest the lawyer should have retaliated upon him by informing Mr. H-of what he had done. The effect, he saw, would be to ruin him. 
               Turnham slept but a few hours that night. In the morning, he arose in a feverish state of mind, but resolved upon one thing, and that was to see Mr. H-and his son before nine oclock, and know whether the articles of agreement were to be signed or not. Accordingly, he called upon the merchant early. Mr. H-received him even more coldly than before, and the son looked embarrassed and unhappy. 
               "Have you had the papers examined?" the broker asked, coming at once to the point. 
               "We have," replied Mr. H-. 
               "Are they properly drawn?" asked Turnham. 
               "Yes; but since I saw you yesterday, circumstances have led me to change my views in regard to my son. Of this I should have informed you during the day. I trust it will be no matter of serious disappointment. A connection, fully as advantageous as the one about being formed with my son, you can, without doubt, easily make." 
               "The reason of your extraordinary conduct," said Turnham, who had become quite pale, "you will certainly explain." 
               "I can make no explanation, sir," returned the merchant, coldly. "My reasons for what I do are sufficient for my own justification. My conduct may appear extraordinary in your eyes; but I am satisfied that, in reality, you have no right to complain of it." 
               This was all the satisfaction Turnham received. On that day, his acceptances were dishonoured; and drafts to a large amount, drawn against deposits and collections that ought to have been in his hands, went back unpaid. 
                
               Ready as the broker would have been to secure something for himself in the disaster that befell him, it came upon him so suddenly as to leave this out of his power. Everything was swept from his hands, and he was compelled to begin again with less than a hundred dollars in his pocket. 
               For once he saw, as well as felt, the reaction of his own conduct, and was forced to acknowledge that, in extricating himself from an early difficulty by improper means, he had laid the foundation for ruin in after-life. Could he have seen deeper into the relation existing between causes and effects, he would have understood more fully the greater error he had committed, and trembled in fear of even more reactive consequences. Doubtless they came. 
               In illustration of the law stated at first, we have chosen a very plain and familiar example. Hundreds of others might be given, taken from every grade, and involving all social relations. The consequences of every one's conduct must be felt in some form or other, earlier or later in life. This is inevitable, for against all action must come reaction; and they will bear a due relation in quality and force to each other,-a truth that we cannot lay too deeply to heart. 
             
             
                
               A LIFE LESSON. 
               MR. PHILIP ELLIOTSON, a man in moderate circumstances, lived in a neat little house, which he rented, in a thriving country village. He was keeping a store, which yielded him a very comfortable living. As Mr. Elliotson's family increased, the dwelling which he occupied became too small for him, making a removal or an addition to the house necessary. Being a good tenant, and a man well thought of in the community, his landlord was very ready to build him a couple of additional rooms for an increase of rent equal to ten per cent. on the outlay. 
               Mr. Gage, the carpenter, was employed to make the required improvements, and he forthwith went to work. It was not long before a suitable frame was erected and weather-boarded in, and the plasterer commenced upon the interior. On the morning that the plasterer was to go to work, Mr. Elliotson, who was an early riser, walked out into the yard to look around and see how the new building was progressing. The first thing that met his eye was a load of lime that had been thrown down close to the gate, where the plasterer had arranged his mortar-troughs. It was in fine large lumps, fresh from the kiln. 
               "Just the thing," said Mr. Elliotson, stooping down and turning over several large pieces with his hand. "This will save me from buying lime." 
               Mr. Elliotson then looked about him, and seeing that no one was near, stooped down again, and selecting two of the largest lumps, took them up and carried them away, remarking, in a low tone of voice to himself, as he did so-"They will never be missed." 
               The lime was placed in an out-building, and an old piece of board thrown over it. In a day or two afterwards, it was slacked and used in whitewashing the fences. 
               Now the taking of a couple of pieces of lime by Mr. Elliotson was a little matter, comparatively speaking; but from small causes important results often come; and they came in this instance. It happened that Mr. Gage, the carpenter, saw him take the pieces of lime-an act that surprised him very much. He could not have believed Mr. Elliotson guilty of such a petty act of meanness, not to say dishonesty. Not willing to condemn a man in his own mind, and especially a man held in such high estimation by every one as was Mr. Elliotson, without being very sure that the lime had been taken for his own private purposes, the carpenter, on coming to work that day, and after Mr. Elliotson had gone to his store, searched about to see if he could find the lime. This search discovered it concealed beneath an old board, where it had been placed. 
               "I wouldn't have believed it, if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes," said Gage, quite confounded by what had occurred. "Some people might call this honest, but I don't," he continued. "Why, it's downright stealing! What right had he to take this lime without the plasterer's consent? If he had asked for it, he could not doubt have had double the quantity he has taken, in welcome; but I don't like this-it doesn't look well. I almost wish I hadn't seen it; I shall never feel just right towards him again." 
               The carpenter was a strictly honest man, and far above an act of meanness. He regarded the rights of every one, in little as well as in great things, and could not tolerate in others any departure from rectitude. What he had seen troubled him. He tried to push the thought of it out of his mind, but could not succeed in doing so; it haunted him for days. When he met Mr. Elliotson, he felt like avoiding him, and could hardly bear to look in his face while he conversed with him. 
               Gage had a brother who owned a large farm in the fertile valley of a river whose waters passed through the village in which Elliotson kept store. The village was a depot for the receipt of nearly the entire product of this valley; it contained three stores. Elliotson's was the largest, and he received, as factor, at least two-thirds of the produce that came down the river; the selling of this was his chief business. For several years, he had sold for Mr. Gage, the farmer, the products of his land, consisting principally of wheat, rye, corn, and oats; making him returns according to the ruling market prices. 
               Shortly after the occurrence of the little circumstance just mentioned, the farmer was in the village, and stayed, as usual, with his brother. While with him, the brother asked this question:-"How does Elliotson manage your sales for you?" 
               "Very well." 
               "Are you always satisfied with the prices he gets?" 
               "Why no, not always; but, then, I suppose it isn't his fault. The markets are not always as high as we farmers could wish." 
               "No, I suppose not. But does he return you the highest market rates?" 
               "Not for every consignment; but quotations of prices and actual sales do not always correspond. Sometimes we send down a lot of grain, and get for it more than we expected, and sometimes less; it is just as it happens. Why do you ask these questions? Isn't Mr. Elliotson the fair thing?" 
                
               "Not exactly, I am sorry to say." 
               "What!" The brother expressed strong surprise. 
               "The fact is, Henry," said the carpenter, "I have lost my good opinion of the man, and I will tell you the reason." 
               He then related the story about the lime. 
               "That was a little business," remarked the farmer, after he had heard the relation. "I could not have believed that a man of his standing would be guilty of such conduct." 
               "Nor I; it really confounded me. I have thought about you ever since, and how easy it would be for him, in rendering account-sales of your produce, to put the prices down a cent or two a bushel less than what he actually received. It would be a little matter in each particular, but quite an item in the year's business." 
               "Indeed it would! But I can hardly believe that Mr. Elliotson would do such a thing." 
               "Nor can I; and yet there is the fact of the lime staring us in the face. That shows what is in the man, and what is in is pretty sure to come out, some time or other; it only needs the opportunity. When he took the lime, it was early in the morning, and no one about, as he thought. He first turned it over, and then raised himself up and looked all around him carefully. After that, he stooped and lifted two large pieces, and carried them away. It looks bad, doesn't it?" 
                
               "It certainly does. I don't like the appearance at all." 
               "I don't know how you feel about it," said the carpenter, "but if I were in your place, I would be loath to trust as much in his hands as you do." 
               "I must think about it," remarked the farmer. "I should be sorry to break with him, for our intercourse has been pleasant. He has always made me prompt returns. I believe I never had to write to him for money in my life." 
               "So far, so good; but if the returns were actually short, why"- 
               "That's another consideration altogether." 
               "Indeed it is." 
               Now, although the suspicions of Gage, the carpenter, were, to all appearance, well founded, yet they wronged Mr. Elliotson. He had always made the most accurate returns for the produce sold, and retained not a farthing beyond the regular commissions agreed upon. In all matters of regular business, his ideas were clear and his practice blameless; he considered honesty to be the best policy, and was always honest in his dealings. The matter of the lime was an out-of-the-way operation-a kind of accidental affair, for which no rule of action, involving principle, had been laid down. The temptation came suddenly in his way, and he fell; but the fall was so light, that he scarcely felt the concussion: he was but indistinctly conscious of having done a wrong act, it was such a trifling matter; but, trifling as it appeared to be, it was destined to produce a serious effect upon his business. The first effect was the loss of Mr. Gage's consignment. The fact stated to the farmer by his brother rested upon his mind and troubled him. He continued to send his grain to Mr. Elliotson for some months; but his suspicions being aroused, he began to imagine that the account-sales he received showed a low range of prices. One of his neighbours, who sent his produce to another store in the village, asked him one day what his last load of wheat had brought. 
               "A dollar and ten," replied the farmer. 
               "I did rather better than that," said the neighbour. 
               "Ah! How much did you get?" 
               "A dollar twelve." 
               "Did you, indeed? Herbert does your business?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Does he make prompt returns?" 
               "Oh, yes. He is very prompt and very correct." 
               "A dollar twelve! Have you just heard of the sale?" 
               "I received the account to-day." 
               "That's strange! My wheat was in every way as good as yours, and ought to have brought as good a price." 
               Mr. Gage was now decided in his mind about changing his agent; he felt satisfied that something was wrong, and yet there was nothing wrong: the grain of the neighbour had been received three days before his came to market, and, in that time, the price had fallen two cents. His next lot of produce was sent to Mr. Herbert, who, from this time, became his consignee. By this change, the business of Mr. Elliotson suffered considerably. Gage was his largest consignor, and usually made heavy purchases from him during the year, thus giving him a double profit. 
               From this period, the business of Elliotson gradually declined. One after another of his old customers in the neighbourhood of Gage fell off, without assigning any reason, and went over to Herbert, whose operations doubled within a year. The cause lay in hints from farmer Gage, in reply to questions as to why he had changed his consignee. He said nothing touching the integrity of Elliotson, but hesitated not to allege that Herbert obtained better prices for his produce; this was, of course, enough to induce others to follow his example. At the end of a year, the business of Elliotson was so much reduced, that he found it very difficult to keep his head above water. He was no longer as prompt in making returns of sales to the farmers as before, and this caused others of them to leave him. 
               "What's the matter with Elliotson?" now began to be asked among his neighbours. "He seems to be going down hill." 
                
               But no one could answer the question. He was known as an active and energetic business man, and it was believed that he would, in time, acquire a fortune. That a different result was threatened, created general surprise. When a man begins to go down hill, there is but little hope for him; he rarely fails to reach the bottom. Thus it was with Mr. Elliotson. In three years from the day he was guilty of the trifling act of taking a few pieces of lime that did not belong to him, he was sold out by the sheriff. Of the cause of the blight that had fallen upon his fortune, he had not the most remote conception. It never entered his imagination that a suspicion of his integrity existed anywhere, or that he had ever given cause for such a suspicion. In the calamity by which he was stricken, he retained one consciousness-that of being an honest man. 
               Educated in a store, Mr. Elliotson had no ability for obtaining a support for his family beyond what such an education gave him. He was a good accountant, and had a clear, strong mind. To any one keeping a store, who needed assistance, he would have been invaluable. But no one in the village was in want of assistance. 
               With a family of four children, the situation of Mr. Elliotson was painful in the extreme. The rigour of the law had left him but a poor remnant of household furniture, and with this he was about moving into a small cottage, at half the rent he was paying for the comfortable home in which he had lived for ten years. 
               Just at this crisis, intelligence was received that the Legislature of the State had approved an application that had been made to charter a banking institution, to be located in the village. Books for a subscription to the capital stock were immediately opened, and the amount required by the charter obtained in a few days. 
               As soon as it was known that the bank would go into operation, the friends of Mr. Elliotson made a movement to get him appointed cashier. He was looked upon as the very man, and some of the stockholders went so far as to say, that it was fortunate for the institution that he happened to be out of business. Twelve directors were chosen in due course, and then there came an election of officers and clerks, to conduct the regular business. There were many applicants for these situations. Prominent, for the office of cashier, stood the name of Mr. Elliotson. On the day that the directors met, this unfortunate individual had but five dollars left, and, beyond the hoped-for appointment, no apparent resource in the world. It is no matter of wonder that his mind was in a state of great anxiety and suspense. His friends had assured him that he would certainly get the appointment; but the necessities of his circumstances were too pressing to allow these assurances to give him full confidence in the result of the election. If, by any mishap, he should not be appointed, he knew not which way to turn to keep his family from want. 
               Among the directors chosen to represent the interests of the stockholders was Gage, the carpenter, who was a man of some property, and had subscribed quite liberally to the stock. When Mr. Elliotson was proposed to the meeting as cashier, Gage became restless. 
               "He is the very man," said one. 
               "We can't possibly do better," said another. 
               "There isn't a name on the list of applicants comparable to his," remarked a third. 
               And every man spoke in his favour except Gage, who remained silent. Just as they were about balloting, the carpenter said that he was sorry to be compelled to object to Mr. Elliotson, but duty constrained him to do so. And then he related the little circumstance already known to the reader. He ended by saying: 
               "This may seem a trifling matter, gentlemen. But it is in trifles that we see most clearly a man's real character. It shows that there is a lack of integrity in his heart. I feel pained in making this revelation, but duty compels me to do so. I would not be true to the trust that has been reposed in me, were I to withhold from this board a fact that may deeply affect the interests they are bound to protect." 
                
               Surprise kept all silent for some moments. 
               "Is it not possible that you may have been mistaken?" was at length asked by a member of the board. 
               "No, sir. I saw the thing done as clearly as I ever saw any thing in my life. To make sure, however, I examined and found the lime in an out-house concealed under an old plank. In a day or two afterwards it was slacked and applied to the fences. It is a little thing, I know, gentlemen; and perhaps I lay too much stress upon it. But I cannot have any rational confidence in a man who will steal even a pin. I have made this communication from a sense of duty; the board can now act as it thinks best. But I cannot vote to place Mr. Elliotson in a position where so much is at stake." 
               After an hour's discussion, in which three or four members of the board spoke strongly in favour of Mr. Elliotson, and offered to go his security in double the amount required for the cashier, it was voted to let the choice of that officer lie over for a day, that there might be time for reflection. 
               Mr. Elliotson sat at his window, with his eyes fixed on the building where the directors were in session, his heart beating with an uneasy motion. He had been seated thus for nearly two hours, and was beginning to grow restless with impatience, when he saw the door open, and the gentlemen who seemed to him to hold his fate in their hands slowly emerge, and move, in little groups, lingeringly down the street. Of these, two, who were among his warmest friends, approached his house. Now his heart became almost still, and he experienced a choking sensation. A few minutes would decide his fate. What was to be that fate? He scarcely dared hope for the best, and shrank from contemplating the worst. The two friends paused a short distance from his house, and stood for some minutes in earnest conversation. This was looked upon as a bad omen; the bearers of good news would not thus pause and linger. The poor man's suspense became terrible. At length the men separated, and one of them came towards his house with a grave and deliberate step. From the window, Mr. Elliotson could see his face. It wore a thoughtful, sober expression. His heart ceased to beat for a few moments, and then fluttered on wildly. At length the man's knock was heard at the door. Elliotson had scarcely strength to open it, and when he did so, he stood with his knees smiting against each other, looking into his friend's face without the power of utterance. To relieve this suspense, which he saw to be very great, the friend said- 
               "There has been no election of cashier yet." 
               Elliotson leaned against the door for support. 
               "None? Why not?" he was able to ask. 
               "I will tell you." 
               "Walk into the parlour," Elliotson had now presence sence of mind to say, and he stepped back while the director entered. When alone, the latter said, 
               "I regret to say, that an unexpected objection was made by a member of the board, which would have defeated your election, had a ballot taken place. I therefore moved to have the election for cashier postponed until to-morrow; and I have come to talk to you about this objection." 
               "What is it?" asked Elliotson in a husky voice. 
               "It touches your character; is, in fact, a charge against your integrity as a man." 
               Philip Elliotson drew himself up calmly, while his eye became bright and steady, and his lips arched and firm. 
               "I am ready to meet all such charges," he said, with much dignity of manner. "I know not a single act of my life that I would fear to have canvassed. What is the allegation?" 
               "Some five or six years ago, there was an addition built to this house?" said the director. 
               "There was." 
               "Do you remember the fact that a load of lime was thrown down, late one afternoon, at your back gate." 
               Mr. Elliotson thought for a moment, and then said- 
               "Yes, I remember it very well." 
               "Do you likewise remember taking two or three pieces of that lime for your own use, and concealing them in an out-house?" 
               "I do." The blood mounted to the cheek of Mr. Elliotson. 
               "You were seen to do this: and it is now brought forward against you, and urged as a reason why you should not be given the appointment of cashier." 
               Mr. Elliotson seemed stunned for a few moments. He leaned his head down upon a table, and sat almost motionless for nearly a minute, while his friend looked on with grief. When he at length raised his head, his face was pale but calm. 
               "I am, of course, charged with being a dishonest man," he said, in a firm voice. 
               "That is the inference drawn from this act." 
               Mr. Elliotson arose, and going to his secretary, took therefrom two account-books. One of these he opened, and, turning to an account, laid it on the table before the director, saying, as he did so, 
               "The plasterer who finished the addition made by my landlord to this house was named Eldred. He dealt at my store, and settled his accounts once in three months. The addition was made in June, 18-. On the tenth of July, in the same year, you see, there is a credit to his account of fifteen cents. Now I will show you the day-book entry." 
               The day-book was opened, when the entry stood thus:- 
               "James Eldred, Cr: By lime used for whitewashing washing at the time he was plastering my house-fifteen cents." 
               "I took the lime," said Elliotson, after he had exhibited this entry, "thoughtlessly. It was not my property, and I had no right to it. But I did not reflect at the time. About a month afterwards, a thought of what I had done flashed across my mind, and startled me. I saw that I had been guilty of taking another's property for my own use, and immediately made this entry. In settlement, I pointed out the matter to Eldred, and he said it was of no consequence whatever, that I was welcome to the lime, and double as much more. He did not wish the deduction made from his account: but I insisted on its being done. If you will see him, he will show you this credit on the bill I then rendered." 
               "May I have these books at the meeting of directors to-morrow?" eagerly asked the friend, who was trembling with delight. 
               "Certainly. It is but just that this charge should be fully refuted." 
               "Then you may set your heart at rest about the cashiership. You will certainly get the appointment. But for this matter, you would have received every vote to-day, on the first balloting." 
               When the directors met on the next day, and the books of Mr. Elliotson were laid open at the entry just mentioned, Mr. Gage was confounded. 
                
               "I have not a word more to say," he remarked. "Mr. Elliotson has my vote. It grieves me to think that I have wronged so upright a man." 
               The vote was at once taken, and Elliotson elected unanimously to the office of cashier at a salary of twelve hundred dollars a year. 
               About a year after this happy change in Mr. Elliotson's external circumstances, Herbert, the storekeeper who had obtained nearly the whole of his country custom, and accumulated quite a handsome little property, died, and his widow attempted, by means of a clerk, to carry on the business. But, in the course of a few months, her friends advised her to sell out and be content with the amount of property left to her by her husband, which was enough for her support. As soon as this fact became known to Mr. Gage, the carpenter, whose mind had never felt easy about Mr. Elliotson, he called upon the latter, and said to him, after mentioning the fact that Mrs. Herbert wished to sell out, 
               "There is a good chance for you, and you ought to embrace it. You understand the business, and can make by it more than double what you are now receiving." 
               But Elliotson shook his head. 
               "Depend upon it, you ought not to let this opportunity pass. I know that you can have all my brother's consignments again, for he has told me that he was sorry that he had ever taken them out of your hands. And I have no doubt but that you can retain every one of Herbert's regular customers." 
               "Perhaps I might. I believe with you that the opportunity is a very good one. But it is not in my power to embrace it." 
               "Why?" 
               "Capital is required, and I have nothing but my salary." 
               "How much will be needed?" 
               "At least four or five thousand dollars; besides a credit in purchasing out the stock and good-will of the store." 
               "Both of these, I think, can be supplied." 
               Elliotson shook his head again. 
               "If I will get you the money and the credit you need, will you take the store?" asked Gage. 
               "Certainly I will," was replied. 
               "Then you may consider the thing as settled." 
               And it was settled. Mr. Elliotson took the store, and went on with the business, quite as successfully as it had been conducted by the former owner. He is now in excellent circumstances. But there are two things that he cannot understand, and which puzzle him whenever he thinks about them. One is, the cause of the sudden reverse in his fortunes that visited him so strangely, and the other is the unexpected offer of Mr. Gage to put him in business again, with as much capital and as large a credit as he needed. He often sits and ponders upon these two circumstances, but they still remain shrouded in mystery. Mr. Gage is satisfied with making restitution in his own way, without exposing the part he took in ruining the merchant. He never alluded to the subject, except to his brother and to the board of directors, and they felt it to be imperative on them to keep the whole thing a profound secret. 
             
             
               UNFADING FLOWERS. 
               THIRTY years ago, a small, barefooted boy paused to admire the flowers in a well-cultivated garden. The child was an orphan, and had already felt how hard was an orphan's lot. The owner of the garden, who was trimming a border, noticed the lad and spoke kindly to him. 
               "Do you love flowers?" said he. 
               The boy replied, "Oh, yes. We used to have such beautiful flowers in our garden." 
               The man laid down his knife, and, gathering a few flowers, took them to the fence, through the panels of which the boy was looking, and handed them to him, saying, as he did so, "Here's a little bunch for you." 
               A flush went over the child's face as he took the flowers. He did not make any reply, but in his large eyes, as he lifted them to the face of the man, was an expression of thankfulness, to be read as plainly as words in a book. 
               The act on the part of the man was one of spontaneous kindness, and scarcely thought of again, but by the child it was never forgotten. 
               Years went by, and through toil, privation, and suffering, both in body and mind, the boy grew up to manhood. From ordeals like this come forth our most effective men. If kept from vicious associates, the lad of feeling and mental activity becomes ambitious, and rises in society above the common level. So it proved in the case of this orphan boy; he had but few advantages of education, but such as were afforded were all improved. It happened that his lot was cast in a printing-office, and the young compositor soon became interested in his work. He did not set the types as a mere mechanic, but went beyond the duties of his calling, entering into the ideas to which he was giving verbal expression, and making them his own. At twenty-one, he was a young man of more than ordinary intelligence and force of character. At thirty-five, he was the conductor of a widely-circulated and profitable newspaper, and, as a man, respected and esteemed by all who knew him. 
               During the earnest struggle that all men enter into who are ambitious to rise in the world, the thoughts do not often go back and rest meditatively upon the earlier time of life. But after success has crowned each well-directed effort, and the gaining of a desired position no longer remains a subject of doubt, the mind often brings up from the far-off past most vivid recollections of incidents and impressions that were painful or pleasurable at the time, and which are now seen to have an influence, more or less decided, upon the whole after-life. In this state of reflection sat one day the man whom we have introduced. After musing a long time, deeply abstracted, he took his pen and wrote hastily, and these were the sentences he traced upon the paper that lay before him:- 
               "How indelibly does a little act of kindness, performed at the right moment, impress itself upon the mind. We meet, as we pass through the world, so much of rude selfishness, that we guard ourselves against it, and scarcely feel its effects; but spontaneous kindness comes so rarely, that we are surprised when it appears, and delighted and refreshed as by the perfume of flowers in the dreary winter. When we were a small boy, an orphan, and with a memory of a home for ever lost, too vivid in our young heart, a man into whose beautiful garden we stood looking, pulled a few flowers and handed them through the fence, speaking a kind word as he did so. He did not know, and perhaps never will know, how deeply we were touched by this act. From a little boy we loved flowers, and ere that heaviest affliction a child ever knows-loss of parents-fell upon us, we almost lived among them. But death separated between us and all those tender associations and affections that, to the hearts of children, are like dew to the tender grass; we entered the dwelling of the stranger, and were treated henceforth as if we had, or ought to have no feelings, no hopes, no weaknesses. The harsh command came daily to our ears; and not even for work well done, or faithful service, were we cheered by words of commendation. 
               "One day-we were not more than eleven years old-something turned our thoughts back upon the earlier and happier time when we had a true home, and were loved and cared for. We were once more in the garden and among the sweet blossoms, as of old, and the mother on whose bosom we had slept, sat under the grape-arbour, and we filled her lap with flowers. There was a smile of love on her face, and her lips were parting with some kind word of affection, when, to scatter into nothing these dear images of the lonely boy, came the sharp command of a master, and in obedience we started forth to perform some needed service. Our way was by the garden of which we have spoken; and it was on this occasion, and while the suddenly dissipated image of our mother among the flowers was re-forming itself in our young imagination, that the incident to which we have alluded occurred. We can never forget the grateful perfume of those flowers, nor the strength and comfort which the kind words and manner of the giver imparted to our fainting spirits. We took them home, kept them fresh as long as water would preserve their life and beauty; and when they faded, and the leaves fell, pale and withered, upon the ground, we grieved for their loss as if a real friend had been taken away. 
               "It is a long, long time since that incident occurred; but the flowers which there sprang up in our bosom are fresh and beautiful still: they have neither faded nor withered-they cannot, they are unfading flowers. We never looked upon the man that gave them to us, that our heart did not warm toward him. Twenty years ago, we lost sight of him; but if still among the dwellers of the earth, and in need of a friend, we should divide with him our last morsel." 
               An old man, with hair whitened by the snows of many winters, was sitting in a room that was poorly supplied with furniture, his head bowed, and his gaze cast dreamily on the floor. A pale young girl came in while he sat thus musing. Lifting his eyes to her face, he said, while he tried to look cheerful, "Ellen, dear, you must not go out to-day." 
               "I feel a great deal better, grandpa," replied the girl, forcing a smile. "I am able to go to work again." 
                
               "No, child, you are not," said the old man, firmly; "and you must not think of such a thing." 
               "Don't be so positive, grandpa." And as she uttered this little sentence in a half-playful voice, she laid her hand among the thin gray locks on the old man's head, and smoothed them caressingly. "You know that I must not be idle." 
               "Wait, child, until your strength returns." 
               "Our wants will not wait, grandpa." As the girl said this, her face became sober. The old man's eyes again fell to the floor, and a heavy sigh came from his bosom. 
               "I will be very careful, and not overwork myself again," resumed Ellen, after a pause. 
               "You must not go to-day," said the old man, arousing himself. "It is murder. Wait at least until to-morrow. You will be stronger then." 
               "If I don't go back, I may lose my place. You know that I have been at home for three days. Work will not wait. The last time I was kept away by sickness, a customer was disappointed, and there was a good deal of trouble about it." 
               Another sigh came heavily from the old man's heart. 
               "I will go," said the girl. "Perhaps they will let me off for a day longer. If so, I will come back, for I must not lose the place." 
               No further resistance was made by the old man. In a little time, he was alone. She had gone to work. Her employers would not let her go away, feeble as she was, without a forfeiture of her place. 
               About midday, finding that Ellen did not come back, the old man, after taking some food, went out. 
               The pressure of seventy winters was upon him, and his steps were slow and carefully taken. 
               "I must get something to do. I can work still," he muttered to himself, as he moved along the streets. "The dear child is killing herself, and all for me." 
               But what could he do? Who wanted the services of an old man, like him, whose mind had lost its clearness, whose step faltered, and whose hand was no longer steady? In vain he made application for employment. Younger and more vigorous men filled all the places, and he was pushed aside. Discouraged and drooping in spirit, he went back to his home, there to wait the fall of evening, which was to bring the return of the only being left on earth to love him. At nightfall, Ellen came in. Her face, so pale in the morning, was now slightly flushed; and her eyes were brighter than when she went out. The grandfather was not deceived by this; he knew it to be a sign of disease. He took her hand-it was hot-and when he stooped to kiss her gentle lips, he found them burning with fever. 
               "Ellen, my child, why did you go to work to-day? I knew it would make you sick," said the old man in a voice of anguish. 
                
               Ellen tried to smile, and not appear so very ill; but nature was too much oppressed. 
               "I have brought home some work, and will not go out to-morrow," she remarked. "I think the walk fatigued me more than any thing else. I shall be better after a good night's sleep." 
               But the girl's hopes failed her. The morning found her so weak that she could not rise from her bed; and when the grandfather came into her room to learn how she passed the night, he found her weeping on her pillow. She had endeavoured to get up, but her head, which was aching terribly, grew dizzy, and she fell back, under a despairing consciousness that her strength was gone. 
               The day passed, but Ellen did not grow better. The fever still kept her body prostrate. Once or twice, when her grandfather was out of the room, she took up the work she had brought home, and tried to do some of it while sitting up in bed. But ere a minute had passed, she became faint, while all grew dark around her. She was no better when night came. If her mind could have rested-if she had been free from anxious and distressing thoughts, nature would have had power to react; but, as it was, the pressure was too great. She could not forget that they had scarcely so much as a dollar left, and that her old grandfather was too feeble to work. Upon her rested all the burden of their support, and she was helpless. 
                
               The next morning, Ellen was better. She could sit up without feeling dizzy, although her head still ached, and the fever had only slightly abated. But the old man would not permit her to leave her bed, though she begged him earnestly to let her do so. 
               The bundle of work that Ellen had brought home was wrapped in a newspaper, and this her grandfather took up to read, several times during the day. 
               "This is Mr. T-'s newspaper," said he, as he opened it and saw the title. "I knew T-when he was a poor orphan boy; but of course he has forgotten me. He has prospered wonderfully." 
               And then his eyes went along the columns of the paper, and he read aloud to Ellen such things as he thought would interest her. Among others, was a reminiscence by the editor-the same that we have just given. The old man's voice faltered as he read. The little incident, so feelingly described, had long since been hidden in his memory, under the gathering dust of time. But now the dust was swept away, and he saw his own beautiful garden. He was in it, and among the flowers; and wistfully looking through the fence, stood the orphan boy. He remembered that he felt pity for him, and he remembered, as if it were but yesterday, though thirty years had intervened, the light that went over the child's face as he handed him a few flowers, that were to fade and wither in a day. 
               Yes, the old man's voice faltered while he read; and when he came to the last sentence, the paper dropped upon the floor, and, clasping his hands together, he lifted his dim eyes upward, while his lips moved in whispered words of thankfulness. 
               "What ails you, grandpa?" asked Ellen in surprise. But the old man did not seem to hear her voice. 
               "Dear grandpa," repeated the girl, "why do you look so strangely?" She had risen in bed, and was bending toward him. 
               "Ellen, my child," said the old man, a light breaking over his countenance as though a sunbeam had suddenly come into the room, "it was your old grandfather gave the flowers to that poor little boy. Did you hear what he said? he would divide his last morsel." 
               The old man moved about the room with his unsteady steps, talking in a wandering way-so over-joyed at the prospect of relief for his child, that he was nearly beside himself. But there yet lingered some embers of pride in his heart; and from these the ashes were blown away, and they became bright and glowing. The thought of asking a favour for the return of that little act, which was to him at the time a pleasure, came with a feeling of reluctance. But when he looked at the pale young girl, with eyes closed and her face half buried in the pillow, he murmured to himself, "It is for you-for you!" and, taking up his staff, went tottering into the open air. 
               The editor was sitting in his office writing, when he heard the door open, and, turning, he saw before him an old man with bent form and snowy head. Something in the visitor's countenance struck him as familiar, but he did not recognise him as one he had seen before. 
               "Is Mr. T-in?" asked the old man. 
               "My name is T-," replied the editor. 
               "You?" There was a slight expression of surprise in the old man's voice. 
               "Yes, I am T-, my friend," was kindly said. "Can I do any thing for you? Take the chair." 
               The offered seat was accepted; and as the old man sank into it, his countenance and manner betrayed his emotion. 
               "I have come," and his voice was unsteady, "to do what I could not do for myself alone; but I cannot see my poor, sick grandchild wear out and die under the weight of burdens that that are too heavy to be borne. For her sake, I have conquered my pride." 
               There was a pause. 
               "Go on," said T-, who was looking at the old man earnestly, and endeavouring to fix his identity. 
               "You don't know me?" 
               "Your face is not entirely strange," said T-. "It must have been a long time since we met." 
               "Long? Oh, yes! it is a long, long time. You were a boy, and I unbent by age." 
                
               "Markland!" exclaimed T-, with sudden energy, springing to his feet as the truth flashed upon him. "Say, is it not so?" 
               "My name is Markland." 
               "And do we meet thus again?" said T-, with emotion, as he grasped the old man's hand. "Ah, sir! I have never forgotten you. When a sad-hearted boy, you spoke to me kindly; and the words comforted me, when I had no other comfort. That bunch of flowers you gave me-you remember it, no doubt-is still fresh in my heart: not a leaf or petal has faded; they are as bright and green, and full of perfume, as when I first hid them there; and there they will bloom for ever, the unfading flowers of gratitude. I am glad you have come, though grieved that your declining years are made heavier by misfortune. I have enough and to spare." 
               "I have not come for charity," returned Markland. "I have hands that would not be idle, though it is but little they can accomplish." 
               "Be not troubled on that account, my friend," was kindly answered. "I will find something for you to do; but first tell me about yourself." 
               Thus encouraged, the old man told his story. It was the common story of the loss of property and friends, and the approach of want with declining years. T-saw that pride and native independence was still strong in Markland's bosom, feeble as he was, and really unable to enter upon any serious employment; and his first impression was to save his feelings, at the same time that he extended to him entire and permanent relief. This he found no difficulty in doing, and the old man was soon after placed in a situation where but little application was necessary, while the income was all-sufficient for the comfortable support of himself and grandchild. 
               The flowers offered with a purely humane feeling proved to be fadeless flowers; and their beauty and perfume came back to the sense of the giver, when all other flowers were dead and dying on his dark and dreary way. 
             
             
                
               THREE SCENES IN THE LIFE OF A CONSUMPTIVE. 
                
                  SCENE FIRST. 
                  "YOU have no right to abuse your health, Margaret," said Mrs. Ellis to her daughter, a tall, delicately-formed girl, whose narrow chest, long and small neck, slender limbs, and pure, transparent skin, indicated a constitution highly susceptible to pulmonary irritations. The mother spoke in a decided voice, and with some sternness of manner. 
                  "I suppose I may do with myself as I please," replied the daughter, in a tone of levity. 
                  "Not so, Margaret." 
                  "If I lose my health, I have only to suffer for it myself; no one else will have to bear the pain of my indiscretion, as you call it. Isn't this so?" 
                  "Do you really think this?" asked the mother. 
                  "Certainly I do. Whatever pain I suffer is my own-not another's. Can another feel my headache, or be affected with the fever that lays me upon a bed of sickness?" 
                  "Margaret," replied the mother, less sternly than she had at first spoken, but with equal seriousness of manner, "I can hardly believe you in earnest in what you say. You are now a woman, capable of reflection, and ought to be able to see, in a moment, that you cannot be sick for an hour without affecting others." 
                  "In what way?" 
                  "Can you not see for yourself?" 
                  "I certainly cannot." 
                  "If you were now sick, instead of being in good health, do you not suppose that I would feel anxious and troubled on your account?" 
                  "I suppose you would. Still, you needn't feel so, unless from choice; the actual pain I suffered couldn't affect you." 
                  "If I were sick, could you help feeling anxious? Would this depend upon choice?" 
                  "No, I presume not." 
                  "And as little would my anxiety depend upon choice, as you must see, on a moment's reflection; but the way in which the ill-health of any one affects others is far more serious than this. Society is bound together by the law of reciprocal uses: every thing we do has some reference to others. In fact, there is no act of our lives that does not, in some way, impress itself upon those around us. To each of us is given some talent, the exercise of which is designed to promote the common welfare. Ill-health must, of course, prevent the proper exercise of this talent. You can see, from this, that we have no right to abuse our health, for, if we do so, we cannot properly discharge the duties we owe to others." 
                  The thoughtless girl met this by saying, with a lightness of manner that chilled her mother's feelings- 
                  "Oh, as to that, I don't profess to be governed by motives of good to others. I have not attained so perfect a state yet, and am afraid I never shall; it is about as much as I can do to think of myself." 
                  "The time may come, Margaret," replied the mother to this, "when you will feel differently-when you may desire the good of others with an intense desire, and not be able, from ill-health, to secure it. To see those we love suffering privations from our inability to do for them what they need, and for which they can depend on none other, is a bitter thing; and that you may be spared this, is one of my reasons for urging you now to regard your health." 
                  "I am not much afraid but that I shall be able to do all that justice can require me to do for others," Margaret answered. "My health is good enough now, except a little cold, that will soon pass off, and I know of no reason why I should not remain in as good health for many years. I am not aware that I abuse myself very much." 
                  "You are perhaps aware that you inherit a predisposition disposition to consumption, and that, from this circumstance, a slight cold is always a serious matter, and should be treated as such." 
                  "If I have got to die of consumption, there is no help for it, I suppose," returned the daughter. "Taking care of slight colds is not going to save me." 
                  "That is a mistake, which I hope you will permit me at once to correct. Most lung-diseases, when once excited, prove incurable. No one is born with consumption, but only with a predisposition to this fatal disease, in a high susceptibility to inflammation of the throat and chest. There are but few cases in which this predisposition is so great as to be affected by the common atmospheric changes, if the individual pays particular regard to health; but if a cold, unfortunately, be taken, even if afterwards cured, the predisposition to inflammation is increased. Should the cold be neglected, the inflammation may become chronic or permanent, and then life is inevitably shortened five, ten, or it may be more than twenty years." 
                  "I have colds often; but they get well, without the serious consequences of which you speak." 
                  "You never had a cold, Margaret," said Mrs. Ellis, with much earnestness, "that did not injure you, in an increased liability to take cold which it entailed. I have noticed this: you take cold now easier than you did a year ago." 
                   
                  "I don't know that I do." 
                  "I am sure of it; my anxiety makes me observant. Colds are not only more easily taken by you, but they are longer in getting well, and their effects are seen in a general prostration of your whole system, as well as in a greater oppression, accompanied with more tenderness and pain in your chest." 
                  "You think too much about this, mother," replied Margaret. "You give yourself needless alarm, by imagining things to exist which have no reality. I am not at all conscious of the increased liability to cold of which you speak." 
                  "But I tell you, my child, it does exist. I am older than you, and am a more careful observer. I know, and you know that I have to be exceedingly cautious how I expose myself. You remember how near to death's door I was, a year ago, from inflammation of the lungs, brought on by exposure and cold. Such serious effects did not formerly result from colds; but now, the susceptibility to inflammation is so great, that my life is endangered by any sudden exposure. At your age, I was in better health than you are, for I had, naturally, a better constitution. Then I had no one to counsel me, as you have-for my mother died young, of the fatal disease which she entailed upon me, and which I have entailed upon you-and I exposed myself as you are now exposing yourself. The consequence was that I not only injured myself, but injured my children. I am incurably diseased, and they have a predisposition to disease greater than I had. Now, judge for yourself whether I am not correct in saying that you have no right to abuse your health. I had no right to abuse my health, for such abuse would injure my children, as, alas! it has done. You expect to marry soon, and you have every reason to believe that you will have children. If in your body exist the seeds of an incurable disease, they will be sown in the bodies of your children. If you have a diseased body, you cannot give to them a healthy one. Pause, then, and reflect whether you have any right to curse your children with disease and premature death." 
                  The daughter sat silent, and the mother continued:-"I trust you will now see that you have a duty to others that cannot be disregarded. Think of yourself as the wife of the man to whom you have already given your affections. Ten or twelve years have passed since the day of your marriage, and this lapse of time has served only to prove the wisdom of your choice, and to unite you more closely to your husband. Children have blessed your union, and are springing up around you, and calling for your earnest and constant care, and drawing upon your tenderest affections. Will it add any thing to the happiness of this state, to see in your oldest child an undue sensitiveness to all external impressions, united with a predisposition to inflammation of the throat and lungs, that shows itself whenever the slightest cold is taken? Or to be yourself, from ill-health, unable to minister to the comforts of those who are best beloved, and for whom you would then be willing to make almost any sacrifice? And what is much worse than this may happen-and is more than likely to happen-death may snatch you away, and leave your innocent, helpless little children to be given into the care of others, who will not love them as you love them." 
                  The daughter still continued silent, and Mrs. Ellis, after a brief pause, added:- 
                  "It is now known that parents transmit to their children tendencies to both mental and bodily diseases, if they have these diseases in their minds and bodies. A child born of an unhealthy parent cannot have a perfectly healthy body; nor can a child born of a parent whose passions are not under proper control, have a healthy mind. If a mother, from want of proper reflection, and a disregard for the good of those who may be affected by her conduct, abuse and destroy her health, she will transmit to the minds of her children the same disregard of what is just and right that she has, and the same tendencies to bodily disease. Thus, she will curse her children with a double curse. Think of this, Margaret, and for the sake of the children that may one day gather around you, carefully preserve your health now; and, with equal, nay, greater care, seek to bring your mind under the control of right reason, that your children may inherit orderly instead of disorderly mental tendencies." 
                  The seriousness with which her mother spoke, more than her words, impressed the mind of Margaret, and made her, for a time, feel sober; but the effect was not strong enough to induce her to refrain from going to a ball that evening, although the air was damp and chilly, and she was but partially recovered from a recent cold. It was in the hope of dissuading her from going to this ball, that her mother had spoken so plainly. 
                  "If you will go, Margaret," said Mrs. Ellis, when her daughter left her room and came down dressed for the gay assembly, of which she was to make one, "I must insist on your protecting yourself as far as it can possibly be done. That shawl is too thin; you must wear your cloak." 
                  "But I am going in a carriage, mother." 
                  "In passing from the door to the carriage, both in going and returning, the cold air will penetrate to your very body, unless you have some better protection; and even in a close carriage, you need to be more warmly clad than this. Go, dear, and get your cloak." 
                  "It will be so much in my way, mother. I am sure this shawl will be warm enough. But, if you think not, I will wear my boa." 
                  "Oh, no! Don't think of that. You are hoarse now. A boa round your neck will only cause it to perspire, and the first breath of air that blows upon it will check this perspiration and increase the inflammation of your throat. You had much better go as you are." 
                  "I shall be warm enough. This shawl is thicker than you suppose. Feel it." 
                  But Mrs. Ellis shook her head and looked grave. 
                  "You'll spoil all my pleasure to-night, if you look so serious, mother," said Margaret. 
                  "And you will spoil all mine, if you do not pay more regard to your health. Surely," and the mother cast her eyes down as she spoke, "you are not going to wear those stockings! You might almost as well go without any." 
                  "They are thin, I know. But it is so much trouble to change your stockings after you get there; and, besides, in stepping from the door to the carriage, there is not the least danger of taking cold." 
                  All remonstrance proved vain. When Mrs. Ellis entered the parlour with Margaret, she said to the young man who was awaiting her daughter, and who was under an engagement of marriage with her: 
                  "Mr. Cranston, I wish you would try and teach this young lady a little prudence. She is going out, to-night, too thinly clad, and must inevitably take more cold. I want her to wear her cloak, but she thinks her shawl thick enough." 
                   
                  "Don't say a word, mother," laughingly retorted Margaret. "I am not quite so frail as you would make me believe I am. This shawl is abundantly warm. Come, Henry, I am ready. Good-night, mother! Don't sit up for me. I have a key, and can get in at any time." 
                  And so saying, the thoughtless young girl danced lightly from the room, and, springing from the street-door, was in the carriage in a moment. Mrs. Ellis sank down into a chair with saddened feelings, as soon as she was alone, and remained nearly motionless for fully half an hour. Then she arose, and slowly retired, still in deep abstraction of mind. 
                
                
                  SCENE SECOND. 
                  IT was far past the hour at which the weary head usually finds its pillow. The clock had struck twelve, one, and two, and the hands still moved steadily over the dial, approaching nearer and nearer to the third chime since the noon of night. But Margaret had not yet returned, and her mother sat alone, awaiting her arrival. More than twenty times had she aroused herself to listen to the sound of approaching carriage wheels, only to sink down with a feeling of disappointment, as they went rumbling by and were heard no more by her. 
                  At last, over-wearied, she laid her head upon the table at which she was sitting-in a few moments, her senses were locked in sleep. From this state of unconsciousness she was aroused by the hand of her daughter upon her arm. 
                  "Bless me, mother! It can't be possible that you have been sitting up for me all this time!" said Margaret, who had left her lover at the door and glided hastily in just as the clock was striking three. She spoke in a husky, whispering voice, that thrilled through the mother's frame, and instantly restored her lost consciousness to its fullest state of activity. Starting up, she looked eagerly into Margaret's face, and saw that her cheeks were deeply flushed, and that her eyes had lost their usual brightness. 
                  "You have stayed late, but that can't be helped now. How do you feel?" 
                  "Oh, very well," was replied with an effort to speak cheerfully and appear unconcerned: "only I am a little hoarser than I was," she added, conscious that she was only speaking in a whisper, "but that will be gone by morning. You know that the least cold makes me hoarse. But it's nothing. I shall be as well as ever to-morrow." 
                  Margaret saw, as she spoke, that the eyes of her mother were fixed penetratingly upon her. In spite of herself, she was forced to drop her own to the floor, while a flush of confusion passed over her face. 
                  "You breathe with difficulty," said Mrs. Ellis. "Have you no pain in your breast?" 
                   
                  "A slight pain in my side, and some pain here," placing her finger on the throat-pit. 
                  The mother took hold of her hand. 
                  "Your hand is like ice!" said she. "How are your feet?-cold?" 
                  "A little." 
                  "Go quickly up to your room and get into bed," said Mrs. Ellis, exhibiting the alarm and anxiety she felt. "I will fill some bottles with hot water and bring them up immediately to place at your feet. If it were not so late, I would have the doctor sent for." 
                  "You give yourself too much uneasiness, mother," returned Margaret. "There is no cause whatever for it. It is late, and I am a good deal fatigued. Having taken a little more cold, it can't be expected that I should feel perfectly well. But a few hours' sleep will restore me. By morning, I shall be as bright as ever." 
                  "I hope it may be so," was the mother's reply. "Go, and get into bed at once; and I will be with you in a few moments." 
                  In obedience to her mother's wishes, as well as her own inclinations, Margaret went up quickly to her chamber. Mrs. Ellis soon followed with the bottles of hot water, which were placed at her daughter's feet. It was time some remedial agent were applied, for not only were Margaret's hands and feet cold, but the chilliness had passed through her entire frame, and she was now shaking like one in an ague-fit. To overcome this, the mother used all the means within her reach. It was nearly day-dawn before Margaret found sufficient relief from the chilliness, pain, and general uneasiness with which she was affected, to sleep. Then she sank into an uneasy slumber, that was broken by frequent nervous starts, and attended by moanings and words incoherently spoken. Mrs. Ellis did not leave her chamber until morning, when she despatched a servant for their physician, with a pressing request for his immediate attendance. 
                  The doctor promptly obeyed the summons. He found the patient suffering from a high degree of inflammation of the larynx and trachea, attended by too evident indications of its rapid descent towards the lungs. Prescribing such treatment as he hoped would check this downward tendency of the disease, he left, promising to call in again in the afternoon. On his second visit, he found the family somewhat relieved in consequence of a subsidence of the hoarseness; but this, he was sorry to find, on examination, was a less favourable symptom than had been supposed. It indicated merely a change in the location of the disease from the larynx to the bronchia, where increased pain was felt. 
                  On the following morning, all the symptoms of an attack of acute pneumonia were apparent. The patient complained of great oppression and pain in the breast, that was increased by a full inspiration, also, in the side, with a sense of weight under the ribs. The hoarseness was nearly all gone, but in its place was a deep cough, that seemed to lacerate the breast at every concussion. She could not lie upon her left side at all, and only for a short time upon her right side, without considerable pain. Lying upon her back relieved the pain she felt, but this posture produced a feeling of suffocation. 
                  All the patient's symptoms gradually became worse. Her pulse, which was at first full and hard, became quick and sharp, her respiration more difficult, and the pains she experienced more severe. 
                  "Do you think her lungs affected, doctor?" the parents anxiously inquired, not understanding that every symptom she had, indicated a high state of inflammation in that vital organ. 
                  "There is some inflammation there," replied the doctor, evasively. 
                  "She is not so hoarse as she was," said the mother, speaking as if she supposed that at least to be a favourable symptom. 
                  "No, the hoarseness is better," was the physician's brief reply. Then quickly changing the subject, he gave some particular directions for their observance, and, taking up his hat, bade the anxious parents good-morning. 
                  In spite of all the physician's efforts, the disease continued to advance rapidly. By the end of a week, the bright colour of Margaret's cheeks changed to a livid hue. Her neck, face, and chest were constantly bathed in a cold and clammy perspiration; her countenance was anxious and distressed; her expectoration, though not abundant, was sometimes tinged with blood; she was so weak as to be unable to sit up in bed, or to speak without pain or a feeling of suffocation. Hope died in the hearts of the parents and friends. 
                  This low state continued for nearly two weeks, without much apparent increase or decrease in the most alarming symptoms, except that the patient's respiration, towards the end of this time, became easier, and she could speak with less pain. But neither herself nor parents were much encouraged to hope for a favourable termination of the disease. 
                  "Mother," said Margaret, in a low, feeble voice, as her parent sat holding one of her thin, white hands in hers, "I have thought a great deal, since I have been sick, of what you said on the night of that ball. Indeed, I have scarcely thought of any thing else. I did not clearly comprehend you then: but now it is as plain as if it were written out before me. You said I had no right to disregard my health, because its injury or entire loss would affect others as well as myself. How plain this is to me now! Have not you and all my best and nearest friends suffered most deeply on my account? And have I not brought disease upon myself, which, even if my life is spared, may leave me with an enfeebled constitution, and an inability to do for others the first and most imperative duties I owe them. How blind and thoughtless I have been!" 
                  Tears filled the eyes of the sufferer, and emotion checked her utterance. 
                  "Do not think of this, now, my child," returned the mother. "It can only disturb your mind and hinder your recovery. If, in the dispensation of a wise and good Providence, your life should mercifully be spared, I trust you will let the past time suffice wherein you have wrought folly, and be wise in the future." 
                  Margaret was about making a reply, when something rose in her throat, which she threw up with a slight effort. It was bright red blood! In a moment after her mouth was again filled, the effusion being rapid. She became deadly pale. 
                  "My good resolutions are all in vain," she murmured, the tears again coming to her eyes. "It is too late!" 
                  A hurried message was sent for the physician, who happened, fortunately, to be at home. He came immediately, and succeeded in checking the rapid flow of blood from the lungs, but not in stanching it altogether. The bleeding continued for several days, by which time Margaret was reduced so low, that none but her mother, the nurse, and physician were admitted to her chamber. But what had seemed a fatal change in the disease, proved to be a beneficial one. All inflammation subsided, and nature had only to heal the lacerations upon which the hemorrhage had depended, and aid the whole system in a return to health. This return was very slow, and, what was worse, proved to be only an imperfect one. The glow of health, which had given to the face of Margaret so much brightness and beauty, never came back, except as a hectic flush when something occurred to disturb the orderly performance in her body of all its functions. The least exposure to cold made her sick, with a slight or more serious oppression of the chest, pain, and cough; and all irregularities of diet, or fatigue, were visited with more or less evil consequences. Bitterly and with unavailing regret did she lament the folly that she had thus brought disease upon her, and which threatened to render not only her life a burden, but to hinder her from discharging her duties to others, and finally to abridge her life by many years. 
                  "Were you really in earnest, mother," said Margaret one day, after she was so far recovered as to be able to sit up and walk across her room, "when you spoke about parents transmitting to their children a predisposition to the particular diseases from which they suffered?" 
                  This question was asked after she had been sitting in deep thought for some time. 
                  "Deeply in earnest," replied Mrs. Ellis. "It follows from this immutable law in nature, that like produces like. As the quality of the cause is, such must and will be the quality of the effect. But look around you, and see for yourself. The mother of Helen Malcolm is now dying of consumption; and you know that Helen is so susceptible to coughs and colds, that she dares not venture out unless the weather be perfectly clear. No one expects her to live more than a few years. My mother died of consumption; I have a marked predisposition to that fatal disease; and I need not tell you that your lungs are peculiarly sensitive. In fact, no observant mind for a moment doubts this law." 
                  "Then to be born of consumptive parents is to have an inevitable entailment of disease and early death." 
                  "No, that does not follow. 
                  "But, if I understand aright, scarcely an instance occurs in which life is not materially shortened." 
                  "That is, in almost all cases, the fault of each individual who inherits a peculiar liability to pulmonary affections. If I had, from the time I became mistress of my own actions, carefully guarded my health, and not increased my natural predisposition to this disease, but rather overcome it, I would have escaped, and you would have been born with lungs less liable to inflammation than mine; and then, if you had, with equal care, preserved your health, your children would be born still less predisposed to consumption; and in your grandchildren, or at least in their children, were the same care for health observed, the tendency to this fatal disease would be lost. What a blessing this would be, I need not say! If such care had been exercised by our parents, they would have bestowed upon us a legacy far more desirable and far more valuable than silver and gold. From this you may see that no young person has a right to neglect her health-for in doing so, she sacrifices the happiness of her children, in entailing upon them the diseases that her own conduct has brought upon herself; and, it may be, so enervates her own constitution, that she is unable properly to discharge her duty to them. Early death is, too often, the fatal consequence that ensues, where a liability to consumption exists, and the mother is torn from her little ones at the very time when they are most bound up in her affections, and most need her care." 
                  A gush of tears was Margaret's answer to this. She realized, in imagination, too vividly the distressing picture which her mother had drawn, and felt too seriously her own irreparable folly. 
                
                
                  SCENE THIRD. 
                  TEN years have passed since the scene last introduced. It is in the pleasant month of June, and the day is nearly at its close. We will bring the reader into a chamber, where, elevated on pillows, reclines a mother, whose pale, thin face, large bright eyes, and laboured, almost gasping respiration, tell too plainly that her time upon earth is but brief. From great weakness, cough, and a gradual decay, she has been suffering for many years, and now, the feeble organism by which her mind has done its work in the natural world, is no longer able to act against the influent life of the soul, and is about to be laid aside, and the spirit ascend into the world of spirits. There would be nothing in this act of laying off the material body, to sadden the feelings, had the full time come, and all life's duties been performed. But, alas! in the instance we are about to contemplate, this is not so. Life's highest duties have but just begun. 
                  Five human beings are in that chamber, besides the dying mother. The husband and father, and four little ones, the oldest but nine years of age. Upon these pledges of a pure and holy love, the mother's eyes are fixed with an earnest, tearful intensity. 
                  "Oh! I cannot leave you all!" she murmured in her husband's ear; "I cannot give up my children to stranger-hands! Who can love them and care for them like a mother? Oh, no! God is merciful, and will not take me from my children." 
                   
                  But, even while she thus gave utterance to the feelings that were overpowering her, her breath grew feebler and her pulse lower. 
                  "Bring me my babe," she said, in a quick, earnest voice, as if she felt the hand of the destroyer laid coldly upon her heart, and was conscious that her moments upon earth were few. 
                  An infant but a few months old, lying in a calm deep slumber, was brought into the room and laid on a pillow beside her. It was a beautiful babe-pure and sweet as innocence itself. Long and earnestly did the mother look into its passionless face, a smile of love half forming itself around her lips, while the tears fell slowly from her eyes, and rested like dewdrops upon the infant's cheeks. The falling tears awakened the babe; its bright blue eyes opened, smiles dimpled over its cherub face, and its hands were lifted in gladness at beholding the countenance that was bent lovingly over it. Wildly did the mother clasp her infant to her bosom, while sobs convulsed her whole frame, and her moans of anguish filled the chamber. The nurse stepped forward quickly to remove the babe from her arms, but she refused to release it-binding it still more firmly to her breast. But, in a few moments her arms relaxed; the babe fell gently upon the pillow from which she had lifted it, and the mother sank back mute, unconscious, pulseless!" 
                  "Margaret!" exclaimed her husband, springing quickly forward, and bending down over her; but she heard him not. 
                  "Mother! mother!" called, in tearful alarm and anguish, the oldest child, clambering upon the bed; but the mother's ear was deaf. Never again would it thrill at the sweet sounds of children's voices. It heard not the moans and cries of anguish that filled the chamber whence the spirit had fled for ever, leaving behind its clayey tenement, cold, rigid, and senseless! 
                  Thus, in her very prime, was this young wife and mother snatched away from those who loved her with the deepest and purest love that warms the human breast. Thus was she torn from the babe in whom her very life seemed bound up; and thus was the fountain that nature had opened for the infant's sustenance, closed for ever. With seeming justice might one, who saw nothing beyond that chamber of death, with all its unexpressed and inexpressible anguish, charge with cruelty the great Disposer of events; but we, who have seen the causes to these sad consequences, are by no means surprised at the painful result. 
                  "You have no right to abuse your health, Margaret!" If, when this warning admonition was given with so much earnestness by her mother, Margaret Ellis could have looked into the future, how would she have shuddered at the scenes we have just contemplated with pain! But the future is wisely hidden from us, and reason given to be our guide. If we hearken to the voice of reason, all will be well; but if we disregard its admonitions, pain and suffering will inevitably follow. Sad, indeed, as we have seen, were the consequences that followed her abuse of health. But they stopped not here. In the bodies of her children she has sown the seeds of the same fatal disease that robbed her of life, and with a higher degree of vitality than she received them from her mother. 
                  The whole picture is one that fills the mind with sadness. Utterly disregarding all the warnings she received, Margaret Ellis, in the pursuit of her own pleasures, destroyed her health, and then assumed the high and important relations of a wife and mother, without the ability to discharge fully the obligations thus taken upon herself. Just as she is surrounded with children who need all her love and care-just at the time when she becomes her husband's very second self, and absolutely necessary to his happiness-the consequences of her folly reach their climax, and she dies! 
                  We draw the curtain over this scene. We wish to contemplate it no longer. To do so could not possibly furnish a stronger incentive to right conduct than must be felt by all who need to be more careful than they are in regard to health. 
                
                
                   
                  THE SEQUEL. 
                  A LOVELY girl, just entering her eighteenth year, sits by an open window, reading. She is deeply absorbed in her book, and notices not that the day is declining, and the air rapidly falling in temperature. Even the long sunny ringlets, that the freshening breeze, even and anon, blows across her book, convey to her mind no warning. Still she reads on, until aroused by an earnest and familiar voice. 
                  "My dear Florence, you mustn't sit by that open window! It might be your death! Don't you perceive that the air is much colder than it was an hour ago?" 
                  "So it is," answered the young girl, moving from the window, and slightly shivering as she felt a chill run over her body. "I was so interested in what I was reading, that I did not notice the change." 
                  As she arose and walked across the floor, she exhibited a tall and slender person, with a narrow chest, long and thin neck, and fine white skin. She was very beautiful, and her father's eyes rested upon her with pride, not unmingled with anxiety,-the last of four children, two of whom had died very young, and the third, after she had attained the age of womanhood and was just on the eve of marriage. Florence was as dear to her father as the apple of his eye. Inheriting from her mother, who had died many years before, a high degree of susceptibility to disease of the lungs, a disease that had snatched her sister away in the very spring-time of life, it was no wonder that her father loved her tenderly, at the same time that he felt most anxious in regard to her health. 
                  "You are not well, Florence," said her father, that evening, after having sat for some time with his eyes fixed upon her as she was reading. 
                  Florence drew herself up, and pressed her hand against her side. 
                  "No, father," she replied, "I do not feel very well." 
                  "What is the matter?" 
                  "I don't know; except that I feel hot here," laying her hand upon her breast, "and cannot take a long breath without pain." 
                  "You have taken cold. I was afraid of it, when I saw you sitting by the window, with the air blowing over you so freshly," said Mr. Cranston, (that was the father's name), manifesting a good deal of concern. "You had better go to bed, and I will step round and see the doctor." 
                  "I will go to bed, father," returned Florence, "but there is no reason in the world why you should see the doctor. I suppose I have taken some cold, but shall be well enough by morning." 
                   
                  Mr. Cranston said no more. But the moment his daughter withdrew, after bidding him a tender good-night, he took up his hat, and, leaving the house, moved down the street with hasty steps. He found the doctor, at whose office he called, within. 
                  "Is any thing the matter?" asked the physician, for he saw, by the expression of Mr. Cranston's face, that he was alarmed about something. 
                  "Oh, no, nothing serious, I hope," was replied. "When I came home this afternoon, I found Florence sitting by the open window, with the air, which had fallen several degrees in a few hours, blowing freshly over her. As she moved away, on my speaking to her, I noticed a slight shudder pass over her, as if she had been struck with a sudden chill. To-night she complains of burning in her breast, and cannot take a long breath without pain. I suppose it is nothing serious, but the slightest cold alarms me. You know, doctor, I have good cause for feeling as I do." 
                  This last sentence was spoken in a saddened voice. 
                  "Oh, no, I don't suppose it is any thing serious," the doctor replied, speaking cheerfully. "But in one naturally predisposed to inflammation of the chest and diseases of the lungs, as she is, slight colds, if neglected, may prove troublesome. It is better, therefore, always to meet the enemy in his first inroads, and subdue him. Suppose I call round and see Florence?" 
                   
                  "I wish you would, doctor. I think it will be much better." 
                  The doctor took up his hat and accompanied Mr. Cranston home. He found Florence rather worse than he had expected to find her from her father's description. Her symptoms indicated very considerable inflammation in her chest, although he was not able to determine its exact location. In the hope of subduing this inflammation before it could do any serious injury, he applied a blister along the sternum, and waited until next morning to see the effect produced by this treatment. But it did not prove as salutary as he had expected. The patient still complained of a pain that extended to her right shoulder, and which was greatly augmented if she attempted to take a deep inspiration. 
                  But it is not our intention to trace the progress of this disease. It is sufficient for our purpose to say, that without any very serious or long-continued illness on the part of Florence, the consequences of the cold taken at the window was such an irritation of her lungs-highly susceptible to disease from birth-as to cause the development of what are known to physicians as tubercles, or little nucle, that become in time the centres of so many abscesses, and ultimately cause such a destruction of the lungs as to produce death. When these are once formed, there is little, if any, hope of a cure. 
                  From this period, although Florence recovered in a short time from the acute symptoms produced by the cold, she never felt entirely well. In the course of a few months, a slight cough, from tickling in the chest, began to show itself, which at times was very troublesome. Sometimes her cheeks would be flushed, and her eyes deeply brilliant; and again, paleness would overspread her countenance, and her eyes become dull and almost expressionless. Her appetite also varied-at times being voracious, and then failing almost entirely. 
                  A year had scarcely passed, before weakening night-sweats made their appearance. The cough had increased, and was sometimes very severe, accompanied by only a scanty, mucous expectoration. Soon after this time, however, the cough became less severe, but the expectoration was fuller, and of a quality to indicate too plainly that the tubercles had become abscesses, and were now discharging themselves. 
                  From this period, all the worst symptoms increased. In the hope of relief from change of climate, Mr. Cranston took his daughter to Cuba. But this was of no avail. The disease was too deeply seated for climate to have any effect. In six months, he returned, hopeless and almost heart-broken. This was the last tie that bound him to life. The wife of his bosom and three children had already been taken from him, and now the last remaining one was about to be stricken down at his side. 
                   
                  But grief and painful anxieties availed not. Death had too surely marked his victim. Nor was he the only sufferer in view of this great bereavement. One worthy of his daughter's best affections-one for whom she was in every way fitted to make a loving companion through life-had won her heart. But he had a rival more powerful than himself-she was not destined to be his bride, but the bride of Death. 
                
             
             
               THE OVERPAID CHECK. 
               "I'LL tell you something, if you'll promise not to say any thing about it," said a young man named Wheeler, to a fellow-clerk named Watson. 
               "I'm no hand at keeping secrets," returned Watson, "so you'd better not tell me." 
               "Oh, yes, I will; but you mustn't say any thing about it. You know, I had a check for my quarter's salary to-day." 
               "Yes." 
               "It was for three hundred dollars. Now, look here." And, as Wheeler spoke, he opened a drawer of the desk at which he was writing, took out a small parcel of bank-bills, and commenced counting them over. The whole amount was eight hundred dollars. 
               "There is what I received for my check," said he, in a tone and with a glance of exultation. 
               "Eight hundred dollars!" remarked Watson, evincing surprise. 
               "Yes." 
               "I thought your check called for only three hundred dollars." 
               "So did I; but it seems the teller thought differently." 
               "Then he overpaid your check five hundred dollars." 
               "He did, and no mistake," replied Wheeler. "A'n't I lucky? No errors corrected out of bank, you know." 
               "But you don't intend keeping the money?" 
               "Yes, I do. Suppose the check had been for eight hundred dollars, and the teller had paid me but three hundred-would he have rectified that error? No, indeed! It's a poor rule that won't work both ways." 
               "How could he have made such a mistake?" 
               "Easily enough. The counter was lined with a dozen of persons waiting with their checks, when I handed up mine. You know how curiously Mr. Y-makes his figures; it's no great wonder that there should be mistakes sometimes. Now, what figure do you call that?" 
                
               The clerk pointed to a piece of paper which lay upon the desk. 
               "It is the figure three." 
               "Yet one might easily enough mistake it for an eight, if in a hurry." 
               "Oh, yes." 
               "Just such another figure was on my check." 
               "Then the teller was not so much to blame!" 
               "Oh, no! The mistake is by no means a surprising one." 
               "But you do not mean to take advantage of the error?" 
               "I certainly do. If it had been on the other side, would he have corrected it?" 
               "The loss will fall upon himself." 
               "I don't care where it falls; I'll get the advantage. A man doesn't meet with such good luck every day." 
               "Indeed, Wheeler, I think you're wrong," said his fellow-clerk, earnestly. "We should never seek to secure a good to ourselves through another's loss. The teller will lose five hundred dollars, unless you go forward and correct his mistake, and that will be a serious matter for him. You know he has a large family." 
               "Let him take better care another time; but I don't believe the bank will make him lose it." 
               "Even if they should not, the principle upon which you act is wrong." 
                
               "That for the principle," said Wheeler, snapping his thumb and finger. "When a man gets five hundred dollars in his grasp, it takes a large amount of principle to get the money out again. My principle is to hold on to all I can get." 
               The conversation between the two young men was interrupted at this point, and they separated to attend to various duties that were required of them. 
               "I hope you've thought better of it, and intend returning the five hundred dollars you drew out of the bank in mistake," said Watson, when he had an opportunity to speak again with Wheeler alone. 
               "You're very much mistaken," was the prompt reply. "I intend no such thing. No errors corrected out of bank; this is the rule, and it's as good on one side as on another. The banks made the rule, and let them abide by it. Didn't this very teller make a mistake of fifty dollars last winter, against a check paid to Anderson & Miller, and refuse to correct it? I know a good many instances of the same kind. Now I'll turn the tables on him, and he'll understand how it feels." 
               "You're wrong; depend upon it, you're wrong," answered Watson. "The teller refused to correct the alleged mistakes, because he did not know them to be such. But you know that you have received five hundred dollars, not your due, and that the loss will fall upon the individual who committed the error." 
                
               "You need not talk to me, Watson; I know what I'm about. I just wanted five hundred dollars, and the money has come in the nick of time." 
               Wheeler was in earnest, as his conduct proved. He kept the money, notwithstanding several persons, who came to know of the fact, urged him to do what was right; but it proved of no benefit to him, for he lost it all, and three hundred dollars besides, in an adventure made in one of his employer's ships, before the year was out. 
               About this time, the firm in whose service he was discovered that a system of peculation had been going on in their establishment, but were unable to trace the wrong to any particular clerk among the large number employed. Whole pieces of fine and costly goods disappeared mysteriously, and, on various occasions, the cash proved to be unaccountably short. Under these circumstances, a council of the firm was called, and the matter taken up seriously. 
               "I'm afraid," said one, during this interview, "that the young man in whom we have reposed so much confidence is not innocent in this matter." 
               "You don't mean Wheeler?" inquired a second member of the house, exhibiting marked surprise. 
               "I do," was answered. 
               "Impossible!" 
               "So I would have said yesterday; but I heard something this morning, that has altogether changed my opinion of him." 
                
               "What is it?" 
               "You remember the adventure upon which he lost so heavily?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Where do you think a large part of the money with which he bought the goods sent out came from?" 
               "He saved it from his salary, I presume." 
               "I believed the same; but now I learn that on one of the checks we gave him for a quarter's salary, the teller overpaid him five hundred dollars." 
               "And he kept it?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Then he is not honest." 
               "Of course, he is not. The act was just as dishonest as stealing." 
               "But are you certain of this?" 
               "John Phillips told me so this morning." 
               Phillips was a clerk in the establishment, and the real delinquent in the matter under investigation. He had become apprized of the act of Wheeler, and rightly judged that to give a hint of it to his employers would turn their attention from him and fix his guilt upon another, if his peculations were made the subject of investigation, as he had every reason to believe was about being the case. 
               "Can we believe him?" 
               "He says Andrew Watson knows it to be the case." 
                
               Watson, being questioned, fully confirmed the fact. Other evidence was added, establishing the matter beyond a doubt. 
               "It won't do to retain him in our employment," said one of the firm. 
               "No. But who would have dreamed of suspecting him? It is well we have not yet carried out our intention of establishing a house in Cincinnati. With him at the head of it, as was designed, we might have sustained a heavy loss." 
               Not the slightest evidence appeared against Wheeler. Still, there was the fact of his dishonesty in the matter of the check before the eyes of his employers, who were suffering loss from some one about their establishment. Their determination, after long debating the matter, and viewing it upon every side, was to inform him that they no longer had need of his services. Nothing could have more astounded the young man than did this announcement when it was made. His inquiry into the cause of his dismissal was not answered truly: something about the necessity of reducing expenses was alleged; and that was about all the satisfaction he received. 
               Being a most excellent salesman, and in every way competent to take charge of business, Wheeler received the offer of a situation at a thousand dollars a year, as soon as it was known that he had left his old place. This offer he accepted, although the salary was two hundred dollars less than the one he had been receiving. 
               In the house from which he was dismissed, Wheeler had been employed for ten years; he entered it as a lad of fifteen, and had always acted so as to secure the confidence and respect of every member of the firm. His expectations in life, so far as business matters were concerned, did not go beyond this house. A branch in Cincinnati had been for some time under contemplation, and it was understood that he was to have an interest in it, and it was to have an interest in it, and it was to be under his charge. His disappointment and mortification were, therefore, extreme. He knew that the cause assigned for his discharge was not the real one, for business had never been more active; and had he possessed a doubt on this subject, it would have been removed by the fact, that a few weeks after he left his old place, another clerk was engaged. 
               This reaction upon the young man's error, although he was ignorant of the fact that it was such a reaction, sobered his feelings very much. We say ignorant of the fact, still a thought of what he had done would occasionally cross his mind, and stir a latent suspicion of some connection between the over paid check and his loss of favour in the eyes of his old employers. The effect of this was to awaken a feeling of regret for having kept the money, which became, at length, so distinct an impression as to trouble him. 
                
               About a year after Wheeler had left his old place, the merchant in whose employment he was, said to him one day, on coming in from the bank, where he had been to attend to some business-"I'm sorry to hear bad news about Gardiner, the first teller in our bank." 
               "Ah! What is it?" inquired Wheeler. 
               "He has been detected in several false entries." 
               "It can't be possible! I have always believed him to be a very honest man." 
               "So have I. In fact, the circumstances are such as to show the existence of strong temptations." 
               "How much has he taken from the bank?" 
               "Only five hundred dollars have been discovered; and that, he says, is the full amount abstracted from the funds of the institution, and I am disposed to believe him." 
               "What could have possessed him to do so?" 
               "Very peculiar circumstances. He has a large family, and his expenses have been fully up to his income. About two years ago, he says that he overpaid to some one, five hundred dollars, which the institution required him to make good; it was deducted from his salary, at the rate of one hundred and twenty-five dollars a quarter. In the mean time, debt became the unavoidable consequence, and under its harassment, and goaded by the thought that the bank was unjust in laying the entire burden of the error upon him, when he was so little able to bear it, he yielded to the temptation, and made five false entries in the book, each for one hundred dollars. This is his account of the matter, and I believe and pity him." 
               "What course will the bank pursue?" inquired Wheeler, in so changed a voice that his employer looked at him curiously. 
               "Gardiner has been removed from his place, and his securities released. The directors, under the circumstances, voted to let the loss fall upon the bank; but while they pitied the young man, they could not retain him in so responsible a situation as the one he had occupied." 
               "Oh, dear!" fell from the lips of Wheeler, in a tone of distress, that was far more deeply-grounded in his heart than the merchant dreamed. 
               "I don't envy the feelings of him who received the temporary benefit from that poor clerk's error, when he comes to hear of the sad consequence that has followed," said Wheeler's employer, as he turned from the young man. How the words stunned the ears that heard them! 
               For days and weeks, little else but the thought of Gardiner's dismissal from the bank was in the mind of Wheeler. Most sincerely did he repent of what he had done, and with repentance came the wish to make restitution. While in this state of mind, Gardiner came into the store to see his employer and lay before him an offer to go into business which he had received. In order to form the connection, he must have a capital of five hundred dollars; but he had not a cent, was out of employment, and his family dependent for their daily bread upon the bounty of a relative. 
               "The offer is a very good one," said the merchant. "But can you furnish the capital?" 
               "No," was replied, "that is the difficulty." 
               "How do you think of obtaining it?" 
               "I know of no resource, unless those who do not think me really dishonest at heart, and who pity my misfortune, help me. Can I depend upon you for any aid?" 
               "I'm afraid not," replied the merchant. "I have need of every dollar it is possible for me to command." 
               Gardiner went away, looking sad and hopeless. Wheeler did not hear what he had said, but he was painfully affected by the expression of his countenance. 
               "Poor fellow!" said the merchant, after Gardiner had retired. "I pity him, but I can't risk my money on one who has proved himself dishonest, even though it were under strong temptation. He has a capital offer to go into business, if he had only five hundred dollars to invest, but he will find it difficult to raise that sum; at least, from people who know any thing of his short-comings while in the bank." 
               Wheeler heard this, but said nothing. He was naturally fond of money, and ardently desired to accumulate property. He made it a rule never to spend over half of his salary, and, in consequence, always had money laid up in bank, invested in good stocks, or accumulating by means of such business operations as he could enter into without interfering with his regular duties as a clerk. His ultimate intention was to commence business himself as soon as he had saved about five thousand dollars, unless a good connection in some well-established house offered before that time; towards this object he had already accumulated nearly two thousand dollars. Although he had lost, in an unsuccessful adventure, the five hundred dollars obtained through the teller's error, yet the thought of restitution came into his mind; he felt that Gardiner's misfortune lay at his door-that he had injured him beyond all hope of full reparation. But his strong love of money, and ardent desire to accumulate a sufficient sum of money to justify him in commencing business for himself, arose in opposition to the honest and generous impulse. Then came a warm debate in his mind between selfishness and just principles, which went on for several days, during which time he was much disturbed. To restore the five hundred dollars was to put off for at least a year beyond the time when he expected to get into business, the period he so anxiously wished to arrive, and his heart sank at the thought. Then came the question whether the money, if restored, should go to Gardiner or the bank. This was soon settled, however, on the side of the former, against whom the wrong had been done, and who had been so great a sufferer in consequence. 
               It was nearly two weeks before the mind of Wheeler came to a full decision; it was in favour of justice. After deciding, he acted quickly. Five hundred dollars worth of stock was sold, and the money sent to Gardiner in a letter, to which, of course, there was no signature. He then felt more comfortable in mind, especially as Gardiner immediately closed with the pending offer, and came into a business that, while it gave him a comfortable living for the present, promised well for the future. 
               A few months after this, his old employers were waited upon by the merchant whom he was serving as a clerk. 
               "I wish," said the latter, "to ask you one or two questions about Wheeler. I have thought, for some time, of offering him an interest in my business; but before doing so, it seemed but right that I should see you and ask the reason why you did not retain him in your employment. It could not have been for want of ability or attention to business." 
               "No. Few young men have his capacity," was replied. 
               "Then you had a reason for dispensing with his services beyond this?" 
                
               "We certainly had." 
               "May I be permitted to inquire what it was?" 
               "Yes; and under the circumstances, we cannot withhold a candid answer. You know that Gardiner, the paying-teller in the-Bank, lost his place for abstracting five hundred dollars to make good his own loss in consequence of having overpaid that sum on a check." 
               "Yes; and I have pitied him very much. His was rather a hard case. The scoundrel who took advantage of his mistake, if known, should meet with the execration of all honest men." 
               "We are sorry to say that Wheeler was the man who drew the check." 
               "Wheeler?" 
               "Yes. On a check of three hundred dollars, received for his quarter's salary, Gardiner paid him by mistake eight hundred, and he kept the money." 
               "And for this you discharged him from your house." 
               "Yes, as soon as we were apprized of the fact, which was nearly a year after it occurred." 
               "Did you tell him the reason?" 
               "No; we didn't care to do that." 
               "He's not an honest man," said the merchant, on learning this; "and, of course, not worthy of confidence. So far from connecting myself with him in business, I shall hardly deem it prudent to retain him about me, even in his present capacity." 
                
               And on this view he acted. From that time, Wheeler's situation was rendered so unpleasant, that in the course of a few months he gave it up and sought another place. 
               Again he had felt the reaction of his error, without comprehending from whence the effect proceeded. He did not know how much he had lost in seeking to gain five hundred dollars dishonestly. 
               Tenderly attached had Wheeler been for two or three years to a beautiful and affectionate young lady, whose connections embraced many families of wealth and influence. Her name was Adeline Burton. As her uncle, with whom she resided, was a man of some property, and she was living in a style of more elegance than Wheeler could support, he had delayed urging a marriage until he could get into business. But he saw one young man after another, by far less capable and experienced than himself, selected by men of capital as partners, or introduced into firms to which they had formerly held a clerk's relation, while he was passed by most unaccountably. A feeling of discouragement came over him; he saw no light in the future. Anxious to lead to the altar the one he loved, he yet hesitated; for he could not think of removing her from her pleasant home into one at all inferior, or wanting in the elegances with which she was familiar. 
               While hesitating whether to ask his betrothed, for such was the relation Adeline bore to him, to name an early day for their marriage, he observed a sudden change in her manner towards him. While pondering this strange circumstance, he was astounded by the receipt of all his letters and little souvenirs, and a cold request to have hers returned. Indignant at such faithlessness, he sent back what she desired, without a word of reply, either verbal or written. But the circumstances seemed to stun him. He had loved Adeline with a most earnest affection, and in all his dreams of his future life, her image had been beautifully blended. The blow was a heavy one, and saddened his heart for life. Soon after, he left the East and removed to a Western city. 
               Ten years had elapsed, and then Wheeler came back for the first time since he had gone away. On the little sum he had saved from his earnings, he had commenced a small business in a far-off Western town. Gradually this grew into importance, and now it became necessary to visit the East, in order to purchase a stock of goods. Hitherto he had supplied himself either in Cincinnati or Pittsburg. In the old place, he found every thing changed. Scarcely a familiar countenance met him as he walked the streets, and in the business portions of the city only here and there did he observe the "signs" of other times. Gardiner, the once unfortunate bank-teller, had become a prosperous merchant, and was considered to be worth fifty or sixty thousand dollars. This fact he learned with pleasure. 
                
               Wheeler did not ask for Adeline. He could not trust himself to speak of her to any one, for not yet had her beautiful image faded from his memory. Once truly beloved, and never proved unworthy of his heart's best affections, he had not been able to forget her; yet, having been rejected without a reason, he had never felt inclined to ask for one, nor to seek a renewal of the old relations. For all he had learned to the contrary, she had become, years before, the bride of another. 
               After remaining a few days in the city and making some purchases, he prepared to leave for the West. On the day previous to his intended departure, while passing along the street, he came suddenly upon Adeline Burton. The lady started, paused slightly, and then went hurriedly on. Her face was thin, and wore a look of suffering and resignation; she turned very pale when she saw him. 
               Wheeler was deeply agitated by this apparition. He did not leave the city on the next day, as he had intended; it was impossible for him to go now, until he had obtained an interview with Adeline, who had not, as he learned, given her vows to another. After lying awake nearly all night, thinking over the course best to pursue, he finally determined to see her uncle, and plainly ask the reason why Adeline had, years before, broken the engagement into which she had entered. Upon this resolution he acted. The uncle received him with chilling formality; but, not repulsed by this, Wheeler came at once to the object of his visit. 
               "Ten years ago, sir," said he, calmly, "your niece, to whom I was engaged in marriage, broke her contract with me, and without assigning any reason. I asked none, and to this day have remained ignorant of her motives; but I now feel a wish to know them. Will you do me the justice to give me the information I seek?" 
               "Certainly," replied the uncle; "if you desire to learn what influenced Adeline, I see no reason why you should not be gratified." 
               "Speak, then; I am prepared to hear." 
               "You remember Gardiner, the teller in the-Bank?" said the uncle. 
               A deep crimson instantly covered the face of Wheeler, and his eyes remained for some moments cast upon the floor. When he looked up, his countenance was composed. 
               "Yes," he replied, "I remember Gardiner very well, for I have cause. I understand it all now. Adeline was told that I unjustly withheld from the bank five hundred dollars received in mistake?" 
               The uncle bowed gravely. 
               "And for this she rejected me?" 
               "She did, and I must say with good cause." 
               "Perhaps so," said Wheeler. "Yet may not a man repent of a wrong act?" 
               "Oh, yes. But we will judge of the quality of this repentance by his efforts to repair the injury he has wrought." 
               "True. And now will you do me the justice to see Gardiner, and ask him if he did not, more than ten years ago, receive from an unknown hand the sum of five hundred dollars?" 
               "Then you restored the money?" 
               "I did. But see him; put the question to him. Then go to the-Bank, and ask the cashier if, seven years ago, he did not receive a letter from the West, covering a remittance of five hundred dollars to be placed to the credit of Gardiner, in liquidation of the deficit remaining in his account." 
               "That would be restitution twofold," said the uncle of Adeline. 
               "And it has been made," returned Wheeler, speaking with much warmth. "But do me the justice to prove the truth of what I have said. Tomorrow, I will see you again." 
               Saying this, Wheeler arose and retired. On the next day, when he called again upon the uncle of Adeline, his reception was very different. His hand was grasped warmly the instant he came in. 
               "I have seen both Gardiner and the cashier," said the uncle, "and it is all as you say. Gardiner, having done well in business, offered, some years ago, to make good his short-comings at the bank, but your remittance had anticipated him; and he now sends you this check for five hundred dollars as a return of the loan you made him ten years ago." 
               "I cannot receive it," was the prompt reply of Wheeler. 
               "But Gardiner will not feel happy if you refuse." 
               "And I will not feel happy if I accept. But let us waive that now; there is something else nearer my heart. It was for this cause that Adeline turned from me?" 
               "It was." 
               "Has she loved another since?" 
               "No. She has received three or four advantageous offers, but rejected them all." 
               "Do you object to my seeing her again?" 
               "No. You committed a grievous error; but you have seen that it was wrong, and have repaired the injury to the best of your ability. None can ask more than this. All are liable to do wrong, yet few sincerely repent." 
               "Are you willing to inform Adeline, before I see her, of all you have just learned?" 
               "That has already been done." 
               "It has?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Will she see me?" 
               "I will ask her, if you desire it." 
               "This evening, I will call at your house," said Wheeler. "Inform Adeline of my wish to see her, and tell her, that since the unhappy hour she turned from me, I have not ceased to think and pray for her." 
               That evening, Wheeler called, as he proposed to do. After sending up his name, he sat awaiting the appearance of either Adeline or her uncle for nearly five minutes. Then he heard footsteps on the stairs. A few moments of suspense, and the loved one of many years entered, leaning upon the arm of her relative. Her countenance was pale, yet in her eyes was the light of other times. Wheeler stepped quickly forward to meet her, and she received his extended hand, and returned its warm pressure. While they yet stood, mutely gazing upon each other, the uncle retired, and they were left alone. What passed between them, we will not record. Enough, that two weeks afterwards, Adeline was on the way to a new home in the West. 
             
             
                
               THE TWO ACTS; OR, "THEY HAVE THEIR REWARD." 
               "NO, indeed! I shall do no such thing," said Mrs. Lionel to her husband, who had come home with the intelligence that a cousin of his, a widow, had died suddenly, and left a little girl, three years old, whom he proposed that his wife should adopt and raise as her own-they having no children. But she gave a decided negative on the spot. 
               "She is a sweet, interesting child," urged Mr. Lionel. "You will soon get attached to her, and be more than repaid, in the new affection awakened in you heart, for all the care and trouble she may occasion." 
               "It is of no use to talk to me, Mr. Lionel," returned the lady, in a positive tone of voice. "I know all about the care and trouble, and am not willing to take it upon myself. As I have no children of my own, I am not disposed to take the burden of other people's. So it is useless for you to press this subject; for I will never consent to what you propose." 
               "If you feel in that way, I shall certainly not urge the matter," said her husband. "Though, as far as I am concerned, it would give me great pleasure to adopt Aggy, who is a charming little creature. I wish you could see her." 
               "I have no particular desire. All children are alike to me. As to the beauty, that is a poor compensation for the trouble. So I must beg to be excused." 
               Mr. Lionel said no more on the subject. He was exceedingly fond of children, and never ceased to regret that he had none of his own. 
               In two or three instances before, he had endeavoured to prevail upon his wife to adopt a child; but she had, each time, firmly declined. She had very little affection for children herself, and was not willing to take the care and trouble that she saw would necessarily be involved in the adoption of a child. The little girl who, by the death of his cousin, had been left homeless and apparently friendless, was a sweet young creature, whom to look upon was to love. Mr. Lionel had never seen her without a warming of his heart toward her, and a secret wish that she were his own instead of another's. The moment he heard of his cousin's death, he determined to adopt Agnes, or Aggy, as she was called, provided his wife were willing. But Mrs. Lionel was not willing. She was too selfish to love any thing out of herself. A thought of the child's good-of giving a home to the homeless-of being a mother to the motherless-never crossed her mind. She only thought of the trouble the little orphan would give. 
               The insuperable difficulty in the way of adopting Aggy as his own, did not destroy the interest which Mr. Lionel felt in her. He considered it his duty to see that she was provided with a good home, and was willing to be at the cost of her maintenance, if necessary. His first thought had been to adopt the child, and until that was understood to be out of the question, he had thought of nothing else in regard to her. How she was to be disposed of, now that his wife had definitely settled the matter against him, became a new subject of reflection. After due deliberation, he concluded to see a distant relative on the subject, with whom, since his marriage, he had held but little familiar intercourse, although he had entertained for her a high respect. The reason of this was the cold, proud, unsocial temper of his wife, who rather looked down upon his relatives, because their standing in society was not, as she considered it, quite as high as hers had been and still was. Necessarily, such a disposition in his wife would prevent intimate social intercourse between Mr. Lionel and his relatives, notwithstanding his regard for them might continue as high as before his marriage. 
               The relative to whom reference has just been made was a lady whose husband, a very estimable man, was in moderately good circumstances. They had three children of their own, the youngest of which was nearly ten years of age. From his appreciation of Mrs. Wellford's character, Mr. Lionel, who, from thinking of Aggy as his adopted child, began to love her almost as much as if she were really his own, felt a strong desire that she should take the orphan. He had not seen her for a couple of years when he called upon her to talk about the matter. A little to his surprise, Mrs. Wellford, when she met him in the parlour, entered leading Aggy by the hand. 
               "Dear little creature!" said he, taking the child in his arms and kissing her, as soon as he had shaken hands with Mrs. Wellford. "I am glad to see you in such good hands. It is about this very child, Mary," he added, "that I have come to talk with you. What is to be done with her?" 
               "I don't know," returned Mrs. Wellford. "She must have a home somewhere among us. The dear child! Any body could love her. Have you thought of taking her?" 
               "If I were to consult my own feelings and wishes, I should adopt her as my own child immediately. But I am not at liberty to do this, and therefore must not think about it. I am willing, however, to be at the entire cost of her maintenance and education, if you will undertake the care of her. What I can do, I will do with all my heart." 
               "We have already talked seriously about adding ing Aggy to our little household," replied Mrs. Wellford. "And if no one else offers to do so, we will keep her, and do for her the same as if she were our own. It will bring more care and anxiety for me, which, as my health is not good, will be felt; but if not better provided for, it will be my duty to take the place of her mother, and I will assume the office cheerfully." 
               "But at my charge," said Mr. Lionel. 
               "No," replied Mrs. Wellford. "A mother accepts no pay for her duty. It is a labour of love, and brings its own sweet reward. Though Providence has not given us wealth, yet we have enough, and I think as much to spare as this dear child will need. For your kind wishes and intentions for Aggy, I will thank you in her stead. I thought, perhaps, as you had no children, that you might wish to adopt her; but as this cannot be, it will doubtless fall to our lot." 
               Mr. Lionel went home feeling less satisfied with his wife's spirit and temper-so strongly contrasted as it was with that of Mrs. Wellford-than he had felt for a long time. 
               "She will have her reward," he murmured to himself, "and, as she said, justly, it will be sweet." This was in allusion to Mrs. Wellford, who had called the mother's duty she was about assuming, a labour of love. 
               Little Aggy scarcely felt the loss of her parent. The love she had borne her mother was transferred to her aunt, as Mrs. Wellford was called, so early that no void was left in her heart. It took but a little while for each member of the family to feel that Aggy had a right to be among them, and for Mr. and Mrs. Wellford to love her as their own child. 
               Years rolled by, and brought many unlooked-for changes both to Mrs. Lionel and Mrs. Wellford. Both had been subjected to afflictions and reverses-the severest, perhaps, that ordinarily fall to the lot of any-for both were widows, and both friendless and poor. As for Mrs. Wellford, she had not only lost her husband, but all her children were taken, and she was left alone in the world with the orphan Aggy. But she, grown into a lovely young woman, nestled closer to her side and into her very bosom; though not with a helpless, but in a sustaining spirit. Death, though he had robbed Mrs. Wellford of much, had still left her much. Bereaved as she had been, she was neither lonely not sad. How different was the case of Mrs. Lionel! After the death of her husband, and the total loss of her property, she fell back at once from her advance position in the social rank, into neglect, obscurity, and want. For the very means of subsistence, exertion became necessary. But what could she do for a living, who had, in her whole life, done scarcely a useful thing-who had been little better than a drone in the social hive? Nothing! Or, if there was small ability, there was pride enough remaining to prevent its exercise. 
               After her husband's death, which followed shortly after the reverses that stripped him of all worldly possessions, Mrs. Lionel retired into the family of a poor relative, who had been little thought of in brighter days, and who, although she did not wish to receive her, could not close her door in her face. A sad spectacle she was. Shut up in the little chamber that was assigned her, she never went out, and only met the family she was burdening with her presence at the table, and then with an aspect so gloomy and reserved, as to throw a chill over the feelings of all. 
               For a short period, Mrs. Lionel paid a small sum for her board, but no very long time passed before all her money was exhausted, and she became absolutely dependent upon a poor woman distantly related to her, whose only means of support was her personal labour and that of her daughter. 
               After the death of her husband and children, Mrs. Wellford, who was left quite as poor as Mrs. Lionel, began to look around her for some means of securing an income for herself and Agnes, whom she loved, now that all the rest were gone, with a tenderness that equalled the sum of her love for all. But what to do, was a difficult thing to determine. As a young girl, her education had been very plain; she could not, therefore, resort to teaching in any branch, for she had not the requisite ability. Sewing always gave her a severe pain in the breast and side, so that whatever might be her skill in needlework, she was precluded from resorting to it as a means of obtaining money. 
               "I think," said she to Agnes, after looking at the subject in every possible light, "that there is but one thing left for me to do." 
               "What is that, aunt?" inquired Agnes. 
               "Taking a few boarders. I could attend to them." 
               "It will be very hard work," suggested the niece, "too hard for you. No, no, aunt, that will not do; look what a slave's life Mrs. Minturn has. Don't think of it." 
               "I must do something, you know, Aggy dear; in a little while, all our money will be gone. I have thought of every thing, but my mind comes back to this at last. I don't like the thought of it, but it is right for me to exert myself, and I must do so without a murmur." 
               "Haven't you yet thought of any thing that I can do?" asked Agnes, in a cheerful voice. "I am sure that I can do something," she added, confidently; "and I am younger, and have better health than you have." 
               "I cannot think, my dear child," said Mrs. Wellford, with much earnestness in her voice, "of your being exposed to the world's rough contact; you are too young." 
                
               "The contact you seem so to dread cannot hurt me, aunt," returned Agnes. "To the pure, all things are pure. If I have in me a right spirit, the world cannot hurt me." 
               "But I cannot bear the thought of seeing you, in the very spring-time of life, when all along your path should grow up flowers to fill the air with perfume, chained like a slave to the car of labour. No, no, Aggy, it must not be; I can do all that is required. If I fail, then it will be time enough to call upon you for aid." 
               Pride as well as affection reigned in the breast of Mrs. Wellford. She could not bear the thought of seeing Agnes engaged in any kind of labour for money. She was fully capable of giving instruction in many things, and of securing thereby a fair income; but her aunt would not hear to her seeking for employment. 
               "Aunt is wrong," said Agnes to herself, when alone, soon after the interview, in which Mrs. Wellford declared it as her belief that the only thing left for her to do was to take a few boarders. "I ought not to see her do this." She sat thoughtful for a few moments, and then added aloud-"And I will not see her do it. I have received every thing from her, and now is the time for me to make some return. But what shall I do? Where shall I seek for employment?" 
               Half an hour after she had asked herself these questions so earnestly, Agnes picked up a newspaper, and the first thing that met her eyes was an advertisement for a person to give lessons in music and one or two modern languages to three young ladies, for which a liberal compensation would be paid. Without saying a word to her aunt, Agnes put on her things and went to the place mentioned in the advertisement. The house before which she paused was a very large one, in a fashionable part of the city; every thing around it indicated a wealthy owner. For a few moments, she felt timid, and hesitated about presenting herself; but she soon regained her self-possession, and made the application for which she had come. 
               A middle-aged woman, of mild and ladylike deportment, met he on being shown into one of the apartments of the house. 
               "I believe you advertised for a teacher," said Agnes, speaking in a low, trembling voice. She found herself more agitated than she had expected. 
               "We did," replied the lady, "and have already received several applications, though none of those who have answered the advertisement suit us in all respects. And I am afraid that we shall hardly find all that we desire in you." 
               There was nothing in the way this was said to hurt the feelings of Agnes, but rather to make her feel more free to speak. 
                
               "Why do you think I will not suit?" she asked, looking earnestly into the lady's face. 
               "Because you are too young. You cannot be over seventeen years of age." 
               "I am nineteen," returned Agnes. 
               "But even that is too young. We wish a person of some experience, and of the first ability. I will not question your ability, but you certainly cannot have much experience in teaching. Have you ever given lessons in music?" 
               "Not yet; but I wish to do so, and believe that I could give satisfaction." 
               "Then you have never been engaged in teaching at all?" 
               "No, never." 
               "I hardly think you would suit us." 
               The countenance of Agnes fell so suddenly that the lady's sympathies were awakened, and she said, "Are you very desirous of securing a situation as teacher?" 
               "Desirous above all things," replied Agnes, with much earnestness. 
               The lady continued to ask question after question, until she understood fully what was in the young girl's mind. She then appreciated her more highly, although she did not believe her fully qualified to give the instruction that was desired. Agnes, who gained confidence the more she conversed with the lady, at length urged that she might have a trial. 
                
               "But suppose, after we give you a trial, that you do not suit us; we shall find it hard to send you away." 
               The force of this objection was fully appreciated by the lady when she uttered it, for already she felt so drawn toward the young girl with whom she was holding the interview, that her feelings were fast getting the control of her judgment. 
               "I am sure I will suit you," replied Agnes, "for I will give the most untiring attention to my duties." 
               The lady looked at her beautiful young face, lit up with the earnestness of a true purpose, and felt as she had never before felt for a stranger. She addressed her a few words in French, to which Agnes replied in the same language. 
               "Your accent is certainly very correct. Now let me hear you perform something on the piano," she said. 
               Agnes went to the instrument, and, after selecting a piece of music, sat down and ran her fingers gracefully over the keys. The lady stood by to listen. Soon the young girl was in the midst of a beautiful but familiar composition, which she executed with unusual taste and brilliancy. Her touch was exquisite, and at the same time full, and, where required, bold and confident. 
               "Admirable!" she heard uttered in a low voice just behind her, as she struck the last note in the piece. It was not the voice of a woman. 
                
               She started and turned quickly. More auditors than she had supposed were present. A young man and three beautiful young girls stood listening behind their mother; they had been attracted from an adjoining room by the music, so far superior to any thing ordinarily heard. A deep crimson overspread the sweet young face of Agnes, heightening up every native charm. The young man instantly retired, and the mother introduced her to her daughters, who were in love with so lovely an instructress, and threw their voices at once in her favour. These voices but seconded the mother's prepossessions. 
               "Nothing has yet been said about compensation," remarked the lady to Agnes, after she had requested the girls to leave them again alone. "We are willing to pay liberally, if we can get the person we want. At present, I feel strongly in favour of giving you a trial. If, after thinking over the subject, it is concluded to do so, your salary will be four hundred dollars. Do you think that will meet your wishes?" 
               "Fully," replied Agnes, with an emotion that she could scarcely conceal. The sum was larger than she had expected. 
               "Of course, I would like to be at home every night with my aunt," said she. 
               "To that we should make no serious objection. To-morrow morning I will be prepared to give you an answer." 
                
               Agnes retired with a heart full of hope, yet trembling lest something should prevent the engagement she was so eager to make. She said nothing to her aunt, who, bent on taking boarders, started out on the ensuing morning to look for a house suited for that purpose. As soon as she was gone, Agnes went with a trembling heart to hear the decision that was to be made in favour or against her application. It was favourable. 
               On going home, she found that her aunt had not yet returned, nor did she come back for two hours; then she was so worn down with fatigue, that she had to go to bed. A cup of tea revived her; but her head ached so badly, that she did not get up until late in the afternoon, when she was better. 
               "I have found a house, Aggy," said she, as soon as she felt like alluding to the subject, "that will just suit. The owner is to give me an answer about it to-morrow." 
               "If looking for a house has made you sick enough to go to bed, aunt," returned Agnes, "how can you expect to bear the fatigue of keeping boarders in the house after you have taken it? You must not think of it. In two good rooms, at a light rent, we can live very comfortably, and at an expense much lighter than we have at present to bear." 
               "Yes, Agnes, comfortably enough, if we had the ability to meet that expense; but we have not. You know that there is no income." 
                
               "There has been none, but"- 
               "But what, dear?" Mrs. Wellford saw that there was something more than usual in the mind of Agnes. 
               "Forgive me, dear aunt," said the affectionate girl, throwing her arms around the neck of her relative; "but I cannot see you, at your time of life and in ill-health, compelled to toil as you propose. I have, therefore, applied for and secured a situation in a private family, as a teacher of music and languages to three young ladies, for which I am to receive a salary of four hundred dollars a year." 
               While Mrs. Wellford was looking for a house, and after she had found one, the fatigue and pain she suffered led her more fully to realize than she had done before, the great labour, with a doubtful result, that she was about taking upon herself. She was, therefore, just in the state of mind to receive the unexpected communication made by Agnes. 
               "You are a good girl," she merely replied, kissing her as she spoke. 
               "And you do not object?" eagerly asked the niece. 
               "How can I?" responded Mrs. Wellford, leaning her head down upon the shoulder of Agnes. In a few moments she said, as she looked up, with tears glittering on her eyelashes-"May Heaven reward you!" And turning away, she left Agnes to her own happy thoughts. 
                
               Six months from this time, as Mrs. Lionel sat alone in her room, gloomy and sad, the woman with whom she was living, and upon whom she still laid herself a heavy burden, came in where she was, and said-"Did you know that your niece, Agnes Wellford, was married yesterday to a son of one of the richest men in town?" 
               "No; it can't be!" quickly replied Mrs. Lionel. "Mr. Wellford died not worth a dollar, and his widow has ben as poor as poverty ever since." 
               "No, not quite that," said the woman. "Agnes has supported her comfortably by teaching music. I heard the whole story this morning. Mrs. Wellford wanted to keep boarders, but Agnes wouldn't hear to it, and, against her aunt's wishes, went out and applied for a place as teacher to three young ladies in a wealthy family, for which she was to receive a salary of four hundred dollars a year. She had not taught long before the brother of the young ladies fell in love with her, to which no very strong objection was made by his friends; and now they are married." 
               "And what of Mrs. Wellford?" was eagerly inquired. 
               "They go to housekeeping forthwith, and Mrs. Wellford is to live with them." 
               Mrs. Lionel clasped her hands together, and sinking back in her chair, murmured-"Oh, what an error I committed!" 
                
               "How?" inquired the woman. But Mrs. Lionel did not answer the question. 
               She had her reward, and Mrs. Wellford had hers. 
             
             
               THE LOTTERY TICKET. 
               TWO young storekeepers, whose capital in trade was rather small, and who daily saw excellent opportunities for making money pass unimproved for want of the means to embrace them, sat conversing about their future prospects. Their names were Felix Granger and Ellis Day. 
               "If I could only raise five or six thousand dollars somewhere," remarked the former, "I could double the sum in two years." 
               "So could I, easily," returned Day. "But that amount of money is not to be picked up readily. One thing, I am making a good living and slowly improving my condition, and I suppose I ought to be content. In the end, if all goes on as it has begun, I shall accumulate, I hope, enough to live upon." 
               "It's too slow work for me. I feel like a man trying to run with clogs upon his feet. The fact is, I must have more capital from somewhere. I'll tell you what I've more than half made up my mind to do." 
               "What?" 
               "Buy a ticket in the lottery, and try my luck. Prizes may be drawn every day, and why may not I meet with good fortune?" 
               Day shook his head. 
               "What's your objection?" asked Granger. 
               "I don't believe that any good ever came of meddling with lotteries." 
               "Why?" 
               "In the first place, the chances are all against drawing a prize. Not more than one in a hundred is successful; and yet the ninety-nine who draw blanks are just as full of hope for the prize as he who draws it, and are just as much diverted from right business thoughts during the time that elapses between the purchase of the ticket and the drawing of the lottery. The loss of the drawer of the blank is not alone the loss of his money. He loses in his business, often seriously, from the diversion of thought that must accompany the suspense he is doomed for a time to feel. Instead of applying himself diligently to the doing of what his hands find to do in his daily employments, he is thinking about the use he will make of his money, if he should be so fortunate as to draw a prize. And in the second place, if he should succeed in getting a lucky number, he will be almost certain to lose all that he has gained, and more besides, in trying for another and a higher prize." 
               "Trust me for that," returned Granger. "Let me once get my fingers upon five, ten, or twenty thousand dollars, and you won't find me meddling with lottery tickets." 
               "I wouldn't trust any man," said Day. 
               "Not even yourself?" 
               "No, not even myself." 
               "Wouldn't you buy a ticket if you knew you would draw a prize?" 
               "As that is supposing what cannot be, I will answer neither in the affirmative nor negative. But my own impression is, that money obtained by means of lotteries never does any good." 
               "Why not?" 
               "For this reason: Money is a standard of value, and passes in society as a representative of some kind of property; which is a thing in itself useful to mankind-as houses, lands, produce, manufactures, etc. When we receive money in business, it represents a benefit we have conferred upon another. But when money comes through a lottery, it does not correspond to any benefit conferred, but is actually the correspondent of injury done to others; for hundreds have lost, that one might gain. If a man in business accumulate ten thousand dollars, that sum has been received from perhaps more than a thousand different sources, in return for wants supplied plied; but, if a man draw ten thousand dollars in a lottery, he has received from a large number of persons their one, or two, or ten dollars, without making them any return. Nothing has been produced; no want supplied. Society has been in no way benefited, but actually injured. The whole proceeding, from beginning to end, has been disorderly and detrimental. And I cannot but believe that the money so obtained will prove more a curse than a blessing; and this, because I hold that all evils in society react with pain against those who practise them." 
               "Give me ten thousand dollars and I will run all such risks," said Granger. "Somebody will get the prize, and I might as well have it as any one. Come! Join me in a ticket. I have been looking over a first-rate scheme, which is to be drawn day after tomorrow." 
               But Day shook his head, and said "No," firmly. 
               "Well, if you won't, I will try my luck alone. The tickets are only five dollars." 
               That day, Granger bought a ticket. A dozen times before the drawing of the lottery did he call in to see his friend Day, and as often did he mention what was uppermost in his mind-the prize he hoped to draw. 
               "If I get ten thousand, I will lend you two or three thousand to give you a start," said he, on the day before the drawing was to take place. This was spoken in apparent jest, but he really felt in earnest. 
                
               Day could not help smiling. 
               "You may laugh," returned the other, "but when you see me with ten or fifteen thousand dollars in hand, you will not think me quite the fool you now do." 
               "If you should be so lucky, I prophesy that your ten or twenty thousand dollars will do you no good in the end; that in ten or twenty years you will be no better, but worse off, in consequence of your prize." 
               "I'll risk it." 
               "No doubt you are perfectly willing to do so." 
               "And so would you be." 
               "I shall keep out of temptation, at least, by not buying a ticket," replied Day. "If I could get more capital in my business, in a perfectly legitimate way, I would be glad to do so, for then I could make larger and more profitable operations. But as I see no approved mode of obtaining this capital, I must be content to plod on as I am now going. It will all come out right in the end, I doubt not." 
               "Ill furnish you with more capital in a few days," said Granger, laughingly. 
               "Very well. I'll give you good security and pay you a fair interest," was the laughing reply. 
               "But won't you be afraid of money drawn in a lottery?" 
               "No, not to borrow it. But I would be afraid to draw it." 
                
               "Dividing a hair between north and north-west sides-a distinction without a difference." 
               "To me it is not. I can see a very great difference." 
               On the next day, late in the afternoon, Felix Granger came hurriedly into the store of Ellis Day. His manner was flurried; he had a look of wild elation. 
               "Didn't I tell you so!" he exclaimed, in a thick voice. "Didn't I say that I would draw a prize!" 
               "You did," returned Day, calmly. 
               "And I said true. I've got the twenty-five thousand dollar prize as certain as death." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "True as preaching." 
               "Twenty-five thousand dollars!" 
               "Ay! Twenty-five thousand dollars! Think of that, friend Day!" 
               And he caught the hand of his friend, and almost crushed it in a vice-like grip. 
               "A'n't I a lucky dog? I always said I was born under a fortunate star; though, I confess, that I had to wait long before the right aspect came. But all in good time! I've no complaint to make. Twenty-five thousand dollars! Just think of that! Won't I do business now with a rush? Won't I show some of the sleepy ones in the trade a specimen of tall walking? Won't I?" 
               And for very want of breath, the excited young man paused. 
                
               "What do you think of lotteries now?" he asked, after he had recovered himself a little. "A'n't you tempted to try your luck?" 
               "I think of them as I always did. I believe I shall not try my luck. I might be so unfortunate as to draw a prize." 
               "Are you crazy, Ellis Day?" 
               "Perhaps I am. But, seriously, I would rather go on as I am going than draw a prize of twenty thousand dollars. For slow and sure will bring all out right in the end; but with twenty thousand dollars thrown suddenly into my lap, I might, and no doubt would, be tempted to dash ahead at a rate so rapid as to be thrown headlong from my course, and be worse off than I was when I began the world with hope, energy, industry, and five hundred dollars in my pocket." 
               "And this you predict for me?" 
               "No. I predict nothing for you. I hope you will be wise and prudent in the use of the large sum of money that has come into your hands." 
               "Never fear for me. I know what I am about. Twenty-five thousand dollars is not a sum large enough to turn my brain." 
               It is worthy of remark, that Granger said nothing more about lending his friend a few thousand dollars, as he had proposed in anticipation of a smaller prize than the one he had drawn. Not that he had forgotten his promise, voluntarily made, but ways in which he could use the whole amount of his now greatly increased capital immediately presented themselves, and, instead of feeling that he had any thing to spare, he felt that his operations would still be restricted within limits that it would be desirable to pass. 
               When the twenty-five thousand dollars were paid to Granger, which was not until some weeks after the drawing of the lottery, he immediately laid out one hundred dollars in tickets in another flattering scheme, intending, if he drew any thing, to keep his promise to Day, which he now regretted having been weak enough to make. He drew about fifty dollars-re-invested that in the same way-drew blanks, and gave up lotteries. In this he was wiser than some men. Of course, Day did not get the promised assistance in his business. 
               Twenty-five thousand dollars in cash at once enlarged the credit of Granger from seventy-five thousand to a hundred thousand dollars. All his business operations became greatly extended, and he grew into a man of importance, both in his own eyes and the eyes of others, quite rapidly. 
               Whenever we begin to think highly of ourselves from any cause, but especially when this increased self-estimation springs from the mere increased amount of worldly goods that may happen to be possessed, we are almost sure to fall into error. The first error committed by Granger was a most grievous ous one. When he drew the great prize, he was under engagement of marriage with the daughter of a widow-lady named Riker, whose income was small, and who was unknown in fashionable society. The mother and daughter lived humbly, and all their time was usefully employed. Emma Riker had received a good education, and was in every way the equal, in mental culture, of the young man who had sought her hand. 
               Granger mentioned to Emma the fact that he had purchased a ticket, and talked of what he was going to do in case he drew a prize. When the prize came, he hurried off to see her and tell of his good fortune, the news of which she received with calmness, yet evident pleasure. 
               For a month, the young man continued his visits as of old, and felt and acted toward Emma as his affianced bride. After that, the idea of obtaining a rich wife entered his mind. It was just as easy now, it occurred to him, to get a wife with twenty or thirty thousand dollars, as one without a cent. But, then, he was under an engagement of marriage; this thought produced an unpleasant sensation. 
               The idea of a rich wife was a seed in the young man's mind, and toward it pride, selfishness, and a love of money flowed as principles of life, first vitalizing the seed, and then causing it to grow, sending down its roots in his heart, and putting forth leaves and blossoms that ultimately produced noxious fruit. 
               The possession of twenty-five thousand dollars, the enlargement of his business, and the reputation of being a young man of great enterprise, enabled Granger to form new acquaintances, and procured him invitations to fashionable parties in a circle where he had never before moved. He mingled with young ladies of higher pretensions, and attractions of a more imposing kind than such as were possessed by Emma Riker. Contrasts unfavourable to the latter were constantly taking place in his mind; the final result was a breach of the engagement. This was the first and the worst error committed by the young man. 
               The effect produced upon the mind of Emma was serious; but she concealed, as much as possible, from the observation of every one, what she felt, and, in the reflection that her lover had proved himself unworthy of the earnest and unselfish affection she had borne him, sought to still the painful throbbing of her heart, and banish from her mind the image that had so long filled it with light and happiness. But she had a hard task to perform, and suffered much before it was fully accomplished. 
               A year from this time, Granger led to the altar the daughter of a rich merchant, named Collins, who had enough pride, extravagance, and love of show to ruin any man willing to be influenced by her. Her father gave her a brilliant wedding-party, and a house furnished in the most costly manner. The young couple started in life with some clat. 
               No very long time elapsed after the marriage, before Granger discovered that his wife had few, if any, domestic qualities; was self-willed, passionate, full of pride, and alarmingly extravagant. Such a thing as consulting his tastes, pleasures, or preferences, never appeared to cross her mind. In spite of the effort he made not to do so, he could not help contrasting these qualities of his wife with the very opposite ones that were possessed in such gentle and unobtrusive, yet sweet perfection, by Emma Riker. 
               Not more wisely did the young man act in business. He at once extended all his operations and entered into new ones, employing every dollar of his capital, and using his credit to very nearly its utmost limit. Under this system, he found himself, by the end of a year or two, with a weight upon his shoulders that was difficult to be borne. Notwithstanding this, he boasted of having made ten thousand dollars during the first year, and twenty thousand in the second year that followed his improved fortunes; and in opening the business of his third year, he sought to extend still further all his operations. Through the influence of his father-in-law, Granger got into the direction of a bank that was managed by a clique of money-jobbers, through which he found no difficulty in passing his father-in-law's notes to almost any amount; and Mr. Collins used the paper of his son-in-law quite as freely. Thus their interests and fortunes became inextricably blended. 
               With such facilities, and the credit of having made a great deal of money and being one of the most enterprising merchants in the city, Granger was able to do a very heavy business; but, from the start, he had over-traded, and was always driven by, instead of driving and rightly guiding and managing, his business. 
               In the mean time, Ellis Day was going on as of old, quietly, carefully, and safely. His operations were never very large, but they always yielded a fair profit, and gradually extended every year. He had never been able to get an advance of capital from any one: but this, he felt inclined to think, was all for the best. More capital might have tempted him into water that was beyond his depth. 
               Some time after Granger's marriage, Day, who had met Emma Riker a year or two previous, was again thrown into her company, and came into nearer association with her than before. The oftener he met her, the more he liked her; and it was not long before an intimacy sprang up between them, that ended in marriage; they went to housekeeping in a neat, respectable, but not very costly style. Emma made a prudent, loving wife, and grew daily more dear to her husband: their home was to each the pleasantest place on earth. 
               Different, indeed, was the home of Felix Granger. All day he was in the rush, hurry, excitement, and anxiety of business; and he came home at night fatigued, and with a weight upon his breast: but there was no sweet smile there to fall upon him like a sunbeam, no loving words to make him forget the cares of the day. It not unfrequently happened that his wife was out, and remained out the whole evening; or she was in an ill-humour about something, and hardly answered him civilly, if he spoke to her; or she buried herself from tea-time until the hour for going to bed in the pages of a new novel. To her husband she was, at no time, a pleasant companion. 
               The fact was, Mrs. Granger had no true affection for her husband, and did not put herself out to assume a virtue she did not possess. Nor were indifference, coldness, and sullenness the only ills which the husband had to bear; he was often made to feel the worse irritation of direct ill-temper, that fretted him at times beyond endurance, and led to open bickerings, usually brief, but violent while they lasted. Thus the days of their wedded life passed on, and they were often bitter days to both of them. 
               Five years from the period at which the marriage of Ellis Day took place, he removed with his little family into a beautiful but not very costly dwelling, which he had just purchased. His business had increased steadily and safely, for he had applied his mind diligently, from the first, to the attainment of a thorough knowledge of every thing that related in any way to the particular branch of trade in which he was engaged. It was rarely that he made a mistake in purchasing, or bad debts in selling. As his experience became more matured and his means enlarged, he was able to increase his business operations safely, and to reap all the advantages of such an increase. The capital which he had been so desirous of obtaining years before, would have been an injury to him rather than a benefit. This he now clearly saw; for it would have led him into an enlargement of his business, while his experience was yet but small, and might have involved him in difficulties from which extrication would have been almost impossible. 
               On the very day when he took possession of his new house, for which he had a clear deed, every dollar of the purchase-money having been paid without disturbing his business by a withdrawal of capital, both Mr. Collins and his son-in-law stopped payment, the former with obligations out for three hundred thousand dollars, and the latter for one hundred and fifty thousand. They had extended their business operations and stretched their credit, until the foundation upon which they stood became too weak to support them. The father-in-law was older, shrewder, and less scrupulous than Granger: he took care to save something from the wreck; but the latter came out penniless, and with a heavy debt hanging over him. The beautiful house and rich furniture that had been a part of his wife's marriage-portion were seized and sold to the highest bidder, and he turned upon the world with a family of three children, having scarcely a dollar in his pocket. 
               Instead of sympathy from his wife, in the sad disaster that had befallen him, he met with reproaches for not having made over to her and her children the house and furniture she had brought him, and thus reserved a home for his family. To these cruel reproaches, the disappointed, broken-spirited man had nothing to reply; he felt crushed to the earth, and without the strength to lift himself up again. He had fallen from so high a position, that he was nearly disabled by the concussion. 
               Thrown out of business, turned out of his home, and with nothing to live upon, he was forced, reluctantly, to accept the constrained offer of his father-in-law to go to his house with his family until he could get something to do. Naturally independent in his feelings, this was a painful trial, especially as there was no real cordiality in the invitation, and the addition of his family to that of Mr. Collins was evidently felt as a burden. 
               Some weeks after this arrangement had been entered tered upon, and at a time when it was chafing him sorely, Granger called in to see his old friend Day, to solicit from him a vacant clerkship in his store. After their meeting, Day expressed the sincere regret he felt at the disastrous result of his business. With much bitterness, the other replied- 
               "Yes, disastrous enough; but I do not wonder at it, now that I am a sane man again. Ellis Day, since the hour I drew that cursed prize in the lottery, I have been beside myself. I have not acted, in a single instance, with the wisdom and prudence of a man whose mind was well-balanced. I believe you now; but I did not believe you when you told me that money obtained in the way I obtained twenty-five thousand dollars, never does any good. You saw how it would be-you, like a wise man, could foresee the evil; but I, like a fool, passed on, and have been punished, and grievous and hard to be borne is that punishment. It is felt by me in the most intimate as well as in the most remote relations of life. Ah, my friend, your patience, prudence, and willingness to wait for the gently-flowing tide that bears us on to fortune, have met the just reward. Like you, had I been thus prudent and thus willing to wait, I might now have been safely advancing towards wealth, instead of being penniless, and with spirits broken, energy gone, and the very light of life extinguished." 
               Granger was deeply moved. 
                
               The situation he asked was promptly given to him; but the salary was only eight hundred dollars a year. This small sum was in no way adequate to the wants of Mrs. Granger; she could spend it herself twice over, in the year; and because she could not get as much as she wanted from her husband, she complained and fretted almost constantly. 
               Granger remained with Day only a few months, when his domestic irritations became so great that, in a fit of passion and despair, he left the city; and, though some years have passed, he has never since been heard of by his family. 
               So much for a prize in the lottery! We agree, perfectly, with Ellis Day, that no good ever comes from money obtained by this or any other species of gambling, and for the reason already alleged, that it does not correspond to any use in the community, but has actually been obtained from those who have received no equivalents therefor. Other reasons could also be given, but they must readily suggest themselves to the mind of almost every reader. 
             
             
                
               THE MOTHER AND SON. 
               IN a richly-furnished chamber, a young woman, with a pale, serious face, reclined upon a bed; even without the fulness and flush of health, beauty was stamped upon every feature. Her forehead was broad and white, her eyes dark and brilliant, her lips most delicately formed; yet over the whole a proud spirit had written characters that all could read, even though it was plain to be seen that she had suffered, from some cause, deep humiliation. 
               It was night, and she was alone; but her eyes were frequently turned toward the door with a look of interest, and she seemed all the time listening, as if for the approach of some one who was expected. At last a woman, past the middle age, entered; as she did so, the invalid rose up with a look of inquiry. 
               "Has it been done?" she asked in a low voice. 
               "Every thing is ready. Will you not see him?" 
               "No, no," replied the young woman, raising both her hands, as if to hide some disagreeable object from her sight, and turning her head aside. 
               "He is sleeping so sweetly, and looks as innocent as an angel," said the woman; "you may never see his face again." 
               "Pray Heaven I never may! No-no-no-I cannot-I will not see him. Let all be done as I have directed," and the speaker sank back upon the bed, and buried her face in the pillow. 
               The woman withdrew, and she was again left alone. For an hour, the invalid lay almost as motionless as if life were extinct. The woman with whom she had held the brief conference we have just recorded, came back again after the lapse of ten minutes, but her entrance was not apparently noticed. Years of misery were crowded into that one hour thus spent in self-communion; and years elapsed before its deeply-cut record was effaced. Effaced? It was only covered over for a time by other mementos, but never effaced. 
               It was a dark, cold night in December; since the day closed in, snow had begun to fall, and was now filling the air, and whirling about in the mourning gusts that swept along the streets and eddied among the houses, scattering its white favours broadly over the earth, creeping quietly into nooks and corners, now lightly falling upon the window-panes, and now rushing fiercely against them with a heavy rustling sound that fell off quickly into a low, retreating sigh. It was a night to make those who gathered around the warm fireside feel thankful for the good gifts they enjoyed. 
                
               In a narrow court, far away from any of the neighbourhoods where wealth built up her splendid mansions, stood a low frame dwelling, in which lived a poor widow, named Oliver. She had three young children, and her only means of subsistence were in her ability to work with her hands. 
               The widow Oliver had finished her day's work, or rather all the work she happened to have in the house; and after putting her little ones to bed, sat down by the light of a single tallow-candle to sew for herself. This, in her estimation, was more like recreation than work. Her work was what she daily performed as a means of obtaining money with which to buy food and clothing for herself and her little ones. All the time she could gain from this necessary toil to make and mend her own and her children's clothes, seemed to be like a holiday, and was enjoyed quite as well and even better than some persons enjoy their hours of idleness. 
               The widow Oliver, though poor and with small means, had a woman's heart. She loved her children, and worked for them with as much earnestness and far more real pleasure than a merchant works for the wealth he seeks to accumulate. While her affection prompted her to do all in her power to supply their wants, it also prompted her to teach them to be contented with what they had, and to love one another. 
               She had finished her day's work, as we have said, and had drawn her chair close to the small light emitted by a poor candle, in order to sew for herself, as she called it. This sewing for herself was making some coarse aprons for her children, to cover and protect their clothes. She had not noticed until now that it was storming. The day had been cloudy, but snow had not begun to descend until after night-fall. A rustling against the windows first gave her notice of the change without. A slight shiver passed through her frame, more from the idea of coldness than from any real change in her bodily sensation, and she moved her little work-table closer to the fire of wood that was burning cheerfully upon the hearth. 
               Thus alone, the widow sat and plied her busy needle, no sound falling upon her ears except the murmur of the blazing fire, the clicking of her thimble, and the occasional rushing of the storm against the windows, or its deep hollow moaning as it swept around her humble dwelling. She had been sewing for nearly an hour, when she stopped suddenly and listened; she laid down her work, and, taking the candle in her hand, went up-stairs into the room over the one where she had been sitting, and where her children lay asleep. Two were in a bed upon the floor, and the third, who was little more than a babe, lay in the middle of her own bed. She held the light close to the face of this one, and saw that he was not only sound asleep, but had not moved since she laid him there. She then looked at the other children for a moment or two; after this, she went down-stairs and resumed her work. She had not taken many stitches before she paused again, and this time with something like a start; the low cry of a child had fallen upon her ear with a distinctness not to be mistaken. Again she ascended to the chamber, but all remained as she had left it but a minute before; the children were fast asleep, and evinced no sign of restlessness. Mrs. Oliver stood and listened in the chamber for some time, but all remained quiet. She then went below and sat down beside her work-table to resume her sewing; but ere she had taken her work in hand, the cry of a child was again heard; but from whence the sound came she could not tell. It seemed near to her, and yet not in the room, nor in the chamber above; nor was the voice like that of one of her own children. Breathlessly she listened, with lips apart and every sense alive; in a few moments the cry was repeated, louder and more prolonged. She arose to her feet, listened again, and then sprang to the door, unfastened and opened it. As she did so, the cold air, thick with large flakes of snow, rushed in upon her, and for a moment took away her breath and blinded her eyes. As soon as she was able to see, she perceived that a basket had been placed by some one upon her door-step; at the same instant, the cry that had before fallen upon her ear rose from the basket, and explained the mystery. The truth flashed over her mind-some heartless mother had abandoned her new-born babe! 
               "Bless me!" exclaimed the widow, seizing the basket eagerly and lifting it within the room, at the same time that she closed the door and locked it. Enveloped in many folds of a fine soft blanket, and entirely protected from the cold and snow, she found a male infant, apparently not more than a week old. Several changes of clothes were in the basket, and a paper containing a small sum of money; but there was no message from the cruel mother to her to whom she had consigned her babe; not even the simple request that the helpless one should at least receive kindness for its own sake. Fully and entirely had it been abandoned, seemingly without a thought for its welfare. 
               In the morning, it soon became known that an infant had been left, on the previous night, at the door of the widow Oliver, and the neighbours came in, one after another, to see the babe and to talk over the strange incident. 
               "What are you going to do with it?" was the universal question; and 
               "Keep it," was the unvarying reply. 
               "Indeed, then, and I would do no such thing," said one; "you have enough to do to take care of what you have." 
               "I wouldn't take the bread out of my children's mouths to put it into the mouth of a stranger's," said another. 
               "Send it to the almshouse," advised a third. 
               But Mrs. Oliver had but one reply for all these suggestions. It was the reply of a true woman. 
               "God has sent this infant to my door. Shall I refuse to take it and nurse it for Him? No, henceforth it shall be as one of my own children-I will know no difference." 
               As she said, so she acted. From that hour, the little Henry, as she called him, was to be as her own child, and it was not long before her love for him was as tender and deep as for her own children. With the care of an infant on her hands, Mrs. Oliver could not earn as much by sewing as formerly, but the deficiency arising from this cause was made up to her in another way. With the money she received with the babe, she bought a cow, which gave her enough milk for the children, besides several quarts to sell every day. She had lived in the country and understood all about the management of cows, and had long desired to have one. Milking and attending to the cow afforded her healthy exercise after sitting for hours at her work, and was no loss of time; for the money she received for the milk she sold was very nearly double what she could have earned with her needle in the time it took her to milk, feed, and see after the animal she had bought. Thus Heaven, that had sent her the babe, provided the means in her hands for its sustenance without increasing perceptibly her burdens. 
               From the hour when she received her little Henry, no word or token had ever come from those who had left him to perish, it might have been, in the cold at her door. As to who his mother was, or to what family he stood related, she remained in entire ignorance. 
               Year after year passed away, and the babe grew from infancy to childhood and youth. He proved to be a brighter boy than any of Mrs. Oliver's own children, and had a prouder spirit; but he had generous qualities of mind, with independence, a love of truth, and firmness and decision of character. His most serious defect was a high temper; but all his good qualities were encouraged, and all that showed itself as evil, gently, yet firmly restrained and kept as quiescent as possible. 
               As soon as Henry was old enough to learn, Mrs. Oliver taught him to read, as she had done her own children, and then sent him to one of the common schools. Here he made, in the course of a few years, rapid advancement. At the age of fourteen, a gentleman of eminence in the profession of law, named Hallam, under whose notice the lad had several times fallen, and who saw that he possessed more than ordinary abilities, offered to pay for his instruction in the higher branches of education in one of the literary institutions in the city, for three years, if Mrs. Oliver thought she could bear the expense of his maintenance, as well as furnish him with suitable clothing. Her oldest child, a boy, had been apprenticed two years previously, and she had begun to talk about putting Henry out to learn a trade also. 
               "For the sake of such advantages," she replied, "I will do any thing in my power." 
               As proposed, Henry was entered at one of the best institutions, and completed a course of studies, in three years, of greater extent than is usually accomplished in four years by students of good capacity. So much was the individual who had generously offered him these invaluable facilities gratified with the result, that he took him into his office, and from that time bore all his expenses until he was of age and ready to be admitted at the bar. 
               During the four years that Henry remained in the office of his generous and disinterested benefactor, he devoted himself not only to the study of the profession for which he was destined, but to general literature and science; furnishing his mind at every point, and laying the foundation upon which he was to build, in the future, a safe structure of eminence and usefulness. As he approached the age of manhood, Mr. Hallam, who had become strongly attached to his proteg, took him into society and introduced him to the acquaintance of men of standing, intelligence, and superior attainments. At first, his modest worth was not seen; but soon, like stars from an evening sky, first one ray of light and then another shone forth, until the brilliancy of his acquirements and the profoundness of his intellect were acknowledged and appreciated. 
               But no change in his external condition, or of the point from which he looked upon the world, affected, in the smallest degree, the love and gratitude he bore to her whom he called by the holy name of "mother." Mr. Hallam, who was wealthy, supplied him with a certain amount of money to meet his expenses. It was necessary that he should dress as those did into whose society his benefactor had introduced him; but in doing this he exercised the closest economy, and made it a point to preserve his clothes with the utmost care. Beyond this, he never spent a dollar; all that remained was given to Mrs. Oliver, with whom he continued to reside: this was never less than six or seven dollars every week, which, with what she still continued to earn, enabled the widow to live much more comfortably than had formerly been the case. 
               At length, Henry Oliver became of age, and was admitted to the bar. 
               "What are your views and intentions now, Henry?" asked Mr. Hallam, as they walked together from the court-room 
               "I expect to follow the profession for which I have been educated," replied the young man. 
                
               "In this city?" 
               "Oh, yes. I have no wish to remove from here." 
               "Practice comes slowly to a young man," remarked Mr. Hallam. They were just then at the door of his office, and entered before Henry made any reply. 
               As they sat down, Mr. Hallam repeated-"As I said, Henry, practice comes slowly to a young man, more particularly in the law." 
               "I am aware of that," was replied, with some seriousness of voice and expression of countenance. "But I must wait my time. I suppose I shall get something to do; at least enough to meet my expenses." 
               "Yes, if you hunt up magistrates' cases, do your share of pettifogging, and take good care to make the most out of a cause when you do get one." 
               "None of which I can or will do," replied the young man, promptly. 
               "Then I am not so sure that you will at once be able to meet your expenses, unless they be very light," said Mr. Hallam. 
               "I will see that they are not heavy," was the quiet reply, "while I await patiently the sure reward of 'time-faith-energy.' " 
               "And that reward will come, Henry, sooner or later." 
               "I know it. I will wait." 
               Mr. Hallam cast his eyes to the floor thoughtfully fully, and sat for some minutes; then looking up, he said-"Henry, would you be willing to take a share in my business? Or do you prefer to start alone and build up a reputation for yourself?" 
               "To be associated with you in business," the young man said, with evident emotion, "would be the greatest benefit I could now receive, and would overstep all my present ambition. But I never hoped for any thing like this." 
               "If you are disposed to share the labour of my heavy practice," returned Mr. Hallam, "I will at once take you into the business. I must have an associate, and you will suit me best. Turn it over in your mind, and if you think such an arrangement desirable and advantageous, it can be at once entered into. I will, in the beginning, give you the proceeds of one-fifth of my practice, which will yield you very near two thousand dollars per annum; this to continue for three years. After that, the partnership can be dissolved or formed upon a new basis, as may be agreeable to both." 
               It was some time before Henry could compose his mind sufficiently to reply. The generous offer, so unexpected, completely overpowered him. 
               "I accept the offer with gladness," he said; "and more for the sake of another, than for the high advantages that it presents to me. Deserted by her who gave me birth, and left, as I have been told, in the street on a stormy night, she whom I now call my mother took me in and loved me, and cared for me as for her own children, sharing with me the food she earned for them, and working harder that they might feel no privations. What do I not owe to her? I would repay the debt with my life, if I could. My mother-for such I acknowledge her in my heart to be, as well as call her so with my lips-still has to work with her hands, old as she is, although every dollar with which your generous bounty has supplied me, beyond what was necessary to furnish me with suitable clothing, has gone into her hands. Now, thanks to your noble offer, I can place her above labour and above want, and in a position such as she deserves. For her sake, my dear sir, do I thank you." 
               Henry grasped the hand of Mr. Hallam, as he ceased speaking, while tears, that he could not repress, gushed from his eyes. 
               "Thrice worthy of all my best affections, which you have long had, do I feel you now to be, my dear boy," said Mr. Hallam, returning with ardour the pressure of Henry's hand; "your noble wishes shall at once be gratified." 
               Turning to his desk, Mr. Hallam, in the generous enthusiasm of the moment, drew a check for a thousand dollars, and handing it to the young man, said, as he did so-"Take that: it is the first fruits of your new business; place your mother in just the position your heart desires her to be in." 
                
               Henry wrung the hand of Mr. Hallam, and then passed quickly from the office; he could not trust himself to utter the deep gratitude he felt. 
               A neat, but not large house was immediately rented, and furnished with a degree of taste, comfort and elegance far beyond what the limited means of Mrs. Oliver had ever enabled her to enjoy. Into this house Henry took his mother after all was ready, and gave her the first happy intelligence of the change that had taken place, by saying-"This, dear mother, is all your own. No more care and labour, but rest, and peace, and comfort for your declining years. It is some small return for all I owe you; but small as it is, I bring it to you with a glad heart." 
               Sacred to filial and maternal love were the tears that mingled freely when all was explained and understood. It was some time, however, before Mrs. Oliver could really believe that what she saw and heard was not in a dream. 
               Associated with Mr. Hallam, Henry soon had an opportunity of distinguishing himself in a case of great importance, by an argument before the court that at once gave him a reputation for acuteness of mind, strong good sense and powerful eloquence. Not many years elapsed before he was considered one of the ablest lawyers at the bar; his income, from two thousand dollars a year, soon increased to double that amount. He did not forget, in his prosperity perity, the children of Mrs. Oliver, with whom he had grown up; but feeling toward them as a brother, he acted as he felt, and aided them materially in their efforts to improve their condition. 
               Five years from the time when Henry Oliver commenced the practice of law, in association with Mr. Hallam, he was run by one of the political parties for Congress, and elected by a large majority. In the hall of representatives he distinguished himself in many important debates, and his name became known throughout the country. For many years he continued to be elected to Congress, and to be held in high estimation as a man of great intellectual power and unflinching integrity. No man had a fairer reputation, no man was held in greater esteem by his personal friends, or by the people, who only knew his worth by the quality of his acts. 
               Thus had he earned for himself a distinguished name; all men were proud to take him by the hand, and all circles felt honoured by his presence, even though the facts of his early life and doubtful parentage were well known. 
               Mr. Hallam, with whom Henry was still associated in business, was sitting in his office one day, about ten years from the time when young Oliver had stepped upon the world's broad stage as a man, when the widow of a very eminent professional man who had died some years before came in and begged to have a few words of conversation with him, provided the interview would be considered strictly confidential. Mr. Hallam had known the lady for years. She was connected with some of the best families in the State, and had, in her younger days, been a brilliant woman of fashion. He assured her that any thing she might wish to say to him would be held perfectly sacred. She seemed a good deal disturbed, and sat for some time evidently at a loss how to begin the communication she wished to make. At length, she said-"You are, of course, intimately acquainted with Mr. Oliver." 
               "I am," replied Mr. Hallam; "I raised him, I might almost say, from a boy; I know him thoroughly." 
               "He has made himself a brilliant reputation," remarked the lady. 
               "He has fairly and honestly made it. But the public know not half his worth." 
               "Do you know his family?" asked the lady. 
               "No, nor does he know them himself. He was abandoned by his mother when an infant." 
               "So I have heard. But has he no suspicion who are his relations?" 
               "None in the least." 
               "Let them occupy what social position they may, he will do them no discredit," said the lady. 
               "Discredit!" ejaculated Mr. Hallam. "No, ma'am! But he would do them honour. I care not who his relatives are, or how high they stand, Henry Oliver is worthy to take his place beside them." 
               "They might claim him now, without a blush of shame," continued the lady, looking intently in the face of Mr. Hallam. 
               "So far as Henry is concerned, they might," he returned, feeling considerably annoyed by the lady's manner and words, and not really understanding the drift of her strange questions. 
               "Mr. Hallam," resumed the visitor, after a pause, her voice slightly trembling, "I will now communicate a secret that has been locked in my bosom for thirty years. Henry Oliver is my son!" 
               "Your son!" exclaimed Mr. Hallam, starting to his feet. "Impossible?" 
               "It is as I say, Mr. Hallam. For years my eyes have been upon him, and I have marked with a mother's pride-mingled, it is true, with other motions of a far less pleasing character-his steady advancement to positions of honour. The time has at last come, it seems to me, when I may claim him without disgrace. It is no dishonour to be the mother of such a son, even if he were not born in wedlock!" 
               Mr. Hallam was confounded. He made no reply, for no words that he dared utter could at all express his feelings. While he stood silently looking into the face of his visitor, she said- 
                
               "Now that you know my secret, which, for the present at least, must remain such, I wish you to obtain for me an interview with my son." 
               Mr. Hallam bowed. 
               "Can I have it to-day?" 
               "I presume so." 
               "May I ask you to bring Henry to my house this afternoon?" 
               "I will tell him that you desire to see him, at any hour you may name," replied Mr. Hallam. 
               "Say five o'clock." 
               Mr. Hallam again bowed. 
               His visitor lingered for a while, making many remarks on the subject, all going to show that the pride she felt in her son's reputation was the only incentive she had in claiming him; and that this feeling entirely obliterated all shame and all compunction at having abandoned him while an infant. 
               At five o'clock, Henry Oliver called at the house of the lady who had desired an interview, in order, as he supposed, to consult him on some professional business. He found her sitting in one of her parlours. She received him in a formal and somewhat embarrassed manner. After both had sat silent for some short space of time, the lady said, without any preliminary remark, and in a low, rather agitated voice, 
               "Henry, I am your mother!" 
               The young man sprang to his feet as suddenly as if a pistol had been fired close to his ear; gave the woman a look of profound astonishment, and then replied in a firm tone- 
               "No, madam! you are not my mother." 
               "But I tell you I am!" returned the woman, rising also to her feet. "You are my son, and my only son!" 
               "I deny the relationship!" exclaimed the young man indignantly. "I was abandoned in infancy, I know, by some unfeeling monster; but God gave me a mother to love me, and she is my mother still-my true and only mother." 
               As if stricken down by a heavy blow, the woman sank upon the sofa from which she had arisen, and Henry Oliver turned away and rushed from the house. 
               Nothing of all this was breathed by the young man to any living soul. He locked it up in his bosom, even from Mr. Hallam. But that gentleman saw enough of the effect of the interview upon both him and the individual who had claimed to be his mother when it was too late, to satisfy him of its true nature. He could not but honour the young man for his noble indignation, at the same time that he grieved for the pang such an announcement as had been made to him must have caused. 
               Shortly after this, Henry Oliver was united in marriage to the daughter of a well known senator of the United States, and thereby became connected with one of the oldest and most distinguished families in the country. This union, however, did not take place before Henry had fully communicated to both the lady and her parents all the facts regarding his early and subsequent history, with the single exception of the discovery he had made of his real parent. That was a secret locked in his bosom; and one of which he never permitted himself to think, when he could force the subject from his mind. 
               Toward Mrs. Oliver, his "true and only mother," as he had expressed it, he manifested to the last the warmest affection. For her husband's sake, his young wife paid Mrs. Oliver the kindest attentions from the first. It was not long, however, before she loved her for the affectionate gentleness, purity, and excellence of her character; and when, in a good old age, she passed away from them, she mingled her tears with those of her husband that watered the grave where she was laid at rest. 
               A few years after this event, as Mr. Hallam and Henry Oliver sat one day conversing in their office, a woman, having the appearance of a domestic, came in and asked for the latter. On being told which was the person she sought, she said- 
               "Mrs.-is very ill-and not expected to live. She wishes to see you before she dies." 
               "Tell her that I cannot"-Henry was speaking from a first impulse, forgetful where he was, and of every thing but the instinctive repugnance he felt to an interview with the person named. But a look and a gesture from Mr. Hallam caused him to check his utterance of the words that were upon his lips. 
               "A word with you, Henry," said the latter, rising, and both retired into an adjoining room, after the messenger had been desired to wait for a few minutes. 
               As soon as they were alone, Mr. Hallam said-"Henry, I know your secret-it is your mother who"- 
               "No sir, she is not my mother!" Oliver indignantly replied. "My mother is in heaven!" As he said this, he began to pace the floor in an agitated manner. 
               "She is the author of your being, Henry, as you are aware"- 
               "So she says; but she abandoned me, and God gave me a true mother. Her and her only have I known, and I will acknowledge no other. Does this woman deserve the sacred name of mother? No-my heart will not acknowledge the relationship, and my lips shall never give the lie to my heart. I cannot see her, Mr. Hallam! She is nothing to me." 
               "Humanity has some claims, Henry," returned Mr. Hallam, in a serious voice. "Since the day when Mrs.-claimed you"- 
               "Mr. Hallam, what do you know of all this?" said Oliver, much excited. 
                
               "I knew all at the time," was calmly replied. "But as I was saying, since the day when Mrs.-claimed you as her son, I have observed her closely. From that time she has been changed-greatly changed. The fire of her eyes has grown dim, her voice has lost its fine expression, her step, so elastic even in old age, has become slow and deliberate. Your refusal to acknowledge yourself her son seems to have broken her spirits and destroyed the vital principle of her existence. Neither you nor I can tell how much she has suffered, Henry; or how deeply she has repented. God forgives, and you must do the same. In life's bitterest extremity, she sends for you-you, her son. Do not refuse to see her; but go, in the name of humanity." 
               "Let me think a moment," replied Oliver, with a bewildered look and a husky voice. As he said this, he sank into a chair, and covered his face with his hands. For more than a minute, he sat almost motionless, when a gush of tears evinced the conquest of his better feelings. 
               "Tell her," he said, looking up, "that I will be there." 
               Mr. Hallam withdrew and informed the messenger that Mr. Oliver would attend to the request she had brought. 
               Half an hour afterward, Henry Oliver entered the chamber of Mrs.-. His face was pale and the whole expression of his countenance subdued. 
                
               The dying woman raised herself up as he drew near to her bedside, looking him eagerly in the face. But she did not speak until she had motioned all her attendants from the room. Then, with a voice low, tremulous, and tender even to sadness, she murmured- 
               "My son-my son!" and fell forward. Oliver received her in his arms, uttering, in as low and sad a tone- 
               "My mother!" 
               The whole frame of the dying woman quivered, she attempted to throw back her head, evidently that she might look into his face, but, in the effort, every muscle of her body became relaxed-in the next moment, she lay dead in the arms of her son. 
             
             
                
               BETTER TO ACT THE GENTLEMAN. 
               SOME men are born gentlemen, but the number is not large; others, in the process of moral elevation, become gentlemen through a denial and removal of those selfish influences that lead to an utter disregard of others; while a larger number merely play the gentleman on such occasions as seem most fitting to advance their interests or minister to their love of the world's good opinion, but are, at all other times, as ungentlemanly in their intercourse as it is possible for them to be. The very fact of playing the gentleman under restraint gives their boorish propensities an increased activity the moment they are free again. 
               Mr. Partridge belonged to and fairly represented the last-named class. He was no gentleman, and yet, to have hinted at the truth would have been to awaken his warmest indignation; for, strange as it may seem, he imagined himself to be every inch a gentleman. Mr. Partridge was in business; though not as successful as he might naturally wish to be. Money came in but slowly; while due-days days of notes occurred with a most unpleasant frequency. A note-paying day rarely found Mr. Partridge in his best humour, for it did not often occur that on such occasions his bank account showed the required balance. Then he had to bustle around, borrow, force collections, or sacrifice good paper-none of which acts helped in any way to produce an equable state of mind. The man who came into Mr. Partridge's store on one of these note-paying days, had to be an excellent customer, or one whose good opinion he had the best of reasons for wishing to retain, to meet with any attentions whatever, or to escape downright insult. 
               Mr. Partridge, in commencing business, had, like most young men, a fair proportion of up-hill work to perform; for the largest part of his capital lay in his ability and industry. The greatest drawback was in his own character. To a customer who was expected to buy, Partridge was as affable and as polite as a man could be; and the same was the case if the individual who called in at his store was one from whom a present or remote advantage was expected. But, to all others, it came natural to bristle like a porcupine; and the touch of his quills was felt and remembered much oftener than he imagined, or than was at all for his interest to occur. Many a dollar failed to reach his till on this account, that would, otherwise, have reposed there; and many an hour was spent in money-hunting on note-paying days, that might have been spent at his desk or counter, had he been in heart what he affected to be on certain occasions-a gentleman. But he did not know this; for inordinate self-love, like the poison of a serpent, blinds at certain seasons. One day-it was a "short day" with the young storekeeper-a man came in, and, after looking around and making casual examinations of goods, with the manner of a person who had some other end than that of buying in his mind, approached the desk at which he was standing, and made some remark, in a familiar way, about the weather. From the moment the man came in, the eyes of Partridge were upon him; and he soon understood, clearly, that he had no intention of buying. The way in which he examined his goods annoyed him; and by the time the stranger reached the part of the store where he stood, he was prepared to meet him with a rebuff. 
               "What did you say, sir?" was the quick, rudely-uttered inquiry of Partridge. 
               The man looked at him a moment with evident surprise, and then quietly turned away, but still lingered in the store. 
               "Mr. Partridge is not in, I presume," said he to a clerk, who stood behind one of the counters, at some distance from where the proprietor still lingered moodily at his desk. 
               "Yes, sir, he's in," was the affable reply. "You were speaking with him a moment ago." 
                
               "Oh!" The man turned and looked at Partridge. In a little while afterward he went away. 
               "What did that fellow want?" asked Partridge ill-naturedly, as soon as the man had withdrawn. 
               "He wished to see you, I believe," replied the clerk. 
               "I was here. Why didn't he tell me his business? I wonder what he wanted?" 
               The incident rather worried the mind of the young storekeeper, for, with a knowledge of the fact that the stranger asked for him, came the impression that, in treating him rudely, he might have foregone some advantage. 
               A few hours afterward, a man in the same business with himself said, on meeting him-"Have you seen Bispham?" 
               "No!" The whole aspect of Partridge changed. "Is he in town?" 
               "Yes." 
               "Are you certain?" 
               "I am. He was to see me, this morning." 
               "Strange! He wrote me that he would be here about this time." 
               "And hasn't he called on you yet?" 
               "No." 
               "I sold him a pretty good bill." 
               "Ah?" 
               "He'll be along, I suppose," said Partridge, with affected indifference, and then hurried away to complete plete his "financiering" for the day, and get back to his store as quickly as possible, to await a call from Bispham; but, when evening came, the expected customer had not arrived. 
               On the next day, he heard of him in various quarters; and the invariable story was that he had been buying, and cashing his bills. Partridge couldn't understand it. During the past year, he had received many orders from Bispham, who lived in Pittsburgh, all of which he had promptly filled, and, as far as he could judge from letters, to the customer's satisfaction. Why he had passed his store, now that he was in the city, and made bills at other establishments, was more than he could divine. 
               On the third day, Partridge saw the stranger before referred to enter his store again, and linger around as before. After a while, he came up to the desk where the young man stood, as on the previous occasion, and said to him-"I believe I have a small bill on your books, which might as well be settled. Bispham is the name." 
               "Mr. Bispham!" exclaimed Partridge, a sudden light breaking over his countenance. "How do you do? I'm glad to see you. When did you arrive in our city?" And as this was said, he reached out his hand and shook that of the customer warmly. 
               "I've been here for several days," was the reply of Bispham; but there was no correspondent enthusiasm in his manner. 
                
               "Indeed! Why haven't you called before?" 
               "I was in on the first day of my arrival," replied the merchant; "but was so disgusted with the rudeness of one of your clerks, or some other person about your establishment, that I didn't care to come again." 
               The countenance of Partridge fell. 
               "I'm sorry," he murmured in a low voice, while a guilty confusion was on his face. "But I am sure, Mr. Bispham, that no rudeness was intended." 
               "Perhaps not," said the customer; "but I'm rather sensitive on such matters. I always make it a point to be civil to friends or strangers, and expect as much for myself. If I don't find civility in any one, I don't feel bound to have any intercourse with him either as a business man or a friend." 
               A silence highly embarrassing to Partridge succeeded. 
               "If you will draw off my account, I will settle it," said the merchant. "I must leave for New York this afternoon." 
               Partridge turned to his ledger and made out the bill. 
               "It's a small matter, Mr. Bispham. There's no need of settling it just now," said Partridge. 
               "I like to pay off these small matters," replied Bispham, as he drew out his pocket-book. "Put a receipt on it, if you please." 
                
               The bill was receipted, and the money paid. 
               "If you should want any thing more in my line, I hope you will send on your orders," said Partridge. "I shall always be happy to furnish you with goods in my line, at the lowest market-rates." 
               "Thank you," replied Bispham; "but I've made arrangements with Murdock to do all my business here in future." 
               Then bowing with distant politeness, the merchant retired, leaving Partridge to his own reflections, which were not of the most agreeable character. 
               A lesson like this, it might be supposed, would do much for the improvement of our hero's manners; but what is "bred in the bone is hard to come out of the flesh." Unless a man, from impulse or long-confirmed habit, act the gentleman on all occasions, he will be very apt to forget himself at times, when it would be much to his interest and reputation to play his part in the most agreeable manner. 
               When Bispham went back to Pittsburgh, he described to a man in the same business, who was dealing pretty extensively with Partridge, the manner of his reception. 
               "I guess I'll give the gentleman a trial also," said the man. "I'm going to Philadelphia next week." 
               He did so. On arriving in the city, he called at the store of Partridge. Not being a man of very remarkable presence, he did not receive any very particular attention. This was all natural enough; but it did not stop there. In approaching Partridge, which he did with some casual question, he was treated with such marked indifference, and even rudeness, that he turned on his heel and left the store. As in the previous case, Partridge remembered him when he called to settle his bill; and, when it was too late to retrieve his error, found that he had, in his boorishness, insulted one of his best customers. 
               After that, for some weeks, he assumed a better exterior, and was particularly pleasant to every one who came into his store; but, not turning up angels in disguise, he became discouraged, and fell back into his old habit, that, like a long-worn garment, fitted him more easily. 
               A very natural thing, in the case of Partridge, was his falling in love. The object of this attachment was a young lady of good family, every member of which was as remarkable for true gentlemanly and ladylike conduct on all occasions, as Partridge was remarkable for the opposite when there was nothing to be gained by assuming a virtue to which he had no real title. The name of this young lady was Emily Weston. Besides her social standing, accomplishments, beauty, and sweetness of disposition, Emily possessed another attraction to which the young man was by no means indifferent-and that was money. We will not say that this was her strongest attraction, so far as Partridge was concerned; but it had its due influence in determining his favourable impression of the young lady. 
               In all his intercourse with Miss Weston and her family, Partridge was, of course, the gentleman so far as exterior conduct was concerned; though it must, at the same time, be admitted that he occasionally overacted his part. This arose from the fact that his manners were assumed, instead of being spontaneous; and also in consequence of a too recent consultation of Count D'Orsay's rules of etiquette. Still the impression he made was favourable, and the young lady received his addresses in no unwilling spirit. Every thing was going on most happily, and the lover beginning to con over in his mind the form of application for the hand and heart of the fair young lady. 
               About this time, business called Partridge away as far as Boston. On his return, he remained a couple of days in New York, for the transaction of some business, and then left for home in the afternoon train. It was in the winter-time. As the boat touched the Jersey side, Partridge was one of the first to spring ashore, and press forward with eager haste, carpet-bag in hand, to secure a good seat. Passing the conductor at the door of the car-house, he made his way to the ladies' car, and though refused admittance by the man stationed there, he roughly pressed him aside, and forced his way in, despite of opposition. He was the first to enter this car, and had leisure to select just the place that suited him. Depositing his carpet-bag on one end of a seat, he ensconced himself in the other, with a resolution to occupy his comfortable quarters in the manner and form just assumed, in despite of all ordinary efforts to remove him. 
               Quickly following, came a hurrying crowd of men, women, and children, all eager to secure good places; and in a very brief time, nearly every seat had one or more occupants. As in most cases, a number of men who were not accompanied by ladies had succeeded in forcing their way into this car, and each one of these, like Partridge, occupied his single seat, and with the too evident intention of occupying it "alone in his glory," if possible. These personages were all so very intent on what was going on outside of the car, as to be oblivious of all proceedings within. Such was the case with Partridge, when, a few moments before the starting of the train, a gentleman touched him on the shoulder. Instantly he turned his head, with a look of affected surprise, while a frown knit his brow. The gentleman smiled, and said, politely-"I'm sorry to trouble you, but I have a lady with me. Would you be kind enough to sit with the gentleman in front, and let us have the place you occupy?" 
               "I never change my seat," was the rude reply, and Partridge turned his head coldly, and resumed his observation of what was passing without. 
               The gentleman in front, hearing the request, and noting the manner of its reception, arose quickly and tendered his place, falling back as he did so, and forcing, with no dainty manner, his body down into the seat occupied by Partridge and his carpet-bag. The frown on the young man's brow had deepened to a scowl as he turned to resent, with a look, this invasion of his assumed rights, when, to his utter dismay, the gentleman who had desired him to give place for a lady, handed Emily Weston into the seat just left vacant. She did not turn to look at him, and he knew not whether he had been recognised, or thought to be a stranger. Her companion made some remark, in which the words "ungentlemanly" and "boorish" reached his ear. If she replied, he did not hear what she said. 
               By this time, the seats were all filled, and a number of ladies were standing in the passage-way. Just then the conductor entered, and said in a loud voice, "Those gentlemen who are unaccompanied by ladies will walk forward to the next car, where there is plenty of room." 
               Several men arose and went forward, but Partridge sat still, fearing to rise, lest, in doing so, he should attract the attention of Emily. Three or four ladies remained standing near. The conductor came along, and bending over towards him, said-"Pass into the next car, if you please. This one is for ladies, and there are a number not yet seated." 
               At this address, Emily glanced around, and for the first time became aware that the individual who had been guilty of the ungentlemanly rudeness just mentioned, was her lover. Their eyes met for an instant, but in neither of them was there any appearance of recognition. Partridge arose, and, with an abashed look, retired into the next car. 
               Several days were suffered to elapse after his return to Philadelphia, before he ventured to call upon Miss Weston. During this time, a brother of the young lady, who was usually in the store of Partridge almost every day, did not once make his appearance. This was ominous of no good. When the visit was at length made, the reception was, as the young man had feared, cold and formal; and this not only by Emily herself, but by every member of the family. His real character had been seen; he was recognised as not a true gentleman. It was in vain that repeated efforts were made to conciliate the lady and her family; the quality of the young man's mind had been detected, and they had turned from him with a repugnance that nothing could remove. Such a man Emily could never love; such a man could not make her happy; and she cast away the regard she had felt for him, without a painful emotion. 
               Under so smarting an experience, Partridge resolved solved that he would be more careful to ACT the gentleman on all occasions, as the wisest and safest course; but the utter disregard of others' feelings, comfort, or welfare, that is at the basis of his character, is for ever leading him into little acts that betray the quality of his mind, and make him known in all circles as a man who is, at least, NO gentleman. 
             
             
               PRINCIPLE AND INTEREST. 
               A YOUNG man, who had received a tolerably good education, came to Philadelphia, a few years ago, to seek his fortune. His name was Abiram Granger. He brought a letter from the clergyman of the village where he had resided all his life, to a merchant in the city. His first care was to present this introductory letter, when Mr. Barker, the merchant, told him that he was just then in want of assistance, and would be pleased to engage him at a moderate salary. 
               On the next day, the young man went to Mr. Barker's store and entered upon his duties. The merchant found him clear-headed, quick, and of good address; and noticed, besides, that his sense of right was much keener than in men generally. As, for instance, in selling an article, although he took pains to make the sale, he never in the least exaggerated its quality. But Mr. Barker said to himself- 
               "He will learn better than that, ere long. He will find that the seller has enough to do to take care of his particular interests, and must leave the buyer to look after his own concerns." 
               One day, Granger had a customer to whom he was endeavouring to sell an article that he could not praise very warmly. 
               "Can you recommend this?" asked the buyer. 
               "Frankly, I cannot," replied Granger. 
               "Then I will not take it," said the customer, and went out. 
               Barker overheard this, and, as soon as the man left, came to the side of his clerk and said- 
               "Why didn't he take it, Abiram?" 
               "Because I could not recommend it as a first-rate article." 
               "Did he ask you to do so?" 
               "Yes." 
               "I could have sold it," said the merchant. 
               "And so could I, if I had told him a falsehood." 
               "But I could have sold it without telling a direct falsehood." 
               "How?" and the clear, earnest eyes of Granger were fixed upon the face of the merchant. 
                
               "By saying, for instance, that the article I believed to be very fair, as it came from a good manufacturer's, and had cost within a fraction of what was asked for it; or, that it was difficult to recommend any article in unequivocal terms, but that, for all I knew to the contrary, this would give satisfaction. There are a dozen ways in which to evade a direct question such as was asked of you; and this secret you must learn, or you will never rise in the world." 
               The last remark of Mr. Barker fixed itself upon the mind of Granger. He had an ardent desire to rise in the world. Far was it from his idea to plod along through life in an obscure position. He was ambitious to rise above the dead level of the great mass, who are content with food and raiment. He had believed it possible to attain the summit of his wishes without in the least compromising the honest principles with which he had entered the world. The first question of this came with the strange remark of Mr. Barker-strange, at least, to his ears. Never rise in the world, if he did not learn the art of duplicity! Never rise in the world, without laying aside the integrity of character which he had been taught to believe would elevate a man to the highest place for which he might aspire, if he had the intelligence to procure the means? His mind was startled and confused by this. 
               Granger was a young man, and Barker at least fifty-five. The latter had treated him from the first with kindness and confidence, and he felt for him something like affection as well as respect. His age gave weight to his words-an undue weight. Granger thought of them, and dreamed over them. He observed the other young men in the store, and found that they made it a point to sell a customer as much as possible; and, without absolutely lying to the extent of detection, to exaggerate in regard to the quality of goods just sufficiently to secure a sale. 
               "And must I do this?" he asked of himself. "Is duplicity and covert falsehood necessary in order to enable a man to rise in the world? Surely this cannot be!" 
               Yet from the time Mr. Barker told him that he could not rise in the world unless he looked so closely at his own interests as not to see the interests of others, Granger's manner towards customers changed. He no longer thought of justice to them as well as justice to his employer. A few months later, and no one in the store could drive a sharper bargain with a customer than he. 
               "My old friend Lyon was right," remarked Barker to himself, as he looked on and noted the shrewdness with which the young man conducted his sales to a large country-dealer. "Granger will doubtless rise in the world. My word for it, he will take care of himself, if ever he gets a fair chance." 
               A couple of years in the store of Mr. Barker made Granger a shrewd and accomplished business-man. There was no better salesman in the city. 
               "Granger," said a partner in an old established house with which Mr. Barker dealt pretty largely, "what are your future views in regard to business." 
               "I have never yet clearly defined them," was replied. 
               "Are you inclined to enter into business?" was next asked. 
               "If I can make such arrangements as promise certain success. Not without." 
               "Barker's country custom is large and good." 
               "Yes, both large and good. We sell heavily to some of the best men in the country." 
               "So I thought. To what extent could you control this custom?" 
               "To almost any extent, if I had enough capital to work with. To control custom, we must have just such goods as customers want." 
               "Then you are not averse to forming a business connection, if the required capital is furnished?" 
               "Not at all. My wish is to get into business for myself, as soon as I can see the right kind of an opening." 
               "You know my son, who has been for some time in our counting-room?" 
               "Yes." 
               "My wish is to associate him in business with a man who is well prepared to enter into it with spirit and intelligence. I think you are such a man. I will furnish any amount of capital that can be used safely. Will you turn this over in your mind, and be prepared to tell me, in the course of a week, what your views are upon the subject?" 
               "I will," replied Granger, and the men separated. 
               "Control his best custom," said Granger, musingly, to himself, as he sat alone in his room that night, pondering over the proposition that had been made to him. "Will that be altogether right? I believe I could take away the very cream of his business; but would it be right to do so? Right! Where is the wrong? These men are not sold to Barker; they are under no obligation to buy from him. If I go into business, I must sell to men who have been somebody's customers. Anyhow, he has money enough; it is time that he gave place to those who have their fortunes to make. I shall not get another such offer soon, and I would be a fool not to accept this." 
               When Granger saw the merchant who had made the proposal, he was ready to treat with him. It was finally agreed that he should remain with Mr. Barker during the spring trade, in order to influence his best customers as much as possible, and then get ready to open by fall with an entirely new and extensive assortment of goods. 
               When the customers of Mr. Barker received the circular of Granger & Grant, they very generally felt inclined to encourage the new firm for the sake of Granger, who was a favourite with nearly all of them. He had personally informed them of his intention to go into business, backed by a heavy amount of capital, and promised to sell them on a little better terms than Mr. Barker had ever given them. It is not, therefore, at all surprising that a very large proportion of Barker's old customers made pretty heavy bills with the new firm, where they bought, or at least were made to believe that they bought, goods at much better rates than they had been in the habit of obtaining at the old house. 
               The effect of this upon the business of Mr. Barker was clearly marked. Instead of selling some two hundred thousand dollars worth of goods in a year, his trade fell off nearly one-half, and was not restored again. The mass of his old customers, who had dealt with him for years, were drawn off by Granger, and his house was not likely to make many new ones; but he did not know how industrious the young man had been in sapping his business, nor suspect that unfair means had been used. Even if he had known this, he would have had no just cause of complaint; for having undermined the young man's principles, he could not be surprised if, in the pursuit of his own interest, he disregarded that of every one else-his employer's among the rest. 
                
               "That Granger is going to be a rich man," said a neighbour to the old merchant. 
               "Yes," was the reply. "He's got the right kind of stuff in him, and is keen as a razor at a bargain. In ten years from now, if he doesn't overreach himself, he will be far in advance of most men in this street. Would you have believed it? when he first came to me, he had a conscience quite as tender as a parson's. In selling to a customer, he would be as careful to set forth all the defects as he would the excellences of a piece of goods. He was for evenhanded justice all around." 
               "I should think you found him a great advantage to your establishment," said the neighbour, appearing quite amused at the fact of a salesman putting the interest of a customer upon a par with that of his employer. 
               "Not much at first, I must own; but I saw that he was active, quick, shrewd, and anxious to rise in the world, and I knew that all he wanted was a hint or two, which I gave. After that, there was no more difficulty. He could sell as many goods as any one in the store." 
               "He's cutting into your business pretty seriously now, is he not?" 
               "I'm afraid he is; but I suppose it's all right." 
               "You sharpened him?" remarked the neighbour, with a significant expression. 
               "Yes," was rather dryly answered. "And I rather think I have made him too keen even for myself," he added mentally. 
               He was certainly right there. 
               The young man with whom Granger had become associated in business was no match for him in shrewdness, though active and industrious; and Granger soon managed to make him as much a cipher in the concern as possible. In this there was a design. By means of the capital which Grant could command, he knew that he could build up a large business; and he meant, the moment his own share of profit in the concern was large enough, added to his credit, to sustain him alone, to get rid of his partner, and secure the entire income of the business to himself. 
               The impression made by the new house upon the business of Mr. Barker, proved to be a more serious matter than either Granger or the old merchant had anticipated. At the close of the very first business season after the new firm had been fairly launched upon the sea of trade, Barker had nearly fifty thousand dollars worth of fall goods on hand, his purchases having exceeded his ordinary sales nearly that amount; and upon these he lost much more than all his profits upon what he did sell. In the spring he again miscalculated in buying, and in the ensuing fall committed the same error. From that time, the tide fairly set against him; his assortment of goods was not so large and tempting as it had been, and Granger & Grant were all the rage among the country dealers. 
               At the end of five years, Barker was worth just half what he was when he made the successful attack upon his clerk's principles, in order to secure his own interest. By that time, Granger considered himself quite strong enough to stand alone in business, and began to reflect seriously upon the best mode of getting rid of his partner, whom he now considered of about as much use as the fifth wheel to a coach. In this, however, he rather underrated Mr. Grant, who had, in a connection of five years with a man as keen for his own interest as was Granger, cut, as the saying is, his eye-teeth. He was rather wider awake than his partner suspected. 
               Fifty thousand dollars, according to the books of the firm, had been made by each member in the co-partnership. With a capital of fifty thousand dollars, and the unlimited credit which he believed he could command, Granger felt that he could do business enough to net at least twenty thousand dollars a year, and with that he thought he would be satisfied. As to the custom of the house, he was sure that he could take that with him. The capital which his partner had furnished, he considered a small matter in comparison with his business talents and facilities. 
               After thinking of the matter for some time, and regarding it in all the aspects it might possibly assume, Granger determined to give notice of his wish to have the partnership terminate. When this was done, he was rather surprised at the reply-"Yes, I am aware that such is your desire," made with the utmost coolness. 
               "In what way did you gain this information?" asked Granger, exhibiting some confusion. 
               "From Mr. Archer," returned Grant, in his usual quiet way. "He mentioned it to me some weeks ago." 
               "He did?" ejaculated Granger, now colouring deeply. 
               Archer was one of their best customers, to whom Granger had communicated what was in his mind, in order to secure him when he got under way for himself. 
               "Yes; and I have been expecting to hear from you on the subject daily, ever since." 
               "Then of course your mind is made up," said Granger. 
               "Oh, yes. I am ready for a dissolution of the co-partnership; and, indeed, desire it, since you have ceased to be content with the present arrangement." 
               There was a coolness about Grant that Granger by no means liked; and he felt too well assured that both he and his father were aware of the hand he was endeavouring to play against them. The fact of Archer's having mentioned what he had said to him, had forewarned them. 
                
               The terms of settlement were by no means what Granger had anticipated. He had supposed that his partner would be ready to pay him an estimated proportion of profits, and continue the business. This would have given him the capital he wanted, and he trusted to his own sagacity to enable him to draw off the best custom to his new establishment; but Grant and his long-headed father understood all this very well, and would listen to no proposition of the kind. The only thing to which they would agree was a regular settlement of the business, each party to receive his proportion of profit as fast as it was realized. As neither of the partners was willing that the other should continue the business, it was finally agreed that a trustee should be appointed to settle it up, and each party, in the interim, be free to make what new arrangements he chose. 
               A new arrangement was no difficult matter for Grant, whose father could furnish as much capital as he wanted. In a month from the time a dissolution between him and Granger was announced, the circulars of "Grant & Co., successors to Granger & Grant," were flying over the country and their business spread before three-fourths of the best custom of the old firm. 
               Foiled in his scheme, Granger fully expected an advantageous offer to go into business within a week after the announcement of his dissolution with Grant; but in this he happened to be mistaken. The surprise created by the dissolution, and especially by the terms of it, which completely destroyed a large and flourishing business, set every one to asking questions; and the father of Grant was very ready to give the true version, with liberal embellishments and comments of his own. This was repeated with exaggerations in business circles, and fixed upon Granger a reputation that made a connection with him by no means desirable. 
               By the end of a year, he had received fifteen thousand dollars from the old business. The settlement progressed slowly, and the sequel proved that many bad debts had been made. 
               With this small capital, Granger determined to enter into business, feeling confident that he could not only buy to any extent he might desire, but have as many of his old customers as he wanted. In both these conclusions, he happened to be in error. As a buyer, he found that Abiram Granger was not so potent a name as that of the old firm-Granger & Grant. During the first year in which he carried on business in his own name, he received five thousand dollars from the trustee of Granger & Grant, and lost five thousand dollars by buying too many goods. In the second year, a final settlement of the old concern was made, and six thousand dollars paid to him as the balance of profit. Instead of having made fifty thousand dollars in five years, he realized but twenty thousand. This would have been very well, if his cupidity had not unsettled his mind. 
               Three years sufficed to wind up Granger's operations on his own account. In his eagerness to do a large business, and to throw Grant & Co., if possible, into the shade, he sold goods to almost every country merchant who came along, and there were enough of doubtful credit to buy from him as much as he was willing to sell them. The consequence was a total failure, and inability to pay over fifty cents on the dollar, after having sunk his entire capital. And what was a little singular, by the failure of Granger, Barker, who had first tampered with his strictly honest principles, lost ten thousand dollars. 
               The young man never got on his feet again, and is, to this day, a clerk on a moderate salary, while the new firm of Grant & Co. are reputed to be worth every cent of two hundred thousand dollars. 
               So much for the subserviency of principle to interest. In the long run, strict honesty is, doubtless, the best policy. The position taken by Barker, that the seller must consult his own interest alone, and let the buyer take care of himself, is not a just one; nor is the entire disregard of the buyer's interests by any means necessary to success in business. Men generally think so; but we are satisfied that it is an error more fatal to success than any one of the many common errors that prevail among business men. The direct result is often beneficial, but ultimate results, the causes of which are too rarely seen and recognised, could they be traced back, step by step, would show that the smallest act of overreaching is an injury instead of a benefit. 
             
             
               IS IT SAFE? IS IT HONEST? 
               MARTIN AVERY had been in business about five years. His capital, in the beginning, was small, and, in consequence, his operations were confined within a narrower limit than suited his ambition. He often sighed for the credit which some of his neighbours enjoyed; and frequently pondered on the ways and means for obtaining like facilities in trade. The profits on Mr. Avery's business were not large; and he had, therefore, to live plainly and frugally. His dwelling was obtained at a moderate rent; his furniture was far from elegant; and he never gave fashionable entertainments. Yet, for all this, his annual profits, after every expense was paid, presented, to one of his temperament, a discouragingly small amount. Still, he was gaining on the world; and, if he had known it, that was a good deal more than all of his apparently flourishing neighbours were doing. 
                
               "Why do you plod along after this fashion?" said an acquaintance to him one day. "You ought to launch out and do a bigger business." 
               "Haven't got the capital," was the frank reply. 
               "Borrow it, then. There is plenty of capital in the market." 
               "Yes, for those who have real estate to pledge." 
               "That isn't always necessary. You may enlarge your facilities without any thing of the kind. The fact is, Avery, you are too timid. You keep too near the shore. If you expect to make a fortune, you must dash out, and attract attention. To be frank with you, and to begin at the beginning, your style of living is too plain." 
               "It is quite as good as I can afford." 
               "How much house-rent do you pay?" 
               "Two hundred and fifty dollars." 
               "And what for your store?" 
               "Seven hundred." 
               "A wide difference." 
               "But the store-rent comes as an expense upon my business. I must have a good stand and a handsome store, if I expect to get custom." 
               "And if you expect to get liberal credits, you must have a handsome dwelling, and live as a man who is prospering in trade would be expected to live. Add a couple of hundred dollars to your house-rent, and call it an unavoidable business expense, if you will. Buy elegant furniture on the same principle; and give a grand party once or twice a year. Depend upon it, all this is just as necessary to success as a store handsomely fitted up and in a good situation." 
               "I never took that view of it," said Avery. 
               "Just the reason why you have progressed so slowly. Every one is ready to push on the successful. Every one is ready to sell liberally to those who give out the signs of success, whether they are, at first, real or not. I started on this plan, with less capital than you began with; and now I own the elegant house in which I live, and consider myself worth every cent of forty thousand dollars. There was a time when I spent in my living twice as much as I made in the year. But I understood clearly the game I was playing; and all has come out right." 
               "There is some reason in what you say, I must own," remarked Avery, upon whose mind a new light was breaking. 
               "There is a great deal of reason in it, let me tell you. All you have to do is to thrown out the signs of success, and then every one will believe you are making a fortune. At New Year's, no matter how your business may stand, put on a cheerful air, and tell a few of your friends, confidentially of course, that you have made, during the previous twelve-month, a clear profit of fifteen thousand dollars. They will believe it, and so will eight out of ten to whom they relate the story of your success." 
                
               "I should call that lying," said Avery. 
               "Call it what you please," returned the other, shrugging his shoulders. "It's the way the thing is done. You know Tompkins?" 
               "Yes." 
               "To my certain knowledge, he lost, year before last, more than his whole profit for two years. Did he look grave about it? Not he! He gave out that he had cleared over thirty thousand dollars; and what is more, people believed him. The consequence was, that every one was ready to sell to a merchant who had been so successful; and his paper was A No. 1 in the market. An almost unlimited credit enabled him to double his business during the past year, and to fully redeem himself. Now, suppose he had put on a long face about the matter, and let the truth leak out. He would have been ruined." 
               "Probably. But I can hardly think it right to make so deliberate a falsification." 
               "As to its being right or wrong," replied the friend, "that I leave for persons of tender consciences to determine. If you begin to stickle on matters of this kind, you had better quit business at once; for you know as well as I do, that, in almost every transaction we make, there is a reservation or affirmation that is really meant to deceive those with whom we are dealing. Let the whole truth of your circumstances be known, or tell precisely the character ter of your goods, and your business will diminish instead of increasing." 
               "I'm afraid there is some truth in your remark," said Avery, half sighing as he spoke. "People will be deceived." 
               "And we have to deceive them." 
               The young merchant pondered over what was said on this occasion, long and seriously. And the more he thought of it, the more did he feel inclined to adopt at least some of the suggestions offered; particularly those in regard to his style of living. It took him some time to make up his mind to do this. He had been able, at the close of each year, to determine a clear profit of one or two thousand dollars, limited as he considered his business; but, while his neighbours were making their ten and twenty thousand dollars, annually, this seemed like mere plodding. He had tried to extend his credit, but those with whom he dealt rather held back, and he thought it prudent not to urge the matter. Several times, he had thrown into the bank, where he kept his account, good notes; but only on two or three occasions did he succeed in obtaining discounts. He was not of sufficient importance in the business community to receive favours of this kind. And so he had moved along, quietly, slowly, but safely. His business, though not large, was healthy, and entirely within his control; and, with prudence and economy in personal matters, promised in the end to become large and prosperous. But the time seemed very far away, and he naturally grew impatient. 
               Soon after the interview just mentioned, Avery began to speak more frequently to others of his business, and to talk of the handsome profits he was making. This, once begun, was easily continued. The most difficult thing was to commence a system of exaggeration; all came easy enough after that. Like a stream which is small in the beginning, but increases as it flows on, the new system adopted by Avery assumed, ere long, quite an imposing form. As his prompter in the matter had said, so it turned out; people really believed all that he said. And, further, those who had goods to sell were more urgent for him to increase his bills, and some offered him a more liberal credit than they had before been willing to extend. 
               Avery felt a little surprised, although he had made an effort to produce just this effect. 
               "He was right, after all," he remarked to himself, while turning over the matter in his thoughts. "How easily people are deceived! I could hardly have believed that a little bragging would have produced such a change. If our wholesale dealers are to be caught with such chaff, they shall have enough of it." 
               After once entering upon this system of deception, Avery saw no evil in it. To increase his business ness facilities was a thing of the utmost importance, and if it was to be done so easily, and without, as he said to himself, hurting any one, of course there was no harm in a little exaggeration. 
               "Still hiding yourself away," said the individual that had tempted Avery from the right path. "Why don't you come forward, socially, as you are evidently doing in a business point of view? I heard Felt-well and Glenn say of you, the other day, that you were bound to make a fortune." 
               "Ah! I hope they may prove true prophets." 
               "Of course they will, if you are wise enough to improve the opportunities placed within your reach." 
               "Why did they say this?" 
               "I spoke of the handsome business you were doing, and they not only agreed with me, but volunteered to predict the ultimate result." 
               "They were always very careful not to sell me beyond a certain limit." 
               "That was before you gave out that you were doing a handsome business. You needn't fear now. They will sell you as freely as you like." 
               "The last time I was in their store, they had a great many goods to show me, and were exceedingly affable." 
               "Of course. They see the wind in your sails, and imagine you to be going just twice as fast as you are. Now, you must keep up this illusion. A man who is doing well, generally lives well. Your next step must be to exhibit a style of living in correspondence with your supposed condition. You must move into a handsome house, buy handsome furniture, and let the people see the evidence of your prosperity." 
               "It costs something to do that." 
               "I know it does; but it is so much money well laid out, and will come back to you in due time." 
               Thus instigated, Avery, after turning the matter over and over in his mind, concluded that his friend was right. And so a house at five hundred dollars was taken, and a thousand dollars worth of new furniture purchased. 
               "That Avery's getting along," said one and another, as this new sign of prosperity appeared. 
               "He's active, shrewd, and persevering," would be replied. "He's sure to make his fortune." 
               Yet, how did the case actually stand? Why, thus: In consequence of having boasted of the fine profits he was making, several houses with whom he dealt were led to offer him tempting inducements to enlarge his purchases, and he had done so. In fact, he had bought at least a third more goods than during a like period in the preceding year. There are two important operations in business-buying and selling. If a man buys freely, he must also sell freely; and it is always easier to buy than to sell. Hitherto, Mr. Avery had done a very safe business; all his customers were good, and bought from him at prices that paid him a fair profit. But now, having increased his stock of goods by liberal purchases on credit, it became necessary to exert himself a little more in the selling department; a man may sell a great many goods, if he is not over careful as to the ability of those to whom he sells. This Avery also found out; his eagerness to sell, led him into the error of giving credit where he had before deemed it wise to withhold it, or only to sell in small amounts. Bills accumulated in his pocket-book, and, as heavier payments than usual began, after a few months, to fall due, he found it necessary to turn these bills into cash. So he threw some of them into the bank where he kept his account. A little to his surprise, for he didn't calculate very confidently on getting the money for them, they were discounted. There were among the directors of the bank, two or three men who happened to have observed his prosperous indications, and they said a word in his favour. 
               A doubt had crossed the mind of Avery as to the wisdom of the course he had adopted. It vanished now. A year before, this same bank had repeatedly rejected all his offerings; now it recognised him as one worth regarding. He laughed to himself, and went on his way. 
               The result of the two years' operations following immediately after this change in Avery's system of doing business was not as flattering to the young man as he had hoped it would be. New furniture, increased rent, a more expensive style of living, and certain extravagances of his wife to which he consented, such as a gold watch, diamond pin, rich and costly clothing, and the like, abstracted from his capital, during the time, a sum that did not fall very short of five thousand dollars. All this was but a part of the system of putting on an appearance of prosperity for the sake of inspiring business confidence. 
               It is no matter of surprise, that Avery found, in the course of three or four years, that, instead of driving his business, his business was driving him. Having once left the safe and sure way, he met with temptations at every step-temptations to enlarge and extend his operations. Enlargement and extension created new obligations, and to meet these, when they came due, was not always the easiest matter in the world. A system of money-raising, through divers expedients, was adjoined to his regular business, and required actually more of his time and occupied more of his thoughts than his ordinary mercantile transactions. 
               Still, he counted his profits by thousands, and every year threw out some new sign of prosperity, meant to conceal the actual state of his affairs, which was nearer being desperate than he imagined. In extravagant living, he had consumed more than all his real profits, and, by forcing sales, he had made many bad debts. The enlargement of his ideas had caused him to make bolder, and, consequently, more imprudent operations; all of which helped to make his position as a merchant far from being a safe one. Indeed, at the very time that he boasted of clearing twenty thousand dollars a year, he was actually bankrupt. Yet people, taking him at his word, believed him to be making a fortune. While an honest, prudent man, whose small business was making an actual profit every year over and above all his expenses, could not get an accommodation in bank for one hundred dollars, he could draw out his thousands! And why? Because he deceived by false appearances. In fact, his whole business and domestic life was a lie! In order to keep up a good credit, he resorted to this, among other tricks. He kept three bank accounts; and generally passed the same money through them all. Having obtained a discount in one of these banks, or made collections through it, he drew out the money and deposited it in another bank with which he did business. After letting it lie here for one or two days, a part or the whole was deposited in another bank; and it generally came back to the first before it was finally used. In order still further to make a good impression, he frequently borrowed sums of money for a few days, and passed them into bank, where they were permitted to lie until the day came round for them to be returned, when he handed checks to the parties from whom the loans had been obtained. All this was done to give the appearance of a large business. 
               In the midst of this experiment, and at a time when it was on the eve of proving a failure, a widow, named Barclay, who had received some property, called upon him, and asked him to give her some directions in regard to its safe and profitable investment. She had three children to raise and educate, and the property which had just been obtained, after a prolonged suit at law, was but ten thousand dollars. 
               On the very day upon which this lady called to see Avery, he had been making some pretty close calculations in regard to his business, and the result caused him to feel rather serious. The amount of money to pay, in the coming three or four months, was most appalling. How it was to be raised, he could not imagine. Already he had strained his credit, in the way of accommodations, as far as he deemed it prudent to go; and no new resource opened before his searching mind. Mrs. Barclay's visit appeared, therefore, quite opportune. The moment she announced the fact that she had ten thousand dollars to invest, he made up his mind to get the use of it in his business, if possible; and commenced, immediately, his approaches towards that point. He first made kind inquiries into the particulars of her circumstances, manifesting a lively sympathy at every step of her relation. Thus he became aware of the fact that these ten thousand dollars made up the whole amount of her property, and that in the income therefrom she was to find the means of raising and educating her children. 
               "You ought to have more than four or five hundred dollars for that purpose," said Avery, evincing much interest in the widow. 
               "Very true," she replied. "And will I not be able to get a better interest than that?" 
               "Not in the ordinary investments. Ground-rents are safe, but from these you would not, probably, receive, after deducting taxes, over four hundred dollars, perhaps not so much." 
               Mrs. Barclay shook her head disapprovingly. 
               "Stocks pay five or six per cent., and sometimes more; but so much money has been lost on stocks, that I, for one, feel afraid of them." 
               "So do I," returned Mrs. Barclay. "I know several persons who have lost their all in this way. I wouldn't like to put my money out in stocks of any kind. Don't real estate-houses, I mean-pay well?" 
               "Not such as you can buy. Taxes, repairs, insurance, and a dozen other expenses, run away with half the rent at least." 
               "Some one mentioned that Government securities were desirable as an investment." 
               "So they are, if you have enough money to invest. But you, madam, ought to have at least a thousand dollars income, and United States scrip will not pay you over half that." 
               "Yes, I ought to have a thousand dollars income," said the widow, and she looked thoughtful and serious. 
               "There is one way in which you might obtain a better income from your little property," said Avery, after seeming to reflect for some moments. 
               "What is that?" was eagerly inquired. 
               "Money is worth more in business than in any other way; which is one reason why men, who have capital at their command, engage in business. There are many substantial merchants who are always using extra capital; some of these would, no doubt, be willing to receive your money, and pay you ten per cent. for its use; they would make thirty out of it, perhaps fifty. In this way you would realize more than in any other mode, and your money would be as safe." 
               "Do you think so?" 
               "Oh, yes, quite as safe; some of our business men are as substantial as rocks. Many of them clear from fifty to a hundred thousand dollars yearly." 
               "Indeed!" 
               "Yes. My own profit last year was twenty thousand dollars; and I shall be disappointed if it does not reach thirty thousand by the close of the present year." 
                
               "Is it possible?" 
               "Oh, yes. Fortunes are made rapidly by those who understand how to conduct business. Capital often doubles itself in a year." 
               "Then you think the best thing I can do, is to lend my money to some safe merchant?" 
               "In that way, madam, you will obtain a better income; which, to you, is a matter of the first importance." 
               "It certainly is. Do you know of any one who would take it, and pay me the interest you mentioned?" 
               "Well, no, I can't say that I do. There are plenty who would gladly enough take your money, but it wouldn't be safe to trust them. If you invest it in this way, it should be only with some one of undoubted substantiality." 
               "Couldn't you find profitable use for that much additional capital in your business?" asked Mrs. Barclay. 
               Now this was coming to the point much quicker than Avery had any idea that the lady would arrive there, and he was hardly prepared with just the appropriate answer. However, he thought hurriedly, and, after a short silence, replied-"I scarcely know what answer to make to that question, Mrs. Barclay. I might make use of more capital with advantage; but my bank facilities are large, and money obtained from bank only costs six per cent." 
                
               "But, if money pays from thirty to fifty per cent. in business, I should suppose it would be worth your while to use it freely." 
               "True; and I should very much like to accommodate you, especially when taking your circumstances into consideration." 
               Mr. Avery mused for some moments. 
               "Say you will take my money at ten per cent., and all is settled at once," urged Mrs. Barclay; who, crediting every word the unscrupulous merchant had said, really believed that he was one of the most substantial men in the city. 
               After a good deal of apparent hesitation, and the utterance of many objections, all of which tended to make the lady feel more anxious to have him take her money, Avery at last consented to receive it as a permanent loan, on an interest of ten per cent., and with no other security for it than his simple written acknowledgment of the debt. 
               All this was done by Mrs. Barclay without consultation with a third party. She had heard a gentleman, in the same business with Mr. Avery, speak of the large amount of money he had made in a few years, and predict that he would be one of the richest men in the city before he died. As Mr. Avery was a friend of her deceased husband, who had always spoken well of him, she concluded that he would be the one whom she could trust for sound advice in the matter of investing her little estate. When he agreed to take her money, and pay her ten per cent. for its use, she felt happy; she was now sure of an income sufficient to enable her to support and educate her children. Judge, then, of her surprise, when, a few days after the arrangement was affected, she heard a gentleman, who belonged to the old slow-and-sure-school of merchants, reply to some remark made about Avery, in a way that threw over her mind a doubt as to his substantiality. He was referred to as the purchaser, at a public sale on the day previous, of an elegant residence. 
               This had been determined upon as soon as he obtained possession of the widow's money. He did not feel the need of a house of his own-he was comfortable enough in all things pertaining to domestic affairs; but having so unexpectedly obtained possession of ten thousand dollars, he deemed it a wise move to put on, by the purchase of a handsome house, still further appearances of wealth. The amount of purchase-money to be paid down in cash was but five thousand dollars, and it was an easy matter, as he reasoned with himself, to get it all back into his business again by means of a mortgage. To live in a beautiful house of his own, would, he believed, still further increase the public confidence, and widen the range of his credit. 
               The remark made by the individual just referred to was-"He'd better keep his money in his business. Young merchants would oftener succeed, if they were governed by Poor Richard's sensible advice to little boats." 
               "He has already succeeded," said Mrs. Barclay. 
               "So people think." 
               "Don't you think so?" inquired the lady. 
               "People never succeeded, when I was a young man, in the way he and dozens of others around him do business. But perhaps they have found out a secret which we didn't know. This is the age of improvements." 
               No more was said; but the lady felt troubled. She went, on the next day, to see the gentleman who had spoken so confidently in regard to Mr. Avery's substantiality, and frankly told him what she had done. 
               "What security did he give you?" was his first question. 
               "None at all. I didn't require any." 
               "That was wrong." 
               "He is perfectly safe." 
               "I don't know. It is a mental reservation with us merchants, that no man is really safe. Business is but a precarious matter, after all. I believe Mr. Avery to be sound enough, and, in proof of this, would sell him as many goods as he might feel disposed to purchase; but I would do this with all the risks of business taken into the calculation. With you it is different. Your money is your all, and should not be invested without the most ample security rity. You had better see Mr. Avery, and tell him that a friend advised you to ask him for security." 
               "I don't like to do that; it would seem like throwing a doubt upon his integrity. Even if any thing should happen to his business, I don't believe he would let me suffer." 
               "Make no calculation of that kind. When a merchant gets into difficulties, he usually struggles on until he is so tied, hand and foot, that he can do nothing. He may mean to secure many such debts as yours, without being able to do so. No, no, madam. You must get ample security now, and he is bound to give it. A few days ago, he purchased a large and beautiful house. Insist upon having a mortgage of that property." 
               "I offered him the money, and almost forced it upon him," said Mrs. Barclay; "how, then, can I go to him and ask what you suggest? He would be, and with cause, offended." 
               "No matter. You have committed an error, and must, therefore, bear the unpleasant consequences. There is too much at stake to let the matter rest where it is." 
               "Do you speak knowingly when you say this?" asked Mrs. Barclay, turning slightly pale. 
               "Why, no," replied the friend. "But, as I said, business is always precarious, especially as it is conducted in these times; and Mr. Avery is one of those men who go upon the high-pressure principle. If he escape an explosion, he will make a splendid fortune; if not, he will make a splendid failure. That's my opinion of him." 
               And yet this very man, in the prevailing spirit of exaggeration, had said so much in Avery's favour as an enterprising, successful, and substantial merchant, that Mrs. Barclay's mind was carried, in regard to him, entirely beyond the feeling of a doubt. 
               To see Avery and demand security, was a thing that the widow could not do. She had volunteered her confidence, and now, to go forward and forcibly withdraw it was so like an insult, that her mind shrank from the thought. But she was deeply troubled. For two or three years she had striven to keep her little ones around her, and had succeeded in doing so, but at the expense of health. The decision of the court, made at last in her favour, gave her sufficient property, if invested safely, and the income therefrom prudently dispensed, to raise her little family, and give them the blessing of a good education. But now, all was uncertain again. Her money had passed from her hands, and she had no security for its return but the word and bond of a man who might not be able to fulfil his obligation. 
               While the widow's mind was in this state of distressing doubt, there occurred a large failure in the city. The merchant whose career came thus suddenly denly to a close, was the very one who had tempted Avery from the partially obscure, but safe path in which he was treading. At every step in the new way, this man had been near Avery, with suggestions and propositions; and it was not long after the latter began to move on at the new and more rapid pace, before mutual money engagements were made, and the two played into each other's hand in the way of endorsements and such-like matters. When the failure took place at last, Avery was so hopelessly involved with his enterprising friend, that his stoppage became also necessary. 
               When this last news reached the widow's ears, she became half frantic with alarm. Her first step was to go to Avery. 
               "Don't be alarmed, madam," said he, the moment he saw her; "you are safe enough. I am ruined entirely, through the failure of another; but you are safe. Borrowed money is always considered as a preferred debt." 
               Thus he pushed her off, and partially quieted her agitation of mind. An examination into the merchant's affairs exhibited a condition of things undreamed of; his personal expenses had been over five thousand dollars for several years-far more than all his real profits. Forced loans at exorbitant interest, and a wide range of bad debts, added to the heavy amount of discounted paper in which he was involved by the recent failure, left the probable per centage on his real assets so low as to fill every creditor with hopelessness and amazement. 
               "What are my chances?" asked Mrs. Barclay, with trembling interest, of a gentleman, at whose house she awaited a report from the first meeting of creditors. 
               "Not worth a copper," was the reply. "His whole assets would hardly pay your claim. I never saw such a total wreck. No man who has gone on as wildly as he has done-no man who has lied so about the real state of his business, can be honest." 
               Poor Mrs. Barclay! What could she do but cover her face with her hands and weep? A deeper darkness than she had yet known fell upon her spirits. From the mountain of hope, she was dashed headlong into the dark valley of despair. As for Avery, he saw, when it was too late, that he had acted with most unpardonable folly, thereby ruining himself, and involving others in a like calamity. He had started in business with the belief that it was possible to succeed, and yet be governed in every thing by a strict regard to truth and honesty. Under that system, he was getting on very well; he was slowly but surely laying the foundation for future prosperity. But the false appearances put on by those around him, who lived beyond their means in order to create a factitious confidence, and thereby enlarge their credits, tempted him from his safe course, and he was soon upon the troubled sea of trade, almost without rudder or compass. That he made shipwreck, is by no means a matter of surprise. 
               A few weeks after the unhappy Mrs. Barclay had learned the hopelessness of her case, she was sitting alone, brooding over her sad condition. The pleasant little house into which she had removed, and where she had hoped to find a home with her children for years, must now be given up, for she had no means of paying the rent. What was she to do? Her little ones were all asleep and happy; but, in a month from that time, would she have a home for them? The thought made her weep. 
               "A gentleman wishes to see you in the parlour," said her domestic, coming to the door. 
               "Who is it?" she inquired, looking up with wet eyes. 
               "His name is Mr. Avery." 
               "Mr. Avery?" 
               "Yes, ma'am; that was the name he gave." 
               "Tell him I will see him in a few minutes." 
               Mrs. Barclay composed herself as best she could, and in about five minutes went down to the parlour. Mr. Avery looked haggard. 
               "Madam," he said, as he arose and offered her his hand, "I am ruined, but you are safe." 
               "Me!" exclaimed the widow. "Oh, sir, do not create false hopes." 
               "I believe what I say, ma'am. I have just left a meeting of my creditors, at which I plead your cause so earnestly, that I succeeded in getting a decision in your favour. Your claim is to be paid in full. I could not rest until I brought you this good news." 
               Surprise, gratitude, and delight kept the widow silent for some moments. When she sought to give utterance to her feelings, sobs choked her. 
               "I conducted business on a false principle," said Mr. Avery, during the brief interview held with Mrs. Barclay, "and failure has been the result. Now, heavily burdened with a debt that I can never pay, I go forth into the world with no means of supporting my family but what lie in my own unaided individual efforts. I have received a bitter lesson, but it is learned, I fear, too late. Perhaps, the only pleasant feeling I shall ever have, in referring to this period in my life, will arise from the fact that your little property was saved, not lost." 
               And it was saved. A generous feeling among the wronged creditors, when they understood the case of Mrs. Barclay, led them to forego a trifling advantage each, that she might not lose her all. 
               Hundreds of men act upon the principle that Avery adopted in business; and hundreds who do adopt it, fail in the end, where one succeeds. To act from such a principle is NEITHER SAFE NOR HONEST. 
             
             
                
               HARMLESS GLASS OF WINE. 
               "ROSE, dear," said Mrs. Carlton to her daughter, whom she met at the door of the dining-room with a decanter of wine and glasses on a waiter, "who is in the parlour?" 
               "Mr. Newton," replied the young girl. 
               "The young man from New York?" 
               "Yes." 
               "You are going to take him wine?" 
               "Yes. It is only hospitable to offer him some refreshment." 
               Mrs. Carlton stood with her eyes resting on the floor for some moments, in a thoughtful attitude. 
               "I rather think, Rose," said she, as she lifted her eyes to her daughter's face, "that it would be as well not to hand him wine." 
               "Why, mother?" inquired Rose, looking curious. 
               "We know nothing of the young man's previous life and habits." 
               "Why do you say that, mother?" asked Rose, who did not comprehend the meaning of what had been uttered. 
                
               "He may have been intemperate." 
               "Mother, how can you imagine such a thing?" 
               "I know nothing of him whatever, my child," replied Mrs. Carlton, "and do not wish to wrong him by an unkind suspicion. My suggestion is nothing more than the dictate of a humane prudence. We never can know whose perverted taste we may inflame, when we set even wine before guests of whose history we know nothing; it is therefore wiser to restrain. But you have left Mr. Newton alone, and must not linger here; do not, however, present him with wine. After he is gone, we will talk on this subject again, when I think you will be satisfied that my present advice is good." 
               Rose left the wine on the sideboard, and went back to the parlour, wondering at what she had heard. After the young man had gone away, she joined her mother, when the latter said-"You seemed surprised at my remarks a little while ago; and I was, perhaps, as much surprised when like suggestions were made to me; but when, from indisputable evidence, we become aware that our actions may wrong others, we are bound, by every consideration, to guard against such injurious results. You know how painfully afflicted the family of Mr. Delaney has been, in consequence of the intemperate habits of Morton?" 
               "Yes. Poor Flora! The last time I was with her, he passed us in the street so much intoxicated that he almost staggered. Her heart was so full that she could not speak, and when I left her, a little while afterward, her eyes were ready to gush over with tears." 
               "Unhappy young man! So young, and yet so abandoned." 
               "Until I met him, as just said, I thought he had reformed his bad habit of drinking," said Rose. 
               "It was in order to refer to this fact that I mentioned his name just now," returned her mother. "He did attempt to do better, and for some months kept fast hold of his good resolutions; but, in an evil hour, he fell, and his temptress was a young girl of your own age, Rose. A few weeks ago, he went to New York on business; while there, he visited the house of a relative, where wine was presented to him by a beautiful cousin, and he had not the resolution to refuse the sparkling draught. He tasted, and-you have seen the result." 
               "Oh, mother," exclaimed Rose, "I would not have that cousin's feelings for the world." 
               "She acted as innocently as you would have done just now, my daughter." 
               "Was she not aware of his weakness?" 
               "No; nor had she ever been told that, for one whose taste is vitiated, it is dangerous, in the highest degree, to take even a glass of wine." 
               "I am so glad that I did not offer wine to Mr. Newton," said Rose, drawing a long breath. 
                
               "Mr. Newton," returned the mother, "may never have used intoxicating drinks to excess; he may not be in danger from a glass of wine: but I know nothing of his previous life, and, therefore, it is wisest to take counsel of prudence. This is just what I want you to see for yourself. To such an extent has intemperance prevailed in this country, that the whole community, to a certain extent, have perverted appetites, which are excited so inordinately by any kind of stimulating drink as to destroy, in too many instances, all self-control. Another case, even more painful to contemplate than that of Morton Delaney, occurred in this city, last week; I heard of it a day or two since. A beautiful young girl was addressed by a gentleman who had recently removed here from the South; and her friends, seeing nothing about him to warrant disapprobation, made no objection to his suit. An engagement soon followed, and the wedding was celebrated a few days ago. The father of the bride gave a brilliant entertainment to a large and elegant company; the choicest wines were used more freely than water, and the young husband drank with the rest. Alas! before the evening closed, he was so much intoxicated that he had to be separated from the company; and, what is worse, he has not been sober for an hour since." 
               "Oh, what a sad, sad thing!" exclaimed Rose. 
               "It is sad, sad indeed! What an awakening from a dream of exquisite happiness was that of the beautiful bride! It now appears that the young man had fallen into habits of dissipation, and after-wards reformed. On his wedding-night, he could not refuse a glass of wine; a single draught sufficed to rekindle the old fire, that was smouldering, not extinguished. He fell, and, so far, has not risen from his fall, and may never rise." 
               "You frighten me," said Rose, while a shudder went through her frame; "I never dreamed of such danger in a glass of wine. Pure wine I have always looked upon as a good thing. I did not think that it would lead any one into danger." 
               "Even the best of things, my child, may be turned to an evil purpose. The heat and light of the sun are received by one plant and changed into a poison, while another converts it into healthy and nourishing food. Pure wine will not excite a healthy appetite, although it may madden one that has become morbid through intemperance. Here is the distinction that ought to be made." 
               "Is it not dangerous, then, to serve wine in promiscuous companies?" 
               "Undoubtedly. I did not think so, a little while ago, because the subject was not presented to my mind in the light that it now is. To this custom I can well believe that hundreds, who had begun the work of restricting their craving appetites, owe their downfall. Where all are partaking, the temptation to join in it is almost irresistible; especially, as a refusal fusal might create a suspicion against the individual that he was afraid to trust himself." 
               "I will be very careful how I offer wine to any one again," said Rose. "I would not have the guilt of tempting a man to ruin upon my conscience, for all the world." 
               The visits of Mr. Newton to Rose, which at first were only occasional, became more and more frequent. A mutual attachment ensued, which ended in marriage. No wine was provided at the wedding party-to many, a strange omission-and Rose observed that, at the parties given by friends, her husband invariably let the wine pass him untasted. Curious to know the reason for such abstemiousness, she one day, some months after marriage, said to him-"Do you never drink wine?" 
               The question caused Newton to look serious, and he replied in a simple monosyllable. 
               "Don't you like it?" inquired Rose. 
               "Yes; too well, perhaps." 
               The way in which this was said, half-startled the young wife. Newton saw the effect of his words, and, forcing a smile, said-"When quite a young man, I was thrown much into gay company, and there acquired a bad habit of using all kinds of intoxicating drinks with a dangerous freedom. Before I was conscious of my error, I was verging on rapidly to the point of losing all self-control. Startled at finding myself in such a position, I made a resolution tion to abandon the use of every thing but wine. This, however, did not reach the evil. The taste of wine excited my appetite to such a degree that I invariably resorted to brandy for its gratification. I then abandoned the use of wine, as the only safe course for me, and, with occasional exceptions, have strictly adhered to my resolution. In a few instances, young ladies, at whose houses I visited, have presented me with wine; and, not wishing to push back the proffered refreshment, I have tasted it. The consequence was invariable. A burning desire for stronger stimulants was awakened, that carried me away as by an irresistible power. You, Rose, never tempted me in this way; had you done so, we might not have been as happy as we are to-day." 
               A shudder passed through the frame of the young wife, as she remembered the glass of wine she had been so near presenting to his lips. Never afterward could she think of it without an inward tremour, and fears for the future mingled with her thoughts of the past; but these have proved ground-less fears, for Mr. Newton has no temptation at home, and he has resolution enough to refuse a glass of wine in any company, and on all occasions. Herein lies his safety. 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
