
    ----CITATION----
        Blunt, Ellen Key (1821-1884). Bread to My Children .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5838 wright2-0316
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               BREAD
               To My Children.
            
            BY MRS. ELLEN KEY BLUNT.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               J.B. LIPPINCOTT & CO.
            
            1856.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to the Act of Congress, in the year 1856, by J. B.
                  LIPPINCOTT AND CO., in the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United
                  States in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
      
      
         
            Bread to my children
            BREAD.
            
               PART I.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           "O! weel may the boatie row,
                           And better may she speed;
                           And weel may the boatie row
                           That wins the bairns' bread."
                        
                     
                     OLD SONG.
                  
               
               
                  
                  PREFACE.
                  THE CRYSTAL PALACE.
                  "MAKE a monument of the Crystal Palace!"
                  So said some London newspaper—its columns still, to the end, supporting a
                     monarch's freak—The World's Fair.
                  Make a book of the Crystal Palace! I thought. A story for every country; which,
                     like the single stone cast by each passing countryman, may serve to mark the
                     chief excellence of his country, and together pile a tribute for all.
                  America, my native land, I raise my homage here for thee; and lo! my stone becomes bread! I cast it upon the waters:
                     after many days may I find it!
                  Undazzled amid the gorgeous glitter of all lands, gathered together in the
                     brilliant show, I see with pride, among the offerings of nations, thy simple
                     gift—so simple, that, as they have yielded thee thy palm, they do not see that
                     it overshadows them. They, so covered with the beauty and science of centuries,
                     feel no inferiority as they acknowledge that thou bearest in thy young hand
                        the best bread!—of all the world, the best bread!
                  Bread!—the staff of life!—and the weariest pilgrim to thy shores may grasp
                     it!
                  And so justly they have awarded thee thy due: not fabrics enfolding the rich
                     with the labor of the poor; not jewels, glittering like the Koh-i-noor,
                     gathered for a crown by the hand of toil; not diadems, nor diamonds, nor dais;
                     but the best Reaping Machines! The best Bread!
                  Land of the hungry emigrant, where the people reign, surely it is thy crown,
                     and the kings of the earth may do it reverence.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  I.
                  "GIVE US this day our daily bread!" had been prayed by the lips of all the
                     princely household of Sir Robert Cecil, in the old chapel of the royal manor of
                     Hatfield, according to the noble liturgy of the Church of England, in the time
                     of James the First.
                  On the breath of the early morning air had arisen alike the united voices; but
                     ah! how different the spirit of each tone, repeating the divine words for the
                     common blessing.
                  There was the old earl, with his magnificent inheritance, sweeping over broad
                     lands, and sheltering, with a splendid patronage, many happy hearthstones.
                  
                  There was the eldest son—calm in the possession of his birthright, and his
                     wife, the Countess Rosamond, brilliant as her jewels, proud as her titles, and
                     beautiful as her heart might desire, and their children; but, thank God!
                     children's prayers are alike.
                  There were the servants and retainers; supporting the whole system which
                     preserves the English nobility, they were themselves in return supported; and
                     while their cottage homes were shaded from many evils by the palace wall, yet,
                     if they should withdraw their support, like the arch from its building, the
                     whole fabric would fall.
                  And so, for all these the bread was sure; for as long as there would remain a
                     fragment of such estates, it would be divided with lordly generosity, as the
                     English law and English custom provide.
                  But there were two voices that trembled together in this morning supplication,
                     with a bitter agony in their cry for bread, of which none others present could
                     dream.
                  The younger son—born of the same mother, nurtured in the same luxury, he had
                     shared his brother's youth, but when manhood came to them, while it gave to the
                     first born his certain fortune, it brought to the younger only a commission in
                     His Majesty's service; and he started in a soldier's career, to fight the
                     battle of life, which is not always to the strong.
                  Thus had passed his life's first vigor, when now buffeted and weary with the
                     strife, almost blinded by the clouds of circumstances opposing his career of
                     adventure, which was his only fortune, so that he could scarcely see the time
                     or the tide which should be taken; his heart, torn with the drooping health of
                     his wife, and the social position for his children, he had turned to rest for a
                     little time in his childhood's home.
                  Happy he who can turn back, even in memory, from life's hard road, to such
                     blessed bowers!
                  But, for him there was no right or title there, but that of welcome and
                     hospitality; yet, away from there, the world was so wide and dreary, not for
                     himself, but for those he loved.
                  And the other voice, his wife, the Lady Angela! fair she had ever been, when
                     youth and health had covered her with
                     their blessing, and fairer than ever now, her pale and spiritual face, as she
                     raised it to heaven in the light of faith, was almost seraphic.
                  And there, also, knelt their children, but as I have said, children's prayers
                     are alike.
                  And the chaplain prayed the Lord's prayer; and the people followed him
                     according to the rubric; his voice was calm, and clear, and holy, and seemed to
                     make way through the clouds of unbelief and sin, for all to go with him to the
                     gates of heaven.
                  And so it arose to the Almighty Father! the burden of that prayer, who, as He
                     bent to receive it, knew that two sparrows were sold for one farthing, and at
                     the same time He sent rain on the just and the unjust.
                  And the benediction was said over all; and the chaplain had left the chancel,
                     and the people the chapel, and the hushed hour of prayer was gone, and the
                     sands of life were running fast for another day!
                  Proudly the earl trod the high terrace from the chapel door. The rich dress of
                     the countess swept the marble steps as she passed, with her graceful
                     salutation, to the pleasant English breakfast. Merrily the children's feet ran
                     hither and thither, as only children's feet can run; and merrily their voices
                     rang out their gay good-morning; and cheerily the breakfast bell sounded over
                     all.
                  With care, as a mother might, Cecil had wrapped around his delicate wife her
                     shawl; it was of the palest blue, and as it fell around her with her white
                     robe, and as the sunlight shone upon her long golden hair, and as the lovely
                     face turned towards him, and the soft eyes beaming with love and thanks
                     requited him, surely, in all the world, he had never seen anything half so
                     fair.
                  
                  Tenderly and caressingly he led her along the old terrace, following the gay
                     group to breakfast.
                  "You are much better, dearest. In a little while I shall see you quite strong
                     and well. Your cheek is the color of the rose this morning." And he bent and
                     gazed into her face, where the color glowed brighter at his gaze.
                  "And you look happy this morning;" and he kissed again and again the sweet
                     parted lips as she turned to answer him.
                  "And you will do bravely now, I know, my wife; we will fear no more the
                     troubles of life; they cannot hurt us really; how foolish we have been to feel
                     sad and troubled at our poor fortunes, grieving that there was no home, no
                     place, no room for us in our own land. We will not care any more, but will go
                     cheerfully and gayly to our new home in the new country.
                  "And it is no exile; it shall be home!"
                  "Yes, yes," said Angela; and she clasped eagerly her small white hands around
                     his supporting arm; and he did not see that the cheek was all too bright, and
                     the hands all too white and thin.
                  "Ah! here come the children with my flowers."
                  And two little children, bright as the flowers they were bringing, came running
                     towards her, as she spoke, dropping their flowers at every step, the very
                     picture of happiness.
                  "Mamma, mamma! here are your flowers; we were trying to see which could reach
                     you first."
                  "And you both come together," she said, as, embracing them together, she took
                     from their little hands the choice and beautiful flowers which were their daily
                     morning offering; placing some on her breast and some in her beautiful
                     hair.
                  "Breakfast is nearly over, mamma, and all are asking for you; we have looked
                     for you everywhere, and here comes Eunice."
                  "We left her, because Edith and I ran to meet you first."
                  "Here she comes with her pink rose; why does she always, every morning, bring
                     you a pink rose, mamma?"
                  "Because mamma loves it, Angela; I heard her say so."
                  And Eunice came, with the pink rose, freshly gathered, with the dew upon its leaves; surely
                     it was the fit emblem of the fair, fresh girl who gathered it; and it must have
                     been with some such feeling that her mother had chosen it for her to give.
                  Fifteen summers had thrown their roses over her life, and happier life never
                     had summer's roses counted.
                  From her gentle mother, Eunice turned for her father's caress, and Cecil, as he
                     looked at them all, felt calm and, strong; felt that he had been too impatient;
                     felt that he was blest enough just in that group as they stood around him,
                     counting one beside, who, though away, was present in his heart, in the warm
                     gush of pride and love, which never flows but at the touch of the first-born
                     son!
                  As he looked and missed him, the mother looked up from the children, and the
                     flowers clustered around her, and the same memory seemed to flit like a shadow
                     across her face. Half suppressing a sigh, she leaned upon Eunice and let her
                     lead her away.
                  The little ones followed, clinging to Cecil, attracting him with a thousand
                     childish graces and gayeties, and at last ending in a chase, which was to be
                     down the steps to the garden and around a certain walk and to the
                     breakfast-table, which had awaited them so long, before mamma and Eunice could
                     possibly get there.
                  Many times afterwards in life, when his feet were travel-worn and weary, did
                     Cecil remember that merry chase.
                  "Look, papa! see! mamma will get before us; there she is! See, Eunice is
                     opening the door! Look, papa! run!"
                  And their flying feet were gone; and Cecil looked, but he stayed, for, like a
                     vision, it made him still.
                  Above him, in the corner of the balcony, just where it turned around the heavy
                     wall of the battlement, stood his wife.
                  Her figure was relieved against the sky, the coloring of her dress almost
                     seeming to mix with the clouds of blue and white which floated above and around
                     her; and her golden hair, waving about
                     her face and shoulders, lent a glory to her whole form.
                  "Angela! yes, angel!" came to his lips; and, as if to impress more vividly the
                     spiritual appearance, as he looked, unconscious of any human eye, she gently
                     clasped her white hands upon her bosom and raised her face to heaven. For a
                     moment only she stood thus, as if in adoration; then bowing her head, she
                     passed around the embattled tower, and, like a vision, was gone.
                  But Cecil, as if he had seen a vision, stood.
                  "Angel! too much angel! too much, for earth!"
                  A sudden trembling struck his heart—a fear, that she was nearer heaven than
                     earth, as she stood above him there; a warning, that she was passing from
                     him—and then a defiance, that she should not go.
                  He was aroused from his reverie by the return of the little playmates; and,
                     shaking off the dark presentiment, he started again in their amusement, but it
                     was in vain.
                  "If papa was so very tired, he might walk," they said; they were content—they
                     had won their race.
                  And he—oh, many a time afterwards when he remembered his children's happy
                     triumph, did he again see that glorious figure painted above him in the clouds
                     of the sky.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  II.
                  "A LETTER, my son, for you," said the earl, his father, as he took his seat at
                     the table; "a letter from America—from Lord Calvert!"
                  "And one for you, Angela—from Percy. I have waited until you finished your
                     breakfast, for I knew it would spoil your appetite—there"—
                  The cup she was just replacing nearly fell from the hand which with trembling
                     joy received her boy's letter home.
                  "Thank you; thank you;" and, rising as she received it, she left the
                     apartment.
                  Eunice followed.
                  
                  "Do you wish me, mamma?"
                  "No, my child; I would rather be alone."
                  "I will only go with you to open your chamber door, mamma—and I want to give
                     you these verses for Percy. I wrote them last night. Dear Percy; how I wish he
                     were here!"
                  Tears filled her mother's eyes as she took the verses, and Eunice repeated her
                     hasty wish; but the heart must overflow sometimes, and tears are blessed
                     things.
                  Slowly Cecil opened and read his long looked-for letter. It was soon read, but
                     still he read it again and again, and then sat looking at it intently, as one
                     who likes not what he sees. Twice had the servant asked if he would take
                     coffee, and twice had his father asked him if it were satisfactory, when, with
                     a start, he replied, "Perfectly," and handed it to him.
                  Strange, the change that can come over the feelings, with no perceptible
                     reason, in a few moments. There is no reason for it—suddenly, like the
                     chameleon, as if it touched a different color, the feeling is changed, and you
                     are not responsible for the change.
                  A little while ago, and he was elate with hope and strength. How bravely he had
                     talked of his new home; but that figure in the sky had touched him, and the
                     color was changed—the mirage had faded! the bright streak of sunlight was gone!
                     and if there was any light in the horizon now, it was that of the cold Northern
                     Light!
                  He drank his coffee.
                  "Very satisfactory," said the earl, "very satisfactory indeed. I thought
                     Calvert would not disappoint me."
                  He handed the letter back to his son, who mechanically finished his breakfast,
                     and followed his father to the library.
                  
                  And Angela's letter.
                  There is no need to follow to her chamber and watch her as with tears blinding
                     her she could hardly read her letter.
                  There is no need to enter the mother's heart and hear the unuttered and
                     unutterable prayer for her absent son.
                  No need to watch the spirit of peace, which seemed to fall over her like a
                     mantle in answer to that prayer.
                  And there was no need for Cecil, when, a few hours afterwards, he felt calm
                     enough to seek her, to stand at the door some minutes irresolute before he
                     could bear to enter with the news of the confirmed arrangements.
                  For, resting her delicate and overwrought frame upon her couch, and placing her
                     flushed cheek upon the cool folds of the paper, she had sunk into a sweet
                     repose.
                  He saw it was Percy's letter at her cheek, and he knew the blessing of it at
                     her heart.
                  A paper lay beside her—he took it—it was the verses of Eunice.
                  
                     My brother—we are parted now—
                     May God bless thee!
                     In thy wanderings far, wilt thou
                     Ever forget me?
                     Canst thou ever forget those
                     Who love, you so at home?
                     We do rest so lonely here
                     While thou dost roam.
                  
                  
                     We scarce can feel that thou art gone,
                     But ever seem to hear
                     Thy footsteps—surely it must be
                     An echo dwelling here—
                     That loves to cheer our loneliness
                     By giving back the sound
                     Of thy feet, though they are wandering
                     Over foreign ground.
                  
                  
                     Thy voice—there rests within my heart
                     The memory of its tone—
                     And I think I hear its breathing,
                     Though thou art gone—
                     As if thy words had spoken
                     Just now into mine ear,
                     And the silence was unbroken
                     That the heart might hear.
                  
                  
                     Thy presence was so beautiful,
                     So bright, beside our hearth—
                     Thy absence, like thy shadow
                     Now darkens all our mirth;
                     
                     And when we listen for thy voice,
                     And turn thy face to see,
                     The echo and the shadow
                     Are all we have of thee.
                  
                  
                     But we will love that echo,
                     And its tones shall cheerful be,
                     As if thy steps were coming,
                     With thy voice, merrily;—
                     And that shadow we will brighten
                     With thoughts of thee,
                     Till it almost seems thyself
                     In reality.
                  
                  
                     But we deceive ourselves—
                     And almost will despair,
                     When we have clasped that phantom,
                     And found it only air;
                     No! we must wait in patience,
                     The present soon is past,
                     When we may hear thy voice,
                     And see thy form at last.
                  
                  
                     And we'll remember our parting
                     With smiles—not tears—
                     And think upon our meeting
                     With hopes—not fears:—
                  
               
               
                  Bread.
                  III.
                  UNDER the direction of the good chaplain Eunice had pursued studies which were
                     alike beneficial to her mind and heart; and it was with no small degree of
                     pride that he noticed her improvement.
                  Like a skilful lapidary, he would carve and polish the gem intrusted to his
                     keeping; like a careful gardener, he would train and trim his plant of all
                     exuberance, engrafting upon the natural bloom the germ of a better bud,
                     gathered from the tree of life; and thus, day after day, was forming, link by
                     link, flower by flower, the charm of her adorning.
                  
                  So gentle, so young, so fair, she has walked through life hitherto as through
                     the fresh gardens alone; but now she meets one, who, avoid him as she may, and
                     follow her as he may not, yet he or his shadow shall be ever with her.
                     Yesterday a stranger, but to-day of that mysterious kindred to her soul, that
                     she shall never be alone again.
                  Sweet Eunice! God has framed that soul—fear not!
                  In the long, fragrant, shady alley of the castle garden, she sees one
                     approaching whom she would fain avoid, but she cannot turn; the thickly
                     clustering flowers and shrubs lead straight on, and she must meet him.
                  And why not? Is he not a friend? Is he not agreeable?
                  Oh! yes. In London, even, at St James's, there is not a dame, however dainty,
                     who would dislike to meet the handsome, intellectual, accomplished courtier,
                     clever diplomatist, and travelled gentleman, Ralfe Romaine.
                  Brilliant in society, admired at court, the favorite of the king, there are few
                     who would object that he should cross their path. Why! is it, in the solitude
                     of this mountain castle, he should not as well be appreciated by a simple
                     maiden?
                  He is no stranger, either. Recommended by the king, received by the
                     earl—enjoying, like a return of his boyhood, the freedom of the country, she is
                     used to seeing him every day; every chance had thrown them together. Her
                     grandfather had made her play chess with him, and the chaplain had recommended
                     that he should teach her French, and her father had called upon him to tell
                     wild Indian tales, that Eunice might understand something of the savage life
                     she was about to join—which he had seen—and her aunt and uncle had made her
                     sing song after song for the entertainment of their guest; and even the
                     children, when he had troubled their play, and upset their toys, and tangled
                     their hair, had called to sister Eunice, cousin Eunice, to come to their aid;
                     and the very horse on which she rode so safely every day had, one bright morning, just by the
                     stream in the shady wood, by an accidental twisting of the rein, aided by an
                     unusual mismanagement of the rider, managed, at the end of an awkward
                     manoeuvre, to throw her at his very feet.
                  By great presence of mind and skill in horsemanship, he averted the danger that
                     threatened her life, and dismounting, knelt beside her; her long tresses
                     escaped from their confinement, fell in heavy masses upon the damp grass, and
                     her face was deathly pale as he bent over it. Bringing water from the stream,
                     he sought to restore her.
                  "Poor child, sweet child, what shall I do for you?" She heard him not; and
                     when, after the swoon was passed, she did hear and open her gentle eyes, it was
                     to hear him only like a kind brother, soothing her, a child, and his arm
                     supporting her with the tenderest care. Like a child she thanked him, with no
                     embarrassment for the present scene; weak from the pain and shock of the fall,
                     she leaned gratefully upon him, and as he bathed her temples with the fresh
                     pure water, fresh and pure as the water that revived her, there sprung up a
                     fountain within her heart, unconsciously consciously, magically to flow on,
                     murmuring of him forever.
                  And he, oh! when the waves of his varied life shall be crested high with pride
                     and pleasure, he shall be willing to pour it all out for one drop of that pure
                     stream.
                  Thus had she known Romaine. And now, why not meet him? Why not look full in the
                     face of this kind preserver, even as she had done that day when she had first
                     thanked him for her life; it had been many days, even months ago; she had
                     laughed and talked of it many a time; she had met him every day, and talked to
                     him as freely as ever.
                  Why shrink so now?
                  Why look to see if there is no escape from meeting him? and when she sees there
                     is none, why does the heart so beat, like the bird against its cage? why does
                     the head droop, and the cheek burn, and the hand grow so cold, and the book she
                     had held go carefully fall?
                  That was well—of course it had to be picked up, each trying to recover it, and
                     the meeting which had startled her so was over.
                  
                  Foolish Eunice!
                  Aye, foolish indeed! if love awakened by gratitude, and tempted on by kindness,
                     nay, even tenderness, and sustained by a generosity which would not reclaim
                     what it had once given—if this be foolish, she was foolish enough; for this was
                     just what she had done.
                  It was only now she began to see it. Before, when her pale mother had thanked
                     him with tears for her child's life, she thought it was gratitude that added
                     its throb in her heart for his reward; but gratitude is never troubled, never
                     timid, never trembles into homage; it is matter-of-fact; it gives its payment
                     for the service rendered, and then rests, satisfied and satisfying; no further
                     interest; its satisfaction is in the present for the past; it has no future, no
                     hoping, no fearing, no dreaming.
                  And Eunice had been dreaming that dream which comes once for all, which comes
                     without call, and stays without consent; and departs, leaving its mystic
                     garland, which is to deck either the victim or the victor.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  IV.
                  AN accident that morning had revealed to Eunice more of her heart than she had,
                     before dared to look into.
                  She was combing and arranging her hair, which, in its rich luxuriance, nearly
                     covered her, when her aunt, pausing at the open door, exclaimed, "Child! what
                     beautiful hair!"
                  Little Edith, who was standing near hiding her face in its soft folds, answered
                     with pride—
                  "That is just what Romaine told her yesterday, when he was telling of the
                     Indian women's hair."
                  "Beware of flattery, Eunice, dear. Romaine has seen too many women to be easily caught by
                     long hair." And, gracefully but haughtily, the Countess Rosamond passed on.
                  "Beware of jealousy," said the old nurse; "some are never content unless they
                     have all the praise. Come, Miss Edith, you talk too much; your mamma is waiting
                     for you."
                  Eunice colored violently, and, turning hastily, a small mirror, caught by the
                     offending hair, fell to the ground, and was, broken to pieces in the fall.
                  Recalled by the crash, the nurse lamented loudly over the bad omen, and
                     declared that she would rather no stranger, however grand, should ever enter
                     the castle gates than to cause such evil feelings; and that she wished they
                     were all safely across the ocean in their own home—which now, alas! she was
                     sure could never be—as something dreadful was to happen.
                  Gently, but firmly repelling her, Eunice desired her to follow the child, and,
                     after a few more minutes, her toilet was finished, the hair arranged, the rich
                     folds only shading a face paler than usual; and then she stood and looked at
                     the broken glass.
                  In spite of herself the superstition of the old servant came over her; and then
                     her aunt's unpleasant remarks added a weight of sadness not to be disregarded;
                     a foreboding overshadowed her; the mirror that had but just reflected her in
                     her pride of youth and beauty lay on the floor; and as she stood and looked at
                     it, glittering and distorted, its ruin seemed almost prophetic; and the faith
                     seemed broken, the dream gone, and the fortune of life, if such it may be
                     called, seemed flung in shattered fragments at her feet.
                  
                     Oh, who would wake the sleeper
                     From his dream so bright?
                     And, for the light that cheered him,
                     Show him the gloom of night?
                     And tell him that the forms so fair
                     That in his vision move,
                     Are only phantoms, which of air
                     His fancy for him wove;
                     And that they do not live and breathe,
                     As they to him do seem;
                     That they are only shadows,
                     And his happiness, a dream?
                  
                  
                  
                     And who would check the maiden
                     In her careless glee,
                     And tell her that her joy
                     Is but vanity?
                     That those she loves with trust
                     In their sincerity,
                     Are into trodden dust,
                     To show their destiny;
                     And bid her love them not,
                     Because they change and die,
                     And that their forms are only bright 
                     Unto the dreamer's eye?
                  
                  
                     No! let the vision shine
                     Although it mockery seems,
                     And let the dreamers dream,
                     And be happy in their dreams
                  
               
               
                  Bread.
                  V.
                  "LITTLE friend, I came here to meet you."
                  The color began to rise, and the step, grew quicker, as if to hasten away the
                     time of the painful presence.
                  "Your mother told me I would find you here."
                  "I expect mamma wants me; I must return."
                  "On the contrary, I heard her tell the chaplain that she wished you excused
                     from your lessons to-day; that she was glad for you to be in the air, because
                     you had said you head ached."
                  Headache! oh, how her heart ached!
                  "Does not the air refresh you? Come with me. This path—see how green and fresh.
                        We will go through the park-gate to
                     the beautiful wood beyond. I will carry your book, and will do my best to
                     beguile the way. Come, I want to show you my discovery, a singularly beautiful
                     spring, almost inaccessible. I saw it by the merest accident, but I would have
                     crossed the ocean to have found it.
                  "We will drink of it, and you shall have a, bunch of wild roses which grow all
                     around it. Come."
                  And Eunice went; and the day smiled, and the birds sang, and the headache
                     vanished, and the heart was light and glad, and the spring was reached, and
                     together the man of the world and the child of nature drank with the same
                     thirst of the same pure element.
                  Happy had it been had their hearts mingled beside its sparkling waters.
                  Romaine gathered the flowers he had promised, and, as she wove them into a
                     garland for her hair, he, seated beside her, beguiled the time.
                  He told her how the first wanderers to America were in earnest search for
                     nothing more than a spring of water, the far-famed fountain of youth and
                     beauty, which, it was believed, perpetually flowing, would bless with its
                     precious gifts whoever might drink of its clear stream.
                  And when she laughed merrily at Ponce de Leon's folly, he told her how one of
                     their own countrymen, even his own ancestor, in the full tide of youth, had
                     sought and found in that same land, a better, fresher, truer fountain than ever
                     the aged Spaniard had dreamed of, even the pure heart of the Indian maiden, the
                     Pocahontas or Matonka, who with brow sprinkled in the holy Christian baptism,
                     was given the name of Rebecca.
                  And as beside the ancient well the beautiful Jewess had poured with generous
                     hand life's blessed draught, so overflowing for this adventurer, this human
                     stream, sparkling and bright with its bridal favors, had wandered to his
                     breast, even as one of her native rivers is gathered, at last in triumph into
                     the mighty heart of the boundless sea.
                  With passionate and earnest gaze he had watched the changes of coloring and
                        expression, which, during his
                     eloquent recital, had passed like the flying cloud and sunlight across Eunice's
                     ingenuous face. If she had possessed any art, she might easily then have fixed
                     her charm forever in his soul; if she had had less delicacy, she would then
                     have bound her spell forever around him; had he been more brave, he might then
                     have won, with an easy triumph, a noble prize; but, as her heart was stirred to
                     its conscious love, she bade it droop and hide, like a bird beneath some
                     shelter, and, startled and frightened at the brink on which they stood, beside
                     the shallow brook, and, shrinking with maiden reserve from the eye which might
                     read her heart's secret, she covered her face with her luxuriant garland, and
                     childishly asked him if Pocahontas wore flowers.
                  As he, with the friendly familiarity which had grown between them, pulled the
                     flowers from her lovely features, it was strange that he, used to the world's
                     dissembling, saw no deeper under that flower ruse; saw not the love which
                     trembled beneath to be discovered, and, to hide his own embarrassment, half
                     impatient and disappointed with the apparent carelessness of his listener, he
                     turned, and stooping, drank again, alone, of the delicious spring.
                  A braver heart would have pursued the chase; a truer heart would have told his
                     love; a more generous heart would have laid his treasure, even though
                     unrequited, at her feet; a less selfish heart would never have drank alone.
                  But she is only a child; how could he have dreamed of her! And, child-like, she
                     stood on the edge of the bank above him, and idly cast the bowers with which he
                     had decked her, one after one, into the stream; and as they floated away in the
                     current, little could he understand her action little could he know of the
                     maiden pride and the maiden pain; little could he see the freshly gathered
                     hopes which were clinging to those scattered leaves, and which yet she flung so
                     idly away.
                  And, as they left the fountain, little had he, the man of letters, with all
                     his. learning, baffled by a child—little had he read the story of that closely
                     folded woman's heart.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  VI.
                  
                     WHAT seekest thou? is it wealth—
                     Stooping in sorrow—
                     Counting the golden sands
                     To-day, for to-morrow?
                     O rest! the toil is vain;
                     The greatest treasure
                     Is one gold cannot gain,
                     Nor money measure.
                  
                  
                     What seekest thou? is it fame?
                     Lonely it burneth,
                     The star, to which in hope
                     Thy spirit turneth.
                     And when its beams of glory
                     Shall shine o'er thee,
                     Thou wilt dazzle—but thy life
                     Alone will be!
                  
                  
                  
                     But seek thou love! its riches
                     Are bright and rare,
                     And with its wealth and beauty
                     Naught pan compare.
                     Enchanter! see, it maketh
                     The poor to be
                     Rich, as with magic power
                     Of Gramarye!
                  
                  "Why should Eunice sing this song? was it coquettishness? Could she, who had
                     trifled so like a child at the fountain, return and touch with all a woman's
                     power the strongest cords of the human heart?"
                  Romaine asked himself this as, seated in the evening at the farthest end of the
                     apartment, apparently engrossed with an open book, he listened to her song; no
                     one could see how it touched him.
                  There was a melancholy in her voice never there before; it thrilled at his
                     heart as if newborn.
                  He arose and approached the harp, and, leaning over her, as she finished,
                     praised her song.
                  Eunice was accustomed to praises; but she blushed deeply, and, trying to
                     conceal all feeling, she busied herself with tuning the strings of the
                     instrument—breaking one, then another.
                  Romaine offered to help her; the servant announced supper—all obeyed the
                     summons. Why did he tarry over those broken strings to tell her, that, after
                     their morning's ramble, he had written a song which he would like her to sing?
                     and when she, perceiving that all had left the apartment, rose to follow, why,
                     as he accompanied her, was his voice so low and his look so earnest as he
                     partly repeated it?
                  
                     "Pure and fresh as the mountain stream
                     Is the love of which I ever dream;
                     Weary and faint I would gladly be,
                     If that mountain stream refreshed me;
                     Or I'd sleep forever my life away,
                     If that dream of love would with me stay."
                  
                  At the table all was noise and merriment. Percy had come, and the jest and the
                     laugh went around with the wine, and stories were told, and songs were sung,
                     and toasts were drank—and drank deep, too—in that far-off time, just as if it
                     were last night here.
                  
                     
                     Percy's Song.
                     THE HOMEWARD BOUND.
                     
                        Of all the ships that sail the sea,
                        Circling the earth around
                        There are none that sail so merrily
                        As those that are homeward bound!
                        Then pour the wine, and pour it free
                        As the tide on the thirsty ground,
                        And by wave and wine the toast shall be
                        A home to the homeward bound!
                     
                     
                        Fill high the wine, while the sea flows fast,
                        With a welcome to those who come;
                        Though the stars be guiding some at last
                        To shipwreck instead of home.
                        But fall, for we'll hail them cheerily,
                        Be life or death around,
                        And o'er wave and wine, the spell shall be, 
                        A home for the homeward bound!
                     
                  
                  
                     Romaine's Song.
                     SOUNDS OF HOME.
                     
                        We've gathered together all sounds of home,
                        We've joined them link by link,
                        And we bind you fast who love to roam,
                        And a welcome to you we drink!
                        Drink! while life like the wine flows bright;
                        Drink! while the spirit is true;
                        In the blood-red wine, and the blood-warm. heart,
                        We pledge our love to you!
                     
                     
                        O! many a time has your vacant place
                        Brought pain to the memory
                        As we've looked in vain for the cheerful face
                        We world travel miles to see.
                        Over land and sea you have come at last—
                        And We'll drink till the cup is dry!
                        Forgetting the weary and wasted past,
                        We drink! ere the present fly!
                     
                  
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  VII.
                  IT was a summer evening. The day, fit emblem of life, with its dawning and
                     dreaming, its cloud. and sunlight its restless breath of pleasure and pain, its
                     action of triumph and defeat, strength and weakness, had at last wasted itself
                     away.
                  And the sun was setting over Hatfield, and over most of its inmates the
                     blessings of life had fallen so commonly with the accustomed daylight, that it
                     was almost forgotten that they came from Heaven.
                  And the plans were all completely arranged for the home in America. A grant
                     front Lord Baltimore for trusting, hopeful hearts to take possession of, and
                     the struggle was over, and the
                     preparations were all made, and the day was fixed for departure, and gayly they
                     all talked of the coming voyage.
                  Angela wondered that she had ever felt so sad and troubled about it; and now
                     that Percy was to go, she was perfectly happy.
                  Romaine was also to accompany them, and, in order to do so, would be compelled
                     to leave for London in a few days, to receive the necessary dispatches from the
                     king.
                  It was a fair and happy scene that evening sun went down upon.
                  Again was the grand old terrace trodden by the same feet from the evening as
                     before from the morning prayer, and the same hearts that had sought their way
                     in faith returned now with, their answer of peace.
                  Again the chaplain blessed them all; again Angela lingered in the holy silence;
                     and then, as she followed with her husband, even the chaplain noticed her
                     unearthly beauty, and never afterward could he forget how she had then passed
                     from his sight, calm and serene, in the light of the eventide, and the music of
                     the even-song.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  VIII.
                  THROUGH the fading twilight she wandered with him she loved so well, over every
                     well-known spot of the familiar gardens. For many months she had never walked
                     so far; but a sudden strength had come with this parting desire, and heart
                     mingled with heart more closely than ever, as in each loved place they seemed
                     to record a sad but sweet farewell.
                  The twilight deepened and darkened into the shade of night; still, lingering,
                     she said, "Oh, let us stay—let not the time pass—I am so happy—so perfectly
                     happy."
                  
                  Cecil listened with all the devotion of his first young dream of love.
                  "This day has been so beautiful; from the early morning I have watched it, and,
                     now that it is gone, I cannot wish it back, because the night is here, almost
                     more beautiful."
                  "O! yes, more beautiful," said Cecil, as he drew her nearer as if for
                     protection from the darkness.
                  And in that hour, when flowers are folded, and hearts mingle, she leaned upon
                     his breast, lavishing from the depths of her soul what, in after time, memory
                     collecting every word, he cherished as his treasure.
                  She told him how impatient she had been, and troubled, and wearied at their
                     trial of life; and how she had been exceeding foolish, and had even sinned, by
                     sorrowing for things that moth and rust could corrupt, and thieves could steal;
                     and how she had prayed and striven against it; and how God had blessed her, and
                     forgiven her, and told her to sin no more; and how she wondered, now, that she
                     could ever have grieved for things of such little moment. As to their new home,
                     it did not matter how humble that might be, they would be so blest and happy
                     there; how they had what all the wealth of the world could not buy, and all the
                     poverty of the world could not take away; their perfect love—it could never
                     change, could it? Nothing could spoil their happiness—nothing—not even
                     death.
                  Cecil shuddered, but she continued: "No! not even death, for we should still
                     love. Death could never alter that, and that is our happiness; therefore, we
                     shall ever have it, and be happy."
                  "Oh! bless you—bless you!" he replied; "let us return now, the night is
                     damp."
                  And as they returned, it was strange he was so sad, while she so joyfully told
                     him she was the happiest person in all the world; strange that his heart should
                     have sunk, as to the earth, when, at the last step, in the fulness of her
                     gratitude, she knelt so devoutly across the way. Strange that his soul was so
                     heavy in prayer, as, obeying her impulse, he knelt beside her: but he knelt
                     beside her—and together there—
                  As the countless stars looked down upon the countless prayers which were numbering countless
                     souls for heaven, surely these two together shone white and fair in the double
                     light, of a perfect human and divine love.
                  She arose and took his hand. "To-morrow I shall be just as happy; and
                     to-morrow, and to-morrow—every day, as it comes. Only think, Cecil, I shall
                     never be unhappy any more! I feel it."
                  "Oh, bless you, bless you!" again he replied.
                  Her voice was light and free as a child's, but his fell heavily, although in a
                     blessing. He could not see so clearly, through the night-clouds, the daybreak
                     of to-morrow.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  IX.
                  BUT to-night was happy enough. Oh, that it could have stayed! Why need it
                     pass?
                  Earth keeps time so seldom in such happy measure with such happy, beating
                     hearts.
                  All remembered Angela's appearance on this night; her face was radiant; there
                     was a spirit in all she said that touched others with its fire. Their new home
                     in America was spoken of and dwelt upon with enthusiasm.
                  The earl looked on with all a father's pride ad affection. He had been most
                     kind in exerting ing every influence,
                     and he felt assured that his younger son in the younger country would soon vie
                     with his brother in distinction and honor in the old land.
                  He had never known, might never know, the struggle which that son had endured
                     from the unjust division of the English law; but that was not his fault, and
                     Cecil knew it. He loved and honored his father well, and it was with a true and
                     loyal respect and love that he bowed his head over the wine which his father,
                     as he sat beside him at table, poured out for him with his own hand.
                  Angela's soft eyes, resting upon the old man's face, seemed to thank him for
                     the kind attention. Eunice's laugh was mingled with Percy's, which rang again
                     with mirth at the lower end of the board.
                  And as Cecil raised the wine and drank it all, it would have seemed to any one
                     that his cup of joy was full and overflowing.
                  Reader! whoever you are—who watch your happiness in another's form—who,
                     forgetful of yourself, guard only the one beloved object—who look not into your
                     own heart for the light of life, but into another's face—O, whoever you are,
                     when the noon is high, and that face the brightest, reflect—the day must
                     decline.
                  Whoever you are, when the moon is full, and the breast you rest upon the
                     softest, think—the light must decrease.
                  Whoever you are, when the flower, whose bloom is only once in a century, has
                     reached its perfection—look! the hour strikes! and the next instant the leaves
                     fall!—and that hour is midnight!
                  That night was long remembered by all in the castle.
                  Whenever Angela was recalled, it was as she seemed then. Every guest remembered
                     her in her peculiar charm. The old servant remembered her—how sweet her smile
                     as she thanked him for some slight attention as she retired! The nurse
                     remembered her—how she had flitted
                     through the nursery, lingering like a dream, over each little couch.
                  Eunice remembered her pride as Romaine had praised her beautiful mamma.
                  Cecil remembered her—oh yes!—remembered her as only men remember in some dark
                     dungeon the blessed light which was once theirs; and, above all God remembered
                     her!
                  For, ere she slept that night, no ear but His had heard the offering of her
                     grateful heart, and none need murmur because He received it.
                  And this was its burden, which, in earnest tone, had been chanted gently ere
                     she sank to rest.
                  
                     Dear Lord! only Thee!
                     Only Thee! I pray,
                     Fill my heart with only Thee
                     Till I pass away!
                     Many do I love,
                     And many do love me,
                     But Thou, Thou, all above,
                     "Thou knowest I love Thee!"
                  
                  
                     Dear Lord, be my guide;
                     I give my hand to Thee!
                     By day and night, through time and tide,
                     I know Thou wilt keep me.
                     The fairest love is mine
                     Which in this world may be;
                     Dear Lord, let ever mine be thine—
                     "Thou knowest I love Thee!"
                  
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  X.
                  TO-MORROW, and to-morrow, and to-morrow!
                  And Angela's happy reckoning for happiness was fulfilled! She could never be
                     unhappy any more! She had entered the courts of heaven!
                  During these three successive days which she had counted so prophetically, her
                     parting spirit had been struggling with the life, which would fain have bound
                     and kept it, until at last, baffling the skill of medicine, the care of
                     friends, and the anguished prayer of Cecil, the angel of Death broke the bonds
                     which held her, and the angel of Life was free!
                  
                  
                     Spirit of Light!
                     To God, departed—
                     Thou art so bright—
                     We so sad-hearted.
                     How could we wish thee
                     Back from thy rest—
                     Yet we'd give life-blood
                     To warm thy breast!
                  
                  
                     Spirit, so fair!
                     Earth's night forsaking—
                     O'er our despair,
                     Thy day is breaking;
                     Over our mourning,
                     High in the skies
                     Thy hallelujah
                     In triumph doth rise.
                  
                  
                     Spirit redeemed!
                     Ransom all given—
                     Marked with the name of Christ!
                     Pure bride of heaven!
                     The shroud that we give thee,
                     Falls from its place—
                     And thou, with the angels,
                     Veilest thy face!
                  
                  
                     Spirit, to minister!
                     Lo! thou wilt come—
                     Those whom God gave to thee,
                     Thou shalt bring home.
                     One after one,
                     They may follow to thee,
                     Led by the star
                     Of thy memory!
                  
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  XI.
                  O! WORLD! world! thou art, so beautiful! so fair! for God hath Himself decked
                     thee! Why hast thou so much sorrow?
                  Thy children walk in thy light; Why dost thou fling thy shadow across their
                     path?
                  The blue, sky is over them clear and high; why dost thou gather thy clouds, and
                     shut out the sunshine? How can the flowers grow?
                  
                  And Cecil stood alone beside his dead.
                  Angela! he had called so often—Angel! she was now!
                  There she lay, so still, so calm, so cold; she who had ever stirred at even his
                     lightest breathing; it seemed like mockery, her quiet rest—and strangely
                     contrasting with the deep shade of repose upon her face, was the glorious light
                     of her golden hair falling around her like sunshine; he wondered it did not
                     wake her!
                  And so he watched beside her, the weary watching which never tires; and when
                     the time was past, and the castle clock had struck the last hour that mortal
                     eye might see her face, and the castle bell was tolling the funeral knell for
                     her who slept in peace, he said no word, he made no murmur, as they bore her
                     away; only he followed closely, with a sort of jealous care that none should be
                     so close as he; followed closely with a sort of fear lest some should get
                     before him there.
                  In his proud ancestral vault, rich with armorial bearings and carved
                     escutcheons, there was honored room for her; room alike for all.
                  In the death chill of that damp and dreary place the gathered group of that
                     funeral train might have read, in the buried ranks around them, the grand
                     equality of the grave; might have heard in the wearying stillness, a voice
                     calling the first last, and the last first.
                  It might have come into the heart to think how that younger and elder had alike
                     there the same narrow inheritance; it might have come into the mind to remember
                     how that none had ever yet sought primogeniture among the dead.
                  Yes, there was room alike for all; room for her whose portion for house and
                     home had been want and wandering; and just beneath the chancel where she had
                     knelt so late in prayer, they laid her to her rest.
                  To Cecil, in his stern and bitter agony, it seemed like mockery, the care that
                     had prepared her so much room. The pall and the pomp and the pride were over
                     her, as she lay so low; and above her, in the wall, engraven, was the name so
                     well beloved—
                  
                     "ANGELA."
                  
                  As the earl beside him read that name, think you that the marble spoke to him? and were the words
                     these? "What man is there of you whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a
                     stone?"
                  
                     Only but yesterday,
                     If you had asked me,
                     I could not then have told
                     What was misery!
                  
                  
                     Life, like a ship at sea
                     With all its fair sails set,
                     Went down so suddenly,
                     How can I forget!
                  
                  
                     How can it ever be
                     That, from the fragments
                     Of all that shattered wreck,
                     I save but misery!
                  
                  
                     Friends of my early time,
                     Ye will bear with me,
                     When I return your care
                     With only misery!
                  
                  
                     And God! to whom all power
                     Honor and glory be!
                     He will forgive me now,
                     My song of misery!
                  
               
            
            
               BREAD.
               PART II.
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  I.
                  
                     
                  
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              The Cleaner's Song
                              
                                 We glean! we glean! gathering bread
                                 In the golden summer day;
                                 We glean that the hungry may be fed,
                                 When the summer has passed away.
                                 The labor is o'er, and the love is seen,
                                 And the blessing of bread is come;
                                 And golden, golden the grain we glean,
                                 And golden the harvest home!
                              
                              
                              
                                 Oh, thus may every kindly care
                                 Which to the earth is given,
                                 Return, when the summer days are gone,
                                 With a blessing gleaned from Heaven!
                                 The labor is o'er, and the love is seen,
                                 And the blessing of bread is come;
                                 And golden, golden the grain we glean,
                                 And golden the harvest home!
                              
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  MERRILY arose the song of the gleaners from the rich harvest fields of Cecil,
                     and as he looked from the windows of his American home upon this scene which
                     insured him plenty, he was very thankful.
                  Three years had scattered its seed-time and harvest over the world since the
                     great reaper, Death, whose scythe is busy in the richest fields of earth, had
                     gathered from the landless his tribute of first fruits for God's acre.
                  Dully and drearily Cecil had risen up from his deep grief, and as one who
                     shakes off rest and dreams forever more, had stirred himself again to the
                     object of his life—a home. True, the light had gone out which was to have
                     warmed his hearthstone; but yet the roof-tree must be planted, if only in
                     memory, and the children must be sheltered, if only, as it might seem, that
                     they might together miss and mourn the blessed presence forever gone.
                  His father and brother had kindly urged him to return to his former wandering
                     life, and, leaving the charge of his children with them, to seek in the
                     excitement of his official life in other lands some shadow of happiness such as
                     before has cheated many a wanderer.
                  But he looked at his children, and energy came to him, and he felt the strength
                     within him of a powerful will which he must accomplish.
                  Sadly and wearily he crossed the ocean, and landed in America almost in
                     despair, where so many beside him were treading in thigh hope; but his step was
                     as firm as any, his purpose more entirely before him, and his path more
                     sure.
                  The ocean, as it rolled between the Old and New World, seemed in its might like
                     Time, enwrapping in its gulf the memories of man.
                  Thus is it!
                  Escaping from some wreck, where all we loved went down, we look back and watch,
                     only to see the restless waves, hour after hour, covering and carrying away even the traces of our trouble,
                     until at last, across the cold, unpitying, unrestoring, weakening, wearying
                     waste, our very thought becomes exhausted, and we can feel no more.
                  Patiently and steadily as Cecil pursued his daily duty, so gradually and gently
                     was loosened the burden of his grief, and, if he had no more joy, he had, at
                     least, less sorrow.
                  Receiving from Lord Baltimore his grant of land, with industry and care he had
                     planted and builded, and doubled and redoubled the increase, and now, when the
                     third summer was filling his barns to overflowing, he was counted among the
                     most rich and prosperous of the settlers of the beautiful and prosperous
                     province; and of all in the province whom Calvert trusted, and upon whom he
                     depended, there was none before Cecil.
                  Thus had he strengthened himself in the New World, for whom was no room in the
                     Old.
                  Like the tree, which, noble in its root, and pure in its sap, yet is obliged to
                     bend beneath the overshadowing priority of destiny, transplanted to no better
                     soil, but where the light of life is free alike to all, equally and
                     prosperously, it raises its head, and spreads its branches, and, fair and free,
                     and full of beauty, thanks God for the liberty which blesses all with the equal
                     rights of a common brotherhood.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  II.
                  
                     THE morning of my life is gone,
                     Its freshness, light, and flowers;
                     They all have left me, and alone
                     I watch the darkening hours,
                     Still mourning for the gladsome day
                     That hath forever passed away.
                  
                  
                     The music of my life is fled;
                     The tones I loved to hear,
                     The voices—some are still and dead,
                     And some are changed—I fear,
                     Whenever I would try to sing,
                     To hear those voices echoing.
                  
                  
                  
                     My life, my life, what art thou now?
                     A dreamless, hopeless thing;
                     And on thy stilled and pallid brow
                     Not a shadow lingering—
                     Not even a shadow to tell of the light
                     As we dream of day in the gloom of night.
                  
                  "Oh! Eunice, Eunice! stop such sorrowful songs; they sound so out of tune with
                     all the world. Look at the light in the sky."
                  Eunice started as Edith, thus calling to her, passed like a sunbeam through the
                     apartment, and vanished like light into light through the open window.
                  Oh! light! light! why should the shadows fall!
                  Angela followed more softly, stooped, and kissed her sister's brow.
                  Eunice sang again—
                  
                     
                        I am looking for the rainbow
                        In the clouds that round me come;
                        I am seeking in the darkness
                        For the star to guide me home.
                        I am watching for the sunlight
                        To come dawning in the skies;
                        I am listening for the voice
                        That will bid my soul arise.
                     
                     
                        I am waiting for the footsteps
                        To calm the troubled sea;
                        For the hand outstretched to save
                        That was pierced on Calvary.
                        I am dreaming of the time
                        When my spirit shall be free
                        From the pleasure and the pain
                        Of earth's captivity.
                     
                  
                  Pausing awhile, she listened to the happy voices in the garden calling to each
                     other, as, with light laugh, the light-footed, light-hearted sisters pursued
                     their happy play.
                  Sadly again Eunice sang—
                  
                     
                        My thoughts go back to other years,
                        And, but for tears, mine eye
                        Could see the forms for whom it weeps
                        Come sadly thronging by.
                        Surely I feel that they are there,
                        Although I cannot see,
                        As they stand in the sunshine of my heart,
                        Shadowing my memory.
                     
                     
                        My ear, on which all common sounds
                        Fall heavy, listening, seems
                        To hear those ne'er forgotten tones,
                        Like voices heard in dreams,
                        
                        That rouse the sleeper, and his tears
                        Are wiped in haste away,
                        When he finds the voices that he loves
                        Will ever with him stay.
                     
                  
                  "Oh! mother! mother I why art thou not here? Something tells me I did never
                     need thee more."
                  Overcome with a shade of sadness too heavy to be cast aside, Eunice sat, when
                     the last sound of her song and her harp, like some sweet symphony, had died
                     away together—the whole figure drooping, the face intensely mournful; the mind
                     so engrossed that her father had entered and was beside her before she was
                     aware of any presence but her own sad memories.
               
               
                  III.
                  THE home of the noble emigrant was a spacious house, beautifully situated on a
                     slight rising ground, whence around it waved in alternate field and woodland
                     the unrivalled magnificence of the New World.
                  From the pleasant porticos and galleries of the house, the view was wide and
                     fair on every side.
                  They could never forget their surprise when they saw for the first time, the
                     accustomed green of spring and summer change into the changing American autumn,
                     so different from England.
                  They were never tired of watching the glowing dying hues in which the landscape was painted by
                     the passing time.
                  Beautiful Time!
                  It is as if the world, sated with its harvest wealth and overflowing vintage,
                     luxuriated to excess in the joy of its golden feast, and, scattering its bounty
                     far and wide, decked in its holiday attire—crimson and purple—it reels along,
                     until nature, exhausted, drops, with its cup yet brimful—and the leaf and the
                     hope, which cheated us alike with their brilliant decay, together fall, and we
                     stand mourning the whole as a mockery.
                  To English eyes, this extravagance of nature was dazzling, and when after all
                     had passed and the year seemed dead and gone—flashing back, comes an expiring
                     beam—and the Indian Summer! which visits no other but our own loved land,
                     stands smiling back upon us as if the past had returned; it is like
                     forgiveness—and as it mantles us with its peculiar haze, covering all defects,
                     its spell is strong.
                  And Cecil was resting in his home from wandering dering and labor, and none can
                     know the blessedness of such rest, but those who have so wandered and
                     labored.
                  To his father he wrote with pride and pleasure of his great success—and his
                     father's congratulations in return were heartfelt.
                  Around his children he gathered every flower of life to bloom and dwell.
                  Clustering at his heart grew their joys, while for himself, his dead hopes were
                     like the dead leaves, only to be trodden upon.
                  The careless observer would have thought he had forgotten them as he pressed
                     them under foot—yet it was not so.
                  Alone, there was an echo in his heart, ever repeating to him his old
                     sorrow.
                  There was a watch in his night—which memory failed, not to keep, when the waves
                     of reflection, one after one, cast up from the depths of the past the wrecks of
                     lost hopes.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  IV.
                  "EUNICE! sister! don't you think we could tell it was Sunday, even although we
                     did not know it, by the stillness?"
                  "Listen!"
                  And hand in hand the sisters listened, while the Sabbath silence arose like a
                     mighty anthem on high.
                  
                     Creator! God! Almighty King!
                     Enthroned in light beyond the sky!
                     What can the earth for tribute bring
                     To glorify thy Majesty?
                     Her treasures are but moth and rust;
                     Her incense dies—her gold is dust.
                  
                  
                  
                     We stop the countless pulse of Time;
                     The mighty breath of Earth we stay—
                     We stand in rest before Thy shrine,
                     We offer Thee thy Sabbath day!
                     Uncrowned her kings before Thee bow;
                     In silence, Nature hails Thee now!
                  
                  
                     And Thou! as chime and chant arise,
                     Marking the holy time for Thee,
                     Thou dost receive it in the skies,
                     And maketh it Eternity!
                     Oh, hasten, Lord! that Sabbath day
                     Whose light shall never pass away!
                  
               
               
                  Bread.
                  V.
                  FROM the history of the storms of religious persecution which, have swept over
                     the whole world, we read of but one spot where, since the birth of Christ,
                     religious liberty has ever been born. Appropriately: was the name given to the
                     place—humble, yet lofty—lowly, yet queenly—ST. MARY'S!
                  From among all the ships freighted with freedom, which, at different ports,
                     have entered our common country, we, people of Maryland, alone may record one
                     ark! and dove! which, landing its precious burden, on the high mountain of liberty of conscience, planted the
                     cross in peace, and proclaimed its protection equally for all believers in
                     Christianity.
                  "Cecilius, Lord Baltimore!—the father of Maryland, the tolerant legislator, the
                     benevolent prince!"—first among, legislators who established an equality among
                     sects!
                  "Every other country in the world had Persecuting law's.
                  "'I will not'—such was the oath for the Governor of Maryland,—'I will not, by
                     myself or any other, directly or indirectly molest any person professing to
                     believe in Jesus Christ for or in respect of religion.'
                  "And, whereas, the enforcing of conscience in matters of religion"—such was the
                     sublime tenor of a part of the statute—"hath frequently fallen out to be of
                     dangerous consequence to those commonwealths where it has been practised, and
                     for the more quiet and peaceable government of that province and the better to
                     preserve mutual love and amity among the inhabitants, no person within this
                     province professing to believe in Jesus Christ shall be any ways troubled,
                     molested, or discountenanced tenanced for his or her religion, or in the free
                     exercise thereof.
                  "To foster industry, to promote union, to cherish religious peace; these were
                     the honest purposes of Lord Baltimore during his long supremacy."
                  "Well might the freemen of Maryland, place upon their records a declaration of
                     their gratitude as a memorial to all, posterities as a pledge that succeeding
                     generations would faithfully remember the care and industry of Lord Baltimore
                     in advancing the peace and happiness of the colony."*
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     *Bancroft's United States.
                  
                  And now, freemen of Maryland! have we lived to see the day when this memorial
                     is forgotten—this "pledge" to the Irish peer broken in the bitter
                     persecution which would sweep away every foothold of his countrymen?
                  Shall there ever be an American governor of the free State of Maryland who must
                     refuse, by his oath made to a secret society, the noble spirit of the oath,
                     sworn to and maintained by the English governor of the English province of St.
                     Mary's?
                  
                  Surely, sooner may any other State than Maryland marshal its mobs as "Sons of
                     Freedom," and riot in an anti-Catholic Christianity.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  VI.
                  THE dwelling of the Lord Proprietary in St. Mary's was a large square building,
                     called, more by English custom in courtesy for the superior position, than from
                     any appearance which would warrant the name, "The Castle."
                  The site of the foundation is still impressed, though there is no fragment of
                     the edifice remaining, and the grass is growing green and fresh to-day over the
                     place where once gathered, in friendly greeting, our honored forefathers.
                  The lights glancing from every window announced the enjoyment of a festival.
                     The sounds of music exhilarated the little town without, more perhaps than the little world within, for upon
                     the faces of all who could be marked as emigrants there was a shade of sadness
                     not to be mistaken, gently but indelibly impressed, as if in weariness of a
                     journey; and the music which fell so gayly on careless ears, touched chords in
                     hearts which vibrated mournfully to the well-known, home-loved airs; and
                     especially when, at the banquet, the national anthem was received, as now in
                     England, standing, there was not a dry eye there, of those who had first opened
                     to the light in the old country.
                  Cecil was among them, and Eunice; and the father's heart was fully satisfied as
                     he watched with pride and pleasure the admiration and regard which she, not
                     thinking of herself, received naturally and gently as only courtesy and
                     kindness.
                  As she moved in her gentle beauty before him, Cecil was reminded of her mother,
                     though the hair was darker, and the face sadder, and the figure slighter, but
                     there was the same kindly smile, the same gentle speech, the same thought for
                     others, which made the same grace.
                  Lord Baltimore honored with especial attention the daughter of his friend and
                     the grandchild of his patron, who until this night had never been seen but at
                     her father's house.
                  Many had been the entertainments to which the Lord Proprietary had requested,
                     with distinguished courtesy, the attendance of Cecil's daughter, but, with
                     equal courtesy, they had always been declined.
                  Her mourning dress afforded a reasonable bar, of which Cecil was willing to
                     avail himself, to shield her youth from too early an entrance into a society
                     whose evils were more to be avoided than the guarded forms of well-established
                     life at home; but now the occasion was a grand one in the infant colony.
                  The Baron of Baltimore and Avalon had summoned, by special writ, the whole
                     people to "contribute to the setting up of a water-mill," and the generous
                     hospitality of his own mansion was to crown the important convention.
                  
                  Even the chaplain had suggested to Cecil the propriety of Eunice's appearance
                     at this time; and, with eager pride and pleasure, the little sisters had
                     arranged the flowers which were to decorate her.
                  Clinging closely to her father's arm; she entered the crowded rooms at the
                     Castle, and with heart fluttering and cheek glowing with the unusual scene, she
                     would, if possible, have turned away to avoid the gaze of admiration which her
                     entrance immediately excited; and among those who saw her now for the first
                     time was one, who, at the first glance, saw it was a face he would love to see
                     forever.
                  Possessed of all those attractions which please women—young, handsome,
                     high-spirited, gentle, brave—if hearts were, won, as they are not, by the merit
                     of the winner, then might Henry Darnell never expect to fail wherever he chose,
                     to gain.
                  And when at the close of the evening, after watching her every movement with an
                     involuntary fascination, he bent before her in the courtly salutation of those
                     formal times, he felt that a spell was upon him, and that he had laid his heart
                     at her feet.
                  Nor was Eunice unconscious of her power, nor insensible to his; the dark tender
                     eye; the protecting deferential manner attracted her; she felt the influence of
                     the true brave heart; she felt the strength of the resolute will; the power of
                     the decided talent; the fire of the energy; the force of the extreme
                     gentleness—which, in all brave men, is even more extreme than, in any
                     woman.
                  It was no common fate which had borne him over the world, and now counted him
                     among that band of emigrants.
                  It was no common narrative which chained her fancy to his thrilling recital of
                     desperate struggle and defeated effort, yet final success, as retired within a
                     recessed and heavily-curtained window, withdrawn from the mirth around, all
                     other sounds seemed to fall away, and only his voice dwelt in her ear, low and
                     sweet, but with its story as wild as the remembered burden of the wild
                     sea-wave.
                  Although meeting now for the first time, strangers on a strange shore; yet, the
                     same country, the same wandering, the
                     same adopted home, touched them with the same sympathy. The dancers' feet flew
                     by unheeded, and Time pressed on with muffled tread unheard, as these two
                     exiles together tarry, and as from a caravan on life's high-road to which both
                     belong, together turn and look back, to trace the travelled track over which
                     they may never again return—until, recalled by the continued tramp of their
                     company, they follow in the accustomed way.
                  So these—
                  The music ceases—the guests are departing—Cecil rejoins Eunice—and Darnell may
                     no longer stay.
                  As he paused to receive and accept her father's invitation to visit them, his
                     lingering look brought a blush to her cheek—a, timid beat in her heart—only an
                     instant; then the cold ice of some memory seemed to bar out the entrance of any
                     new-found interest, and she made no reply of any promised welcome.
                  Cold and still was all maiden pride and pleasure as Lord Baltimore laughingly
                     told her she had captivated his noble guest—and she felt oppressed pressed, she
                     scarce knew why, with the praises her father so unusually lavished upon their
                     handsome countryman.
                  Retired to her apartment, she unfastened the flowers from her hair and
                     breast—her first festal flowers—and cast them aside, with the pure white dress,
                     almost bitterly.
                  Why bitterly? They had decked her for what most women would have deemed her
                     triumph.
                  No eye had rested on her but to call her fair, and praise, and pride, and even
                     love had bowed before her. Why bitterly?
                  Over the face came the expression of anguish which no human eye could ever see;
                     over the breast came the pain where flowers only had appeared to be.
                  More than ever she felt the cruel influence which bound her like a captive.
                     There was a moaning in the heart, like the sounding of the sea in the shell.
                     Romaine! Romaine! was the name ever rising to the lips which would never have
                     dared to utter it.
                  Generous Eunice! Call back thy heart's treasure sure take back thy lavished gift! Let the
                     forgetful be forgotten!
                  When his neglect tells thee, he loves, thee not, let pride reply thou lovest
                     him not. It is not love, this pain, this sorrow; does the flower love the shade
                     which comes across its sunlight? Does the bird love the bar which stays its
                     flight?
                  And so with thee—this that troubles thee is not love. Thou couldst never, pure
                     and delicate as thou art, have delivered up thy heart unwon. No! thou knowest
                     that thou dost not love him—but the shade is upon thee—the bar confines
                     thee—and thou thinkest, in thy generosity, that thou canst not love
                     another.
                  Thou feelest that while calm and cold, thou wouldst never have raised thy hand
                     to attract him to thee, yet thou knowest if he had asked thee, thou, wouldst
                     have left all others for his side.
                  In vain—in vain—she cannot reason—she can only remember—vividly as yesterday
                     rises before her, that summer fountain—freshly and thickly fall the scattered
                     rose-leaves—scattered by her own hand—flashing and false, his eyes are within
                     her soul.
                  No! she cannot reason—the temples throb, the air seems stifling—she opens the
                     window, and, leaning from it, utterly prostrate, in her weariness and
                     desolation, she bends as a flower to the storm.
                  But the calm, clear night is around her, and the stars, holy, with their
                     far-off teaching, speak to her; And so high above this dark Providence, she
                     hears a voice—
                  
                     "Daughter, give me thy heart!"
                  
                  It is the voice of God!
                  And she lays it at his feet!
                  
                     Father! I am so lonely!
                     O comfort me!
                     Thou hast the power only,
                     I trust in Thee;
                     Thou makest day and night,
                     O! let me see
                     Thy hand, as it shadeth
                     The light from me!
                  
                  
                  
                     Through this dark sorrow
                     Which blindeth me,
                     I watch for the morrow
                     Which findeth Thee!
                     I know Thou wilt come
                     When Thou thinkest best,
                     And, watching and hoping,
                     And trusting—I rest.
                  
                  
                     Father! I am so weary!
                     O! let me rest
                     Upon thine everlasting arm,
                     Close to thy breast;
                     O! calm the restless beatings
                     Of this heart so wild,
                     Speak, in thy power and pity,
                     Peace to thy child.
                  
                  
                     O! give me patience, Father!
                     Thou! who so patient art;
                     O! let thy Holy Spirit
                     Breathe on my heart;
                     Then shall its pulses beat
                     Calmly and free,
                     And I shall have rest
                     For eternity!
                  
               
               
                  Bread.
                  VII.
                  WHERE the beautiful mansion of the Woodyard opens, to-day as then, its
                     hospitable gates, there was Darnell's home.
                  To-day, as then, we may enter through its lovely garden, where, embowered in
                     the shade of trees whose roots are from the mother country, the walls rise in
                     their fair proportions, built of a dark-glazed brick, some red, some green,
                     imported also from the old land.
                  The long galleries, the suites of rooms, with their wainscoted walls, the vane
                     upon the house-top bearing the earliest date of any house now standing—the
                     painted panels, and family portraits, the rich china and massive silver, all remain at this day; and the regular
                     daily life goes in and out, under the picture of the first proprietor, Henry
                     Darnell—painted on a panel in the great drawing-room just as naturally as it
                     did then when the colors of his picture and his life were fresh within its
                     walls.
                  Yes! beautiful as a dream thou art! thou place of rest! mantled with
                     ivy—covered with repose. Many a later dreamer has wandered in thy shade!
                  And, as Darnell walked through the lovely grounds, it was most natural that he
                     should indulge his day-dream, making each shady walk and hanging bower radiant
                     with her presence, and fondly to fancy that she some time might walk beside him
                     there.
                  Ah! in the midst of that fair garden—even in its fairest, broadest walk—we step
                     aside to avoid his grave; and as we read that he lies buried there, the cold
                     stone does not tell who shared his life.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  VIII.
                  IN London, at the Blackfriar's Theatre, Shakspeare was acting his own play of
                     the Tempest, to a brilliant house.
                  Never had there been a more brilliant assemblage. The king was honoring again,
                     by his presence, the play which had drawn from his royal hand a letter to the
                     author and actor, and Shakspeare's fame was at its height.
                  Entering with the eager rushing crowd, one among the gay group that accompanied
                     the king is Romaine.
                  In strong contrast with the excitement of others of the party, a dulness, as of
                     ennui, seemed to oppress press him.
                     Throwing himself listlessly into his seat, careless of the honor of the king's
                     private box, unmindful of the glare and glitter around him, he looked, with
                     apparently little interest, upon the stage. But, by degrees, as the play
                     progresses, he alters. The chords of nature, touched by that master hand,
                     respond in his breast as well as in that of the humblest spectator below. And
                     more than this. There is some strange, undefinable feelings, some vague
                     association of pleasure, yet of pain, connected with the spectacle. He wonders
                     what, and almost starts, when presently he finds that it is a fancied
                     resemblance in one of the actors, which has gilded the very footlights, and
                     opened a path to memory far away from the present scene.
                  Yes, the magic robes of Prospero cover the form of Eunice's father, and the
                     witchery works as Miranda, the "nonpareil," is transformed into Eunice.
                  The scenery, too, aids the deceptive fancy. The island of Bermuda, which he had
                     visited so long ago, rises in fresh beauty before him, and from thence to
                     America, the transit of mind is swift.
                  The group of reapers, as they enter in a graceful dance—the blessing of Ceres,
                     so appropriate to that country which scatters plenty over the emigrant—all
                     encourages the delusion; and when, in the fifth act, the scene opens and
                     discovers Ferdinand and Miranda playing at chess, his breath came quick, and
                     his breast heaved with almost a sort of jealousy; and even after he had roused
                     himself to throw it off, his heart sickened, as, before him lay the game of
                     life, pursued at the sacrifice of her, who, to his soul, was more than
                     queen.
                  Thrilling with the memory of Eunice's voice came Miranda's words, as, looking
                     in her lover's face, with a natural simplicity she asked, "Do you love me?" and
                     earnestly, with Ferdinand, would he have sent the answer far across the
                     sea:—
                  "Aye, beyond all limit of what else i' the world, do love, prize, honor
                     you."
                  Shading his eyes with his hand, he sat abstracted to the end.
                  Ringing in his ears, and marking the time before him on his brain, was
                     Prospero's voice—
                  
                  
                     
                        "These our actors,
                        As I foretold you, were all spirits, and
                        Are melted into air—into thin air;
                        And, like the baseless fabric of this vision,
                        The cloud—capp'd towers, the gorgeous palaces,
                        The solemn temples, the great globe itself,
                        Yea, all which it inherit, shall dissolve;
                        And, like this insubstantial pageant faded,
                        Leave not a rack behind."
                     
                  
                  The play was over, the stage was empty, and the reality of his own life lay
                     bare, so bare, before him!
                  "Come, Romaine; do you sleep?" It was the king who called him from his
                     reverie.
                  In the bustle of the departure he arose, and bowing to his majesty as he
                     stepped back to let him have the precedence in passing, he answered in the
                     concluding words of Prospero's speech to Ferdinand.
                  
                     
                        "We are such stuff
                        As dreams are made of, and our little life
                        Is rounded with a sleep."
                     
                  
               
               
                  Bread.
                  IX.
                  FAR in the dim forest, dim in the mid-day, with the overshadowing of its own
                     wealth of foliage, walked, in the sultry hours of a summer day, Eunice and her
                     father.
                  All around their new American home lay this forest, and through the cleared
                     space immediately about the house the access to it was easy and the shade
                     tempting, and many an hour was passed in pleasant wandering there.
                  Many a time, as to-day, the silence was broken by the hound and horn of the
                     hunter, as they swept along in the wild pleasure of the chase; but now, as the
                     gay band skirted the edge of the
                     wood, one horseman, separating from the rest, approached, and dismounting,
                     walked towards them. It was Darnell.
                  Scarcely noticing his arrival, Cecil, with all the excitement of a true
                     Englishman, gazed after the flying train.
                  "By George! how I should love to follow! Parnell, I will take your horse, if
                     you will take care of Eunice?"
                  "Certainly; with pleasure," was the reply, which, without waiting even to hear,
                     Cecil was gone.
                  "Take care of Eunice!" How his heart melted! how his hand strengthened at the
                     words! how he would have fought a thousand fights and died a thousand deaths to
                     have such care!
                  How bravely, yet so gently, he told her so! as, in the restored stillness of
                     that deep forest, no murmur was in the air but the breath of his love. How
                     noble he looked as he walked beside her in that tangled path! how generous his
                     bearing when she entreated him to say no more, that she could never love him!
                     Troubled and trembling with the power she was wielding over his strong heart,
                     weary and disappointed herself, she felt that she would give worlds if it could
                     be otherwise, and pausing in the gateway as they entered the garden, she leaned
                     for support against the rails.
                  Love is too great a treasure to be turned from lightly; and when she passed
                     through and away, Darnell's life was darkened forever, and upon her sadness
                     came down like a blight.
                  At night, Cecil returned to find Darnell gone. Of course, his sudden departure
                     could only be explained by Eunice, who did so with great agitation and
                     distress.
                  With the tenderest care her father soothed her, while still he expressed his
                     disappointment. Kindly avoiding to look, into her face, he told her what he
                     thought. She heard distinctly every word.
                  "My child, he has no superior. I thought only, once before I could have given thee to another,
                     but he was never worthy of thee."
                  "O! father, father!"—and the face was buried on his bosom.
                  "No, my child, he was never worthy of thee. Listen! fame is his mistress, and
                     to follow her he is even now sailing for distant lands, on missions whose
                     length of time will forever prevent him from again meeting thee—and this from
                     choice. The king would have sent him here, but he wished it not. I would not
                     have told thee this but to spare thee more suffering in the end.
                  "There, darling, do not care," he continued, alarmed at the violence of her
                     emotion—"be my own child; he is not worthy of thee; forget him, and turn not
                     away entirely from one who is his superior in every respect—there, be my own
                     child."
                  Those words had power, but still came the agony, still the mournful, sobbing
                     cry, "O, father, father!"
                  All the father's heart was tortured as he folded her, in his arms—but he had
                     done well; he had probed the wound with unsparing hand; he had given the bitter
                     draught, but it was to heal.
                  Over the torn delicacy and lacerated pride, the maiden purity fell fair and
                     soft, like a veil; and calm and holy in that hour was lifted from her spirit
                     the burden of its love.
                  "Father, I will love thee—only thee—never any other."
                  And as the dove, returning to the ark from its trial of the world, enters in
                     peace, thus, after much waste and wandering, comes back the child's heart to
                     its place of birth.
               
               
                  
                  Bread.
                  X.
                  NO real love may be lost in the soul, for, though in its silent depths there
                     may be a mortal grave, yet, over and above, a spiritual love arises and hovers,
                     which, asking nothing for its own gratification, will follow faithfully and
                     forever the once loved object, and the invisible track is never lost.
                  That night Eunice felt that a long day was at last ended, and that she might
                     rest.
                  "Father, I will love thee—only thee—never any other." Thus resting and folding
                     her white hands upon her breast—a breast as white as angels have ever
                     guarded—she slept.
                  
                  Then, in the mysterious land of dreams she wandered. Who understands the
                     invisible sympathy which led her?—who believes it not?
                  Far over the ocean, she has entered the portals of his distant home; this girl,
                     so proud, so delicate, unbidden, is in his presence.
                  And he—oh, again trickled the mountain stream!—again flowed love's fresh
                     fountain!—again he stoops to drink!—too late, too late! The shifting scene
                     torments him. As he places, with old familiarity, his dream flowers upon her
                     bosom, he feels, with all the distinct strangeness of a dream, that it is no
                     more flowers, but pain, he places there; the face turns towards him with that
                     most exquisite of all human expressions—reproach. Mournfully it impresses, like
                     music in the air, the burden of its trouble; and as it fades from before him in
                     the fitful changes of his dreams, still he is only reading some old loved
                     volume, and it is not his life, but the story of another, and still her voice
                     is in it mournfully to the end, as from beside the fountain comes this
                     strain.
                  
                     Thou camest to me in the summer time,
                     And my love grew with the flowers;
                     Brightly, oh brightly, the sunlight shone
                     Through those golden, happy hours!
                  
                  
                     Thou didst stay with me through the summer time,
                     Oh heart! How fair and bright,
                     In the light of love, shone the sun by day,
                     And the moon and the stars by night!
                  
                  
                     Thou hast left me with the summer time,
                     I knew that it must pass,
                     But I dreamed not that the happiness
                     Must fade with the withered grass.
                  
                  
                     I look, and see the autumn leaf,
                     Blighted and lonely, fall
                     Upon the grave of summer love:
                     The cold wind sighs o'er all.
                  
                  
                     Oh summer time! fair summer time!
                     Thy flowers will bloom again;
                     And the wind that moans a requiem now,
                     Will breathe a welcome then.
                  
                  
                     But of human love; it ne'er returns
                     For an earthly voice; and thou
                     May'st call in vain for the summer heart
                     Thou didst break with thy summer vow.
                  
                  The song ended, he loses her; faces and forms come between; the scornful beauty, at whose
                     shrine he had so lately bowed from vanity, sneers at the flowing fountain,
                     points in derision at the scattered flowers, and calls her only a child.
                  Ambition, with its piled-up glory, sweeps like a cloud across his sight.
                  But again the blessed murmuring of the mountain stream, again he stoops to
                     drink, again she comes, but too pale and cold; no blush, no reserve now, as,
                     removed from, but remembering him, she stands above him, calm and holy.
                  Words she would have died to have heard before, tremble upon his lips.
                  "Eunice, I have ever loved thee; thou hast not trusted me in vain."
                  But she may not heed them now.
                  Eagerly he extends his hand, but he cannot reach her. Gently receding, one hand
                     she presses against her bosom, as if to cover pain, with the other she points
                     upward.
                  And lo! where she points a form is stooping, even from the sky; and the
                     Angela—not of earth, but of heaven—radiant in her celestial beauty, in the
                     wonderful ordering of angel ministry istry, is descending from her shining
                     state, to lead him from the maiden's failing fountain to the surer fountain of
                     eternal life.
                  Thus, faithfully, did Eunice accomplish the mission of her love. Not wasted is
                     the mountain stream when with its neglected current it nobly feeds from its
                     pure breast the thankless tide of the selfish, all-absorbing sea, that argosies
                     may ride upon its bosom. Not useless are the rose-leaves, when, crushed, they
                     fill with perfume the hand of the destroyer, as it turns to clasp another fate.
                     Not worthless is that human love which, given to guide and bless, while it
                     shrinks sensitively from the soul which does not claim its presence, deserts it
                     not until it replaces, by its power of prayer, a better, surer guide.
                  As he bows to the superior direction, the day is dawning, the dream is
                     breaking, the maiden's work is done.
                  He feels that she has triumphed; his heart tells him that she has offered her
                     sacrifice at the throne of Heaven.
                  
                  Every earth-born flower is shriven from her breast, leaving it bare and
                     pure.
                  Her prayer of intercession has been answered; and she has forgotten herself, to
                     save him.
                  Mournfully and slowly she fades from his straining sight.
                  Still the murmuring fountain and the open book; still he reads, as of another's
                     suffering; and still, as before, soft and sad, her voice is in it, word for
                     word, with the sound of the stream lulling him as with a summer song.
                  He starts from that dream, and the vision of that night may lead him.
                  Yes, the dream is leading him to where Darnell's star was rising over Eunice's
                     home.
                  The dream is leading him. He is crossing the ocean; and, brighter than dream or
                     star, that hope, which was clouded to Darnell's path, sparkled and glittered
                     upon every wave which bore him on his way.
               
               
                  Bread.
                  XI.
                  ON the same way, we may watch two vessels, with sails spread in the same bright
                     sunlight, near, and bound for the same port; but, owing to the different
                     positions of the sails, one shines white and fair, while the other looks dark
                     in its own shadow.
                  Strange and beautiful! Like things of life, they are sweeping over the
                     main.
                  Thus, ever, on our human tide, light and shade, hope and fear, joy and sorrow,
                     success and loss, are ever side by side.
               
               
                  
                  Conclusion.
                  MANY a ship has come and gone, and the tide of emigration has ebbed and flowed,
                     since the Baron of Baltimore laid at St. Mary's the cornerstone of religious
                     equality.
                  No monument rises to commemorate the glorious deed; and the capital, like a
                     removed crown now at Annapolis, honors an earthly queen.
                  Cecil's home has faded in the past, and the spot is not marked where this
                     Protestant emigrant, hand in hand with the Catholic noble, together with the
                     whole people, contributed to the setting up of the first water-mill.
                  But the great mill-wheel of life grinds on the same as ever, and the stream of
                     time as obediently impels the work of mortal weal or woe.
                  
                  It has been now two hundred years and more since Catholic and Protestant, in
                     the beautiful province of Maryland, gathered their bread in peace and love from
                     the same mill.
                  At the different homes to be divided in thankfulness—at the different altars to
                     be broken in faithfulness—no questioning of the several forms of household
                     custom or of church discipline; they parted between them the one important
                     substance of life, the one forever blessed emblem of the one Christ!
                  The little handful on the protecting shores of the Chesapeake were gathered
                     together as we shall all be when the last wave shall land the last wanderer on
                     the shores of eternity; and of all nations, and kindred, and people, and
                     tongues, we shall be brothers.
                  Until then, dwelling together in different bands, Protestants, Catholics,
                     Americans, Christians, let us be brothers! Let not a faction divide us! Let us
                     pray for our daily bread together!
                  Let us remember that the command is upon us that "he who loveth God love his
                     brother also!"
                  Let it not be that the flag of Great Britain, as it waved over a province and a
                     prince, was more universal in its protection, more powerful in its defence,
                     more generous in its welcome, more Christian in its faith, than the
                     star-spangled banner which we proudly own!
                  
                     Flag Song.
                     
                        Raise high our country's flag!
                        Oh! raise it high!
                        Far fling its glories,
                        Spangling the sky.
                        Banner of liberty,
                        Droop may it never!
                        Star by star counts the free—
                        Float thee forever!
                     
                     
                        Freedom in every land
                        Shouteth to see
                        Her sign upon the sky
                        When she hails thee!
                        Who wrought the folds that fly
                        Over our home?
                        Who raised the eagle-cry
                        "From many—one?"
                     
                     
                        Stranger and emigrant!
                        Freedom by thee
                        Sendeth her holy light
                        Free to the free!
                        
                        A nation, world gathered,
                        Faileth thee, never!
                        Star-led! and star-read!
                        Welcome forever!
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
