
    ----CITATION----
        Caffrey, Andrew.. The Adventures of a Lodger .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5972 wright2-0445
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
            
               THE ADVENTURES OF A LODGER.
            
            BY THE AUTHOR OF AN ESSAY ON SLAVERY, PHILADELPHIA, SKETCHES, 1865, OF BLOCKLY P. H. HOSPITAL, WEST PHILADELPHIA, THE REDMAN'S CABIN, ETC., ETC.
            
           
               
                  
                     Eatables are dear, I've a living for to seek,
                     I cannot pay your price for board;
                     Will you lodge me by the week?—
                     I have relations somewhere near,—
                     Pray does my Uncle Sam live here?
                  
               
            
            
            Price, Twenty-five Cents.
            
               BOSTON:
               PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.
            
            1868.
           
         
         
         
            
            
               THE ADVENTURES OF A LODGER.
            
            BY THE AUTHOR OF AN ESSAY ON SLAVERY, PHILADELPHIA, SKETCHES, 1865, OF BLOCKLY P. H. HOSPITAL, WEST PHILADELPHIA, THE REDMAN'S CABIN, ETC., ETC.
            
               
                  
                     Eatables are dear, I've a living for to seek,
                     I cannot pay your price for board;
                     Will you lodge me by the week?—
                     I have relations somewhere near,—
                     Pray does my Uncle Sam live here?
                  
               
            
            
               BOSTON:
               PRINTED FOR THE AUTHOR.
            
            1868.
         
         
            
         
            
         Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1868, by ANDREW CAFFREY, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court for the District of Massachusetts.
            
         
         
            PREFACE.
            An enlightened public will readily perceive my object in publishing this limited production, when I remind them that an able statesman and a skilful general wishes to ascertain all the vulnerable points most likely to be assailed by a restless foe. As broken ribs from accident are, in one part or another, of daily occurrence, I have given directions for the simplest, easiest, and best treatment of them, and, with my respects to a generous public, at present, farewell.
         
      
      
         
            The adventures of a lodger
            THE ADVENTURES OF A LODGER.
            
               PART I.
               
                  
                     
                        Boston, in social arts possessive,
                        Skilful in science and progressive;
                        With many churches and devotions,
                        And fancy works called "Yankee notions."
                     
                  
               
               WHEN I first arrived there, in 1826, I knew nothing of its history; but I admired its neatly painted houses, and streets, dotted as they were then with the sassafras and other large, shady green trees; its neat cottages with the clustering grape-vine, and clean, smart, and happy-looking people. After spending a week or two there pleasantly I left, with some regret, to go further down-east, to the manufacturing establishment of T—t and B—d, N. H., near the State of Maine. There being then no railway, I paid my fare and went with the stage-coach, with which I travelled seventy miles that day to Dover, where I remained till the severe snow-storm was over, which set in soon after leaving Boston. Being Saturday, and feeling desirous of reaching my place of destination, I ordered my luggage to be sent after me, and forced my way on foot the rest of the journey, some four or five miles, to G—F—lls; took dinner, was engaged to board, and shown where to go to work when ready; called to see somebody, and was respectfully associated in the evening in agreeable company.
               The roomy and convenient cottage in which I passed this and some other evenings, by invitation, was partly overhung by the branches of a large tree, with no other house very near. Near the barn was the sty, stable, and shed for the cows, another for wood, and hen-pen for chickens, ducks, and turkeys. The pigeon-house was high, out of which they had access to the loft of the cottage, and were safe from cat, or rat, or other piratical prowlers. The moss-covered bucket hung in the well. The watch-dog was a mere handful, but when chained up nights understood his duty and attended to it as well as a large one could have done, by giving immediate notice of any strange footsteps. A gun was kept in the house; and the son, a smart, good-natured, and intelligent young, man, knew how to use it. Marksmen sometimes called. Coal was not used here; but plenty of wood, with a capacious fireplace, good back-log, and chimney crane and hooks, on which to hang the utensils for cooking, adorned the kitchen. There was no ground taken up here with collections of gaudy flowers; but when the snow was gone, there were wild and beautiful ones scattered amongst the grass, which, before hot weather sets in, is very green. Art cannot equal the charms of nature. The windows had no shutters, but were hung with long white curtains; the ceiling white; the walls handsomely papered. Over a table, on one of them, hung a mirror; on the other a map of the United States, a picture of George Washington, and some few others. A variety of books, edifying and entertaining, with one or more newspapers, were on the table for choice. By request, a young lady sung "The Moss-covered Bucket that hung in the Well." Her vocal musical powers did justice to those beautiful verses, and I think surpassed those of Jenny Lind, as her languages was clearly understood. The company consisted of several rather reserved young men and young women and the matron, an elderly and respectable lady. There was no fanaticism nor anything extreme; and, appreciating the company, I joined in the harmony. It was a happy and innocent evening's amusement, in the course of which apples and sweetcakes were served round, and warm ginger-tea, sweetened, and tumblers were set on the table, with an invitation. The weather being inclement, this sober and wholesome beverage operated as a good stimulant. There was no lewd talking, gambling, intoxication, nor slandering. The evening seemed to have winged away quickly. Sleighs were brought to the door; all were carried home that were visitors; and I, for my own part, was soon in the arms of Morpheus.
               At my new boarding-house I had my choice of bedroom in the second or third story; and, for a better view of the mountains further east, and the northern lights (aurora borealis), I chose the latter. When I awoke on Sunday morning I beheld the floor for the space of a yard in front of the window covered with snow, so even as to convince me at once its ingress was with the air. Particles of ice were on my sheets, that must have congealed from my breathing; and the storm continued to rage, till some few days afterwards its fury appeared to be spent.
               One beautiful moonlight evening, serenely calm and picturesque in the view around, I was on my way for a visit to the cottage. A sleigh with its tingling bells overtook me at the turn of the road, and there upset, tossing two young ladies into the snow, who were laughing, whilst struggling to reach it. I righted the sleigh and helped them into it (after having quieted the horse), and put in the buffalo robe, whip, and "parcel of dry-goods, for which they had been to the store." They in return invited, me to a share in the sleigh as far as they were going. We all stopped, however, at the same cottage, not recognizing each other till after entering it. But what I still think a much greater mystery is that whilst engaged in gathering up the articles named, a written address in shape of a note (previously forgot) to a young lady at the very place I was going to, fell from my pocket, and in picking it up I picked up also a sparkling gold ring that lay near it. The same ring lay near the same paper which fell from the same place in the coach, and was claimed by a young lady as being hers. It was the same one that directed me where to find the cottage at Great Falls after arriving there,—the same one who sang so good; and I have since thought perhaps she handed me that note in Boston. If that was so, she must have had some other conveyance to what I had, at least some part or parts of the way, for when I reached this, my destination, she was there.
               The deep snow and fine weather now made a lively time for the lovers of sleigh-riding; and young girls with their thin-bottom boots on, winter bonnet, overcoat, and gloves, flew away for miles and returned with red cheeks, oxen having at the same time icicles hanging from the nose to the knees. Another snow-storm set in, which, for severity, by far exceeded the first one. It fell thick and heavy. The snow already fallen was raised in prodigious quantities high up in the air. My ears, eyes, nose, and mouth were filled to blindness and suffocation. At every attempt to move I had to raise my foot as high as I could to gain a few inches forward. Every minute I had to stop and turn my head to breathe, which I could not do whilst facing the storm; and almost instantly the drifted snow was up to my shoulders, had penetrated into my closely buttoned clothes to the skin, and the piercing cold wind precluded the possibility of remaining there alive. I was at that time young, strong, and resolute; and I dare venture to say that, had any one to face that storm a mile, their shroud would be snow, with no chance of keeping open an aperture for breathing,—and no occasion for it, after being frozen to death, as some were that winter in that neighborhood, and all the "dogs of St. Bernard," had they been there, could not have saved them. No one could see but indistinctly a short distance even from an upper window; sheet lighting and very loud claps of thunder pealed and mingled with the storm.
               In a few weeks the sun made his appearance, hot and warm; the snow, reduced to water during the day, froze into ice during the night; and these alternate changes continued for weeks, making rough, uneven, and smooth, slippery places to pass through, and over and again a sharp day and no sun. The snow, from the first to the last of it, was many months. I thought sometimes of the cottage and its friendly occupants, hoping they were safe from harm, and took my walk in that direction, feeling somehow powerfully attracted, on the next first fine evening. I found them all well, and was well received. My—I—well, I won't tell her name now, as, owing to those trifling incidents, the ring in particular, her coming into the coach at Salem, and her telling me that she "awoke this morning with an ominous impression that before night somebody would call at the cottage,"—I say, that in Salem in the olden times she would have been found guilty of witchcraft. But in these enlightened times people happily understood it to be a mere natural consequence. Cupid was seen very busy having a hand in it, which explained the whole. And, for my own part, although I was going to Rhode Island after spring set in, I liked well enough where I was, and sometimes thought I would like to lodge there at that neat and happy cottage. I cannot sufficiently express my astonishment, however, when, after reaching Rhode Island, but a little way from a pleasant village, there met my view, not the identical cottage, but one the very model of it, and fully as handsome a young lady came out of it and helped me to a drink of pure water from a moss-covered bucket.
            
            
               PART II.
               MY first recollection of being a lodger by the week was with an old couple named G—,in the "brick block" near the Annawan Cotton Factory, Fall River. When I first went there they used to brew strong ale and sell to customers (what they did not themselves imbibe), and quarrel and fight "like sixty;" but they were older than that. She was a big, strong woman, an overmatch for her poor old, and I think would have been, loving mate; but she grudged him his share of the "swipes," and, as bottles will leak out as well as barrels, there had to be an occasional walk out to replenish the former, of which she was "boss." As to poor old W—, whenever he returned after his lonely walk, and told how he had been "treated with a glass in such a store," she would "open fire" on him, which he would return, by calling her, in quite a variety of characters, and amongst the rest a d——d R——n C——c M——dst? These, his retaliations, she heard and answered with a vengeance. But when a poor farmer wanted his pay, he had to shout through a big horn stuck in her ear, and she could scarcely believe, and not fully, "till some other time." She had kept boarders; but, as they could not live on "nix," they beat a retreat, excepting one, a machinist, named Tom G——rd, who turned his coat to that of a lodger. Tom, not finding it conventient to carry money the month round in his pockets, had recourse to an alternative by having a shop-book and credit for eatables from tenth to tenth of each month. And this might have worked well enough had she not made mistakes in taking poor Tom's store-book instead of her own to be charged therein to his account for her own use. A poor simple man, he knew not how long this had been practised; but, with grief and vexation in his countenance, and hard of seeing and hearing in hers, she'd raise a storm any minute, which occurred once in a while,—dishonest mistakes, the frequent repetition of which precluded the possibility of innocence.
               For my own part, I paid as I went along; but I had soon discovered that she could not keep her hands clean. I would find my eatables moved, and, you may depend on it, not grown any larger after being circumlocuted by this old trapstick. Feasting and fortune-telling were amongst her games, too; but she could not make any effort to clean out her bedrooms, which were swarming with bugs, which annoyed worse than all the rest. I also beat a retreat from No. 1 lodging-house.
               As honesty, cleanliness, and comfort were blessings I had been long looking and sighing for in vain, but still not relinquishing hope, my spirits were a little more buoyant on engaging lodgings with a family named B—,and within a few doors; but, lack-a-day! they had two savage pigs that they could not pacify, and, besides their two selves, a house full of children, that watched anxiously every bite I took, and keenly snatched at whatever I gave them. There was not so many bugs; but I was continually reminded of having read of what hungry wolves would do when you can't help yourself. One or two girls and boys were studying the rudiments of grammar, and the other, I think, the gamut for perhaps the piano. Altogether, the present, and the prospect of any future to charm me here, was on so low a key,—from my own earnings not being more than enough to keep body and soul together; no stores in reserve, and no friend but Providence, which we all know is often a very poor helpmeet when most needed, and again, often a good one. At a chance, however, of bettering myself, I quit No. 2 lodging-house.
               To No. 3 I had engaged, and went next to lodge with a man named Shaw, at the corner of Washington and Annawan Streets, in the early part of June, perhaps six or eight years ago. I had formerly worked for Shove & Eddy. Next for John and Jesse Eddy, and had returned from "down-east" again, and was again waiting for a vacancy to go to work. When having been sometime at Shaw's, I concluded to look up some employ in the country. For that purpose I took with me a soldering-iron and tools for umbrella repairing, intending to return in a few days, or perhaps a week or two. A few miles from Fall River I got on to the sideboard of a wagon to pick a few cherries, by permission. The horse soon started. I could not extricate myself, though I attempted by catching hold of some higher branches of the tree, which instantly broke, and I fell on to the narrow hind wheel with a crash that-broke some ribs. With some difficulty—for I could not raise a foot from the ground—I reached about a mile further, Bl—'s store, where I remained till the next afternoon, when a man, named S——, arrived with a wagon to carry me "carefully" to my lodging-house in Fall River. I could not talk on the road, and held on to the frame of the wagon with one hand that six miles we had to travel. But didn't I get a shake-up? All regular enough till we reached Spring Street, within, perhaps, twenty or thirty feet of Washington Street, into which we whirled round at such a rate as stopped my breath. 'I had to let go and put up my open hand, gasping. The broken ribs, as I often felt certain of afterwards, caught into the lungs. My brutal driver had started the horse into this wild gallop by a heavy blow on the rump, and then turned, growling a threat, and raised it to strike me. I had put up my open hand pleading for him to stop the horse, which was the only offence I ever gave him. The street being short, we were soon at the end of it; and the first breath I drew brought roars out of me a great deal louder than I have ever been capable of at other times, which I could not restrain, and which brought people in surprise to their doors. Mr. Shaw ran out to assist me from the wagon; but my driver sat there, rein and whip in hand, and a face with bad minglings, to appearances of impatience among the rest, as if intent on further mischief, and mocking me by imitation; then bawling out. "His ribs are not broke! his ribs are not broke!" Had any one been in the way of that horse they must have been injured. And I think now, as I did then, that his impatience was to start that horse again before I could get out (the wagon-top being low); but some man standing with back turned that way, the mean fellow was baffled.
               I was got into bed with my clothes on, and Mr. Shaw came next morning and gave me a little water, and told me the "city doctor would not come because it was Sunday." And none came nor anybody else. When not moving, my voice was as faint as that of a very weak infant. All of Shaw's tenement bedrooms were on the first floor; the window of mine fronted into Annawan Street, which here has a very steep ascent, and would have required a strong voice to attract the attention of any one passing. Three o'clock came, and then, as I guessed, five. I heard rather a heavy and cautiously soft foot approach my door, that carried suspicion with it; opened not the door, but remained a short time listening without answering my cries for help, and then went away in the same treacherous manner. I now felt certain no help was to come for me.
               I lay a while considering how I should attempt to make my escape from these barbarians, that I consider to be worse than Indians, as I had never been at war with them, and wished them no harm. My wounded side was heaving, beating, and throbbing, and I could feel the ends of two of my ribs flirting over each other as plainly as I can feel the ends of my finger and thumb. More than two days had passed since the accident. I was weak and faint and certain that without some help I could not live till morning. I could raise myself straight and lay down the same way on my back; but the least move at bending even my arm brought the roars out of me. I concluded that if I could manage to get myself turned across the bed, with my legs over the side, and succeed in raising on to my feet, I might possibly get out of that house. It took me till near sundown, and when I was at last crossways, and my head lower, my pain was very much increased. I rested some time to recruit my strength, with a consciousness that on my next effort depended my only chance for life. If I fell back or sunk on the floor, there I must die. Thank God, I reached my feet! I went through into the kitchen, looking and feeling like a shadow. Whether they were "crocodile tears" at seeing me still alive, I cannot tell; but they streamed down her cheeks as she rocked herself in her big easy-chair, and muttered that "she could not help me." I, in the mean time, put on my hat and went out. On inquiring from a gentleman for a doctor, it was with great difficulty that I could utter so as to be understood. He showed me to his office, where there was every comfort I could have under the circumstances. Next day I was carried off to a hospital some call Titticut, Bridgewater, where I remained six weeks.
               Broken ribs! The best cure I know for broken ribs is to have a bandage to go twice round the body and keep it damp by wetting with cold water over the hurt about every hour during the day, and dampening the sheets under the body if the bed be hot, and sitting in fresh (tepid) or salt water so it will cover them for about ten minutes twice a day, and resting.
               This Mistress Shaw had, in the mean time, moved further down street, very likely with a view of accommodating boat and railway travellers with lodgings.
               When I first lived in Fall River, Mass., bedbugs were scarcely known. Some year or two ago, on my return trip from New Bedford, I was told at a house in Pleasant Street that either they or the bugs had pulled down the bedsteads. I hurried to the railway, headed for Bristol, R. I., to a large boarding-house, where I used to go when in that neighborhood, and was not molested by either bugs or servants. My room being so high was rather difficult of access for servants; my bed being of straw so well matted and pressed as to defy entrance by the most skilful bug. It was some consolation to set them at defiance; and here I might have luxuriated tranquilly on a bed that would have been, I think, fully as soft as the boards to lie on, if it had been as level. I had stopped occasionally with this family for some years. It was now the depth of winter, and no chance for me to earn a dollar. This time I remained about five weeks. The other boarders were in good employ (which I could not get), and by their continued insults and injustice showed with what contempt they viewed me. They occupied all the lower rooms, daily swept out, and all the feather-beds; and things must have been further considered, since I was only charged half a dollar a week more than they. The injustice I speak of on the part of the boarders was their conspiring to push me out to the further end of the table, and moving all eatables out of my reach. In the sitting-room they debarred me of all chance of reading, and grinned like idiots.
               I quit No. 4 lodgings, and came to Newport, stopping by the way at Warren and Providence,—several weeks in the former,—but nothing curious or edifying to relate of it, with one exception, and that I very properly told to those who ought to know it. In the latter place I stopped one night; and as my slim means did not allow me to pay a tavern price, I stopped at a private house, and was "to have a bed to myself." The rascals got my pay; and, under pretence of waiting for something or other, kept me up till too late to look for another place, then showed me to bed with a sick man. Weak and tired, I had no alternative. I slept, and next day came along with the boat, thank goodness, free from contagion, though more from good luck than good management. Here I am, however, and have been now over a year since that occurrence. 
                     
                        Who visits Newport's rugged shore for health and comfort
                        May gain more than science can do for them.
                     
                  
               
               It is months since I came to this house to lodge. I was engaged by Mr. and Mrs. L—— to pay one dollar a week and to board myself. I bought meat and bone for my Sunday dinner; soup was made, and eaten, and given away; but not any apology made for leaving me without. I said nothing, but I thought it rather a coarse commencement. One day, shortly afterwards, Mr. L—— spread out all the fingers of both his hands over and on to my meat on the table, and, turning to me, demanded to know "was it mine?" I told him it should be mine,—I had paid for it.
               Soon after Mr. L——'s departure for Annapolis, violent quarrels were frequent between the mother—"ninety-three"—and the daughter. I little thought then that these most absurd contentions were from jealousy, and that I was really the bone of their rivalry and contention. So far I could only wonder and guess that liquor or the d——l, or both, had got into them. I was soon astonished at seeing the mother, from appearing like a decrepit old lady, bounce with activity into the chair I used sitting to my meals, crowding against me, and savagely pounding the window bottom with her knuckles, that, like myself, was innocent of any thoughts of trespassing, and calling out, "Meg! I say, Meg! does thee mean to marry agen? does thee mean to marry agen?" at each interrogation raising her voice and accompanying it by vicious gestures, and next vigorously pounding the table and looking like anything but natural. When here but a few days, and hearing her declaiming in gross language against "Meg," as she called her daughter, I simply remarked that I thought it improper, when I instantly received such a blow near the eye as I think would have astonished (as it did me) any one endeavoring to be a peace maker. Oh, if my mother had been there! I was becoming rapidly more enlightened, but I kept cool. She went to the sofa, laid down on her back, and, casting a penetrating look at me, placed her hand very indecently, saying, "It's vary warm! its vary warm! Ize sure, it's vary warm!" Good heavens! here was a trait of character. But I have seen worse of her since.
               I tell you that for months together they have been more or less intoxicated, lighting pipes, staggering and rambling about many a time during nights instead of being sober in bed, which must create a risk of life and property that ought not to be run, and of which I have many times warned them, to no purpose. Between them and their associates I have been a long time passing through a tiresome ordeal. "Prevention is better than cure."
               I have heard Margate tell that she had "two husbands," and then to her mother says she, "But what good are they to me, since both of 'em are away?" The mother for some time fixed a steady look at me, as if I were some way or other at fault; Margate, in the mean time, endeavoring to imitate some disconsolate young grass widow almost despairing for some tender lover. "Now," thinks I, "I'm a goner! but I won't give up the ship! Should my head be knocked off I shall ne'er know the need on't! 'Rally round the flag, boys!'" Ah! but wasn't there a good time coming?
               When I went to breakfast next morning, Margate was sitting fronting the fire with something on (eight o'clock), a dirty apron over her shoulders, a comb in one hand, and the other in pretended modesty on her naked breast, which made something like the appearance of a dirty white glove on an old sheepskin. I stepped back in an instant, and went again when I thought she had had time enough to make and eat a stew, and behold you! there she still sat in the same plight, with the curtains not yet opened. I again drew back, as if the d——l was after me, and ran upstairs as if going to bed from Bedlam, and soon afterwards she called out in a thick voice, "The kettle's boiling!"
               All the rest of the forenoon she was engaged in putting on her white stockings and admiring her legs and feet, at which she many times invited me to look, and, vexed enough, I told her I didn't want to see them, and that she couldn't have me, no how. "No use, Margate, I won't have it," muttering to myself; "ye two ridiculous old trollops!" Well, she went occasionally, still in her undress, to look at herself in the glass, and after dinner to her toilet,—put in her false teeth, fixed her hair, put on a clean gown, sticking up behind, and then attempted to look smiling. It was deception, and caused me to wonder if any painter could portray one such countenance from Lucifer and Judas mixed up together. She commenced again chasing after me faster than ever, and seemingly with more determination; sometimes staring, as if asking, "How dare you attempt to shun me?" and an occasional remark that "many men had no home," though I was paying for my lodgings. She would meet me smartly where two could not pass without compression, and, to make use of a nautical phrase, "she would stick out her stern-post, being top-heavy, with two or three sheets in the wind." And why should not these doings be published in way of warning to some, and precaution to others?
               Mr. L—— was not long gone away, when "Meg" called me to go into her bedroom. "For what?" I asked.
               "Oh, to talk a little!"
               "I guess not," said I. "If you want to talk with me, say it out here."
               She next attempted to guide my footsteps into her mother's bedroom, "to carry tea to bed for her,"—a sprightly old woman who could not only help herself, but get drunk and fight! No, no, Margate, that won't go down with me, neither! I had at different times noticed them taking calculating, silent looks at me, as plainly as to say, "I'll cut you out!" Seeing me rather sleepy-looking, they thought they had "caught a goose;" but I was watching them. To have made myself agreeable with these two old jockeys, I must have become a Bachanalian and a kind of Cupid, and tasted the sweet joys of two disgusting, hateful old women, as their conduct made them to me. They sometimes talk of "our church," and say that "faith will save," denying a belief in a future state, and without showing even the semblance of respect or awe in any way for a Supreme Being, making a hell upon earth,—all they can, at least. I have made efforts to direct their attention to a future state, and been responded to by some wanton word or move and unnatural-looking grin or laugh. When I had a day's respite from their annoyance,—which was very seldom,—I began to hope they had tired themselves out. But no such a thing. It might be assimilated to a rest in a storm, where evil spirits were consulting how, when, and where, they should next commence to make their most effectual attack.
               Well, "Meg" came again at a head-foremost bounce into my bedroom, wanting to engage me in talk; and I, provoked at her want of common decency, went out again without speaking. She growled savagely after me, and soon followed downstairs, looking like a fury. She laid down on the sofa, saying, as she stared at me, that her "patience was nearly worn out." I was then reading a book at the table, and, no one speaking, when she jumped up, and seizing a chair with both hands, struck the floor near my foot with all her might. Well, I felt enraged, and turned towards her as she passed by, instantly demanding to know what she meant? which interrogation she answered also savagely, that she "could do as she liked in her own house."
               On the 14th of Dec., 1867, still wicked and crazy-looking, with the fire-shovel she tossed the covers off the stove and threw coals out of it about her mother and on to the floor, some of which were red-hot; had succeeded in frightening her mother, whose help she wanted more effectually to conquer me, as she thought, to her mind. Another course tending to that plot in point-of view commenced next day, with no better results, and with evident signs of intoxication on both. "Meg's" mother pinched her behind, saying, "Meg thus strong! Meg thus strong!"
               "I know that, mother," said she, in rejoinder.
               In the evening "Meg" crouched down near her mother, and addressed her thus,—
               "Mother, you know I am a good daughter to you. (Umph!) Well, I wait on you, hand and foot, and let you want for nothing, and I bring you a pint of good strong beer every night." (She said nothing about the pint of rum that she brought for herself at the same time.)
               I asked Margate if she thought her treatment of me was right? She answered, "No, but she had to do it." I reflected on Mr. L——'s treatment of me, helping to eat my first Sunday dinner, and along with what I have before told of him. When going away, he didn't condescend to look at me nor answer me; and I overheard him say in an undertone to Margate, "It must be done." And now Margate tells me she had to do it. One is a command, and the other, apparently, a compliance. But notwithstanding her confession, Margate persevered in persecuting me. She had made various offers; one was to have the honor of sitting near them to make a display of eloquence, of which and from it Heaven save us. Rejected. She hunted up some one, who soon found a way every night with a bucket for swill. I don't say that they did or did not take any snuff together; but they had a long whispering one cold night in the next room and in the dark. She then invited him and lighted him upstairs. What they were doing, it did not concern me to know; but, as she had a ham there, I thought perhaps she wanted to let him see it.
               Well, Mr. L. has returned again to Newport, and last night he had the impudence to order me to go and bring a chair out of his bedroom. I perceived there was premeditation in his unsocial command, and answered him, "No; can't make it fit!" And "Meg" and her mother having no amiable attractions, have pronounced a verdict that he "do's na like a woman!" After a few days of keeping up steam, he went off.
               To say that "women are all alike," is a libel on decent women,—Good Heaven forbid! Were all like these just referred to, I would, like the "Wandering Jew," travel the world round; or, like Sam Patch, the renowned jumper of Pawtucket, R. I., never cease leaping from towering cliff or mountain rock till the yawning gulf, deep and far below, finally received my last earthly remains. 
                     
                        "There are more ills in life than need to be;
                        Right and wrong cannot agree."
                     
                  
               
            
         
      
   
