
    ----CITATION----
        N. B.. Carrie Lee's Talisman .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5687 wright2-0168
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            
               CARRIE LEE'S TALISMAN.
               A TALE.
               BY
               N. B.
               PHILADELPHIA:
               
                  T. K. COLLINS, JR.,
                  

NO. 8 NORTH SIXTH STREET.

               
               1854.
            
         
         
         
            
               CARRIE LEE'S TALISMAN.
               A TALE.
            
            
               BY
               N. B.
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. K. COLLINS, JR., NO. 8 NORTH SIXTH STREET.
            
            1854.
         
      
      
         
            Carrie Lee's talisman
            
            CARRIE LEE'S TALISMAN
            BY N. B.
            
               PRETTY Carrie Lee! she had been three years an orphan, and during that time, by her own exertions, had supported her little brother and sister; and, although she boasted no higher birthplace than one of the "cottage homes" of America, far would it have been from the nicest exquisite to couple with her the awkward manners and rustic complexion of the country lass. Nor did the graces of her person excel those of her mind, or so the fates willed it, that an uncle of her mother, wealthy, and a bachelor, wanting sadly something to love and cherish, had resolved to make her his pet, and insisted on placing her at one of the best educational institutions in the land. Here she passed the brightest days of her life, improving her advantages to the full, until her seventeenth birthday passed; then she first realized that her rations of sorrow had, heretofore, been withheld from her, The sudden death of her mother, followed lowed almost immediately by that of her father, recalled her from a life of pleasure to one of exertion. It was a sad blow for poor Carrie, but she became a woman under it, and acted so heroically, as to win golden opinions from Uncle Jacob, and proved to him that he had not chosen his favorite unwisely. But she had not heard all; on the settlement of her father's affairs, she found herself almost penniless; only one thing remained to her, and her heart clung to this for the sake of its former owner; it was a piece of ground, the prettiest site in the village, and had been her mother's, and which was known by the name of Wild Cherry Place; what had given it its name, no one could tell; certainly it was not the old elm trees that were scattered so unsparingly over it. As Carrie glanced over the beautiful place, and felt that every tree, and nook, and rock, was linked with memories of the dead, she resolved that nothing but the greatest necessity should tempt her to relinquish it, and, at the same time, she likewise determined to refuse those kind offers of aunts and uncles, to take charge of the younger children, and nobly to depend on her own exertions.  Carrie had a secret talisman that she was thinking of all this while, and relying upon its aid to carry out her determination. What was it, fair reader? You shall see.
               But to relate things as they happened, go back to a pleasant afternoon in Carrie's pleasant parlor. It was "circle afternoon," and Carrie was always sure of a large number; for she was the foster-child of the village: and there was not a good lady there who did not secretly think that all her (Carrie's) success was owing to her private counsel and aid. Why, hadn't Mrs. Seamer shown her her own favorite way of darning, and Mrs. Tuft given her herbs from her own choice collection! Hadn't Mrs. Skimpton advised the arrangement of the kitchen, and Mrs. Whitten that of her parlor? while Miss Tracy had daily advertised to her all the gossiping afloat? And Carrie, dear creature, with that admirable tact that belongs only to woman, had managed to obey in everything and in nothing, to suit everybody and please herself. But we are wandering. A goodly number had assembled at the sewing circle, and after the confusion of finding and fitting work, sorting thread, and selecting needles, the conversation flowed in the usual current; that is, those present talking of those who are not. At length, in a pause favorable to her purpose, Katy Remington, who never went to circle except when it met at Carrie's, springing up and gaining possession of a vacant seat near Carrie, exclaimed—
               "Now, Carrie dear, if you have a single spark of mercy in your nature, I beg you to give me your secret; do tell me in what way you have contrived to become such a perfect pattern to all young people, who have the misfortune to belong to the same generation?  Come, tell me, before I die of envy."
               Carrie laughed heartily, although Kate's rattle-brained entreaties were not new to her, and declared there was neither any secret nor anything wonderful about it.
               "Must I give up?" said Kate, in a tone of mock despair. "Why, I must tell you," she added, addressing her young companions, "I thought I would just bear in mind the number of times in a week that Carrie Lee was set forth to me as a model, and what do you think? why, only on the third day, my poor brain got so bewildered with their multiplicity, that I was forced to give it up to avoid monomania or some other dreadful thing. And now I have been listening to such an enumeration of virtues, every word of which, although it only counts one when added to Carrie's praises, detracts tenfold from ours, and I appeal to you all, is it fair that she should keep this wonderful witchery all to herself?"
               Hereupon Carrie was assailed by numerous voices, all clamorous for her secret, until suddenly one exclaimed to Uncle Jacob, who was on a visit from the city: "Oh, Mr. Harris, do you just tell us how Carrie manages so nicely; indeed, I think it is her duty to let at least Fanny into the secret," she added, glancing archly at a friend near, a bride of two weeks.
               "Well, really," said old Uncle Jacob, laughing, "it's just what I've been often puzzled about myself. Carrie tells me she has a powerful talisman that aids her, but what that is, is more than I can find out."
               "A talisman, a talisman," echoed several voices. "Come, come, Carrie, if you have got any Egerias hid down in that delightful Wild Cherry Place, let us all have the benefit of it."
               "Oh, Uncle Jacob!" began Carrie, not knowing what to say.
               But she was relieved from her embarrassment by the sudden and flurried entrance of Miss Tracy. Every one knew when she arrived they might expect to hear the latest bit of news out; but to the numerous inquiries why she was so late, she maintained a steady reserve until divested of her numerous wrappers and overshoes; then, seating herself in a very consequential way, she began:—
               "Well, where do you think I've been?" And, being answered only by a profound silence, she continued: "Well, you've all heard what's been said about the Churchills, them folks that's just moved from the city into the house across the road from ours; they say 'twas on account of his Wife's health, but dear-a me, if she thinks she's goin' to get strong doin' as she's doin', she's mistaken, that's all I've got to say. Why, only yesterday, Janet told me, she believed Mrs Churchill didn't go into the kitchen from one week to another; and the waste there!" Miss Tracy was nearly overcome.
               "Have you been in?" inquired several voices.
               "Well," said Miss Tracy, reviving, "I've seen their hired man go to the post-office almost every day, and fetch back lots of letters and papers, and what looked to me like magazines; so to day, when I saw him bring home a bigger bundle than usual, I thought I'd jest run in an' satisfy myself once for all; so I went in, and the man at the door took me right into the room where they were setting; and what do you think I saw? Why, all three of them, mother and girls, were reading them magazines, and more 'n all, they didn't seem one mite ashamed to be caught so, and the girls didn't even lay down their hooks, but kept twirling the leaves in their fingers all the time. My eye caught the name of one of them, and that was enough for me. I come away."
               "What was it?" inquired several, in breathless attention.
               "What do you think? Godey's Lady's Book!" And Miss Tracy having thus triumphantly delivered herself, settled down in her chair, and seemed much relieved.
               "Godey's Lady's Book!" "The very best part of the day spent in reading!" "And such reading!" were exclamations heard on all sides from the good dames, and which were followed by a general denunciation of all magazine publications, in which the "Book," having the largest circulation, came in for the largest share. Then came a long list of accidents and disasters occasioned by their reading, and a grave homily on the corruption of the present age, which would support such concerns. No doubt all this was intended, indirectly, to inspire all the young people with gratitude, that they were under a supervision wise enough to protect them from such calamities.
               Suddenly, Uncle Jacob exclaimed: "By the way, Carrie, what did you want of Godey's Lady's Book, which you told me you would rather I would give you than anything else?"
               Now, you must know that during all this discussion Carrie had not said a word, but had sat quite still; only now and then a quiet, cunning smile playing round the corners of her mouth. Thus suddenly appealed to, she started and looked confused.
               What a stir among the good people! Carrie Lee have Godey's Lady's Book! Impossible! they had not heard aright. "Was it Godey's Lady's Book, Uncle Jacob?"
               "Yes; Godey's Lady's Book."
               Could it be? Had the pet of the whole village worn a mask all this while, which was now so unwittingly torn aside. There were looks of consternation and alarm, sly glances and winkings from those who were jealous of Carrie's favor, while the faces of the younger portion looked, as plain as words could say it, "What harm is done we would read it ourselves if we could."
               Carrie blushed (what wonder), although, to confess the truth, she could have laughed heartily to see the doleful faces round her. But Uncle Jacob's question must be answered; so she began—
               "Well, uncle, I will tell you what I wanted with it, and perhaps my answer may also set Kate at rest. Godey is my talisman, which you have been so naughty as to tell of."
               Nothing but intent looks of expectation; so she went on:—
               "When I was at boarding-school, I learned the value of the Lady's Book. There it was the only source that never failed. Did we want something perfectly unique and beautiful for the coming season? Godey's 'Fashion Plates' are elegant and reliable. Did we want to get up a little tableau on a holiday? Godey's Mezzotint and Line Engravings furnish beautiful groups. Did we want to get up a little fancy ball? Godey's Costumes were straightway appealed to; or did we want to send home little nicknacks for Christmas presents? Godey's Work-Table is inexhaustible. And you will not wonder, uncle, that I value the book when I tell you that from that I first got the idea of maintaining us, myself, and by that aid alone I have been able to carry it out. No wonder you are surprised, uncle, for I dare say you never looked into a number in your whole life, and there is such a spirit of condemnation among certain classes with regard to all such publications. Somebody, in the first place, condemns a magazine, others catch the infection, until the whole system is denounced, and mostly by those who, instead of seeing, have only heard. But to tell you what it has done for me. When I was revolving in my mind how I should live, Godey's Work-Table suddenly occurred to me; so knitting, netting, crocheting, &c., filled my head and time for the next three months. My articles sold readily and well, for it was something quite new here, and this encouraged me to open a little school for teaching others the same thing; you all know how well I succeeded in that, for I could still continue my own work during the intervals of teaching; when the market here failed, a friend in the city offered to dispose of my articles there. That beautiful sofa pillow, Mrs. Whitten, which you admired enough to buy, I got from the September number of Godey. My little bouquets of worsted flowers, which adorn many of your shelves, came also from Godey."
               "And that superb silk embroidery!" cried Kate.
               "And those beautiful corners for handkerchiefs!" said another.
               "And all your elegant lamp mats!" exclaimed a third.
               "All, all from Godey," said Carrie, with the gladdest smile imaginable. "Every number devotes three or four pages to this subject; so I am continually able to offer something new to my pupils, who seem never tired of learning. My income has been far greater than I dared to hope. And now comes the crowning point of my happiness. You all remember that beautiful Wild Cherry Place, which was mother's, and where father always wanted so much to build a house, just in that large open spot, between those two largest elm-trees; well, I determined long ago, if ever I had money enough, to carry out his plan, and about a month ago, I found I had money enough, provided I could dispense with the labors of an architect.  This, at first, seemed impossible, but here, as in everything else, my talisman did not fail me; Godey's Model Cottages were just what I wanted; so," added Carrie, taking a beautiful little portable desk from the table, and showing several papers, "by taking one of his plans, and altering it slightly in several points, I have been able to get something which just suits me, and which an architect could not improve, and now, with a little assistance from Uncle Jacob, which I know I can depend upon, before many months are gone, I shall see one of the prettiest of cottages on Wild Cherry Place."
               I will not attempt to describe the revulsion of feeling that took place there, or tell you how many declared they never would condemn a thing again without examining it themselves.  Some could not make themselves believe they were really awake; others thought it exceeded all the stories they ever heard their grandmothers tell in the chimney-corner; all were determined to subscribe, and many wanted to write that very afternoon, but Carrie read to them the liberal terms which Godey offers to clubs. This they determined was the best way to do the thing, and the extra copies should be given, one to the minister's wife, and the rest to those who could not afford to join. But Carrie's story was not over.
               "Do tell me," said Kate, who was in the midst of a knot of young people, "do tell us about this pretty desk of yours! At a distance we thought it the Japanese work, but on a closer inspection, we find it is not."
               "This," said Carrie, smiling, "was an old pine thing, and Godey's good hint on Anglo-Japanese work came just in time to save it from the fire."
               "What was it? Let us see it!" they all cried at once.
               Whereupon Carrie produced the July number, which was taken by her companions with a kind of awe, being the first number of the kind they had ever seen.
               "Oh, what beautiful pictures!" cried one.
               "And Fashion Plates!" said another.
               "Here is one of the cottages!" cried a third.
               "Oh! here is music!" exclaimed another.
               "Oh, yes," said Carrie, "I had forgotten to tell you that; here is where I get all my new music that you have wondered so much about."
               But now supper was announced, and the conversation was suspended until after that was over. Then Uncle Jacob, who had not spoken since Carrie began, but had been obliged several times to wipe away the tears that would come, remarked that he would just walk to the post-office or so for a little exercise.
               "What cook book do you use, Carrie?" said Mrs. Skimpton.
               Carrie's hand was laid on her unfailing Godey. "Don't you think," she said, smiling, "it's well worth the subscription?"
               "Well, I declare!" said old Mrs. Wilson, between laughing and crying, while she wiped her spectacles, "I never!"
               By this time the men had come, who were each, in turn, obliged to listen to a recapitulation of Carrie's wonderful story, and nothing would suffice but Carrie must finish the evening by reading something from the book, and letting each see for himself. Carrie produced the numbers, and regaled them for the rest of the evening with some of the richest things a magazine ever offered to the public. The circle was held to a late hour, and all departed resolved to subscribe, and only regretting they had not done so years ago.
               "Carrie," said Uncle Jacob, when all had gone, "did you ever hear your mother speak of Miss Zilphia Harris, a distant relative of hers?"
               Carrie thought she had.
               "Well," continued Uncle Jacob, "I have just received a letter stating that she has died, leaving to your mother the fortune which she has amassed; this, of course, becomes yours."
               What more could Carrie desire? Her income, though not very large, was sufficient to support her in ease and comfort. The cottage was built, and never does the circle meet at Carrie's without calling up that ever memorable afternoon when she first disclosed her Talisman.
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
            100,000 SUBSCRIBERS.
            GODEY'S LADY'S BOOK,
            The Book of Beauty and of the Nation.
            EDITED BY MRS. S. J. HALE.
            The only approved Ladies' Magazine in America. It contains monthly the most beautiful Line, Stipple, and Mezzotint Engravings, Scriptural and others; superb Colored Fashion Plates; Model Cottages, with Plans—a most admirable set of illustrations; and, what more particularly interests the ladies,
            Undoubted Receipts, Music, Knitting, Netting, Chenille-work, Crochet-work, Ribbon-work, Flower-work, Patch-work, Lace-Collar-work, Hair braiding, Children's and Infants' Clothes, Capes, Caps, Chemisettes, &c.; in fine, everything that can interest a lady will find its appropriate place in our Book.
            Added to all this, the literature is by the best writers in America, and is paid for, not taken from British works.
            
               TERMS.
               1 copy one year,........................$ 3 00
               2 copies one year,......................  5 00
               6 copies one year,...................... 10 00
               12 copies one year,..................... 20 00
            
            Postage, two cents on each number.
            Address 
                  L.A. GODEY
                  No. 113 Chestnut St. Philada.
               
            
         
      
   
