
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). Alfred Morland, or The Legacy .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5785
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               ALFRED MORLAND; 
               OR, THE LEGACY. 
             
            BY EMERSON BENNETT. AUTHOR OF "VIOLA;" "CLARA MORELAND;" "PRAIRIE FLOWER;" "LENI LEOTI;" "FEMALE SPY;" "ROSALIE DU PONT;" "TRAITOR;" ETC., ETC. 
            
               CINCINNATI:
             
            1855. 
          
          
             
            A BOOK FOR EVERY FATHER, MOTHER, SON AND DAUGHTER 
            PUBLISHED AND NOW READY FOR SALE. 
            BY H. M. RULISON, 
            AT THE QUEEN CITY PUBLISHING HOUSE, 1151/2 MAIN ST, CINCINNATI, O, GENERAL AGENT FOR THE WESTERN AND SOUTHERN STATES, 
             
               THE PEOPLE'S MEDICAL LIGHTHOUSE, 
               ON the Uses and Diseases of the Lungs, Heart, Liver, Stomach, Kidneys, Womb, and Blood; a Key to the Causes, Prevention, Remedies, and Cure of Pulmonary and other Kinds of CONSUMPTION, Asthma, Bronchitis, Heart Diseases, Dyspepsia, Liver Complaint, Ague and Fever, Baldness, Deafness, Blindness, Spinal Curvatures, Headaches, Catarrh, Costiveness, Diarrhea, Dysentery, Grub and Worms, Piles and Fistula, Miscarriage, Female Diseases, Cancers and Tumors, Falling of the Womb. 
             
             
               MARRIAGE GUIDE; 
               On Early Marriage, Growth of the Fetus, Organs of Generation, Prevention of Conception, Impressions on the Female Organs and on the Unborn Child, Art of Procreating the Sexes at Will, and how to render Childbirth Easy and Safe, and retain their Youthful Vigor, Beauty, and Elasticity of both Mind and Body to a ripe old age. 
               BY HARMON K. ROOT, A. M., M. D., 
               Author of a series of Lectures on Health, and Inventor of the Infallible Lung Barometer. Illustrated with sixty-five rare, interesting, and useful engravings. 
               This work contains 496 large octavo pages, in clear type, and elegantly bound. PRICE $2. 
               This book will be sent by mail to any part of the world, on the reception of $2 by letter (post-paid). 
               Agents wanted to sell this work throughout the West and South, to whom a liberal discount will be allowed. (Address, post-paid, as above.) 
               THE PEOPLE'S MEDICAL LIGHTHOUSE is a complete guide to the preservation of health and the cure of every kind of disease, and will be found of inestimable value to every individual and family to whom it comes. It contains the long and varied experience of the Author in the practice of his profession, so arranged and written as to be plain to every person, and easy of comprehension. The jargon of medical terms, behind which many physicians seek to hide their ignorance, is discarded; so that, in verity, it is a Lighthouse of Medicines for the universal people. 
               The book has received the highest recommendations from the Clergy and Press, in various parts of the Eastern, and Middle States. 
               N. B.-Editors of papers in the Western and Southern States forwarding $1, and giving the above advertisement, including this note, one or more insertions, and sending a copy of the paper containing the same, shall have a copy of the Medical Lighthouse mailed to their address, free of postage. 
               
                  H. M. RULISON.
                
             
          
          
             
             
               ALFRED MORLAND; 
               OR, THE LEGACY. 
             
            BY EMERSON BENNETT. AUTHOR OF "VIOLA;" "CLARA MORELAND;" "PRAIRIE FLOWER;" "LENI LEOTI;" "FEMALE SPY;" "ROSALIE DU PONT;" "TRAITOR;" ETC., ETC. 
            
               CINCINNATI:
             
            1855. 
          
       
      
         
            Alfred Morland, or The legacy 
             
             
            ALFRED MORELAND, OR THE LEGACY. 
             
               CHAPTER. I. 
               IN a darkened room, of an elegant mansion, lie a sick man at the point of death. He was the proprietor of that mansion and was reported to be worth his thousands.-Beside his couch of pain and suffering, sat a handsome young man, some twenty years of age. This was the invalid's son and only child. A little to the right of the young man sat a middle-aged lady, of very prepossessing appearance, dressed in black. She held a handkerchief to her eyes, and was weeping. She was the wife of the invalid, and mother to his only son and heir. Standing by the bed, with one of the sufferer's hands clasped in his, was a man between thirty and forty years of age, of a pale, intellectual countenance. This was the family physician. 
                
               For some moments neither of the group moved or spoke; then the invalid said: 
               "Well, doctor, is there any hope?" 
               "I fear, not" he answered mournfully. 
               Tears sprang to the eyes of the young man, and the wife sobbed aloud. 
               "How long in the natural order of things, can I hold out?" inquired the sick man. 
               "You may live twenty four hours, and you may not live three." 
               "Enough my time then is short, and I must act. My dear wife, I wish to see you alone." 
               The young man covered his eyes with his hand and went out, followed by the doctor; within an hour, the mother of the former came to him, weeping, and said in a voice choked with emotion: 
               "Your father desires to see you alone." 
               The young man again entered the sick room, and approached the bed of his dying parent. The latter reached out his thin, wasted hand, and clasped the hand of his son; then looking him calmly in the eye, said; 
               "Alfred, I am about to bid you farewell." 
               "No, father!" burst from the young man; and the tears of grief rolled down his cheeks. 
               "Do not weep," said the dying man, gently, "for what is loss to you, is a gain to me; while you lose a father, I gain a heaven. But I must speak of that which concerns my earthly stay-for my minutes are already numbered. I have always endeavored to be kind to you, Alfred; and I have expended much money in bestowing upon you a good education." 
               "You have been the kindest of fathers," sobbed the other. 
               "Then you cannot think I would be less kind to you, when about to bid you farewell?" 
                
               "No, father, no! O why do you ask!" 
               "You will understand all in time. I am about to leave you my legacy." 
               "O, do not mention it, father!" 
               "I mention it, because it is a great treasure, the all I have to give you and I want you to promise me solemnly, that you will faithfully execute all the commands enjoined in my last bequest." 
               "I will, father-I solemnly promise." 
               "Enough! I know you will keep your word, for you have never broken it to me. This legacy you will find in the hands of my lawyer. When you get it, go to your own room, lock your door, and peruse it. It is different from what you anticipate, but remember your promise to your dying father! God bless you, and guard you, my son!" and the dying man laid his hands affectionately on the head of the other; then murmuring a short prayer he added, "Go and call your mother, for I am going fast." 
               An hour later, Alvin Moreland was a corpse. 
               We will pass over the splendid funeral of the wealthy Moreland; for, unlike the poor, the funerals of the rich are splendid, and unlike the poor, hosts of so-called mourners and friends follow them to the grave. 
               In his own private apartment, of his late father's splendid mansion, sat Alfred Moreland on the evening of the third day after the funeral. A splendid alabaster lamp which stood on the mahogany table, lighted the whole room, and made the pictures on the walls, the rich carpet on the floor, the velvet covered chairs, and the rose-colored curtains of the windows look more cheerful and luxurious than would have done the broad light of day. Alfred was dressed in an elegant suit of black, to which the paleness of his melancholy features, with his raven hair falling down to his neck formed a striking contrast. On the table lay a sealed package, the legacy of his father; and as he raised it and let his soft hazel eyes fall upon the superscription, they filled with tears, and a deep sigh escaped him. 
               "His last bequest," he said, and broke the seal. 
               Taking off the first wrapper of dark heavy paper, he came to the second, on which he read the following superscription; 
               "Remember your promise to your dying father." 
               A strange misgiving seemed to hover round him, he could not tell why or wherefore, he held the package in his hand, and yet he seemed to wish to delay the moment when his most ardent hopes were to be gratified, now he turned it on this and then on that side; the nervous twitching of his mouth, and the trembling of his hands showed how powerfully he was moved. It is strange, that when at last we hold within our grasp that which we most covet, we seem fearful, lest the very fulfilment of our desires should destroy the hopes we have raised. It was so with Moreland; for years he had pictured to himself the delights of being sole pioneer of his own acts; not that his father ever acted harshly toward him, on the contrary, he had ever been a kind and indulgent parent, gratifying all his reasonable desires, and ever pointing out to him the road to happiness; yet there was something he could not define that seemed to bar his yearnings for companionship; the fault, if there were any, lie with himself. 
               Finding his feelings somewhat calmer he again read the mysterious superscription. 
               "Remember your promise to your dying father." 
               Surprised at this, Alfred hastily tore off the second wrapper, and found still a third, on which was written: 
               "Prepare for disappointment." 
               Almost bewildered, and greatly excited at the strangeness of all this, it may readily be supposed the third wrapper was quickly removed, and lo! still a fourth wrapper met his view, with the cheering supersciption; 
               "This contains an invaluable treasure." 
               "Ah!" said Alfred, aloud, "I have come to it now;" and he balanced the package on his hand. "It is large and heavy, an undoubtedly contains notes of great value, perhaps diamonds, who knows;" and as he said this, he hastily tore off the last covering, and beheld what made him start with surprise, and utter an exclamation of vexation and disappointment. 
               The "invaluable treasure" was simply a Bible and a gold medal. 
               "What!" exclaimed the young man, after staring at the contents of the package for a few minutes, in mute wonder-"is this all? Where are the deeds of land, and mortgages and promissory notes and drafts that should be mine? But perhaps they are concealed within the leaves of this book;" and he took the Bible into his hands. 
               It was magnificently bound with crimson velvet, and had heavy gold clasps; unlocking it, a paper met his eye. Hastily he took it up, and found it to contain a hundred dollar note, and the following singular epistle: 
               
                   
                      
                         
                           
                              "ALVIN MORELAND TO ALFRED MORELAND GREETING."
                            
                           "MY DEAR SON:-When your eyes fall upon this paper, he who penned this will be no more; and true to the dead, I command you to hold sacred all that you herein find written You have believed I died rich; it is not so, I died poor-a bankrupt. There is, however, an income of five hundred dollars secured to your mother, but which I, now speaking from the grave, command you not to touch, if it be your wish to prosper in this world, and be conscience easy in preparing for the next. I have bestowed on you a good education; you have talent and address and henceforth you must carve out your own fortune. Your wardrobe, and the enclosed bank note comprise all the available effects you will ever by any possibility inherit from me; for the Bible and the medal you must regard as sacred, and never to be disposed of. The Bible I command you to read daily, and the gold medal you must wear next to your heart, and consult on all occasion of perplexity and doubt, for it contains, in one sentence, advice that will enable you to live properly here, and prepare you to go hence forever. Go forth into the world, my son, and, by perseverance, industry, and economy, build up your own fortune-or to what extent your desire may be-always remembering to read your Bible daily, and follow the advice engraved on the medal. So may you prosper on earth, and prepare yourself for Heaven! God bless, guard, and direct your steps aright! Farewell! 
                           
                              "Your affectionate Father, 
                              "ALVIN MORELAND."
                            
                         
                      
                  
                
             
             
                
               CHAPTER. II. 
               "SO, then," exclaimed the young man, bitterly, falling back in his chair, and striking his hand forcibly against his forehead, "So, then, I am worth nothing. Born to affluence, bred in luxury, educated to refinement, and now left with a beggar's portion, to fight my way through a cold, selfish, heartless world O, this is more than I can bear! Shade of my departed father! why did you not begin, years ago, to prepare me for this pauperism? Why did you bring me up in indolence and luxurious ease, to overwhelm and unman me at last with the cruel truth that I have nothing to hope for beyond the labor of my hands? O, this is too much misery to come at once, and unawares and the young man bowed his head in his hands and wept bitterly for some minutes; then lifting his face, colorless as the driven snow, he arose, and for some time longer paced the richly carpeted floor of his luxurious apartment-now, alas! his no longer-in great agitation. 
               "But come," he exclaimed, pausing abruptly, and exhibiting in his manner a good deal of nervous excitement, "let me behold hold this medal!-let me feast my eyes upon the talismanic inscription, whose precept, closely followed is to have such a salutary effect upon my future destiny!" And as he said this, he expressed, by a taunting laugh, the real bitterness of his heart. 
               He raised the gold medal, and found attached to it a small gold chain; but this he scarcely noticed, so eager was he for the inscription; and holding it to the light, he read around the border- 
               Alvin Moreland to Alfred Moreland, Legacy,-and in the center saw engraved the single words, 
                     "DO RIGHT!"
                  
                
               Turning it over, he found the same inscription on the opposite side. 
               "What!" he exclaimed, "is this all? is this my whole fortune summed up in the simple words 'Do Right?' This is strange, and it is well my father called me to him before he died, and thus gave me evidence of his sanity which otherwise I must have doubted. 'Do right, do right!'" he repeated; "pshaw! what simple advice!-have I not done right all my life?" and as he asked the question contemptuously with a curl of the lips, the "still small voice" of conscience seemed to repeat, "Have you done right all your life? are you doing right now?" and then after a moment's reflection conscience seemed to say louder and emphatically, "NO!" 
               Throwing himself into a seat for a few minutes young Alfred seemed buried in bitter reflection; and then starting up suddenly, exclaimed, "But what am I to do now? I, the beggar?" and the last word fairly hissed through his teeth, with all the gall of disappointment. "Shall I steal? No! for the law condemns that. Shall I labor and toil, drag out a miserable existence? Ah! what can I do?" and as he said this, his eyes, as if by chance, fell upon the golden words, "Do Right!" 
               "Yes," he pursued, "here is my answer, do right; but how am I to fulfil the injunction? Is it right to beg?-No!-to steal?-No!-to toil?-Yes! for God has commanded that all should toil. This, then, is right; but how and where am I to begin?-I, who never earned a penny, or toiled an hour in my life?" 
               As he said this, his eye rested on the Bible. Mechanically he took it up, opened it, and the first sentence he beheld was the following;- 
               "But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them." 
               "This is strange," mused Alfred Moreland, "very strange!" and he read the passage again. '"The things which I have learned and have been assured of.' Surely this refers in a strange manner to the golden words, "do right!" and he again fell into deep thought. 
               "Ah, Emily," he sighed, at length, "had I wedded thee before my father's death, all had now been right with me; for instead of being poor, I should still be worth a fortune. But who that is rich will think of wedding a pauper? Ha! a new thought strikes me!' and his eyes brightened. "She does not know I am poor-no one knows it, and if I press my suit on the plea that I am about to make a long journey, and desire to take her with me; she will believe my tale, and I shall succeed before my father's bankruptcy becomes known to the world. A capital thought!" he continued, rubbing his hands in delight; "for I love Emily, and thus shall I be doubly blessed, in securing a wife and a fortune at the same time;" and as he said this, the eyes of Alfred glanced toward the table. 
               He started as if suddenly stung with remorse; for they encountered the golden words "do right;" and instantly his conscience told him it would not be right to deceive the being that loved him, and with whom he desired to enter into a covenant made sacred by the laws of God and man. 
               "No, no," he pursued, "this will not do. I made a solemn promise to my father on his death-bed, that I would abide by the commands enjoined in his legacy; and one of the strongest of those commands-to which my attention has been especially called-is to do right; therefore will I go to Emily, and tell her the truth; if she still accept me, and her father consent, well; if not, why then I suppose I must become a wanderer indeed; And why not go this very night?" he pursued, "for a poor man has no time to waste in idleness." He consulted his watch, and added; "I will go, for it is yet early, and Emily will doubtless be at home." 
               Seizing his hat, he was on the point of passing out of the room, when a sudden thought seemed to strike him, and he returned to the table, took up the medal, threw the chain over his neck, and literally placed it next to his heart, saying as he passed out- 
               "Thus let me begin to do right, by fulfilling the sacred promise I made to my dying father to faithfully execute all the commands enjoined upon me." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE residence of Bernard Everett, the father of Emily, was less than half a mile from that of the late Alvin Moreland. Like the latter, Everett was considered to be wealthy and in fact the principal wealth of the little village in which they resided, was supposed to be held by these two opulent and aristocratic families. And as Alfred Moreland was an only son and heir, so was Emily Everett an only daughter and child; and the contemplated union of families, through the marriage of the children was favorably regarded by all parties. But there was this difference between the heads of the two families. Moreland had been a man of benevolence and extravagance, while Everett, on the contrary, had always proved himself penurious, covetous, selfish and avaricious; and thus, while one spent his all, the other had doubled his possessions. Not that we would have the reader infer that Everett stinted his family, and lived beggarly. No! on the contrary, he lived in splendor; for he was as ostentatious as he was penurious; and his soul was bent on heaping up gold and making a grand display of his wealth. The difference between the two men was this; that while Moreland forgave the poor man a debt he could not easily pay, and placed a purse of gold in his hand, Everett levied upon the very furniture of those that owed him, if not punctual to their agreement, and left them to starve, or to be provided for by the hands of his wealthy rival. A man's necessity was his opportunity. He always had money to lend on good security, and at usurious interest-the usury being managed to evade the law, by the party borrowing giving his bond for a few dollars more than he ever received. Both he and Moreland belonged to the church of earth; but if we may be permitted to judge, only one of their names could be found registered in God's high church in heaven. But lest the reader should get prejudiced against the daughter of this man, we will here declare that Emily was as unlike him in thought and deed, heart and soul, as the gentle lilly is unlike the flinty rock. She was destined to gain nothing from her father but his property: her comely form, lovely features, and angelic virtues, she inherited from her mother. 
               A few minutes sufficed to bring Alfred to the gate, that opened into the beautiful enclosure surrounding the mansion of her he loved, but whom he feared he should now have to leave for ever; and his heart beat strangely, as he 
                     pased
                     paced
                   over the graveled avenue leading up to the stately steps, which he had so often ascended with feelings of joyful exultation. Arrived at the door, he paused a moment to calm the tumultuous throbbings of his heart, and then rang the bell with a trembling hand. The servant who answered his ring, greeted him with a smile, and he was immediately ushered into the splendid drawing-room, where Emily sat alone, pursuing the delightful pages of "Pollok's Course of Time." She was indeed a lovely being, fair and radiant, and in the delightful maturity of sweet eighteen. As her soft blue eye turned from the book to her guest, she arose with a modest grace and received him with a smile of welcome; and the soft blush that mantled her cheek, resembling the velvet tint of the ripened peach, made her look supremely fascinating and beautiful. 
               "I was thinking this very night," she said, in a silvery tone of charming simplicity, "that Alfred Moreland was becoming a stranger in the house of those who are proud to call him friend." 
               "There has been a sad cause," sighed Alfred, as he took a seat by the side of the gentle girl. 
               "Alas! yes," was the sympathetic response. 
               "And I fear that cause is about to be the cause of my becoming a greater stranger still," pursued the young man, with a still deeper sigh. 
               "Indeed! Alfred, what mean you?" 
               "Truth compels me to say, my father died a bankrupt." 
               "A bankrupt, Alfred?" repeated the other turning pale. "Oh! I am so sorry to hear it!-how your dear mother and you must feel! But why should this make you a stranger here?" 
               "Pardon me! but the poor are no company for the rich." 
               "Alfred, this to me?" said the fair girl reproachfully. "Oh, do not wound my heart and feelings with such remarks. If you are poor, the very knowledge thereof will only the more strongly bind me to you." 
               "But will place an impassable gulf between me and one other of your household." said Alfred. 
               "Whom mean you?" 
               "Your father." 
               "Surely you do not think this will alter is regard for you?" 
               "As much as poverty alters my condition from affluence." 
               "Alfred!" 
               "Nay, dear Emily, do not protest, but wait, and you shall soon judge for yourself. Let me speak a few words before we are interrupted. For years I have loved you-loved you fondly and looked upon you as mine; for there was that in our conditions that made us equal-there was that in the harmonious blending of our temperaments, dispositions, tastes, and feelings, that made us happy in each other's company. All that seemed wanting to consummate our desires was the proper time to come; and that I thought near at hand, when my father fell sick, and died, and left me pennyless. Now we are not equals in fortune; and your father, when he hears the news, will not think me worthy of your fair hand. 
               "You wrong him by such a thought, Alfred. 
               "We shall see, dear Emily; and if I do, I pledge you I will ask his pardon on my knees. 
               "But does he know your father died a bankrupt? 
               "No; for it is not yet known to any but his lawyer: but it will soon be bruited abroad. 
               "Then if you think my father will withhold his consent to our union, why not, on some pretence or another, have it take place immediately? 
               "I will tell you why, dear Emily. Because my father, when dying informed me he would leave me a legacy, and made me faithfully promise that I would execute the commands it enjoined. This legacy consisted of good advice, a bible, and this; and the young man drew from its concealment the gold medal, and holding it up before the eyes of Emily, silently and solemnly pointed to the inscription; and then added, "And now let me ask you is it right to break a promise to a dying parent by deceiving a living one." 
               No no-it is not, replied Emily; while the simple but forcible reproof caused the hot blood of shame to mount to her very temples. "Pardon me, dear Alfred, for having counseled you wrongly. 
               "I have nothing to pardon, dear Emily; for it is so easy and natural for all human nature to err, in thought and deed, that not to err would make us more than mortal. And to relieve your mind from the self-reproach I see you feel, let me tell you that the same idea you suggested came up in my own mind, and but for the silent rebuke of my dear father, speaking from the grave through the valuable legacy he left behind him, I might have been tempted to act upon it and deceived even you whom I sincerely and truly love." 
               "God bless you, dear Alfred you have a noble soul, and I will be free to admit that I love you now more than ever. Follow the counsel of your dear lamented father, and trust in a Higher Power that all will be well with you. I feel that you have truly been left an invaluable treasure." 
               "Such was the superscription thereon, in the hand writing of one whom I have every reason to believe is now numbered among the saints," rejoined the other solemnly. 
               "But I think you mistake my father's character," pursued Emily. "True, I know he is somewhat grasping and eager for gain; but surely he is not that selfish and avaricious, that he would refuse you my hand-you whom he has already looked upon as a son-in-law-because you now happen to be poor. No, Alfred, you wrong him in the very thought, I am sure you do Were you poor and a stranger, who had come here to seek my hand, he might question your motives and object; but now, since he knows that we have known each other from childhood, and that you sought my hand when you believed yourself worth a fortune, he will certainly not throw any obstacle in your way." 
               "I have no doubt, you think as you speak," replied Alfred, "but it is the impulse of the heart that causes your lips to move to such sweet music, for does not the sacred volume that my father left me, say 'out of the heart, the mouth speaketh,' or something of that sort-no my dear, depend upon it the moment your father hears of my parent's death and insolvency he will place his protest against our union; and further, I believe, (and I hope I do him an injustice,) that so worldly-minded do I think him, that even though your future happiness may depend on his consent, he will, nevertheless withhold it." 
               "Nay, my dear Alfred," she replied, "you do my father great injustice." 
               "Well, we shall see, Emily-we shall see. If-" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IV. 
               Alfred was here interrupted by the opening of the door, and the entrance of the very object of his remarks. Mr Everett was a small man, with sharp shrewd features, and little cunning grey eyes; but his black dress, with his large white neckerchief around his throat, gave him a rather ministerial look, more especially, as being a great hypocrite, he ever strove to appear very godly and sanctimonious in the eyes of the world 
               "Ah! my dear Alfred, he said, coming forward with a great show of cordiality and seizing the young man's hand in both of his, "how delighted I am to see you here again. I was just saying, this very day, "I wonder when our dear afflicted young friend will think proper to visit us again, and let us pour the little balm of consolation we have into his wounded soul and the worldly man ceased shaking his dear young friend's hand, in order to find his handkerchief, and wipe an imaginary tear from his eye. "How fares it with you," he resumed, in a solemn tremulous tone, "since your dear lamented father's death?" 
                
               "Not well, Mr. Everett; for when the mind is ill, the body ails," replied Alfred. 
               Ah! yes, you have a great affliction to endure, my dear son, a great affliction! He was a noble father, a devoted husband, and a generous friend; we all mourn him, dear Alfred we all mourn him. But you will promise me to come often, and make my poor house (the worldly rich always speak in disparagement of their own possessions) your home, as much as you can, will you not?" 
               "That, Mr. Everett, will somewhat depend on circumstances. I had thought of leaving this part of the country, and going abroad." 
               "Oh, my dear Alfred, don't mention it! We cannot spare you, even for a few days-can we, my dear daughter?" and he glanced at Emily, with what he intended should be an arch expression. 
               "If wishes were bonds, he might find it hard to get away," replied Emily. 
               "I know it! I know it!" returned the worldly man, smiling and rubbing his hands; and then approaching Alfred, he added in his ear, "She loves you, sir, the girl loves you." 
               "And I reciprocate," replied Alfred, "In fact, it was to talk over this very matter, to tell you some things you do not know, and ask your consent to our union, that I came here to-night. 
               "My consent boy! why God bless you, you have had that long ago; and I assure you, when the event takes place, I shall be one of the happiest fathers in Christendom." 
               "Nay, before you assure me of your consent, let me speak of my father's affairs, and of the legacy he left me." 
               "Not a word, boy, not a word. I am rich-money is no object with me, where the heart of my own beloved child is concerned!" and here he caught Emily by one hand Alfred by the other, and joining them together he exclaimed, "take her, Alfred, and make her happy, and may heaven bless you both. 
               Alfred was astonished; he could hardly believe his senses, and feeling he had wronged in thought the father of her he loved, he sprang forward caught his hand, pressed it to his heart, and exclaimed: 
               "Pardon me, Mr. Everett, but I have done you injustice. I did not believe you would be thus generous." 
               "Ah! I told you you knew not my father," cried Emily, joyfully. "I told you it would make no difference in his eyes, whether you were rich or poor; that he would look upon you the same, after the story of your father's bankruptcy should become known, as before." 
               "Eh! what? what's that you say, Emily?" cried the worldly man, starting suddenly, jerking his hand from Alfred, and turning deadly pale. "Bankruptcy, did you say bankruptcy, who has become bankrupt?" 
               "My father died one," replied Alfred, fixing his eyes keenly upon those of Everett. 
               "Died a bankrupt, say you? O, I see, you are trying to quiz me. Ha, ha-a capital joke!" 
               "It is the solemn truth," replied Alfred. "God forbid that I should joke with the name of the dead!" 
               "Died a bankrupt!" repeated Everett-"died a bankrupt!-is it possible? Well, I declare, this is serious news;" and he threw himself on a velvet covered sofa, and drew a long breath. "He owed me a couple of thousand-but I reckon his estate is good for it, eh?-eh! Alfred?" said the generous father nervously. 
               "For a part of it, doubtless; and the small balance I am willing you should reserve out of your daughter's fortune." 
               "My daughter's fortune, eh? O, ah? yes! ahem? Emily you may retire, I wish to see Master Alfred alone." 
                
               "No, said Alfred firmly, "say what you have to say in the presence of your daughter, for I will have no secrets from my intended wife." 
               "But-but-she isn't your wife yet you see; and therefore, if-" 
               "I understand, Mr. Everett, and doubtless Emily does also by this time-if not she soon will. You are very generous; you do not care a straw for money, but still you do not wish your daughter to wed the son of an insolvent." 
               "Why the fact is-that is-I-I mean that is," stammered Everett, "that I would not like to see her throw herself away upon a man that has no money at all." 
               "Father!" cried Emily, bursting into tears. 
               "Nay, Emily, do not weep," said Alfred, consolingly. "You see I knew the nature of your father better than you did yourself, and he has done exactly what I supposed he would do. But before he would listen to the amount of my legacy, he joined our hands, and gave us to each other, invoking heaven's blessing. That gift was scared whatever motive may have prompted it, and is registered in God's book in heaven. Be true to me, and to yourself, and solemnly pledge me now, that, if you are never mine you will never be another's, and in return I will take upon me the same vow." 
               "No, no, no!" interposed Everett. 
               "Hold!" exclaimed Alfred, "your daughter is about to speak-hear her, and be silent!" and there was such a lofty dignity in his manner, that for once the worldly man was completely overawed. 
               "Before Almighty God exclaimed Emily, seized with a sudden enthusiasm of purpose, and kneeling upon a rich carpet, "I do solemnly bind myself to become the wife of Alfred Moreland, or die unwedded!" 
               "And I," cried Alfred in the presence of Almighty God do, pledge myself to become the husband of Emily Everett, or die unwedded." 
               "Fools!" cried Everett in a rage, stamping his foot violently. "Begone Emily, to your own room!-and you sir," turning to Alfred, "quit my house, never to enter it again! Bah! the son of a bankrupt to talk of wedding an heiress! it is her money, sir, you want, and not her person. But you shall never touch a cent of it-hark ye! a cent of it! I will bestow it in alms first." 
               "Then you would do what you never did before," returned Alfred, calmly, "and certainly good would result to somebody. But rail on, my worldly-wise friend, rail on!-Your dear Alfred can put up with insult, because he came prepared for it. Meantime, allow me the honor of wishing you a very good evening;" and turning his back upon Everett he approached Emily, and said, "Be true, dearest; do right, and we shall meet again. You shall hear from me soon. My kind regards to your, mother, and bid her adieu for me. Farewell." 
               "But-but-where are you going Alfred?" gasped Emily, turning pale. 
               "I am going abroad dearest; but you shall soon hear from me. Remember your vow, and do right;" and suddenly pressing his lips to hers, he gave her half fainting into the arms of her father and rushed from the house. 
               On his way homeward the shadow of his dear Emily seemed to be hovering by his side and encouraging him by look and gesture to hold up in his firm resolve. The night was serenely calm and formed a strange contrast to the tumult that was raging within his bosom. He despised in his inmost heart the worldly-minded Everett. 
               And as he reviewed over the long list of his many acts, he found avarice was his master passion,-the basest of men's desires the love of gold for the sake of gold;-not for any worldly good that he might or ever had done with it; (the widow and the orphan might cry to him in vain, he merely clutched his moneybags the tighter,) nay as we have seen? sooner than any act of his should assist struggling virtue, he would condemn even his own child to a life of wretchedness. Wrapt completely in these thoughts he had strayed considerably from his path and it was late that night ere he regained it. On seating himself by his bedside the following question, naturally suggested itself to him. 
               "Have I done right!" and conscience answered "yes." 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               A month has rolled away since the foregoing events, and we now find Alfred Moreland in New York, with his money nearly all expended, and still without having obtained any employment. He felt discouraged, and there were a thousand temptations in his path; but still he was determined to do right, and so far had shunned evil. 
               At last, one day, nearly heart-sick with disappointment, and the negative answers to all his applications for employment, he was returning in a gloomy and dispirited mood to his hotel, when, and just as he was about crossing a large thoroughfare, his eye chanced upon something in the gutter, which had the appearance of being a dark silk purse, but so covered with mud as scarcely to be distinguishable. Stooping down carelessly, so as not to attract attention, he ascertained it was a purse in reality, and slipping it into his pocket, he walked on. Arrived at his hotel, he sought his own room, and locking the door, prepared with a palpitating heart to examine his treasure. Emptying its contents upon the table, he found, to his great joy and surprise, that it contained a large roll of bank notes, amounting, in the aggregate, to five thousand and twenty-five dollars, current funds. 
               "Ah!" exclaimed Alfred, with joyful exultation, "fortune has proved propitious for once, and I am saved from penury. On this money I can subsist for years, live in splendid style, and do no labor," and so elated was he with the bright prospects before him, that he fairly danced around his room with delight. 
               But suddenly he stopped, and a deathly pallor overspread his features; for the simple words, "Do Right," seemed to come up before his vision in flaming letters. But would it not be right to keep this money for his own necessities? he asked himself. No! for it was not his; and we have no right to what is not our own. Perhaps it belonged to some man, who as much stood in need of money as himself; and he asked himself, supposing it had been his own, and he had lost it, and another had found it, if he would then think it right in the other to keep it? The answer was emphatically "No!" and true to his promise, Alfred resolved to do right, and restore the money to its lawful owner. But how was the owner to be found? chancing to drop his eyes upon the purse, which, in withdrawing the notes, had been turned inside out, he beheld a name, and taking it up, he read "Soloman Dermat, merchant, 112--street, New York." 
               "I will take it to him immediately," he said, replacing the notes; and in another minute he was leaving his hotel. 
               The street, number, and name of the merchant were soon found; and on inquiring of a clerk for Mr. Dermat, Alfred was at once shown into the counting-room, where sat a fine benevolent looking man, some fifty years of age, but whose pale features sunken eyes, and melancholy expression seemed to proclaim some recent distressing calamity. He received Alfred politely, but coldly, and silently pointing him to a seat, seemed to wait for the latter to state his business, which he did in the following words. 
               "Have you recently met with a loss, Mr. Dermat?" inquired Alfred. 
               The merchant started, clutched his desk nervously, and with his eyes flashing a wild light, as he fixed them upon his guest gasped: 
               "Yes-a great loss-a great loss. Do-do-you," he paused and choked, and added-"you-bring me news of it?" 
               "How much have you lost?" 
               "Five thousand and twenty-five dollars. I had it in a black silk purse, and was on my way to the bank to take up a note, which has since been protested." 
               "Is this it?" and Alfred drew the purse from his pocket, and held it up to the other. 
               The merchant bounded from his chair, and seized it, like a drowning man clutching at a rope that he knows will save him. He opened it wildly, tore out the notes, and having glanced over them, cried: "God be thanked! I am saved!" and falling upon, our young hero's neck, he burst into tears. "O, sir," he continued, as soon as he could get calm enough to talk, "how shall I ever reward you? You have saved me from utter ruin-and my dear wife and family from starvation! God bless you! God bless you! This very day the sheriff was coming here to make a sale, to pay the protested note; and that would have ruined my credit, and made me a bankrupt and a beggar;" and again the merchant gave vent to his joy in a flood of tears. "But tell me how and where you found it?" 
               Alfred detailed every particular, and how he had thought of keeping it, and what had actuated him to the contrary; and this led him to tell the story of his father's legacy, all that had occurred to him since; how he had sought employment in vain. 
               "Ah!" sighed the merchant, "I see you have had your troubles too. But here are a hundred dollars, the reward offered for the recovery of the purse and contents; and now, if you will accept a situation with me as clerk, at a reasonable salary, I will give you employment as long as you may want it." 
               "I will accept the situation, and thank you from the bottom of my heart," replied Alfred; 'but I must refuse the reward, since I am fully repaid already, and have no longer any necessity to plead." 
               "Well, well," replied the merchant, "you shall not be the loser in the end." 
               In a short time everything was arranged to the satisfaction of both parties; and Alfred left the store with the understanding that he should begin his new duties on the following morning. 
               "Surely," he thought, as with a light heart he wended his way back to the hotel, "if such is the reward of doing right why should anyone do wrong?" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VI. 
               TOWARD evening, one day, after Alfred had been in the employ of Dermat about two months, the senior clerk, a gay dashing fellow, said to him: 
               "How is it that you keep yourself so quiet, and so strict to business-not even wasting a moment?" 
               "Because my time is my employer's, and I have no right to misuse the property of another, replied Alfred." 
               "Right or no right," rejoined the other, I would not be a slave to any man; you get no more for it-not even a thank'e. The more one does, the more the employer will expect one to do; and for my part. I am determined to take things easy." 
               "What do you call taking things easy?" 
               "Why, to lounge around occasionally, smoke a cigar, and chat with some of my neighbors. I'm not a going to be tied down to packing goods, and unpacking, and making out bills all the time-especially as long as old Dermat is able to hire more, clerks." 
               "What you term taking things easy, I should find very irksome  some; for I cannot bear to lounge about when the time is not my own; I detest cigars, and as for my neighbors, I am fortunate in having no acquaintance with them" 
               "They say you are a surly fellow." 
               "They have a right to their own opinion. But I wish to ask you a question, Mr. Lackaday?" 
               "Go ahead." 
               "How is it, since you are so fond of lounging, smoking and chatting, that you never amuse yourself in this way when Mr. Dermat is present?" 
               "Why, because the old fellow wouldn't like it-he is very fond of seeing all his clerks busy." 
               "Well, but if you have bargained to serve him only a part of the time, I am sure he would have no right to complain. 
               "Why, I have made no such bargain?" 
               "Then you consider yourself under his employ from such to such hours?" 
               "Of course." 
               "For which you are to receive a certain sum monthly?" 
               "Exactly." 
               "Well, now; suppose you serve him faithfully every moment of your time, and at the end of a month he cuts you short a couple of dollars?" 
               "I would'nt stand it of course." 
               "And yet you allow him to pay you full price, and you cut him short of your labor to more than thrice that amount." 
               "But as long as he does not know it, what is the difference?" 
               "Then you consider the crime is not in the act, but in the discovery?" 
               "In such a case, of course." 
               "Suppose, then I rob you of your purse, and escape detection; I am justified, am I?" 
                
               O, pshaw? you are too conscientious, and too much of an argufyer for me," was the careless rejoinder. But come, let's quit theories and take to practice. Old Dermat is out of town to-day, and I am going to stretch my limbs with a stroll on the Battery. Come, you have been hard at work, and can afford a little recreation; we will not be gone over half an hour, so come along!" 
               "No, it is not right for me to leave my business, and I will not go," was the decisive reply. 
               "I will," said the other, and away he went 
               Lackaday had not been gone ten minutes when Moreland had reason to thank his firmness of purpose that he had done right; for unexpectedly Mr. Dermat returned, and immediately inquired for his head clerk, and on being informed by Alfred he had gone out for a walk, he asked how long he had been gone. 
               "Some ten minutes," answered the other. 
               "Strange!"rejoined Dermat, "he should take such a time to walk out, with so much business undone," and he passed on into his counting-room. 
               Some three-quarters of an hour later Lackaday came in, and seemed quite surprised and alarmed to find that Dermat had returned during his absence. 
               "Where have you been, Mr. Lackaday?" asked the merchant, coming out of his counting room. 
               Lackaday did not know how long the other had been back, and so ventured to reply: 
               "I have just been to the post-office, sir." 
               "Were there any letters for me?" 
               "None, sir." 
               The merchant passed out of the store without reply, and Lackaday added: 
               "Confound him, why did he not stay away the whole day? Well, it cost me a good round lie to get out of the scrape;" and as none of the clerks made him any reply, he went about his business. 
               In a few minutes Dermat returned, with a couple of letters in his hand. 
               "I thought," he said, addressing his head clerk, "you said you had been to the post-office, and that there were no letters there for me." 
               "I was at the post-office, sir, and there were none in your box then." 
               "The post-office clerk informed me, positively these letters had been in my box two hours." 
               "Then the post-office clerk, sir, positively lies!" was the surly reply. 
               "Stop!" said Dermat, sternly; "I allow no such language in my store! "and the conversation ended. 
               That night, after business was over, as Alfred was very leisurely sauntering up Broadway, when who should overtake him but Lackaday. 
               "Come," said the latter, "you have no labor to plead as an excuse now-the time is your own-so come lets take a lark. 
               "What is that?" inquired the other, innocently. 
               "Why, a lark is a spree-a little bit of a frolic." 
               "I cannot join you," said the other, decisively. 
               "Why not?" 
               "Because it is not right." 
               "Pshaw! you are always moralizing. Well, here is an oyster saloon-let us go in here and take a drink." 
               "I never drink liquor.' 
               "Don't drink liquor! why not?" 
               "Because it is not right, unless used for medicinal purposes, and the example is bad, besides I do not at all need the aid of any foreign stimulant." 
               "Hang the example!-just wait for me a moment!" and the other darted into one of those drinking dens with which Broadway abounds. 
               Shortly he reappeared, his face considerably flushed, and the walk was resumed. After strolling along some quarter of a mile, conversing on various topics, Lackaday suddenly stopped and said. 
               "By the way, I have a friend up here, whom I am anxious to see;" and as he spoke he hurriedly approached a flight of stairs that the other had not at all observed, and that led up from the street. 
               "Then I will walk on," replied Alfred, as it is already getting late. 
               "No, no," said he, "I had much rather you would come with me." 
               "I had rather be excused. I am not acquainted with your friend; and besides, I must soon return and retire to bed so as to be up betimes in the morning feeling refreshed and ready for business." 
               "There it is again," returned the other, pettishly-"eternally thinking of business! Why, one would suppose you owned a share in the store, and had a concern in old Dermat's profits and losses." 
               "Well, it is true that I look upon his interest as my interest since I am paid for doing so, and I believe it is no more than my duty." 
               "Well, you must come up now, I positively say you must, I will not detain you long; and then we will both walk back together." 
               There seemed a strange mixture of hesitation and resolution in the conduct of Lackaday, at one time, when he was about half way up stairs, he seemed inclined to return, this strange behavior did not escape the attention of Alfred, who was some-what puzzled to account for it. 
               "Since you are so urgent," replied Alfred; I will stay with you for ten minutes, but not longer," and he followed Lackaday to the top of the stairs. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               BELIEVING the latter was about to enter a small private room, of a particular friend, what was Alfred's surprise, when, after winding about through a long, dark passage, he opened the door into a large, brilliantly-lighted room, where were some fifteen or twenty persons standing around a table, whereon was a roulette, which one man was turning, while the others were staking their money on the different numbers painted on oil-cloth that was spread out before them. Alfred had never seen any thing of the kind before; but he knew at once he was inside one of those gambling hells, which, to thousands of young men, prove the gates of destruction and death, and instantly he turned to leave. 
               "Stop!" said Lackaday, who had been watching the effect of his deception, at the same time taking him familiarly by the arm; "stop, Alfred, one moment, and I am with you. I just want to bet once, and then I will go. Come, try your luck!-Just once, you know-there can be no harm in that." 
               "There is death in it!" said Alfred, solemnly. "Lackaday you have deceived me-henceforth our walks are separate!" and in spite of the entreaties and protestations of the other, he resolutely moved to the door, and soon found his way to the street. 
               Lackaday followed a little way, and entreated that he would not mention it to Mr. Dermat, who, he said, was very strict, and thought it a great crime for a young man to have a little innocent amusement, forgetting that he was once young himself, and had done the same thing. 
               "It is not innocent amusement, Mr. Lackaday, and you know it!" replied Alfred, with great severity; "it is the broad highway to crime, ruin, and death; and I earnestly advise you to turn from it, ere you are lost! As to speaking of it to Mr. Dermat, I hardly know what to reply. I feel it to be my duty to inform him of what I know; and at the same time, feel I have not a right to expose your secrets, since your injure no one but yourself. I will do this: promise me, solemnly you will never enter such a place again, and I will let this pass-otherwise, Mr. Dermat shall know all." 
               "I solemnly promise I will never put my foot, knowingly, in another gambling house," replied Lackaday; but soon after he made excuse to separate from Alfred; and ten minutes later, was actually betting on the game of rouge-et-noir. 
               But of this Alfred was ignorant; and as he took his way to his lodgings, he asked himself if he had done right, and conscience answered in the affirmative. And he felt it the more forcibly, when, a few days after, Lackaday received his discharge; and a month later still, was arrested and thrown into prison, on a charge of burglary, and larceny. 
               Had he done right" mused Alfred, "instead of being imprisoned, degraded, and despised, he would now be at liberty, honored and beloved;" and the legacy of his father every day seemed more valuable to him than before, as he continued to have opportunities of testing its truth, and wisdom. 
                
               One night, as Alfred was going home at a late hour from his business, he turned down through a dark, narrow street, in order to save distance. Suddenly, a man sprang out before him, seized him by the throat, and placing a pistol to his head said in a low husky tone: 
               Give me your purse,-come quick-or I will blow out your brains!" 
               Quick as lightning, Alfred grasped the pistol, wrenched it from the other's hand and grappling with him, threw him violently on the pavement. 
               "Mercy!" gasped the ruffian, when he saw he was fully in his opponent's power. 
               "Why should I show mercy to the villain that seeks to rob and murder me?" demanded Alfred sternly. 
               "Necessity compelled me to it," pleaded the other. "I'd be as honest as any man, if I had any thing to live on; but I can't bear the thought that my wife and children must starve; and none on us ain't tasted food for twenty four hours. Besides, I didn't think of murder, sir; for the pistol ain't loaded-try it and see." 
               Alfred examined it, and found the man's words correct. 
               "Why, then," he said, "did you not appeal to my charity, and not outrage the laws, and commit a flagrant crime by attempting to rob me?" 
               "I've tried charity till I'm almost starved," replied the man, "and it won't work-nobody won't give me nothing. O be merciful, dear sir, and save my family from death!-for I love my wife and children." 
               Tears started into the eyes of the noble Alfred at this affectionate appeal, and he was not the one to do wrong under such circumstances. Some farther conversation convinced him the man's story was true, and that he was naturally honest, but had been forced to be a villain by a chain of events. Inquiring out his residence, he bade him get up and go home, and he would follow; and if all was as he said, he should be provided for; but if he had deceived him, he should be handed over to justice. 
               A quarter of an hour's walk brought him to the miserable abode of the poor wretch; and he truly found his words verified. In the garret of a miserable house, in a miserable street, he found a pale, emaciated woman, nearly in rags, and three half-naked starving children clinging to her and crying for food. Alfred's heart was touched; and giving them some money to provide for themselves that night, he promised to see more fully to their wants next day. The penitent tears of the father, as he wrung his hand, and the earnest, heart-felt "God bless you," of all, as he took his leave, caused his own tears to flow freely; and as he sought his pillow that night, he truly felt he had been amply rewarded for doing right. The next day he purchased provisions and clothes, and sent them to the family; and sent word to the man, if he would call on him, he would try to procure him employment. The man came, with tears of gratitude in his eyes, and on Alfred's recommendation, he was engaged by Dermat as a porter. He proved faithful and diligent, and in time became a useful member of society; and as Alfred reflected that his forbearance and charity had not only saved this man from crime, and his family from death, but had been the means of making him an honest and respected citizen he saw no cause to regret having faithfully fulfilled his father's dying injunction, on all occasions to do right. 
               Alfred however, did not feel on this occasion quite satisfied with his own conduct it seemed to him, as if on the one side mercy pleaded strongly in favor of the starving victim of necessity; and yet, again a small unpleasant tugging at his heart and ear seemed to whisper in acrid words, "do your duty to society," let not this man escape who may, emboldened by your clemency become an hardened villain-strict justice demanded the immolation lation of this victim on its altar-sweet mercy whispered, consider the powerful temptation, and Alfred thought at this moment of his own strong temptation when he found the purse, (even though he had no starving family) and how his father's mott saved him. 
               Thus, with this motto continually before him, to whose man-date he faithfully adhered under each and every circumstance, he lived and prospered, and was happy. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               TWO years steady adherence to the dying injunctions of his father, effected a great change in the worldly affairs of Alfred Moreland. He had already become a partner of his former employer, and the house of Dermat and Moreland was now in a very prosperous condition, and Alfred was in a fair way to amass a fortune. Meantime, he had kept up a regular correspondence with his affianced Emily; and though neither had seen the other since the eventful night already recorded, yet they had communed, as it were, in spirit; and thus far neither had felt cause to regret the solemn vow that bound them to each other through life. The continued prosperity of Alfred was cheering news to the heart of Emily, for she could thus look forward with bright hope to the day when her avaricious and worldly-minded father could no longer object to her union with him she loved, on the score of poverty. 
               The last letter of Emily had brought the intelligence that her father, in the hope of doubling his worldly gains, had entered into a new and heavy speculation, which involved all his property perty. Alfred shook his head as he read it; for to him this speculation-which was neither more nor less than the buying 
                     Up
                     up
                   flour, and holding it at an exhorbitant price-thus literally robbing the community, and oppressing the poor-did neither seem right nor wise; but he said nothing in reply to wound the feelings of her he loved. Some two months later he received a letter, which contained the intelligence that the wheat crop having come in better than was expected, flour had fallen; and that instead of doubling his property as expected, Bernard Everett had become a bankrupt, and his splendid mansion would have to go toward paying his debts. 
               "Wo unto them that oppress the poor!" was Alfred's exclamation, as he read it; and though he felt sorry on Emily's account, he secretly acknowledged it was the retributive justice of Divine Providence. 
               The next news Alfred had concerning this affair, was to the effect that the estate and personal property of Everett had been seized and sold, and that he and his family had been driven from their splendid home, to begin the world, as it were, in poverty, with a two thousand dollar bond hanging over their heads. By a recent division of certain business transaction with his partner, Alfred chanced to have two thousand five hundred dollars in his possession; and with his money in his pocket he set out on a journey home. Knowing the individual who held the obligation of Everett, he went straight to him, and asked what he would take for it, cash in hand. 
               "One thousand dollars," was the reply. 
               "Here is your money," rejoined Alfred; and counting it down, he took the note and proceeded on his way home. 
               He first called to see his mother; and after some little stay with her, inquired out the residence of the Everetts. 
               "They live in a little old shanty, at the farther end of the village," was the reply, "and are very poor. The grasping Everett is in no condition to refuse you his daughter now, you will find." 
               Alfred waited to hear no more, but set off to pay the poor Everetts a visit. All the way through the village, he was stopped by men, women, and children, all eager to grasp his hand, and say a kind word; for every body loved Alfred; and the good services he had done the villagers while rich, together with those of his father before him, had not been forgotten. 
               At last he reached his destination, and knocked at the door of a miserable hovel; and as he did so, he could not fail to contrast the present abode of her he loved, with the one where he had last seen her. No smiling well-fed servant answered his summons now; but the door was opened by poor Emily herself, whose pale, care-worn, almost haggard features, and cheap scanty raiment, fairly made his heart ache. The moment she beheld Alfred, she uttered a wild cry, threw herself into his open arms, and burst into tears. 
               The door opened into the principal room of the house; and amid its scanty worm-eaten furniture, sat Everett and his wife, both poorly clad, and, with thin, pale, haggard features, looking perfect pictures of desolation. Mrs. Everett at once sprang 
                     forword
                     forward
                  , and seizing a hand of Alfred, while tears of grief and joy filled her eyes, cried: 
               "God bless you! I am glad you have come." 
               Everett gave one look at our hero, and then his pale features flushing to the temples with shame, as he remembered their last meeting, he dropped his eyes to the floor, and sat mute like a guilty wretch. 
               "I have come dearest," whispered Alfred to Emily, "to have our vows fulfilled;" and straining her fondly to his heart, and unmindful of the presence of her parents, he kissed her pale lips a dozen times, and breathed words of hope and comfort in her willing ear. 
                
               When at last he found that she was perfectly reassured, he bade her be silent, and approached her father. 
               "How do you do, Mr. Everett?" he said. 
               The worldly man, who had all this time sat like a culprit before his judge, on hearing these words bounded from his chair and grasping the extended hand of Alfred in both his own-this time with real joy, and no hypocrisy-stammered out between delight, fear and shame; 
               "Poorly, Alfred-Mr. Moreland, I mean-poorly; I'm not well at all, indeed I'm not." 
               "Quite a change in your appearance and manner since we parted, I perceive," returned Alfred drily. 
               "Don't mention it, Mr. Moreland-don't mention it!" cried the unhappy man, the tears starting to his eyes. 
               Alfred was touched; but he strove to appear quite calm and stoical. 
               "I wish to see you alone a few minutes Mr. Everett," he said. 
               Everett motioned his wife and daughter to go into an adjoining room. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER IX. 
               "MR. EVERETT, when last we parted, you forbade me ever to darken your door again. Nay, stop! no excuses, no palliations, no apologies-but listen! You forbade me your house, I say, and I now come armed with power to take my revenge; and mark me! it will be such a revenge as you will never forget! you turn pale, you tremble, your lips quiver-but remember, I command you not to speak till I am done! You were then rich and I was poor; and though you gave me your daughter thinking I was rich also, yet when you came to learn the truth, as I frankly confessed it, you insulted me, insulted her-ay, sir, insulted your God-by revoking that pledge on which you had called Heaven's blessing. In the arrogance of your ill-gotten wealth, you not only insulted me, but when it was in your power to have made me happy, you drove me forth a wanderer and a beggar. Well, sir, I went abroad; and having lived up to the words 'do right,' which I had taken for my motto-and which, save a Bible and a hundred dollars, was all the fortune my once rich father left me. I have been wonderfully prospered; and I can now say, though I do not say it boastingly, I am worth my thousands; while you, sir, have more than changed places with me, being actually two thousand dollars worse than nothing. But how have you been reduced to this wretched state? Shall I tell you, sir? Yes, for it is right you should have the matter placed truly before your eyes, that it may result to your good in the end. You were rich, and you had made your riches by grinding the faces of the poor, and taking advantage of the necessities of others. Well, sir, not content with this you wanted to double your worth. An opportunity, as you thought, presented itself.-And what was this opportunity? Neither more nor less than another scheme for oppressing the poor, by buying up the staff of life, and holding it at prices far above its worth believing the necessities of people would force them to pay your unjust demands, or suffer else. Well, sir, to be brief your unholy speculation failed, and all your ill-gotten gains were wrenched from you-your splendid mansion, your lands, your personal effects, all-all were in a moment taken from you; nay, more than this, your all would not pay your liabilities, and you found yourself two thousand dollars worse than nothing. Well, sir, do you not see, the hand of God in this? Do you not see the retributive justice of an overruling providence? You, sir, a professing Christian, a member of Christ's Church on earth-do you not see it, I say? 
               "O, spare me! spare me! groaned the wretched man. 
               "Well, sir," resumed Alfred Moreland, "to bring this matter to a close, I am here to tell you I hold your obligation for two thousand dollars, and that it is in my power, the power of the poor youth you once turned out of your splendid mansion, merely because his father your so called friend, had lost his all by deeds of charity-it is in my power, I say, to have you seized and dragged to prison by the officers of the law." 
                
               "O, for God's sake, have mercy on me!" cried the other in heart-broken tones. "I have sinned, I have done wrong, I know, but you are noble and generous, and you will be lenient! Forgive me this time, do not be hard on me and I solemnly promise, and call God to witness, that I will endeavor to do right in future!" 
               "Thus, then do I take my revenge," cried Alfred, holding up before the eyes of Everett the writing that bound the latter for $2000 dollars. "It is commanded in the Bible, which my father left me, and which I read daily, to return good for evil. "Behold!" and he tore the note into a dozen pieces, and cast the fragments on the floor. Bernard Everett, your bonds are cancelled," he said; and while the other, dumb and motionless with joyful amazement, stood staring upon him, he drew a purse from his pocket, and forced into Everett's hand, saying; "Here are five hundred dollars, which I freely bestow; and as you rightfully use or abuse them may the all-seeing God prosper or punish you hereafter!" 
               The wretched man was completely overcome, and uttering a wild cry, he fell upon his knees, clasped Alfred around the legs, and burst into tears, occasionally uttering, in a choked voice, "God bless you!-God bless you! God save you! may He reward you!" 
               Gently disengaging himself, Alfred stood a moment and then said solemnly; 
               "Bernard Everett, kneel to your God and 
                     nott o
                     not to
                   mortal man! But your daughter-your daughter-speak-tell me,-have I your consent now?" 
               "A thousand times yes!" cried the penitent father. 
               At the same instant the door, was burst open and Emily rushing into the room, threw herself upon the neck of her lover, and amid tears and sobs, murmured: 
                
               "Alfred, dear, dear, Alfred I have heard all-O, God bless you as our deliverer!" 
               "Emily, dear Emily, you are henceforth truly mine, and forever!" was the joyful response. 
               O, what happy hearts then and there beat beneath that humble roof, and all resulting from the simple fulfilment of the golden words "do right!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER X. 
               WHEN Alfred returned to the great metropolis, he bore with him the lovely Emily a blushing bride. He straightway returned to business, and continued to prosper, but still as faithfully as ever adhered to the golden commands which he ever wore next to his heart. He freely gave to the poor, and the needy he turned not away empty handed.-Both he and his angelic wife made it a part of their daily duties to search out the destitute, and not only give them encouraging words, but food and raiment; and, when they could, employment. And in this noble occupation they were very happy; and their days glided sweetly away; their consciences continually told them they had done right, and all who know loved them, and praised their virtues. 
               In the course of time Soloman Dermat "slept with his fathers," and Alfred Moreland stood alone in business, one of the richest houses in New York. Already had he made an ample fortune besides doubling his mother's income, and providing well for his father-in-law, who had to all appearance reformed; and he would now have retired from business and lived on his income, only that he thought he might be more useful in giving what he made to the poor, and to missionary and charitable societies. So popular did he finally become with all classes, that he was run for Congress, and elected to a seat, without ever having been asked if he would serve. But he did serve; and in public as in private life, distinguished himself by his fine talents, and noble principles, and proved an honor to the land that gave him birth. 
               He is now advanced in years, and in the natural course of human events will soon pass from among the living, but with the calm and Christian-like reflection, that he has not lived in vain. It was only the other day he called his family around him-which consisted of his dear wife, a son and two daughters, who bid fair to emulate the virtues of their parents-and after telling over his whole story and progress in the world, concluded thus:- 
               "When I first found my father's legacy to be what I have stated, I was vexed and disappointed; and looked upon it as of little or no value; but my children, believe the words of your father, when I say I have found it of inestimable value. Had I been left a fortune in money, I might have squandered it in dissipation; and thus would have been placed in my hands the very means to lead me down the dark road to ruin and death; and on my bended knees, a thousand times since, have I thanked God my legacy was what it was, for by this means, my utmost exertions were called into play, and abilities (which it has pleased Almighty God to bestow on me) which would otherwise have lain dormant, have been used, I trust to the benefit, not only of myself, but to mankind. I have discovered the real value of riches, consist in using them as the steward of the Lord, as my father did before me, in making others happy. In bestowing charity on the deserving, we follow God's command and purchase for ourselves a pleasure, which those only know who practise it. 
               My children, besides the same legacy which my father left me, you will doubtless inherit a fortune of wealth; but I trust you have been so educated that you will follow my example-remembering at all times, and on all occasions, the solemn words of your father, that God will surely make it well with those who truly "DO RIGHT." 
             
            THE END 
         
       
   
