
    ----CITATION----
        Bushnell, William H. (1823- ). Prairie Fire! .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5964 wright2-0438
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
            
               PRAIRIE FIRE!
               A TALE OF EARLY ILLINOIS.
            
            BY WILL. H. BUSHNELL.
            
            
               
                  
                     "Ye say they all have passed away,
                     That noble race and brave,
                     That their light canoes have vanished
                     From off the crested wave;
                     That 'mid the forest where they roamed,
                     There rings no hunter's shout,
                     But their name is on your waters,
                     And ye cannot wash it out."
                  
               
            
            
               WALTER B. SLOAN, PUBLISHER,
               40 LAKE STREET, CHICAGO, ILL.
               CHICAGO:
               ROBERT FERGUS, PRINTER, 55 CLARK STREET.
            
            1854.
         
         
         
            
               Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1854, By  WALTER B. SLOAN, In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of Illinois.
            
         
         
            TO THE HON. S. LISLE SMITH, A LOVER OF INDIAN CHARACTER, IN ITS PURITY, AS IT WAS BEFORE THE FIRE WATER OF THE PALE MAN DEGRADED THEM, THIS STORY IS MOST RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED, BY AN ARDENT ADMIRER AND LOVER OF INDIAN TRUTHFULNESS.
         
      
      
         
            Prairie fire!
            
            PRAIRIE FIRE.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               INTRODUCTORY.
               DASHING along at a furious speed—at a speed few would have dared to have ridden at any time over the best of roads, and none, save those utterly reckless of life, on a night of storm and darkness—a traveler was urging on his steed, like a fire-driven deer, through the tangled woods that mark the serpentine meanderings of the Illinois river. Around his way the lightning flashes fell unregarded, and the deep diapason of the thunder-tuned organ of the tempest burst unheeded upon his ear. Save when the fitful glare, for a moment, lit up the scene, all was dark as chaos itself, before the fiat of God bade it return to its ethiop home, and gave to the world light, and sunshine, and beauty! Dangers thick, hidden, and fearful were around his way. The deep and treacherous morass; the stony and slippery river bank; the whirling eddy and rocky rapids of the angry stream; the trees that locked their giant arms low over his path, as if to bar his way; the unknown steep, and the rough and scarcely defined trail over which he dashed, Mazeppa-like,—all combined to render his ride one of peril, danger, and almost certain death. A ride, at the very thought of which, amid its accumulated horrors, was enough to make the stoutest heart grow faint, and the strongest mind quail.
               Yet, onward! swift as the arrow whistling from the twanging bow string; on, swift as the gleaming flash and the sparkle of the shooting star; on, like the rush of the wintry torrent; on, like the lightning's self speeding from its home on high, and forging its course towards earth. Aye, onward like the very wrath of an avenging God he sped, regardless of all about, above, and around him—of darkness, tempest, flood, or fire!
               The deep breathing of his over-tasked steed was answered by the sullen and quick howl of the tireless wolf that followed upon his track, but he heeded it not. The throbbing flank, the trembling limbs, the quivering ear, the expanded nostrils, the tear-gathering eye and drooping head, all told, but too truly, of the fearful pace at which he had been riden, and that soon nature must yield, and the daring rider be horseless, and alone amid danger, and darkness, and tempest. Yet all were unregarded. The river gave back a sullen splash, as his noble steed sprang from the overhanging bank, and braved its dangers. High o'er his back broke the angry waters, and the foam wreaths danced and twined amid his tangled mane. Vainly his feet sought a resting-place. The river was swift and deep, and madly dashed on its way. No word of encouragement from the rider cheered him on, but nobly he braved the tide, till a sudden flash revealed the farther shore. Quick as the light itself he turned and headed for it, his feet rested upon the grassy bank, and, quivering at every nerve, he gains it. No! the current has been too strong, the bank too yielding, and man and horse roll together amid the rocks and waters. A moment, and they seemed to be grappling hand to hand with death! Another, and the rider is again upon the back of the terrified animal, urging him forward with his voice and rein, and driving his steel-armed heels deeply into his panting sides. A moment more, they are safe upon the bank, drenched with the waves, and quivering with exertion. There, beneath the overhanging foliage they stood, as if changed by an enchanter's art into stone, and then away swiftly as before the course is renewed. A short distance along the bank of the river they sweep, and then turning suddenly into the forest disappear. Few, even in day, would have observed the narrow trail they took, but well both rider and horse knew the path, and, regardless of night, danger, and the peltings of the driving storm, they dash on like an eagle to his eyrie.
               Who can picture to themselves motives, thoughts, passions strong enough to render any one thus reckless of injury, or danger, or death? Who that power of mind over matter, that can thus make man regardless of darkness and tempest, the glare of the angry lightning and deep-mouthed thunder—the awful artillery of God? Who the entire giving up of mind, heart, and soul, to the demon passions of our nature, or the blasting and almost annihilating power of sorrow? Who the complete mastery that crime may obtain over us till we become its very slaves? Or who any power that can thus bend the iron will, laugh at the strongest mind, make a very puppet of the fearless heart, and render man—man formed in the image of his Maker, and but a little lower than the angels—a very shuttlecock for misfortune, revenge, or despair? And yet how true it is, that we all are thus swayed, controlled, and governed! That matter thus yields to mind, and the brain, that subtle laboratory of thought, be vexed by the fires kindled in every heart? And yet true as the Creator himself is the fact.
               Regardless of all around him—the fearful contentions of the elements and the dangers that beset his path, still on that fearless rider urged his sinewy steed; until a sudden opening in the forest, and a star-like light that flashed out upon the gloom, revealed a low cabin. Dashing swiftly up to it, he drew his rein, sprang from his saddle, and loudly knocked for admittance.
               "Within, there!"
               The loud barking as of huge dogs seemed to be his only answer for a time, and then a voice was heard stilling them.
               "Down Speed, down Swift, down, I say, brutes;" and then a whip was evidently assisting in quelling the disturbance.
               "Down, will ye, ye whelps of blood! Who's there?"
               "Me, Frank. Ned Erskine."
               "Ned Erskine!"
               "Aye, aye; open the door quick, too, for I'm almost drowned."
               The request was hastily complied with, and the light of a huge fire burst upon the darkness.
               "Here, take this," said the midnight rider, "take this, while I go and take care of Thunder;" and "well," added he, patting the neck of his horse, "well have you earned your name this night, my pet, and a good bed you shall have, even if I have to sleep without a blanket. Come along, pet." And leading him into a low, warm log stable, near at hand, he soon had him well provided for, and returned to the house.
               Two huge grey hounds growled fiercely, as he opened the door, but soon recognizing him as an old acquaintance, again stretched themselves before an enormous wood fire.
               "Where, in the name of——"
               "Hold on, Frank, give me something to eat and drink before you ask me any questions."
               "Help yourself; there's plenty on the table."
               Seizing a large jug, that stood amid a confusion of meats and dishes, Erskine took a deep draught, and then drawing a knife from his belt he attacked a large haunch of venison that stood near. But the other ceased not to question him, although he eat like a famished wolf.
               And well might he question? In his lap, rolled up in a robe of skin, lay a young and beautiful girl of about two summers. It was the bundle Ned Erskine had given him when he dismounted. Beautiful, indeed, looked that child, as it lay there with the blaze of the fire falling upon its upturned face, and dancing amid its silken, golden hair. Awaking as from slumber, it opened its eyes, and half-dreamingly called out—
               "Mother!"
               "You'll call a long time, I fear, my pretty one, ere you'll see her," said Ned, stopping for a moment in his almost savage meal. "But, Frank, give that baby something to eat—it must be nearly starved, as I am." And again he resumed his knife.
               In accordance with the suggestion, Frank Waters, or, as he was more commonly known, 'red-handed Frank,' attempted to feed the child. And while the rough, though kindly intending, nurse was striving to make his pretty charge swallow half cooked deer meat enough to gorge a dog, and washing it down with diluted spirits to warm it and keep it from catching cold, as he said, let us glance at the cabin and its inmates.
               The house, then, was rudely constructed of unhewn logs, with the seams 'chinked' (as the term is) with moss and clay, and about fifteen feet square. A huge fireplace occupied nearly two-thirds of one side, and the the other was filled by bedsteads formed of poles and covered with skins and blankets. In the centre was a roughly built table half hid by tin or pewter dishes and plates, three or four drinking cups, a jug, and several bottles, though nearly all apparently empty. In one corner hung the remnant of the carcase of a deer and a number of birds, squirrels, and rabbits. A rifle with its equipments stood near the fire, and over it were suspended, from the horns of a buck, traps, hunting knives, shot belts, and various other articles of the chase. The cabin was low, and evidently one rather used upon pressing occasions, than as a continual residence; and under the table was a cache, which, though now open, was usually the place of concealment of the various articles of cooking, drinking and food.
               Both the men were tall and sinewy; formed in the most perfect mould of nature; gifted with great powers of endurance, astonishing strength, and bold and fearless hearts. Resembling each other in size and general appearance, dressed alike in leggins of smoke tanned deer skin, whose fringe and bead worked sides told of finer fingers than their own, and in hunting shirts of the same, there was yet a strongly marked difference in their countenances. The hair of one, Frank Waters, dark as the wing of night, hung low down upon his shoulders, and together with his beard and moustache, almost hid his face from view. His eye, too, was black and piercing, but it was the eye of the crawling serpent, fascinating when in repose, but fearful when aroused.
               The hair of the other was light, as was also the whiskers and moustache, and curled naturally around as fair a face as the eye would wish to rest upon. His eyes were blue and soft, and yet the eagle had not one more quick and far-seeing. His face, unlike that of his companion, was free from the marks of passion, and one that, for all of a 'devil may care' look, would naturally attract a stranger. It was open, frank, and fearless—one to win the mind as well as the eye—one upon which you would be sure to turn, in the hour of trouble, for assistance with a full conviction that you would not solicit in vain. Nor did that face belie the heart—it was a true index of it. Of a brave, open spirit, one quick in passion, it is true, but showing a noble enemy, and one that would soon forget an insult and never, even in the worst hour of passion, strike you in the back, but, like the rattle-snake, warn you ere the blow was given.
               This was not the case with Waters, but far the reverse. Of a sullen, unforgiving disposition was he, quick to quarrel, and, Indian-like, unforgiving. Every hour was alike to him for revenge, the gloomy one of midnight as well as the one of sunshine, and little cared he how or when his revenge was gratified, for as he loved his friends so he loved to hate his enemies. This was the cause that had given him the name of "red hand" among his associates; and, while they could not but respect him for his unflinching courage and skill as a hunter, yet they both dreaded and despised him on this account, although none yet had ever insinuated that the blood of any other than a red man—an Indian—had stained his hands.
               Opposite in character as these two men were, and strange as it may appear, they were yet firm and fast friends, and had been companions for many years in the dubious life on the borders. Erskine was several years the younger, but in all that makes a man, in such a locality, he was the rival of his companion. In feats of strength and daring, in skill with the rifle and upon the hunting trail, in the management of a horse or a canoe, in trapping and fishing, in calling the deer within reach of his rifle; in fact, in all the arts of a wood life he was the equal of Waters, and border fame rendered him still higher praise in the mazy dance, and in the subtle ways of the blind god of the bow and arrow. Many a rosy-cheeked maiden, it was said, looked upon him with pride and longing, and well they might, for a rare specimen was he of nature's noblemen.
               His meal finished, he drew himself towards the fire, called one of the dogs to his side, and patting him on the head, spoke kindly to him for a moment, and then turned to his comrade, with a smile upon his handsome face, that revealed a snowy set of teeth, that many a city belle would have gazed upon with admiration and envy, and exclaimed—
               "For Heaven's sake, Frank, stop stuffing that child! You'll kill it with kindness, man. A pretty nurse you'd make. Here, give it to me," and taking from the bed a dry blanket, he wrapped the infant up carefully, and held it upon his knee as tenderly, if not as gently, as a mother would her first-born.
               "Well, now, you've ate half as pretty a haunch as ever hung in a woodman's hut; perhaps you'll tell me where you got that young papoose?"
               "Certainly, Frank, but it is a long story."
               "And a dry one, too, I reckon—so pass me the bottle."
               "Not so dry either, as you would have found out, if you had been on Thunder's back when he took a fancy to dive to the bottom of the Vermillion."
               "Well, well, Ned, a little water wont hurt you, though, on such a night as this, a good cabin, a cheerful fire, and a social glass, are not to be scorned. Take a drink, man, it will limber your tongue, though there's no need of that when a pretty wench is about. There, don't bite the neck off, and now go on."
               "You know when I left you a couple of days ago to see——"
               "Yes, to see a pretty face and a pair of blue eyes!"
               "Be quiet, will you, Speed. No, no, Frank, to see about the hunting up the river——"
               "Hunting a petticoat."
               "I rambled on all day, and marked down the deer at night. It was a glorious day, Frank! One to make the very heart jump with joy at the beauty of the world. Never was a sky more lovely, and never did the flowers flout their blossoms more gaily in the sun. Oh! I could look and love——"
               "Love, bah! you'd love any baby face that smiled on you."
               "I could love forever to gaze upon such a scene, and drink in the beauty and grandeur of nature."
               "What the devil has this to do with the baby?"
               "Nothing, it is true. Well, night came on, and I began to think of a place to camp, and so, soon made a rough shelter of boughs, tied Thunder to a tree, ate my supper, and with the blue starry sky for a quilt, took a snooze till morning. Early up, I started again, and ere noon found myself seated in Old Thompson's cabin, diving into all the good things I could lay my hands on. I stayed——"
               "Yes, and you'd stayed till this time, if Bess Thompson had only——"
               "Be still, Frank, and let me go on. I stayed until near night, when I got ready to come here and join you. Off I started; it was already quite dark, and I had just crossed the prairie, and reached the timber—you know how it bends round there towards the river like a bow?"
               "Yes, yes, I ought to remember it, when I came so near losing my scalp there."
               "I had just reached the timber, and turned to take a last look at the smoke and——"
               "See if you couldn't see Bess."
               "Then ride on, when, great heavens! I saw the cabin was in flames, and heard the report of rifles. Quick as a flash, I turned, and if Thunder ever did run, he did then. I soon neared it, and saw——"
               "Infernal red skins?"
               "Yes, and the old man trying to keep them at bay. The house was in flames, a dozen painted devils were dancing round the old man with knives and tomahawks, and he was keeping them off with his clubbed rifle. Vainly I looked for the women and children. They were nowhere to be seen. Once I thought I saw them skulking off towards the woods, but it must have been a wolf. Useless I knew it was for me, single-handed, to attempt a rescue, and——"
               "But you couldn't leave the old man to be murdered thus?"
               "No, no, Frank. I let my rifle bark once—the foremost devil fell. I gave Thunder the spur, drew my knife, clenched it in my teeth, clubbed my rifle, and with a loud shout dashed in. It was sharp work, I tell you, but I took them unawares, and had the advantage. The old man fought like a panther when he saw me, but it was no use, and as he found he was about overcome, he shouted—
               "Ned, for God's sake, save the baby!"
               "Where is she?"
               "Under the big walnut, by the well. Save her, save——"
               "He could say no more, a hatchet had found his brain, and he sank in a brook of his own blood."
               "Well, Ned, go on, go on."
               "I dashed down the nearest to me, gave my bonny horse the spur, and darted from the spot. I found the child, sure enough, lying by the well, as he had said, caught it up in my arms, and hurried on, swift as a hunted hare, till I came here."
               "Take a drink, Ned. Take a drink, man. Were you not wounded?"
               "Yes, a scratch or two, but I'd given my right arm to have saved the old man."
               "I'd give both of mine to have the red devils tied to a tree till I could skin them alive, the infernal cowards."
               "Hold on a minute till I lay this baby down—she's sleeping as quietly as if she was in her mother's lap, poor child. Well, well, you shall never want a friend as long as Ned Erskine lives."
               "May the painted, scalping devils, take my heart, and chop it up into mince meat, if ever I fail to be her friend, Ned."
               "Now, Frank, do you think we're safe here? The red rascals followed me fast and far, and if Thunder had failed, my scalp would have been hanging in some infernal wigwam before this time."
               "I don't know, Ned. It's ten to one they follow you, unless they've got the old woman and Bess."
               "If they have, may I——"
               "Yes, you'd do anything, I know, for her, and so would I, for that matter, but that's neither here or there now. If they've got them, we're safe enough until morning; and I think we are anyhow, for they would not think we were fools enough to lay here like a wolf in a trap to be caught."
               "That's true enough, and if it was not for that baby, I'd stay here and fight them till doomsday."
               "Well, you lay down, you're tired, and see, your leggins are all blood!"
               "Oh, that's nothing."
               "Well, lay down, it must be getting near morning. Speed, and Swift, and I'll keep watch, and as soon as it is day we'll be off towards the settlement. But what shall we do with this youngster?"
               "I've thought of that, Frank. I'm going to take her to Judge Reynolds, and tell him the story, and I know he'll take care of her, and I'll——"
               "Get a sight at pretty Miss Clara, I suppose you were going to say. If a pretty pair of peepers and a petticoat are not the death of you yet, my name is not Frank Waters. But go to sleep, Ned. Why, I'll be hanged, if he aint off already like a shot. Pleasant dreams, old fellow; and now, you brutes, keep a bright look out."
               After carefully covering up the baby, he extinguished the fire, muttering to himself, "you shant have a torch anyhow to see to scalp me by, you red devils," threw himself upon a skin in front of the embers, called the dogs to his side, and began his lonely watch. The wind howled like imprisoned fiends through the branches, and the rain fell deluge-like to the earth, while the lightning flashed fitfully, and the thunder drum of heaven beat fearfully and loud. It was a fit night for deeds of violence, crime, and murder!
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               A WESTERN HOME.
               How beautiful is nature when she has thrown aside the dun mantle of the storm, and appears again in all her pristine glory! How much more sweetly the wild birds, as they flit in the sunshine upon tireless wings, seem to sing their songs of praise to Him who marks even the sparrow's fall! How beautiful the flowers, as they hold up their many-hued goblets to catch the first glimpse of morn, when washed from all the impurities of earth by the soft rain drops! How mild and sweet the air, as, with trembling dewy fingers, it flutters the emerald leaves, and steals along on its unseen wings, breathing odor and perfume, gratefully yielded by bud and blossom, to the pressure of its tiny, dancing footsteps! How fresh the grassy vale, and the leafy forest, dressed in their emerald robes, wove in the matchless loom of Nature, and bespangled with dewy star-drops! How musically the flower-fringed brooklet glides on over its pebbly bed, singing its song of liquid melody, and joining with birdling, tree, flower, waving grass, and the Æolian tunes of the laughing breeze, in the grand anthem of Nature! Beautiful all, and the heart that does not feel and own its power, must be dead, indeed, to melody, poetry, and beauty. Let the infidel say what he may—let the scoffer sneer on, and the dull worm of earth that is ever seeking for gold, gold, laugh while he can, for the hour will come, as surely as day follows night, when he will own, in all these things, the beauty, the power, the matchless sublimity, the poetry, and the might of Nature and of Nature's God.
               Such a morning of loveliness followed the night of storm, and flung its mantle of radiance over the forest home of Judge Reynolds. The house, though constructed of logs, after the fashion of that period, was ample in its dimensions, and stood upon a beautiful grassy point, around which the river swept, in its tireless race, towards the sea. Primitive as was its construction, and strongly as it was built, to answer the double purpose of a home and a refuge in the hour of Indian warfare, yet marks of a female hand were plainly visible. The wild running rose of that western land (then unknown to fame) had been carefully trained over its rough walls, and twined lovingly with the native ivy, that strove to excel it in altitude. Thus the windows were shaded by Nature's curtains, and the early breeze played amid their countless branches as upon a many-stringed harp. Scattered around were the bright tinted flowers and dainty shrubs, redeemed from the uncultured prairie, and many a tree carefully pruned and cultured, added to the marks of taste and womanhood without, while, within, all showed her fostering care and appreciation of the beautiful.
               The main room, on the ground floor, was large, and neatly covered with Indian mats and carefully dressed skins. The ample fire-place was overhung with various arms and trophies of the chase. The rifle, hunting knife, bow and arrow, the whip and spur, the tomahawk, and quill-worked and bead-embossed pouch, were there tastefully suspended from branching antlers over the dun hide of the wolf, the russet skin of the fox, and the shaggy mantle of the bear. Various portions of the walls were also garnished thus, and appeared to the eye, at the first glance, like the medallions lined upon the old oaken walls of an English baronial castle. The furniture was designed for comfort and not display, and, though but scanty, answered all the wants of the early dwellers of the Prairie State, and was hallowed by years and many a fond recollection of former days. A table, prepared for the morning meal, stood in the centre of the room, a few high-backed and quaintly-carved chairs, around, and on one side directly opposite the fire, was suspended a small book shelf, garnished with volumes of the olden time. Directly beneath it, a robin, in his rustic willow cage, chirped sweetly, as if in answer to the whistle of the northern mocking-bird, (the cat-bird,) that strangely annoyed the matronly-looking grimalkin that purred upon the hearth, and the gaunt and savage hound that dozed in the sunshine. If not a home of luxury, it was one of content and plenty.
               But the room was not tenantless, for, seated at the table, and apparently watching the sunshine, as it danced upon the massive beams overhead, the smoke, that lazily curled up the huge chimney, the birds in their gambols, and a tiny kitten, that was playfully endeavoring to catch its own tail, was a man, apparently about fifty years of age. A hale and hearty man was he, strong of limb, and of rare beauty of countenance. Time, as it had passed over him, while it had silvered the locks that clustered about his massive forehead, had but lightly laid its hand upon him, and left but dimly the impress of its signet upon his countenance. His eye was large, blue, and mild—a laughing one, that revealed an unmistakable love of frolic, and yet a strong, determined mind. Like his large frame, for far beyond the ordinary size it was, showing immense power, 
                     
                        "Yet moulded in such just degrees,
                        His giant strength seemed lightsome ease,"
                     
                   it revealed firmness and endurance. This man was Henry Reynolds, or, as he was known, Judge Reynolds. Early had he sought his fortunes in this land of beauty, and now, respected and beloved, he dwelt there on the banks of the river, enjoying the declining years of his life amid plenty. Not seathless, however, had his lot been. He had seen his loved and lamented wife fall before the deadly wrath of the scalp-seeking Iroquois—his son, pierced by bullets, fall dying at his feet—had been himself a prisoner, condemned and tortured; but years had passed, with their healing power, over his heart, and, with his only remaining child, his Clara, he dwelt, now happy and contented, and the sunshine of her presence gilded over the dark spots of memory.
               And Clara Reynolds was worthy of his care and love, for a more truly pure, noble, and loving heart, never beat in any human form. Combining all of her mother's womanhood, with her father's manliness, she was, indeed, one of those rare productions of nature, seen but once in a life-time, and, when once seen, never forgotten.
               Entering with a bright smile upon her handsome face, she tenderly kissed her father good morning, and, after a kind enquiry with regard to his health, hastened to look after her pet birds. Talking playfully to them, while an old negro servant was bringing in the breakfast, she passed the time, though, ever and anon, turning a kind and loving look towards her father, and answering his questions.
               "No, dear father, I am no sluggard. (Be quiet, Dick.) I was up almost with the sun. (How you do act.)"
               "But I have not seen you before, Clara, and you know who is to come here this morning."
               A deep blush (ah, Love! how the tell-tale blood reveals your presence) mantled her face, as she turned it away from her father, and began toying with her robin, who now sat upon her hand.
               "Yes, I remember well."
               "And I trust you have seen that all was prepared to give him a true Western welcome?"
               "Yes, dear father;" but she did not add how much more attention she had bestowed upon it than usual.
               "He is a noble young man, Clara. Such an one as we rarely meet with in our somewhat solitary home, and worthy of all our attention. Do you not think so, child?"
               The heart of the young girl answered a fervent "yes," though her lips did not utter it.
               "Well, Clara," continued the old man, not noticing her embarrassment, "we will try and make him at home, and endeavor to forget that he is in a land of strangers."
               "Yes, dear Pa. (Stop, Rob, you will kill yourself!)"
               "Henry will be here somewhat before noon, and I have many things to do before he comes, so——"
               "Breakfast is ready, massa," said the old servant, as he entered with the last dish.
               "Aye? So it is, Clara, and in good time, too."
               Leaving them in quiet to the enjoyment of a truly western breakfast, which, in quantity and quality, if not in style, could rival any one that ever graced the famous boards of "Merrie England," let us take the liberty of glancing more closely at the fair young mistress of that mansion, and transferring to our page a pen-daguerreotype of her, as she graces the head of the table at "The Bend," as Judge Reynolds' place was termed.
               Somewhat above the usual height, with a form fairly fashioned and matured by exercise, and a head proudly rising, Juno-like, from a stately bust, she sits there, proud and happy, in her own happy home. Like her father, her eye was large, of a deep, clear blue, lustrous, and more than ordinarily expressive. Her hair, of that peculiar cast, termed by the poet, 
                     "Brown in the shadow—golden in the sun,"
                   was drawn plainly over her brow, (not an alabaster one, certainly, for the summer sun and wind had kissed it lovingly,) and where it escaped from the prisoning comb, hung in wavy curls about her neck. Her forehead was of medium height, but broad and intellectual. There was firmness and energy manifested in the expression of her mouth, that, when parted, revealed teeth regular and white. She was not what would be termed beautiful, yet the contour of her face was good, and one that, while it would be readily passed by, yet, if once gazed upon, would grow upon the gazer's vision, and retain his admiration. Too much of fearlessness, of self-dependence, perhaps, even of passion, would have been charged against her, as revealed by the play of her thin nostril, but this was not true of her character, for it was heart-controlled, or, as Willis beautifully expresses it— 
                     
                        "Her nostrils' breaching arch might threaten storm,
                        But love lay in her lips, all hushed and warm."
                     
                  
               
               Of a decided character, however, was Clara Reynolds, and though inherited directly from her father, it being strengthened by her residence in that frontier home. Yet it was mingled with all the softness of her mother, and the true feeling of a noble woman's heart. Strong, deep, and abiding, dwells love ever in such a breast—one to endure privation, trial, death. Bitter, oh, how bitter, is the waking of such an one from a dream of love, to find its idol unworthy of it. When love flowers are cast back, withered, on the altar of such an heart, death would be a mercy, indeed, for, "aloe-like, they flower once, and die," though the mortal frame may struggle on through many years—a wasted, heartless skeleton, that is on earth, "but not of it." Would it not be well that parents, who wed their daughters "for a home, and to see them well settled," should pause and think that they are placing them in a gilded sepulchre for life—a living corpse in a tomb, where dead hopes and aspirations, thwarted love, and broken hearts, lie scattered around within, while all without, pomp, display, and gold? Has not many a parent early death, dishonor, crime, branded upon their very souls by such an act? But why pursue the theme. As long as the "almighty dollar" is adored, and pride and fashion run riot in our land, so long will parents force their daughters to this act, which has well been termed "the harlotry of the soul." Let us turn to a fairer theme.
               "How now, Wolf?" said the Judge, as the dog aroused himself, and, walking up to the table laid his head in his lap, and looked wishfully up into his face, while slowly licking his huge jaws. "Can't you wait till I am done before you're helped?" and then turning to his daughter, while, at the same time, he secretly dropped a piece of meat into the mouth that was open to receive it, he continued: "Clara, you spoil Wolf by petting him so."
               "Do you not love him, Father?" was the arch reply.
               "Yes; but that's no reason why he should eat at the table."
               "Do I not love you, Father?" again was asked, in Clara's sweet voice.
               "Yes, yes," replied the Judge, seeing that, as usual, he was going to get the worst of the argument; "but what of that?"
               "I love you, and you love Wolf. I love him, because you love him. Can I show too much kindness to anything you love, father? Why then shall I not love Wolf?"
               "Floored, by jingo!" he laughing exclaimed, as, throwing the dog a large piece of meat, he arose from the table and walked towards the window.
               Far quicker than were his movements were those of his daughter, who, clasping her arms about his neck, while tear-drops dimmed, for a time, the beauty of her eyes, exclaimed—
               "I have not offended you, father?"
               "No, beauty, no;" and he kissed her tears away.
               "Massa Reynolds, here's a letter for you what was brought up from the store," broke in Pomp, with the privilege of an old servant.
               "Thank you, Pomp, thank you. Ah! what is this, Henry Elliot not coming to-day! Called home to see a dying parent—make excuse, and say farewell—cannot tell when he will return—thanks for kindness," said the Judge, as if talking to himself, as his eye glanced over the writing, unmindful, for the time, of even the presence of his daughter.
               But Clara? Like a leaden plummet dropped every word to the very bottom of her heart! The smile left her face, the color her cheek, and the moisture gathered quick in her azure eye. Hope dropped as at her very feet pierced by a barbed arrow, and fond anticipation, swift winged, soared far away from its now desolate shrine. How a word will chill, blight, and destroy all the sunshine and happiness of life when the joy is at its flood, and every flower bends lovingly over its tide.
               "Here, Clara, read this, child. Pomp, tell Charles to get my horse. I will see him before he goes," rapidly exclaimed Judge Reynolds, as he turned to leave the room; but even as he spoke, two horsemen dashed up to the door, one bearing in his arms a young and beautiful child. They were Frank Waters and Ned Erskine.
               "Here, Judge," said the latter, "here's old Thompson's baby. The cursed Iroquois have murdered the old man, and the rest of the family, for what I know. I saved this poor child, but I've no home, and do not know what to do with it, unless you will take it, and, besides, I must look after the mother and Bess."
               "Thompson murdered! Certainly, Ned; God forbid that I should ever turn an helpless infant and an orphan away from my door. Here, Clara, take this baby, call one of your girls to take care of it. Dismount Ned—Frank—come in and get breakfast, and tell me about it."
               Clara Reynolds took the smiling baby from her father's arms, and hastened to another apartment as the two hunters entered. Well, oh, how well, would it have been for her if that poor innocent had never crossed the threshold of her father's mansion. Innocent as it was, it was doomed to be the harbinger of distress, trouble, and a nearly broken heart! to entail upon the kind girl, that now held it in her arms, misery and years of suffering, and to make more than one bitterly regret the hour when the brave hunter saved it from the power of the death-dealing Indian. Well it is that we cannot look into the future. Well that we cannot lift the veil that hides the years to come, and see our destiny. How many a heart would quail before the trials they are to be called upon to endure, and rather brave an unknown fate beyond the grave than the trials of earth. Well and truthfully has the poet written, "Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise."
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               On the morning which followed the opening of our story, the band of warlike Iroquois who had murdered "old Thompson," as he was freely called by both Erskine and Waters, were many miles away from the scene of bloodshed, and had not yet broken up their camp. The sun, as its beams stole through the grey clouds, like threads of gold woven in the raiment of a nun, shone upon many a bronzed and sinewy form, wrapped in slumber, with, for a time, the demon passions of their hearts at rest. Save the few who kept guard, all seemed so inanimate that the gazer might well have been led to believe that the forms around him were but the work of the cunning hand of the sculptor. Marked still with their war paint, and stained with blood and travel, they reclined there, a truly savage spectacle, and one far better gazed at through the limnings of the pen or pencil, than at a nearer proximity. Savages, truly were they, ere the fire water of the pale man and his swift-winged messengers of death had thinned their ranks, sent many a score to the hunting-grounds beyond the grave, and rendered the few remaining ones slaves to appetite and their conquerors.
               In our sympathy for the dusky ones who toil in servitude, amid the snowy cotton fields of the sunny south, we forget the poor Indian, his sufferings and his wrongs; and well, perchance it were, that our hearts should feel also for that brave, noble, and much injured race, who have produced a Logan, an Alknomok, and a Pocahontas. But the true and only Americans, are homeless, almost nameless. True, it is floating upon your waters, and tells of many a proud and queenly city, but how long will it be so? How long ere even these records of the fast fleeting red man will be lost forever, before the spirit of modern improvement and the assuming of foreign names? So soon, alas, will these things follow, and as the places that "knew them know them no more forever," so will even their very name be lost beneath the curtaining dust of the ghostly Past. But the lordly Mississippi will sing their requiem, and Niagara thunder their name, till that time when form, fame, and name of their oppressors is lost amid the dissolution of worlds!
               The savage slumbers not long upon the war trail, and the golden king of day had but scarcely stolen away the brightness from the jewels of the tiara of night, ere the stalwart warriors awoke from their deep slumbers. Hastily was the morning meal prepared, from game won by the skill of the hunters, and silently, seated around the fire, they eat with appetites such as are only to be won by privation and labor. Not a woman's form was to be seen there, and yet the least blood-stained of the band carefully selected the choicest fare, and silently left the camp fire. Leaving the painted warriors to their feast, let us follow him in his silent way.
               A few steps only had he taken, when, pushing aside the tangled leaves of the oak, he entered a hastily constructed lodge. Rude as it was, and quickly as it had been built, yet the most careless gaze would at once see an attempt at comfort in its construction. Completely protected from the wind without, and rain overhead, it stood there, a monument of Indian skill and cunning. The damp ground was covered with many a thickness of boughs, carefully overlaid with mats and skins, and the walls, if they might so be termed, were curtained with the same. It was doorless, and, save on thrusting these aside and removing one of the many branches that formed its outer pillars, no egress was to be found; and even these were so artistically traced, that, the moment one was displaced, the whole fabric would at once fall. The hand, however, that had helped to rear it knew a secret entrance; and, noiselessly, the Indian effected his entrance. A pole of the lodge was moved to one side, a fold of a blanket carefully lifted, and, creeping like a serpent, he stood within and gazed upon a scene, that, even the stoic heart of an Indian, could not but be moved by. Beauty, in every land, and clime, and country, has the same magic power! The king upon the throne feels it, the peasant in his cottage bends to it; and the heart that does not acknowledge it is dead, indeed, pulseless and unfit for earth—nay, more unfit for the bright realms that we worship as beyond the confines of the world. As that warrior saw and felt it, so, also, let us view it.
               Sleeping, quietly as an infant slumbers in its mother rocked cradle, was a girl, upon whom scarce seventeen summers had yet shed their golden rays. Screened was her form beneath the quilt-worked skin, except her head and throbbing throat, and yet it was one that a Powers might well have taken as a model for his "Slave." Confineless her hair fell, in nature's curls, thick as the woof spun in a silk worm's loom, and as soft. Not raven or auburn were they, but of that undescribable hue that puzzles the gazer, as to whether stolen from the brow of midnight, or the deep hued tresses of an autumnal thunder-cloud. And these silken curls framed a face of rare beauty, a face marked by intellect and character, and not the "doll-faced" prettiness of modern bellehood. The eye, now curtained by azure-lined lids and long lashes, was dark, and liquid, and beautiful; and yet one that a frontier life had learned to look upon danger without flinching, and to regard death as, sooner or later, the goal of life. Her cheek was sun-embrowned, and her teeth, as the deep breathing of slumber forced open their cherry-like covering, white, firm, and regular. The arm, as it had stolen from 'neath the screening covering, was round, and not fairy-shaped, but muscular; and no eye could gaze upon that lonely girl, beautiful in her girlhood, and still more beautiful in the slumber of innocence and nature, but would willingly acknowledge the complete mastery that love ever commands of the heart.
               A rustle of the curtain of her sylvan tent aroused her, and hastily she raised from her recumbent posture, and her eye rested upon the swarthy form of the Iroquois who had so silently entered with her morning meal.
               "Will the maiden of the pale face eat? The deer was afoot with the sun of yesterday, that now is smoking upon the fires of the Iroquois. The trail is long, and the Flower of the Prairie will need it before the end is reached."
               "Whither, oh! tell me whither we are bound."
               "The land of the rising sun began our trail, and we travel towards its setting."
               "But my mother; tell me of my mother."
               "Thick are the snowy hairs upon the scalp of those who have long traveled the trail of life; their steps grow short and their sight dim. A river there is that marks the end of the journey and beyond that—"
               "Tell me, is she dead?"
               "The smoke rises from a new wigwam in the happy spirit land."
               "And my father?"
               "The warrior hunts for the squaw of the pale faces in the hunting grounds of the great Manitou."
               "Dead! both dead! But my sister, my baby sister?"
               "The arm of the hunter of the pale man is strong—his horse is swift—the foot tired upon the trail he took."
               "Safe! my baby sister; for that, kind heaven, I thank you."
               "Will the maiden of the pale face eat?"
               "No! no! I cannot."
               "The great and good Manitou forgets not his children. The foot of the brave turns aside from the flower and crushes it not."
               "I understand you not."
               "The bow of the Manitou is seen bent amid the clouds, in the hour of the storm, and the Iroquois' heart knows that the sun will shine again."
               "Is there hope, any hope for me, then?"
               "The rifle of the pale chief struck deep, and like the cloud o'erloaded with thunder, so breaks now the heart of the Iroquois; but the moons, as they sweep past, will heal his wounds, and the flower will grow again where now there is naught but the snow-covered fires of the Frost King."
               "I cannot well read your words."
               "The red man speaks not like the pale face. The Manitou of Nature only taught him his words."
               "But you bid me dream of hope."
               "Does the hound and hunter tracked deer not dream of escape? Does the crescent, wolf hunted buffalo not think he is fleeter of foot than the tireless ones that follow him? Does the wounded dove not fancy that its wings are still strong enough to carry it to its nest and its mate? Does the—"
               A shrill whistle broke in upon the words of the warrior, and stayed the accents of his tongue. A moment only he paused, and then gently taking the hand of the girl within his own, placed within it a small knife, and continued:
               "Let the pale-faced maiden hide this as she would the name of the brave to whom she has given her heart—it will serve her in the hour when danger is upon her trail—and this," continued he, handing her a small arrow marked by fire, "when the blood of the red man boils within his heart for revenge. Maiden, of the race who are our worst enemies, who seek for our scalps, and long to see our very hearts turning to ashes upon their council fires, keep these till the hour of your utmost danger, as you would your life. And now, arise and follow me; the Iroquois are upon the trail, and it were death to linger. Lock within your heart the words that have been spoken, and let not danger, or even death, ever force them from you. Follow me."
               "But your name?"
               "When I have won one, the maiden of the pale face shall sing it as sweet songs of birds."
               "You saved my life, and are now my friend."
               "The Prairie Flower must stop her song. The sun has risen, and the moccason leaves no print upon the trail. I have spoken."
               Too well acquainted with Indian character to ask more, that prisoned maiden arose, and hastily arranging her dress, followed the steps of her war-painted conductor. War painted? Yes, but yet it were well if such true and noble hearts beat in the breast of those who call themselves civilized.
               It were vain to attempt to deceive our readers, and they have already become aware that this girl was "Bess Thompson," and the loved one of Ned Erskine, the brave hunter, who had so nobly fought for her father, and saved her sister's life. An orphan and a prisoner now, she followed her guide to the camp fire, and from thence upon the westward leading trail of the murder-stained Iroquois. Silently that noble girl took her place between two of the warriors, and though they frequently conversed in a low tone, as they pushed forward, yet she could not, from a want of knowledge of their language, gain any information of their destination or her fate. But what thoughts passed through her brain during those hours of weary travel, crushing every flower that Hope, the bright comforter in the hour of misfortune, bade spring up in her heart? What fearful pictures Fancy painted of an Indian home, and she forced to be the wife of ——, perhaps the very one whose tomahawk had been buried in her father's brain, or whose knife had found a sheath in her mother's heart! Horrible as such thoughts are, even when jotted down by the pen, yet how much more so, when reality forces the heart to own them?
               It is not at such a time that the body feels fatigue. When the mind is thus enwrapped with its sufferings, matter and its trials are but a secondary consideration, and mile after mile is accomplished unnoticed, and hour after hour passes unregarded. We have all felt this at some portion of our lives, and so it was with the pale-faced prisoner of the Iroquois, as she mechanically followed the brawny warrior before her along the narrow trail, through the thick forest, over the dangerous bridge, and along the frowning precipice. One gleam of sunshine only broke the dense blackness of her future, and that was the kind words uttered by the warrior who had visited her in her green-wood tent. But where was he? From the time when he had bid her follow him she had not seen him, and vainly now, as the thought flitted through her brain, she sought for him amid the ones around her. On thus thinking both of the past and the future—of the former with pleasure and pride, and of the latter with pain and trembling, she was led till the sun was shooting his last golden-headed arrows from the western verge, and night was hovering with her dusky wings over sea and land. At a signal from the foremost of the party, they at once turned aside from the beaten trail they had traveled, and entering the bed of a small stream or brook, followed its meanderings for several miles, not once setting foot on either bank. This was a well-known Indian ruse to hide their path, and soon as they conceived this object fully accomplished, they struck boldly into the forest. A short mile, and the lights of many fires broke upon their gaze, and revealed an Indian village. No sound was heard from its tenants, and yet many an eye watched them as they entered, many a rifle was cocked, and many an arrow drawn to the head, and many a knife glittered in the flickering rays of the fast-dying camp fires. By signals, known only to themselves, the watcher and the watched were alike assured of safety and friends, and a looker-on might well have thought that that travel-soiled party were entering a city of the dead!
               The prisoner was conducted to a lodge or wigwam in the centre of the village, and left to repose, while the war-painted braves sought food and shelter in their respective homes, and gave themselves up to slumber, until day again dawned over earth. How strange the problem, those whose hands are stained in blood can sleep! How strange that the heart and mind will become slaves to slumber, when the hand is still reeking with drops incarnadine, and that guilt, disgrace, aye, even murder, can repose, apparently, as quietly as the sinless babe that is gently rocked upon its mother's breast! No fear of a future mocks them then, but the passions of life are stilled and their tumultuous billows at rest, when the leaden wand of slumber touches the veined lid, and bids them curtain the flashing eye.
               But morning, bright, glorious morning, broke, as aye it will, "reckless that a heart is broke or breaking in the change," and the golden sun-flakes danced amid the living green of the forest. The scene had changed from that of the preceding night, and where then all was silence and repose, all now was activity and bustle. The morning meal was finished, and with slow and haughty steps the braves of the Iroquois gathered around the fire in the council lodge. Silently the pipe passed from hand to hand, till at length one, an aged warrior, now unfitted for service, rose and addressed the stoic circle:
               "My brothers have been upon the path of war. The eagle, when he swoops for revenge, returns not preyless to his rock-builded nest, and the angry serpent crawls not back to his hole in the giant tree, till his wrath has been satisfied."
               Figurative as the words were, still all present well knew their meaning, and, without speaking, many a blanket was drawn aside, and exposed a still fresh scalp, that cherished trophy of an Indian's prowess. Quickly the speaker glanced round the statue-like circle, and again resumed:
               "When the hunter strikes the doe, the fawn falls an easy prey to his skill. When the hawk has the dove in his talons, the young ones in the nest are his captives. My brothers have followed the trail of war. It is marked with blood! The fire burns low, and the ashes of the wigwam are scattered by the breath of the Manitou of the Storm. At their belts hang the proofs of their success, but the warriors of the Iroquois kill not the fawn, when its mother has fallen beneath the knife of the hunter. The trap that crushes the wolf captures, but slays not the hair."
               Even as he closed, Bessie Thompson was led into the circle, and stood in all her beauty and innocence amid that circle of war-painted braves. Unattended by any of her own sex, she stood there without a single one to sustain or comfort her, to hear the fate that the lips of her captors should pronounce, and what was that to be? Vainly her eye turned from side to side of that circle for her dusky friend of the greenwood, for he was not there, and not a single smile illumined the savage faces of the warriors, and her heart sank within her as she saw the grim warriors preparing to debate upon her fate.
               "The warriors of the Iroquois," began the same silver-haired warrior that had first broken the silence, "have captured a snowy fawn. Their knives shunned the throat, and the silken hair has been spared by the keen-edged tomahawk. Many warriors have fallen by the hands that would have kept her from being the prize of the warriors of the greenwood, and the Matcha-Manitou is calling loudly for his victim. Shall he ask in vain? When the maize is green, and the silken tassel waves in the breeze of the strawberry moon, to this Manitou is offered the first fruit. The post is painted with blood, when the moccasin is about to press the trail of war, and the wampum-decorated scalp is laid by the fire when the great Medicine-man lights it on their return. Many hearts bleed as the stricken deer, and many faces are blackened in the wigwams of the Iroquois. The calumet has given forth its fragrant odors, and the tongues of the warriors are free. Let them speak. I have done!"
               "Let her be my bride," said the Couching Panther, as he sprang to his feet—"the squaw of the pale faces shall fill a warrior's lodge, and dress his venison. She shall grind his maize, make his moccasins, and paddle his canoe when the warrior is tired and the sun is hot. She shall make for him the hunting shirt, and decorate the scalps he wins from his enemies. I have spoken."
               "The warrior speaks well," replied the chief of the silver locks. "But the maiden of the pale faces knows not how to dress venison for the Iroquois chieftain. Her hand knows not how to guide the canoe in the swift current and foaming rapid, or to deck with beads and the princely wampum the moccasin. Her heart, fooled by the lessons of childhood, would turn with disgust from the bleeding scalp. When the eagle seeks the timid dove for his mate, then will the pale face squaw make a fit mate for the chieftain."
               "Then shall she be given to a death of torture," replied the other, as he sprang, tomahawk in hand, to his feet. "The scathing fire shall encircle her snowy form, and her ashes be scattered from the land of the rising sun to the very land of its setting. I claim her as my bride."
               Listening to all this, with a lead-like heart, stood Bessie Thompson, and oh, how much sooner she would have been the bride of the grim looking skeleton Death himself than this savage warrior! But another speaks—
               "Let the Panther seek from amid the flowers of the Iroquois a squaw to cheer his home. The 'woman of the rippling stream' has looked lovingly upon him, and the warrior's moccasins are embroidered with beads."
               "The Medicine-man of the tribe may counsel, but it is not his right to command! The Panther has shed his blood to win the scalps of the parents of the maiden of the pale face, his home is deserted, his squaw is in the happy hunting grounds of the spirit land, and his lodge is desolate. She shall be his!"
               "Does the Manitou seek from amid the daughters of earth his bride?"
               "The Manitou claims at his will. The braves of the Iroquois lay their offerings at the lodge of her he loves. The torch is lighted and quenched in the rippling brook, and she is his bride. From the path of war he returns. The capture is by his side, and no fire is lit in his wigwam. A flower of the pale faces stands waiting her doom, and that doom is fire. The Panther saves her life, and rescues her from torture, by taking her as his wife."
               "Let the pale face captive speak. Does she accept this as her sentence?"
               "No! Far rather would I brave all that a savage fancy could inflict than be his wife! Rather, far rather would I yield my form to the flame and——"
               "Hold! The Panther is not thus to be robbed! If not my wife, your scalp shall hang in my wigwam."
               Even as he spoke he darted forward, knife in hand, towards the spot where Bessie Thompson stood. His arm was upraised, the keen knife was glittering in the air, and ready to execute its mission of death! It was already descending towards the heart of that brave maiden, when a strong arm arrested its progress, and completely paralized its power.
               "Who are you?"
               "The Medicine-man of the Iroquois."
               "You have no right to stay me thus."
               "I have!"
               "Back, or the knife will drink thy heart's blood."
               "I fear not you or your power!"
               "Do not? I am the Couching Panther."
               "And I," and he threw aside his disguise, "am——"
               "Who?"
               "PRAIRIE FIRE!"
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE TRAIL OF RESCUE.
               We left the brave and hardy hunter, who had rescued the infant from the hands of the warriors of the Iroquois, and his fearless companion, in the house of Judge Reynolds, relating his adventures, and partaking of the good cheer placed before them. Impatiently, the Judge waited for the rapidly discussed meal to be ended, ere his truly western courtesy would allow him to question of the particulars of the midnight ride, the fight, or the rescue, and eagerly he urged it towards its conclusion. Like the red man, however, the hunter and trapper of the frontier, following the customs that necessity had urged upon him, gorges himself with food and slumbers long, when it is in his power, unknowing when an opportunity will again offer. This was the case with Erskine and his companion; and far beyond the ordinary time used in civilized society that meal was protracted. At length, however, it was done; and withdrawing from the almost cleared table, they waited the questioning of Judge Reynolds.
               "You have not told me, Erskine, anything about the child, except it was Thompson's. Where did you get it?"
               "I saved it from the knife of the Iroquois."
               "Yes;" broke in Waters, rudely as was his wont, "yes, Judge; he saved the young pappoose when rifles were barking; arrows whistling; and knives were flashing in the light of the burning dwelling."
               "But," interrupted Judge Reynolds, "let him tell his own story."
               "No;" continued Waters, "he's as bashful as a woman with a young lover, when he has to talk about himself. Let me spin you the yarn;" and, with many a curse upon the red man, he told what our readers already have heard related by Erskine, on the night when his good horse saved him, and he lodged in the hunter's cabin.
               "And now," questioned the Judge, when the fancy colored tale was concluded, "what do you propose to do? The Indians are far distant by this time; they would not wait till the alarm was given—"
               "No more than the wolf would wait for the hound that is upon its trail, or the eagle when the hunter strings his arrow to draw it to its head."
               "That is true, Frank; and you are too old a woodman not to know it well."
               "Aye, aye, Judge."
               "What then do you propose to do, Ned?"
               "First of all, to leave this baby here, with Miss Clara."
               "That you shall do; and a good home it shall have."
               "Then have Frank go up the river, while I go down and get the boys together. Well armed we will follow the path of old Thompson's murderers."
               "But the Indian on his war-path leaves no trail."
               "The bird does not in the air, or the canoe as it floats upon the waves of the stream; but as instinct shows the hound the true path, when both scent and eye are at fault, so the hunter can follow the Indian warrior towards the spot where the fire of the wigwam stains blue of the morning, and its sparks shoot out upon the blackness of midnight."
               How Indian-like that answer, and how soon we acquire the habits, language, aye, even thoughts of those with whom we are associated.
               "Then, Ned, it were useless to attempt to persuade you from revenge."
               "Aye," broke in Waters, "when he knows not whether Bess Thompson is in the hands of the Indians, or is having her bones picked by the wolves."
               "Be quiet, Waters," said he, shivering at his words; but heartlessly almost, the other continued—
               "Her scalp may be fringing the legging of some cursed red-skin, or she may be burning at the stake, because she wont be false to Ned, and be the squaw of an Indian."
               "Be still, Frank."
               "Aye, be still;" said Erskine, "God knows well how I love her, and if she lives she shall be mine. If dead, rivers of blood shall be shed to her memory."
               "None will go further with you than I will; and if there never was any reason to call me 'Red Hand,' I'll give them one now, or my name is not Frank Waters. But, Ned, dont let's stand fooling here till the trail is dead as old Thompson. You break for the mill, and I'll go up the river. Meet me to-night at the shantee, and if anything should happen, so that I cannot be there, you'll find news of me in the cache at Buffalo rocks. Good-bye, Judge; I'm off like a shot," and whistling to his hound, sprang upon his horse, and true to his words, dashed off, bullet like.
               Erskine remained but a few moments behind, and after heartily shaking the hand of his kind host, turned also towards his horse.
               "Hold on! hold on, Ned, I'll go too. Thompson was an old friend to me. I'll go, too. My hand and eye have not failed me yet; and my rifle is almost certain death to a squirrel or hare. An Indian is a larger mark; and I owe them many a grudge, and many a return for past services. I'll go with you, boy;" and turning as he spoke, he started towards the door; but his eye rested upon a sight that stayed his steps. It was his own, beautiful daughter, Clara!
               Quick as was his vision was that also of Erskine; and, ere the Judge had resumed his conversation, the hunter was already upon the back of his petted "Thunder."
               "Oh! no; Ned, it won't do. I'm getting old and must look after things here. My fighting days are over, and Clara has no one to take care of her now but me. Go and get the boys—"
               But Erskine waited not to hear more, and while the last words were trembling on the air, he was beyond their sight, and urging on his gallant horse beneath the overhanging trees that shade the shores of the swift running Illinois.
               Turning, and carressing his daughter, Judge Reynolds entered his mansion. Leaving him there, kissing away the tears and fondling the Indian rescued babe, that smiled in the arms of a nurse, let us follow Waters on his arrowy way.
               With unchecked speed, he held his course till a clearing and a few log houses told of a white man's settlement. Around one, the largest of the group, was gathered a number of men, apparently just returning from, or preparing for the chase; and, dashing up to them, he drew not his bridle until in their very midst. Then, springing to the ground, he hastily greeted them,
               "Huzza, boys! look sharp, and get ready for the trail. Old Thompson is murdered! his house is burned; and Ned Erskine and I are off for the trail. Who will go with me?"
               "I will!" answered a score of voices.
               "Aye, brave hearts, I knew you would! Get ready, then, and some of you get me a drink, for I'm as dry as a cat-fish, when the river is down and he's ashore in a bayou."
               The liquor was brought, quickly disappeared, and Waters continued,
               "Now, boys, get ready; say good-bye to the petticoats, run a double quantity of bullets, see that your fire-locks are in order, and your horses fresh."
               "Where do we rendez-voo, Frank?"
               "At the Hunter's Shantee. Be off, now, and get ready, for we have little time to spare."
               Like men, as they were, accustomed to danger and sudden calls, they separated to prepare for the bloody task of following warlike and savage foemen. How many a parting occurs, at such a time, to which a meeting shall never follow! How bitter, the pangs that the heart endures! How the wife trembles, as she feels the last embrace; and the strong, manly form quails, as he looks upon the loved ones around him! How the mother feels, in thus giving up the form of her noble son to danger and almost certain death! and how the heart of the maiden sinks to the very depths of agony, as the manly arm encircles her slender waist, and the kiss is impressed for the last time upon her silken cheek! Bitter, the parting, at such an hour, and, oh! how unlike that when 
                     
                        "To say good-night is such sweet sorrow,
                        We'd say it o'er until it be to-morrow."
                     
                  
               
               But the Land of Liberty, of America has ever been famed for the noble spirit and Gracchi-like behavior of her daughters. It blazed forth in the stormy days of seventy-six, and shone again, as in all its pristine glory, when the starry banner was uplifted above the chapparel of Mexico. Like liberty, it is a spirit that can never die, and though unknown upon the pages of poesy or history, no nobler matrons or daughters have ever given up the loved ones of their hearts, than those rocked in the war-surrounded cradles of a frontier house. Such mothers called "Marion's men" their husbands and sons, and such daughters called those lovers, who 
                     
                        "——knew the forest round,
                        As seamen know the sea."
                     
                  
               
               
               Turn to the records of Buena Vista, of Palo Alto, or of any of the fearfully desperate battles fought upon that bloody soil, and see if any through more desperate changes, carried the American banner on to victory, than the sons of the West—of Missouri, Kentucky, and Illinois!
               But the parting came—the good-bye has been said, the last kiss given, but not the last tear shed; and, mounting at the word, the little band that had prepared to accompany Waters, with many a friendly wave of the hand, departed under his lead, to meet what, Erskine and his band, it is true, but then? Danger, it is certain, and may it not also be death?
               Like Waters, so Erskine was successful in his mission, and soon had gathered around him a half score of armed men, that were ready to follow him through all dangers and privations, to endure all hardships, and meet death, if it came, unflinchingly. Well mounted, and armed, they fearlessly followed Erskine through the greenwood, pausing but once in their route to breathe their steeds and allow them to slake their thirst, in the cool waters of a flower and pebble kissing brook. This done, again they hastened on, till a sign from their leader checked them and bade them pause. Another sign; and, breaking their ranks, they sought the thick cover around and the shelter of the giant tree trunks. In silence they lay there, in ambush, till upon the air broke a loud,
               "Ha! ha!" and Frank Waters appeared upon the scene.
               "Come forth, Ned! you take to cover quick."
               "I knew the signal well, Frank, but could not believe that you were here."
               "I came to see you. It is growing dark, and I wanted you to scout to-night with me, about old Thompson's cabin, while the boys lead off on the trail. They can follow it as well as we, and we can overtake them ere morning. What say you?"
               "It is perhaps best; and I want to know where the trail started from."
               "On, then, boys, towards the shantee. Brave hearts are there to welcome you, and good venison is smoking on the coals. The canteens are not empty, and we'll drink death to the cowardly wolves that could thus murder the old man and his wife, and Bess."
               "Hold on there, Frank."
               "True, Ned, I had forgotten how the needle of your heart pointed. Forgive me, and God grant it may not be true. Come on, boys, to camp. We shall see, Ned, we shall see."
               The camp was reached, and the fearless hunters of the wild wood met as brothers, and, as brothers, gathered around the fire, after securing their horses, and with rifles by their side, began their evening meal. That of Ned and Frank was soon concluded, and they mounted, prepared to depart.
               "Cool heads, cool heads, boys. No deep drinking to-night, if you have any regard for your scalps. Start about midnight and strike for the ford; camp there, unless we meet you, but do not cross. If you do not see us by morning, take the back trail and follow us, for it will be ten to one that we have lost our scalps or are prisoners of the Indians. Come on, Ned," and slowly he vanshed, with his companion, from the far glancing light of the fire.
               Silently as the grave they now stole, through the forest, towards the blackened ruins of Thompson's cabin. Well they knew that 
                     "Caution is speed when danger is to be passed."
                   and, acting upon it, not a word was spoken for many a mile, indeed, not until the bend of the river spoken of by Erskine, in his description of the rescue, was gained. Then, whispering for a moment, each dismounted, and after carefully securing their horses to a tree, crawled like an affrightened serpent, rifle in hand, stealthily from the woods towards the ashes of the cabin.
               It would have taken the eye of a watching Indian to have discovered them, as they stole so carefully along, over the grassy ground. Slow was their progress, but far too old woodsmen were they to hazard anything by haste. Low was the head bent, and ever and anon they paused and listened. Once, and once only, were they startled in their course. A sound, like the trampling of many horses, broke upon their ears! To the very earth they fell; and then, as their quick and experienced ear told them it was but the wolf driven deer, a half-suppressed laugh burst from their lips, and they hastened on.
               A short time passed, and they stood by the ruins of the cabin, and, groping around, found the remains of the murdered man, mangled and horribly torn by the wolves. Scalped, he had been left there when the Iroquois hastened away. Although accustomed to see death in every form, yet, the hearts of these brave hunters thrilled within them, and their lips breathed a bitter curse, as the faint glimmer of the moon revealed the objects around to their eyesight. Yet, silently, they held their way; one turning to the right, and the other to the left, carefully searching the prairie around. The form of Thompson's wife was found, mutilated like that of her husband, but that of Bess, Erskine saw with fear, was not there. Meeting beneath the tree, by the well, where the infant had been found, these hunter-scouts counseled together upon the best means to be pursued to gain the trail of the murderers of their friends. In the bright light of day, this would not have stayed them a single moment, but now, amid darkness, it required both a quick and experienced eye to detect the print of a moccasoned foot upon the hard surface of the prairie. To build a fire, or light a torch, was certain death to them, should any band of roving Indians be about; and yet, how were they to find the trail without? Many a brave and experienced hunter would have been at fault; but wood-life teaches countless lessons, and the gaunt hounds that had noiselessly followed them were now their best friends. Trained from their earliest days to follow the paths taken by Indians, it needed but a sign from Erskine to put them upon the trail, and quickly and well their keen noses scented it out. Man's resources were at fault, and animal instinct superior for a time.
               Swiftly the hunters followed their four-footed companions to the verge of the forest, and then with a low whistle, calling them to their sides, hastened to the spot where the horses had been left; and, mounting them again, gave the dogs the sign, and dashed on through the forest. As if fortune favored them, the trail lead towards the very spot where Waters had told his companions to camp, at a well known fording place. Already had they reached it, and were about to check the speed of their panting steeds, when the sharp report of a rifle burst upon their ears. Quick as the flash itself, their course was checked and they were in ambush, awaiting the result. But no other shot was fired, and again they ventured cautiously forward, until they gained a view of the fire of their associates.
               Here, all seemed to be confusion; and all, gathered around some object lying upon the ground, were so busily engaged, that Erskine and Waters entered the camp undiscovered.
               "Good Indian fighters, them," laughingly exclaimed Erskine, in a whisper, to his companion.
               "Aye, they'd lay still in a trap, and be shot like a wolf in a pit. A set of fool hardy boys."
               "Brave ones, though; and will fight well when the time comes. But I wonder what they have there?"
               "Some cursed night owl, I suppose."
               Unconciously had Waters named the object there aright. It was the Night Owl of the Iroquois—a brave warrior, and one who had remained behind his tribe, with a blood-thirsty desire for more scalps, and, in so doing, had lost his own. The guard had discovered him, as he attempted to creep towards the camp, and his rifle had quickly sent its leaden messenger of death into the throbbing heart, stilling it forever.
               The Night Owl was the first victim sacrificed upon the altar of revenge.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               "THE LAST OF EARTH."
               
                  
                     
                        "Leaves have their time to fall,
                        And flowers to wither at the north wind's breath,
                        And stars to set, but all,
                        Thou hast all seasons for thine own, oh death!"
                     
                  
               
               In a sick bed, in a room carefully screened from the bright light of the autumnal sun, lays a woman, scarcely passed the prime of life. True it is, that the weaver, Time, had mingled in the dark web of her matronly locks a silver woof, but they were threads spun by the distaff of sorrow, and not of years. Of true womanly beauty, matured and perfected by years, was she; and, surrounded by every luxury that art could devise and wealth purchase, she lies, stricken by the remorseless shaft of the destroyer.
               Oh! it is fearful, thus to gaze upon the approach of death! To watch his course, as he creeps slowly on from the extremities, follows every azure vein and stills the once bounding pulse, till his skeleton fingers rest upon the throbbing heart and bid it "be still," still—forever! Who, that has gazed upon the icy form, the clayey casket from whence the spirit has taken wings, the wreck of all earthly, manly beauty, the grave robed corpse, has not felt the red hued life blood congeal in his very heart, his frame tremble, and his soul grow sick of earth and earthly nothingness, of pride, pomp, and power, of love's blandishments and of hates hypocrisy? 
                     "Dust to dust and ashes to ashes,"
                   has been most truly written; but the soul, the immortal spark of our nature? Who can follow it, beyond the shores of Time, into the unknown regions of eternity? Who can tell of its home and mission, when the "silver chord is loosed, and the golden bowl is broken," and when He, of whom it is a part and portion, like the sun light of the great luminary itself, calls it back from its earthly wanderings to its primeval dwelling place? Not ours the power; and, if it were, we would shrink from the task.
               And that woman, stricken down in the very prime of life and womanly beauty, was the mother of Henry Elliot, who was so suddenly called away from the residence of Judge Reynolds, at the time when our story began. Stricken by disease, she is there awaiting the return of the only one now upon earth around whom her heart-strings are closely entwined—the return of her son. Hours passed, and yet he came not; and slower, and still more slow beat the pulse, throbbed the heart; and the angel that waited to bear the clay-freed spirit aloft was already pluming her pinions for flight, when the door of the room was gently opened, and Henry Elliot stood by the death-bed of his mother.
               "Mother!"
               "My son!" were the only words spoken, and they were clasped in each other's arms.
               How holy such an embrace! Is there aught, on this sin-cursed earth, more sacred than the love of a mother? Aught more pure and abiding than the affection that is twin-mated with her very heart, for those whose infant lips she first taught to pronounce that sacred word—who she taught the words of prayer, and guided through the dubious paths of childhood? Such love is not ephemeral, or changeable, but ever constant and true, from the cradle to the tomb; it is love like that which led woman to be the "last at the cross of our Savior, and the first at his tomb."
               "I have waited long for your coming, Henry."
               "I came, dear mother, as soon as I received news of your illness, and I have not loitered on the road."
               "You have been absent long."
               "True I have, dear mother, but I thought not of your being sick."
               "I did not wish to disturb you, Henry, in your pleasure, and, therefore, did not write until I found I was dangerously ill."
               "But you will recover, mother."
               "I fear not."
               "There is still hope left."
               "Hope? But little, my son."
               "No hope?"
               "My days, I fear, are numbered."
               "Can this be true?"
               "Too true, I fear; and I have sent for you to see you once more before I bid farewell to earth."
               "But, mother—"
               "Henry, I feel that I have but a few days, perhaps hours, to live, and I have much to say to you. When my eyes are closed in death, you will be alone in the world. Your father has, long since, found a never ending home in heaven, and soon, I trust, I will join him. Your sisters, too, are, I hope, there; and when I am called from earth, you will be alone—"
               "Mother, dear mother, do not talk thus."
               "It were worse than useless, to disguise the fact, that I am near death. Listen to me, and reply not, for my strength is fast departing. When I am gone, you will be an orphan, with none to guide or guard you. Temptation will be ever around your path. Oh! how I tremble for the future; but if the spirit after death can hover around those they love on earth, mine shall be around your path, and—but I faint."
               A restorative was administered, and again the conversation was renewed.
               "I have learned from your letters, Henry, that your heart has felt the power of woman's love."
               "Mother?"
               "Perchance, before you know it yourself, had learned your secret."
               "I never wrote you so."
               "True; but, my son, your letters revealed to me what your blushes now do."
               "I cannot deny that I have seen one who has attracted my fancy."
               "Aye, and enchained your heart. Is not this so?"
               "I may not deny it, mother."
               "Is she worthy of your love, Henry?"
               "Yes, fully so."
               "Beware how you lightly think of this theme. It is one that involves years of happiness or misery, and not one that should be the result of a careless, idle fancy. Think well of it, and if she is, indeed, a true woman, wed her when I am gone to my last home. Treat her kindly, and let judgment, and not passion, ever be your guide."
               "It shall be so, mother."
               "Remember the motto of the Arabs, "strike not your wife, even with a blossom," and teach her to look up to you ever, for when a woman looses her respect for her husband, then it were better that they were parted, for, from that hour, strife will have found a foothold upon the hearth stone, and love will own no more a joyous resting place."
               "I shall not forget your words."
               "But, above all things, take the bible for your guide. Let it be ever a 'lamp to your feet,' and put your trust in Him who marks even the sparrow's fall. As He has been the stay of my widowhood, so will He guide thy orphanage. Remember this, above all things, for all of earth is but nothing compared to that eternity to which we are all hastening."
               "Mother, you will yet live."
               "My son, the finger that is turning upon the dial of my life, is already pointing at the end of its day. To God and His care I commit you, and as you put your trust in Him, so will He protect you in the hour of danger, console you in that of trial, and cheer you in that of death."
               Sound fled from the lips of that dying woman, although they still moved as if in prayer, and a bright sun ray that had stolen through the curtains, seemed to circle her head as with a halo of glory. It is beautiful to mark the fortitude of the dying Christian. To see how unmurmuring the grim tyrant is met and, even with a smile, the spirit is prepared to pass the portals of an unknown future. Trusting, hopeful, and even with joy, they wait the summons to the spirit land, buoyed up with the heart told assurance that angels wait their coming to join a bright-winged band in the realms of the just made perfect.
               Gazing upon that death-stricken form—the form of his mother, his earliest and best friend—Henry Elliot stood there, watching the spirit that was fluttering, candle-like in the socket, ere its pinions were spread and its flight taken to 'another and a better world.' Well as we know that 
                     
                        "There is no flock, however watched and tended,
                        But some dead lamb is there;
                        There is no fireside, howso'ever defended,
                        But has its vacant chair."
                     
                  
               
               Yet, how hard it is to part with loved ones—to say farewell forever! Vain as we know our regrets are, yet the heart will throb tumultuously, the strong mind kneel low in its agony, and the scalding tears flow from the o'ercharged eye. Who, that has looked upon death, and who has not, will dare deny the truth of these feelings? But, regardless of all, the almost breaking heart-strings, the moan, the wail, and the fearful shriek of anguish, the destroyer yet holds his course, when the fiat has gone forth, and with a hollow, mocking laugh he sits, scythe in hand, upon his skeleton built throne.
               The last heart throb has been given, the last word spoken, the last breath passed the ashy lips, and the spirit has gone to God. The clayey casket that contained it is all that remains now, and the last right of earth all that is left for us to do. Coffined and dressed in the garments of the grave-yard, we follow it tearfully to the tomb. The sod rattles with its hollow sound upon the coffin, the prayer is uttered, and dust is again mingled with dust—alas, how soon to be forgotten amid the bustle of this busy world. Like those who have preceded us, so we soon shall follow and sleep in an unremembered grave. The coffin and the hearse, a passing knell is all, when life's dream is over.
               Arousing from her lethargy that fair sufferer again, with her hand clasped into that of her son, attempted to address him, but life was already giving way to death, and the words came soft and slow like the breath of a slumbering infant.
               "Henry, my son, I'm dying. Remember my words—farewell. Husband, children, God, I come. Farewell, Henry, my—"
               The words died upon her lips, and Henry Elliot was an orphan.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VI.
               Startling as was the announcement of Prairie Fire, at the time when he threw aside his disguise as Medicine Man, yet there were many of the assembled warriors that were aware of the fact, although it had been carefully kept from the knowledge of the Crouching Panther. Early, upon the homeward trail, he had shown his design to obtain Bessie Thompson, at all hazards, and Prairie Fire was willing to try all means to avoid that end, ere he asserted his power as chief. The result showed the vindictive spirit of the one, and the stern determination of the other to protect the weeping captive.
               "I am Prairie Fire!" again he repeated, as he stood proudly there, amid the assembled braves, a striking picture of manly beauty. Such a form, tall, erect, and moulded as the sculptor's hand can never mould the plastic clay. Like a whip cord each muscle stood out from the brawny limbs, and the eye flashed like lightning as his glance fell upon his opposer.
               "Do you deny my power?"
               "The young eagle denies not the strength of wing of the one that has for years floated amid the sun rays that gild the mountain top."
               Still willing to conciliate, Prairie Fire continued, after glancing slowly around the circle, and the emblematic calumet had been smoked, by a sign of his hand,
               "The warriors of the Iroquois are not children! Far towards the setting sun, the west of life, their moccasons have left their tread, and the wisdom of their fathers is slumbering in their brains. Many moons have passed over them, and their bright beams have stolen the midnight of their hair and left their silver there. The Manitous of the Storm, of the Sky, of the Earth, of the Air, and the Running Stream have taught them words of wisdom. Blessed have they been upon the hunting trail of the bloody one when scalps are won. The earth has given them corn, the forest venison, and the stream its scaly dwellers. The voice of the Match Manitou has not been heard in the rolling thunder or his glance seen in the fearful, far-flashing lightning. Should the altar of home be stained with the blood of innocence? Say I not true that amid the rules that govern our tribe, the deformed, the idiot, and the orphan shall never appeal in vain to any for succor, and are free from the knife, the tomahawk, the arrow, from torture, and from death?"
               "Aye, our brother's tongue is not forked like the serpent's;" was the answer uttered by a chieftain of nearly an hundred years. One upon whose bow of life the string was frayed, parting, almost broken, and yet whose heart still beat strongly, and whose blood-craving appetite was unquenched, unquenchable, save with the end of life itself.
               "The hand," continued he, "that is stained like the autumn leaves, when the breath of the Frost King blows upon them, with the blood of the idiot, the deformed, or the orphan, knowingly, is accursed through the hours of life and may never pluck a flower in the happy hunting grounds of the Spirit Land. From his tribe shall he be driven, and forgotten by them, the howling wolf shall tear him piecemeal, and his bones bleach, unearthed, in the sun! My brother has spoken well. I am done."
               "This captive maiden," resumed Prairie Fire, "may look in vain upon earth for the form of a father or mother—"
               A heart-piercing shriek rang, like the cry of an imprisoned fiend, and Bessie Thompson fell, fainting, to the earth. The senseless form removed by the hands of the younger maidens of the tribe, Prairie Fire continued. But how well it would, perchance, have been, had her of whom he was speaking, and for whom he was pleading, fainted never to awake upon earth.
               "In the wigwams of the Iroquois hang the scalps of her parents, and their canoes have floated over the dark waters of the river of death. The wolf alone has dug their graves, and the night hawk and owl alone sang their requiem. The Crouching Panther's knife was buried in the heart of the Sire; would he have the daughter cook his venison and fill his wigwam? Let him answer."
               "The Panther, when he has lapped the blood of the doe, spares not the timid fawn. Upon the war path the hatchet is not stayed, though the enemy has seen but a single moon. The scalp of the old man, covered with silver locks, and that of the squaw, with long silken curls, are alike to him."
               "My brother, when he would kill, aims at his mark. His words point not at the question."
               "The Great Spirit touched not my tongue with eloquence."
               "When the hunter's foot is upon the trail, it travels like the bee, straight towards the end, and not winding and doubling like the cunning fox. Let the Panther say if he would take this stricken flower of the pale faces to be his bride?"
               "The lodge of the warrior is empty. From death he would save her; and not with empty hands dost he return from the chase."
               "What do the chiefs of the Iroquois say to the demand. Shall the maiden be given to the warrior?"
               A long consultation was held. And then, one after another arose, gathering their blankets around them, and, silent and unmoving as bronze statues, awaited the announcement of their decision, by the chieftain of the snowy locks."
               "It were not well for the howling wolf to mate with the timid hare, or the eagle with the dove. The stinging serpent seeks not the earth groveling worm for companionship. The wild horse of the prairie proudly snuffs the keen air, and scorns the bridle broken one that has bowed to the will of man. The chieftain, in whose veins run the noble blood that has descended through a thousand years, fills not his wigwam save from the daughters of the noble. Will not our brother think of this?"
               "The Crouching Panther is not fickle like the summer wind. He is not a child."
               "The maidens of the Iroquois are fair; fairer than the weeping lilly of the pale face, that faints when the warrior but speaks of blood. Many have looked lovingly upon him; let him claim from amongst them a bride."
               "I have spoken."
               "Let the maiden be brought to hear the words of the council. It is meet she should learn the sentence, and that the warriors should hear what her tongue may utter."
               The words of doom! Too plainly, all who are the slightest acquainted with Indian character, can read them, although couched in figurative language. A fearful doom, for one so young and fair.
               With eyes full of tears and bent upon the ground, with hair unbound and veiling her face, and form trembling like the aspen in the hour of tempest, Bessie Thompson was led into the circle of warriors. What a contrast, there! A beautiful, snowy-skinned captive, and dark-browed, brawny conquerors. Stoic, as Indians ever are, trained in the school of blood and revenge, yet the eye of Prairie Fire was not moistureless as he heard the words thrill upon the air.
               "The Lilly of the pale face is the prisoner of the Iroquois. Crouching Panther, a brave known upon the war path and upon the hunting trail, claims her as his bride. Let the maiden speak; will she fill his lodge?"
               "Never!"
               "The council give her to the warrior. Let the fire be extinguished." And, turning, he left the group.
               Who, now, fair one, will save you from a fate worse than death? Who, from being a very slave to a war bred savage of the wild wood? Who, tell of thy fate, in the home of thy infancy; guard you from jealousy; cheer you in sickness, and save you from the red man's wrath? Your prayer for succor is vain! Erskine, Waters, all are far away; your trust is now not in human hands, but in Him, alone, is who ruler, supreme, alike of earth and heaven!
               With a loud shout, the Crouching Panther sprang towards the agony wrung maiden, and clasped her in his sinewy arms. Light as if but a feather, he lifted her aloft and bore her towards his wigwam.
               "Save me! oh, save me!" burst from her lips, as he passed the spot where Prairie Fire was standing, apparently as calm as a summer morning, but no volcano ever had a more raging fire within.
               "Save me! for God's sake, save me!" rung on the air, and senselessness again removed her from her sufferings.
               "Hold! Let the warrior's steps be stayed;" thundered Prairie Fire, as his strong hand fell upon the arm of the other.
               "What would my brother?"
               "Let him give the maiden to my arms."
               "She is the bride of the Crouching Panther;" and his knife sprang from his belt and flashed in the sun rays.
               "The teeth of the Panther affrights not the warrior. Let him listen."
               "The singing bird of the pale face makes sweeter music to his ear."
               
               "The scream of the eagle is a sound more fit for them to listen to."
               "But the hunter, when the chase is over, rests himself upon the mossy ground, and his ears drink in the songs of the love-bird. But what would my brother?"
               "The form of this senseless maiden."
               "The council gave her to me, and the warrior is not to be robbed of his prey."
               "Let my brother look within the girdle of the maiden, and say what he finds there."
               "The guardian sign that Prairie Fire gives to his friends—an arrow marked by fire."
               "My brother can read it as the pale man does written language."
               "It is a sign of protection that no Iroquois dare dispute."
               "Will the Panther give her to my arms."
               "No; never! When she became my bride the fire burned arrow was useless."
               "Let my brother look again within her girdle."
               "A wampum belt, died in blood, and a plume of the cloud cleaving eagle."
               "Let him tell of their meaning."
               "She is now the DAUGHTER OF PRAIRIE FIRE." And, with muttered curses, he resigned the form of Bessie Thompson into his arms, well knowing that she could never be his wife; and, sheathing his knife, he departed to his own wigwam.
               Bessie Thompson, you have found a true and lasting friend, one to protect and guard you in every hour of trial; and that protector, as well as yourself, have made an enemy that will follow you to the very death. You are freed from being his bride now, but beware of the future! The fox is not more cunning, the serpent more subtle, or the wolf more savage when hemmed in the toils of the hunter.
               Easily as if the form that the Panther had cast rudely upon the ground, in wrath, when he departed, had been that of a child, Prairie Fire lifted up the maiden and bore her in his strong and sinewy arms towards his wigwam, that stood in the very centre of the encampment, and gave her into the arms of his wife, a tall and noble looking squaw of about thirty summers.
               "Let the woman of the Murmuring Stream, the wife of Prairie Fire, guard the Drooping Lilly of the pale face's as she would her honor. The teeth of the Panther are sharp, and he crouches low for blood."
               "The Lilly shall droop no more; but her smile, like the sun of morning, shall gladden the childless home of the warrior."
               "It is well."
               And, turning, Prairie Fire left the lodge and wended his way towards the forest, carefully armed, as if for hunting. But such was not his thought; for soon he was seated upon the trunk of a fallen oak, and busy with his own thoughts. Long he communed, thus; indeed, the shadows of night were fast throwing gloom over the earth when he arose to depart. Cautious ever, he avoided every dry branch that would break beneath the tread of the moccasoned foot, and listened to every sound. Nearly had he passed the bounds of the forest, when a slight cracking of branches attracted his attention, and quick as thought, he concealed his form behind a tree. Motionless, as if stricken by death, he stood there, and by him passed stealthily along the well known form of the Crouching Panther.
               Noiselessly followed Prairie Fire, until the Panther had reached the very spot where he had been seated a moment before, and then, after hearing the muttered words—
               "Not here! The hunter's foot tires not upon the trail and his arrow is swift, sure, and noiseless. He has robbed the Panther of his bride. Let him beware that he sleeps not to-night in the spirit land—"
               Turned hastily, and reached his wigwam in safety and undiscovered.
               Within that lodge was seated his wife and Bessie Thompson, partaking of the evening meal. The tears of the captive maiden had been dried, and, though the marks of sorrow were plainly visible upon her face, yet, as she sat then, with the warm flashes of the fire falling upon it, she looked beautiful, indeed.
               "Thanks, thanks!" she uttered, as the chieftain entered; and grasping his brawny hand, pressed it to her rosy lips.
               "Let the Lilly of the pale face thank the Manitou."
               "It was you that saved me from worse than death." And she shuddered, even at the thought of what she had undergone.
               "The eye of the Good Spirit is ever upon his children; darkness cannot hide them from his sight, he reads the hearts of all."
               "But it is to you, Prairie Fire, that I am indebted for my safety."
               "As the arrow obeys the will of the hand that directs it, so do I the hand of the Good Manitou. Let the Lilly of the pale face's listen. Many moons ago, a hunter wandered far from his home, in search of venison. He had traveled long, and his feet grew weary of the trail, but he had chased in vain the fleet-footed deer. No food had passed his lips for many hours, and, faint, he lay down by the running brook, to slake his thirst and rest his weary limbs. The warriors of the enemy were upon his trail, and had tracked him like the wolf to his lair. They came suddenly upon him, and their arrows bristled in his body like the quills upon the porcupine. Vainly he struggled; they bound him, and led him to the banks of the swift running Illinois. Then they tied him to a blood painted post. The death-dance was over, and the pile around him lighted; the flames danced high above his head, and the smoke was stealing away his breath. Already he was chanting his death song—had uttered the shrill war cry of his tribe—and his eye was gazing upon the opening glories of the happy hunting grounds, beyond the grave. A shout was heard! A score of pale warriors dashed upon the savage torturers, a keen knife cut his bands, a strong arm scattered the burning pile around him and bore him to the forest. Mounted on a gallant horse, the warrior was taken to the home of the white man. Kind hands dressed his wounds and stayed the flight of the angel of life. Recovered, they furnished him with food, gave him a horse, and set him free. He returned to his tribe in safety, and was welcomed by those who had blackened their faces and wept for his death. The red man never forgives an injury or forgets a kindness. That pale man was—"
               "My father?"
               "The maiden has spoken the words of truth."
               "And the red man was yourself, was—"
               A whistling arrow stopped the conclusion of that sentence. Like lightning it sped through the gloom, grazing the cheek of the warrior and burying itself in the breast of the maiden, who, with a shrick of agony, fell prostrate to the earth.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               Cautiously, Erskine and Waters entered the encampment of their associates, and gazed upon the stalwart form of the warrior of the Iroquois, now locked in the arms of death. Before those who were so intently gazing upon that corpse were aware of it, they were in their midst, and Waters shouted—
               "A pretty watch, you keep—a bright look out! Why, boys, you are about as fit to follow an Indian trail as a bear is to dance, and if there had been a party of red skins about there wouldn't have been a scalp in the company."
               "No matter," interrupted Erskine, "when they have been on the trail as long as you and I have, they will take the beaver for a tutor and learn better."
               "If they haven't learned by this time, they never will. But come, boys, put that carrion under the earth, and get ready to tramp."
               "Bury this carcase?"
               "Aye, you would not leave it for the wolf to grow fat upon?"
               "But he was an Indian."
               "What matters that," said Erskine, "he was a man."
               "They would not do that much for us."
               "And, therefore, you must turn savage?"
               "No; but—"
               "Dig a hole, and in with him, his face towards the west, and his bow and arrows by his side. That's Indian religion, ain't it, Ned?'
               "Yes; and build a good fire over the grave."
               "A fire?"
               "Certainly, boy, don't you know that wolves will not scratch through ashes to rob a grave?"
               "No."
               "Well, you will learn some day."
               "Aye, about the same time he learns to keep watch," laughed Waters, as he seated himself by the fire and began carelessly broiling a piece of venison.
               "Dig deep, boys."
               "You are as particular as a squaw."
               "And why should I not be?"
               "What; with a cursed red skin?"
               "To be sure, Frank."
               "Well, I reckon the women taught you this."
               "My mother's lessons are not forgotten."
               "Nor mine either."
               "Why, Frank?"
               
               "Because I never saw her."
               "I remember mine well."
               "No matter, go on with your work."
               A grave was hastily dug, and the form of the Night Owl deposited in it. A fit resting place it was, in the unbroken solitude of the forest, for that savage warrior. Warrior-like had he died!; and now, his spirit wandered in the happy hunting grounds beyond the tomb. Firm is an Indian's faith in the great and good Manitou, and that a canoe is ever waiting to bear him across the stormy waters that roll between time and eternity. True as it is that they worship not in 'temples made with hands' or kneel at a gilded altar, yet may not their faith be as good as those who do? The wild wood is their temple, the mossy sod over which the emerald branches wave in beauty, their altar; the running brook and balmy breeze, their organ; and their God, the God of nature. Perfumed is the flower carpet upon which they kneel, and sweet upon their ear falls the carol of the wild bird and the strains æolian of the forest's many string harp. The bright, blue sky of morn, or the starry one of midnight, the only roof to their temple, and a Manitou, sublime in his majesty and goodness teaches them from the great volume of nature. Is such worship not as pure and holy as that of many who are fettered by sectarian forms and ceremonies? Is not their Manitou the same great spirit that we all worship, and will he not listen as well to the forest whispered prayer of the red man as to the one that falls from eloquent lips, and loses itself amid the vaulted arches of a costly church? To our mind, there can be no God purer, more holy, or worthy of worship than Him who created the world and called it good; than the God of river, mountain, prairie, lake, forest, and ocean—than the Indian's God—the God of Nature.
               Restlessly Waters sat, during the time the earth was being prepared to receive the pulse-less form, while Erskine looked somewhat sadly on, as he stood leaning upon his rifle, a very beau-ideal of a woodsman.
               "Now, boys, pile on the branches, and light the fire;" were the first words he uttered.
               "Aye," muttered Waters, "you was always chicken-hearted, Ned, and for the sake of this painted carrion would build a fire to light the rest of his tribe to take our scalps."
               "No, Frank, I am too old a fox to be caught in such a trap. Now, boys, quick and away. If the Iroquois are lurking round they'll soon be here—"
               "As soon as a buzzard to the death stricken deer."
               "The trail is too plain a one to deceive us, and morning will soon dawn."
               "Yes; and if we don't rescue Bess Thompson—"
               "Stop, Frank."
               "Give me your hand, Ned, I forget myself when I think of these infernal red skins."
               "Well, well, if I knew you not so well, Frank, I should long ago have taken offence at your words, but, as I know your heart is right, it matters not."
               "My tongue is like an unbroken colt."
               "Let's be off. Come, boys, I'll show you a trail that a woman could read, and if I can't follow it to the wigwam of the Iroquois, I'll never try to track a wolf to its den again."
               "'Tis as plain as the deer's when it stamps every footsteps in blood, upon the leafy path. But you say true that it is time to be off."
               And whistling to his hounds, Waters quickly left the circle, and followed by the others, cautiously took his way through the forest."
               The shades of night still hung above them, so deep and dense that it was impossible for any to see their companions, as in Indian file they held their course amid the tangled undergrowth and giant trees, until they reached the spot where Erskine and Waters had left the trail, when they saw the fire of their companions. Easily the quick scented hounds recognized it, and would have dashed rapidly on, had not Ned, in a low voice, called them to his side and bade them be silent.
               "Your off as quick as if the trail was marked with blood," said Waters, as he stooped and patted his fierce, four-footed friends.
               "But, Ned, what are you stopping here for?"
               "It would not be well to attempt to cross the river until we can see our way."
               "I've rode it a hundred times when I could not see my hand.'"
               "So have I."
               "Why, then, should we wait for morning?"
               "It is too good a place for an ambush not to be chosen, if the Indians are still lingering about here."
               "True, true; I had forgotten that; and it is strange that I do so."
               "And I don't chose to be shot down, when I have no chance to see the shooters."
               "You are right, Ned."
               "It wants but a short time to dawn, and as you and I have had a hard ride, we'll just take a short nap and let the others keep guard."
               "If they don't look keener than they did before; I'd just as soon have a bear in the winter time, for a look out."
               "Never fear," Frank, said one of the hunters, "I'll watch as close as a lynx."
               "With both eyes shut?"
               "If I didn't see you when you came, I saw the Indian; and you may knock the hind sights of my riflle if it didn't bark as quick and bite as sharp as yours ever did."
               "Never mind," interposed Erskine, who, well knowing the fierce and quick temper of Waters, feared the result of a continued discussion on the subject. "If we go on talking, I reckon our sleep will be a short one. So, boys, keep guard, and when the first bird whistles, to the morn, call us." And laying his rifle carefully by his side and covering it to protect it from the dew of night, he was soon sleeping as calmly and soundly as a mother's rocked infant.
               A moment more, and Waters was also stretched upon the earth, and all was silence, save the deep breathing of the hounds and the stamping of the horses, until the early songsters of the forest had left their downy nests and were floating upon tireless wings far up, through the dewy grey of morning, towards the golden bar of heaven.
               Rude was the toilet made by these frontier bred men, as they sprang to their feet from slumber. A hasty ablution in a neighboring brook and their line of march was taken on the trail of their enemies. Plainly they read it now, and hastened forward until they reached the banks of the river. Entering it, they carefully crossed, and searched for it on the other side. This was not easy to be accomplished; for, with Indian cunning, the warriors of the Iroquois, when they emerged from the water, had left no foot print upon the shore, but had climbed upon a ledge of rocks. Eagerly, all sought for the lost trail, but man and dog were alike at fault, and some time elapsed ere any clue was gained, and Waters was the first to find it.
               "Here, Ned! here, boys!" shouted he, "what's this?" and he held up a fragment of ribbon, soiled and frayed.
               "Some Indian trapping," answered one of the group.
               "You know better than that, Ned?"
               "No red skin ever wore this, or it would have been covered with beads and wampum."
               "Aye, any fool could have told that, that ever followed a trail. But you know what it is?"
               "Certainly;" and placing it carefully within his hunting shirt, he answered, "it is a part of a ribbon worn by Bessie Thompson. I have seen it a hundred times upon her neck."
               "Well, I supposed you are right; but hang me, if ever I notice a woman's finery. But the trail must be near here, or else this cobweb-like rag has been carried far by the wind."
               "It is not a great distance off, you may be certain, and this ribbon is an assurance that Thompson's murderers have passed this way."
               "True; but as yet I have seen no sign of them, and both Speed and Swift are as useless as my own eyes, and I thought I could follow any trail an Indian ever traveled over."
               "So did I, Frank; and if I don't find and follow it yet, you may call me a woman, and Bessie Thompson will be without—"
               "A scalp!"
               "No, no, not that;" and his stout frame and voice trembled, as he continued, "without a friend, I was going to say."
               "Not so bad as that, Ned, while I live."
               "True, Frank, I know your heart is warm, and that where you pledge your word you are ever faithful, but no more of this. We are losing time, and every hour is precious. Seperate, boys, and when any strike the trail, give the signal. You know it well, all of you."
               "Aye, aye," replied every voice, and seperating they commenced, hound-like, to search for the lost trail.
               Every inch of ground was examined along the shore of the river, by those hardy foresters, but almost in vain. Erskine held his way down the stream, and soon became aware that the banks had been trod by mocassoned feet, but their prints were so mingled together that it was impossible to determine which way the Indians had gone. Hope, however, did not desert him, and all the energies of his active mind were upon the task before him. It was a trial of skill between the cunning of the red man and that of the pale one—that of the one to hide, and of the other to find.
               Low he bent, down upon the earth, and minutely examined every imprint, slight though they were, and at last he was somewhat rewarded, for amid the large and deep marks of giant warriors feet he found a small and slipper shod one. Oh! how his heart leaped with joy! How the blood danced through his frame, and his brain reeled with delight! It needed no seer to tell him that it was the footstep of the one he so dearly loved, and for whom he was venturing so much, either to ensure her safety or yield his own heart in the attempt.
               But all yet was dark, amid the mazes of foot prints, as to the course he was to take; and, cautiously, he crept on over the grassy ground, and beneath the thick foliage. Soon, however, the trail became more clearly defined. A broken branch, now and then, betrayed its course, and the steps were single. Unwilling to risk the chance of a failure, he still crept on beneath a dense thicket, but becoming sure that he was not led astray, he bent his car to the ground to listen for the whereabouts of his companions, ere he gave the signal of success. So intent was he upon this, that he failed to notice a pair of bright and lightning flashing eyes that were bent upon him, or hear a low growl that was uttered above his head. A panther had been closely watching his movements, and was already crouching for a spring. Satisfied that his comrades were near, he rose and his shrill whistle sounded through the forest. One moment he stood there, in all his manly beauty, another, and the fierce beast had made his spring, and Erskine was stretched upon the ground covered with his life blood!
            
            
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE HAPPY HOME.
               Clara Reynolds sat, in the home of her father, watching the gambols of the child that Erskine had brought thither, and listening to the songs of her pet birds. At her feet lay her father's favorite dog, "Wolf," dreamingly watching what was going on, sedately and dignified as a veteran like him should be. It was a beautiful sight that abode of plenty and happiness. One that the eye would love to linger on, and the mind contemplate, a very green spot amid the flowerless deserts of life. How few homes there are wherein CONTENTMENT is the reigning goddess! How few, that, could the gazer's eye look beneath the surface, would not show that all were not so bright and happy as they appeared to be, and prove the truth of the somewhat trite adage, that "all that glitters is not gold."
               But this was a hearth-stone of peace, and plenty, and happiness, unknowing aught of alloy to mirth, save the indistinct remembrances of the past. From Judge Reynolds down to the veriest pet, all were freed from the ordinary vexations of life, and none was more blythe than that dear little orphan girl. Too young to feel the heavy bereavement she had met with, her mind was easily led from the home of her birth, and to her childish recollection it appeared more like a dream than stern and bitter reality.
               Happy, light-hearted childhood! how we envy thy blythe gambols and careless, silvery laugh, as we look back through the dimly lighted halls of memory to the time when we also had hearts throbbing within us that had never been sunk by the "plumet of agony." How vividly the picture is painted before us of the rippling brook from which, with a thread and bended pin, we sought to lure the tiny dace; how bright the panorama of our cottage home, where we first saw the bright-eyed morn, with its vine covered walls, its weeping willow, its grassy door yard, its 'old oaken bucket that hung in the well,' its cool nooks in summer, and its bright, blazing hearth when winter was throwing his icy fetters upon the stream and a snowy blanket over the land! Vividly, indeed, come these recollections, these bright pictures of the past, till we almost grow sick of earth, and long for the bright realms beyond the shores of time. 
                     
                        "And yet is life a thing to be beloved,
                        And honored holily, and bravely borne.
                     
                  
               
               For it was an all-wise Providence that fixed our lot on this planet wandering in the immensity of space, and gave to each their lot and destiny. It was for an end known to him alone, when all was chaos; and who will dare dispute the fiat that made us denizens of this revolving orb. And if we reflect upon life as we should do, we will find it is— 
                     
                        "More than breath and the quick round of blood
                        It is a great spirit and a busy heart.
                        The coward and the small in soul scarce do live.
                        One generous feeling—one great thought—one deed
                        Of good, ere night, would make life longer seem
                        Than if each year might number a thousand days,
                        Spent as is this by nations of mankind.
                        We live in deeds, not years; in thoughts, not breaths;
                        In feelings, not in figures on a dial.
                        We should count time by heart throbs. He lives most,
                        Who thinks most—feels the noblest—acts the best.
                        Life's but a means unto an end—that end,
                        Beginning, mean and end to all things—God."
                     
                  
               
               "Clara, you will spoil your little orphan pet," said Judge Reynolds, after watching the happy ones around him for some time in silence.
               "Not so, dear Father."
               "Aye, but you will."
               "As you spoiled me, Father?" and the beautiful girl stopped for a moment from playing with the silken tresses of her little charge, and gazed up into his face with a merry twinkle in her eyes.
               "Will you never be done quizzing your old Father, Clara?"
               "I did but jest."
               "Yes; and, as usual, have it your own way," laughed the Judge. "But come hither, little one. I suppose I must lose my Clara, some of these days, and then you will be a daughter to me."
               "I shall never leave you, Father."
               "Tut, tut, girl, you know your heart is gone, and I presume you will soon follow it."
               "Never, away from you."
               "Well, then, I shall have some rattle-headed boy here too, who I shall have to call son."
               "Father!"
               "What, now, my pretty Miss? If your cheeks were to speak, instead of your tongue, they would tell a different tale. What do you think, little Miss Clara?" and the Judge smoothed the glossy curls of the infant child, as it laid confidingly in his lap and looked wonderingly at him with its large and jetty eyes, while at the same time he covertly laughed at the blushes of his daughter.
               "But no matter," he continued, "your time will come, too, for you are all alike. Oh! love, love;" and a sigh escaped him, as he thought of the time when he, also, felt its power and bowed a willing slave to do homage to beauty.
               Beauty? Who does not worship it, in every thing of earth and heaven, and has not felt the power, the irresistible charm, of bright eyes, silken locks, a fairy form, and radiant features? None! and yet how much below mind it is and how soon it fades, while the scinctillations of thought, genius, poesy live forever. Beauty decays with time, and leaves no trace; but the brilliant flashings of mind are eternal.
               "Father, why will you talk so;" and the queenly girl tossed her head proudly in the air, and her arched lip curled between a frown and a smile.
               "Talk so? Why, I thought a young girl scarcely ever had anything in her head but love, and that was the sweetest theme you could converse to them about."
               "It is not so with me."
               "You!" and the loud laugh of the Judge made the room ring again, and the robin that had been dozing upon his perch, fluttered about his cage with a shrill whistle.
               "See, Father, you have waked up the birds," said Clara, anxious to give a different direction to his thoughts.
               "You may well whistle, Rob, when a girl denies being in love, and, at the bare mention of the word, at the same time her cheeks are a brighter scarlet 'than sumac berries in the autumn of the year,'" continued the Judge regardless, apparently, of her remark.
               "Pa," lisped "little Clara," for so the adopted one had been named; and as she had been taught to call Judge Reynolds father, her mind, by one of those unaccountable instincts that we often see in childhood, led her to call Clara mother.
               "Pa, see, mother is crying."
               "Nay, Clara, I did not intend to wound your feelings;" and he hastened to his daughter's side, and kissed her tears away.
               A moment after, and that circle was as bright again as if no cloud had ever dim'd its horizon.
               "But, Clara," resumed the Judge, "this is a subject that I have long wished to speak to you about."
               "What, Father?"
               "Why, your getting married."
               "My getting married?"
               
               "Certainly. Though hale and hearty as yet, I am long past the prime of life. Some accident might happen to me, and you would be without a protector."
               "Father, do not talk thus."
               "If it were not my duty, willingly would I forbear. But, Clara, I have arrived at that period of life when it is meet that I should begin to prepare for the future."
               "Father!"
               "Nay, daughter, hear me. Even if I should live many years yet, which God in his mercy grant, it were best that you should be settled in life—have some one to protect you. Our frontier life is a dangerous one, and young as you are, or even this poor child, your ears have heard the shrill war hoop, and seen the war painted Indian revelling in blood."
               "It is but too true."
               "You were old enough, Clara," and the voice of that strong man trembled and a tear drop dim'd his eyes, as olden scenes came thronging before him, "you were old enough, Clara, when your mother died, to remember something of the horrors of Indian warfare, though indistinctly. With me it is different; they are branded on my brain as with letters of fire—never to be forgotten! Reflect upon this, and your judgment will tell you that I am right in thus urging this matter upon you. Is it not so?"
               "Yes, Father."
               "This poor child, also, will need some one to protect her, and where shall that protection come from, when I am gone?"
               "Erskine, Waters, will not desert her."
               "True; they have sworn to befriend her, and that oath never will be broken. But even now they are far away, in pursuit of the murderers of her parents. Their lives are full of dangers, and soon they may need protection themselves from the keen knife and fearful torture. But even were they ever here, they are no companions, brave and noble-hearted as they are, for you, my girl."
               "They are honest, fearless, true."
               "Aye, all of that, but not fit mates for you. Clara, it is useless for you to attempt to dissemble, there is one."
               "One what, father?"
               "One that you love."
               "Love?" and the head of the girl bent low, until her luxuriant tresses completely curtained her blushing cheeks.
               "Aye, love. I have not watched you in vain. I have seen it long, and even, perchance, before you were aware of it yourself, I learned your secret. You love."
               "Who, Father?"
               "Ask your own heart, it will tell you more truly than my tongue could. Is it not true, Clara, that you have not escaped that power to which we all bow?"
               "It—it—it—"
               "Come, Clara, be frank with me. It was not thus that you were wont to treat me. Is it not true that your heart has not remained scathless to the power of love?"
               "It is, dear Father."
               "And that its not in your possession?"
               "Yes, yes."
               "But why sigh, child? Love is not a thing to be ashamed of, where its object is worthy of that love. It is the purest, noblest, holiest part of our nature. It is the feeling, passion, if you will, that brings us nearer God; that raises us above the groveling things of earth. Never be ashamed of your love for—"
               "Stay, Father. I am not ashamed, but—"
               "I did."
               "Father, few know the meaning of that word. Love is not a flower that lingers in the bud, but bursts forth in full blossom in a moment. Quick as thought its birth! An instant brings its bloom, a life its time of flowering, the grave its only hour of death. Born alike in sunshine and in storm, in happiness or sorrow, it ne'er can change till the strange alliance of earth is broken, the clay and spirit parted, the silver chord severed, the golden chalice broken, and time changed to eternity. Love is a feeling sent from heaven to earth, to cheer our lonely way, and woman's love is truest, best of all. You cannot know its strength or tenderness. The heart of a true woman twines around its idol like the ivy round the oak, and ne'er unclasps its hold with life. Time cannot change it or lay one tendril in the dust. Pure, aye, holy as in its hour of birth, its death will be, and when the unfettered spirit wings its way to other realms, e'en then it dies not, but becomes more holy, and beams brighter by the very throne of God."
               The next number will appear on the first of May.
               "You are eloquent upon this theme."
               "Who would not be, Father? But you never heard me speak ought upon it before."
               "True, Clara, I never did."
               "Yet such thoughts have long been locked within my heart, and now you have forced my lips to utter them."
               "Forced you to utter them?"
               "Yes, dear Father;" and the beautiful girl arose, and standing by her parent's side, put her arm lovingly around his neck, while her tiny namesake nestled close to his bosom. How beautiful such a picture of domestic happiness, and how true her words. Well, oh! poet, hast thou written— 
                     
                        "Weigh naught 'gainst love,
                        Weigh LOVE against the world!"
                     
                  
               
               "You spoke, Father, of the time when I might be without a protector. When you—you—were—were—"
               "Were dead, dear daughter. Death must come to all, and well it is for those who are prepared."
               "At such a time, and with you, I have spoken what torture, aye, even such as I have heard you speak of when you were a prisoner of the savage warriors, far beyond the Father of Waters, could never have wrung from me."
               "You are a brave, good girl, Clara."
               "Would you have me otherwise than brave?"
               "Certainly not."
               "The daughter of the frontier man should never be a coward, and yet I ofttimes tremble when dreaming of the savage war cry."
               "But, Clara, to return to our subject. You own that your heart has been given to another."
               "Yes, dear Father."
               "Need I ask you who?
               Before an answer could he framed upon the lips, Black Pompey swung the door wide open and announced the name of—
               "HENRY ELLIOTT!"
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               Quick as was the flight of the arrow itself, that struck Bessie Thompson to the earth, were the movements of Prairie Fire, as he sprang from his wigwam in search of the one who had thus attempted his life. Amid the darkness his eye was still keen enough to detect a form that was slowly creeping away, and he was not long in reaching it. Discovered, as he was, the warrior, with Indian cunning, strove to disguise his bow and arrows and deceive his pursuer. The paint and form, however, were well known, and the Crouching Panther felt that he was in the power of Prairie Fire.
               "My brother is not wont to crawl like a serpent; the Panther's foot is swift and his teeth sharp."
               "The Panther creeps till he nears his prey."
               "He bounds from the swaying branches, or waits for his enemies amid the leafy tree tops."
               "The hunter's eye is keen, and his rifle deals death from afar."
               "The swift-winged bird may not avoid the shaft that speeds from the quivering bowstring."
               "But the cunning beast of the forest hides when the armed hunter is near, until his spring is sure and his tongue can lap the warm blood."
               "My brother's footsteps are not like the Panther's amid the leafy wood."
               "When the Manitou of the Frost is binding the stream, and the deer have fled from their summer homes, the Panther seeks his food amid the homes of the red warrior, or by the fire of the pale face."
               "My brother is armed for the hunting trail. Does he hunt when the night is dark and the moon and stars hid?"
               "The swift deer are afoot as well when the mantle of darkness is cast over the sun as when its beams gladden the earth."
               "The warriors of the Iroquois, when they would win venison amid the shadows of night, hunt by the light of a far-flashing torch, that they may see the eye of the mark they are to shoot at."
               "The hunter may lay in ambush upon the trail."
               "His eyes are not like those of the owl."
               "His ears are keen as those of the fox."
               "The red man hunts not with the bow and arrow but with the fire weapon of the pale face."
               "The wisdom of the red man teaches him silence and caution. The fire weapon speaks loud like the thunder in the hour of the storm, and many ears drink it in."
               "But my brother is not upon the trail of war?"
               
               "His steps are towards the forest and his path a silent one. He would win venison for his lodge."
               "He was not wont to hunt thus."
               "The coon and the possum are abroad, and his arrows are keen and his bow strong."
               "May he not meet other game that will need better weapons to conquer?"
               "My brother's words are hidden like the water-washed trail. I cannot read them."
               "The eye of the Manitou can see through the dark cloud, and the warrior of the Iroquois can find the secret trail of his enemies. Not alone do the coon and the night hawk rest in the forest: there are other dwellers there."
               "What does my brother mean?"
               "The Muck-wa!"
               "The foot of the bear leaves not its print near the lodge of the red man. His home is in the thicket."
               "My brother hunts not such game to-night?"
               "His quiver is still filled."
               "Could he not place another arrow there?"
               "There are no more in his wigwam."
               "Take this!" replied Prairie Fire, and ere the other was aware of his intention, he had thrown him upon the earth, and his shrill war-cry rung, trumpet like, upon the air.
               How and len the changing of the scene then! An hundred swarty warriors, at the instant, armed and astonished, darted like spectres about in the gloom, and gathered around Prairie Fire, who slowly arose and pointing to the Crouching panther, issued his commands—
               "Let the fangs be taken from you serpent, and he confined in the prison lodge. The teeth of the panther have drawn the life blood from the singing maiden of the pale faces, and the angel of death is waiting to bear her freed spirit to the happy hunting grounds beyond the grave."
               In accordance with the command, the blanket of the panther was torn aside, and his bow, arrows, tomahawk, and knife taken from him.
               "The eyes of my brothers are keen as the eagle's, let them ever be upon this crawling dog till the sun lights up the earth. I have spoken."
               Bessie Thompson we left wounded and almost lifeless, in the wigwam of Prairie Fire. The arrow that had so nearly taken the life of the chieftain, and struck her to the earth, had been sent by a strong arm, and as she fell, the wife of Prairie Fire saw in a moment that it was deeply buried in her breast. Natured, however, in the medicinal art, as taught in the forest, she was not long in calling to her aid some of the maidens of the tribe, and placing the fair sufferer upon a couch of skins. Carefully the arrow was drawn out and the healing gum of the balsam applied. Soothing drinks were given, and kind watchers sat beside her during the hours of darkness; and uncultured as her nurses were, they tended her as a mother would her first born.
               How truly has the poet written, him whose name is as immortal as his song, whether of the forest born savage or the dweller in the city— 
                     
                        "O, woman! in our hours of ease,
                        Uncertain, coy, and hard to please,
                        And variable as the shade
                        By the light quivering aspen made,—
                        When pain and anguish wring the brow,
                        A ministering angel thou!"
                     
                  
               
               But morning dawned, "as aye it will, reckless that a heart is broke or breaking," and the glad, bright sun gilded again every leaflet of the forest. It kissed the dew from the tiny flower, and danced upon the petite waves of the brooklet. It chased away the dark shadows of night, and bade it return to its ethiop home. It flung a mantle of radiance over the earth, and the brawny savage, like the oriental worshipper, felt that it was the smile of a great and good God. The glad bird soared aloft on tireless wings, carroling its morning song of praise, and the whole earth awoke from that slumber which is so near akin to death.
               The first golden smile of the god of day had scarcely quivered from heaven to our sin loving world ere the smoke arose from the council lodge of the Iroquois, and the veterans of the tribe were wending their way thither. The war post was painted, the faces of the warriors blackened, and with slow steps they left their respective wigwams and gathered around the fire that was staining, with its curling smoke, the soft and sunlit air. Seated in a circle, the calumet was passed from hand to hand, filled with the fragrant kin-ne-ken-ick, but no word was uttered until Prairie Fire broke the silence.
               "Brothers," he began, "when the sun has sunk to his daily grave, and the moon and stars are hid, the Manitou alone can protect his children."
               "Our brother speaks the words of wisdom."
               "The tongue of the Crouching Panther is forked as the treacherous moccason."
               "Let him be brought hither, that he may listen to the words of the warrior."
               Surrounded by armed braves, the Crouching Panther entered the lodge and took his place in the very midst of the circle as cooly as if he was not a prisoner.
               "The mantle of darkness was flung over the earth, and Prairie Fire was whispering words of love to his wife and comfort to the Lily of the pale face, when through the gloom an arrow sped, swift as the forked lightning. It swept by the dusky check of the warrior and buried itself in the snowy breast of the maiden."
               "My brothers but listen to the words of one who has robbed him of his prize and would make her his wife," replied the Crouching Panther.
               "The tongue of the warrior is forked."
               "Let him prove that it was my hand."
               "Will my brothers look at his arrow. It is stained with blood that never flowed from the veins of a red man!"
               The arrow was passed around the circle, and every eye rested upon a mark upon its stony head, emblematic of a panther's tooth!
               
               "Do the warriors of the Iroquois not know the marks that its braves put upon their weapons to tell what hand has struck the deer or their enemies upon the path of war?"
               "It is that of the Crouching Panther!" replied all of the assembled warriors.
               "The hunter when his quiver is broken, loses many an arrow."
               "Let the woman of the Murmuring Stream speak."
               "It is not fit that a woman should enter the council lodge and listen to the words there spoken."
               "Am I not right?" questioned Prairie Fire.
               "Yes," was the reply; and her who had taken the arrow from the breast of Bessie Thompson entered, and, Indian like, waited to be questioned.
               "The wife of Prairie Fire is not dumb, let her speak."
               "It was dark in the lodge of the warrior, when the pale face maiden was sitting by his squaw. The words of kindness and truth were falling from his lips. The twanging of a bowstring fell upon their ears, and the arrow came swift as the cloud cleaving lightning. It passed the cheek of the warrior, and buried itself in the form of the maiden. It is now in the hand of the council. The woman of the Murmuring Stream has spoken."
               "It is well."
               "Will the braves of the Iroquois listen to the words of a woman."
               "As they listen to the truth so they listen to them."
               "Let them then read his doom."
               "That doom is death by torture! The maiden of the pale face is the daughter of Prairie Fire, and he is a chieftain. The hand of the Crouching Panther strove to send death upon the swift arrow, and the warriors of the Iroquois give him to the torture by fire! Brothers, do I speak well?"
               "Yes!" responded all.
               "The Crouching Panther fears not death."
               "Ere the sun casts its shadows towards the land of its setting he will be in the spirit land."
               "He is ready."
               "The Evil Spirit waits his coming."
               "The Matcha Manitou watches him not."
               "He must die by the torture of fire!"
               "The pale faced maiden has done this. Brothers, death has no terrors for the red man. Ere the fire canoe was moored by the shores of the 'river of men,' the red men were happy as the singing bird whose wings fanned the early sun-gilded cloud. The flowers were bright as the stars of night beside his path, and the rock gushing rill and leafy wood gave him both food and drink. The fire water of the pale man is sweeping him from the war path, and the deer are fleeing from the hunting ground before the thunder of the fire weapon. The mountain rill is fettered by his art and forced to labor, slave like at the busy wheel. The flowers are trampled down by the trail, and the foot of the pale face is treading heavily upon the necks of the red man. I would that the forked lightning would strike them dead! That the accursed fire water would bring death in every form and the fettered mountain brook poison at every draught! But the Panther talks like a woman. He has spoken and is ready to die!"
               "Let the stake be painted black as the heart of the warrior, and the faggots piled around it."
               "There is a happy hunting ground beyond the grave that the pale man's foot can never enter. There the lark sings in the sun rays, and the deer drinks undisturbed from the sparkling rivulet. There the flowers have stolen all the rainbow hues, and the tiny insects flit like scales of purest gold amid the leafy woods. There would the Panther go."
               "That home may never be his."
               "The Manitou writes his words upon the running stream, the flowery vale, and the rock ribbed mountain. The Panther is not blind and his eye can read them."
               "The Panther must die!"
               "The heart of a dove beats not in his bosom."
               "The fire shall consume his form, and the Manitou waits to bear his spirit to the torture. His ashes shall be scattered to the winds, and his name be forgotten by the Iroquois."
               "Spare him, oh! spare him," almost shrieked Bessie Thompson, as she tottered into the circle, faint from her recent wound. "Add no murder to wash out this crime. It cannot, will not help us."
               "The pale faced maiden," replied Prairie Fire, "knows not the ways of the warriors. Her heart is soft as that of the gentle dove. The singing bird makes music for her ears, and the perfumed flowers bend lovingly by her side. The warrior's heart loves the music of the storm, when the Manitou is angry with his children, and the strong trees are rived by the winged lightning. His ears long for the fierce tones of battle, and his soul echoes with the notes of revenge. The Crouching Panther has aimed the barbed arrow at the heart of the pale-faced maiden, or that of Prairie Fire. He must die."
               "The maiden of the snowy brow would not be my wife," interrupted the Panther, "let her not plead for me now. His curse will rest upon her, and his spirit be ever around her path to—"
               "Stay, for heaven's sake, do not curse me!"
               "The Good Manitou listens not to such words," said Prairie Fire, "they are like a trail that a warrior leaves in the running stream."
               "Still—still, I would not have him curse me."
               "Let the Lilly of the pale faces go to the wigwam of Prairie Fire. The arrow struck deep, and she is weak as the wounded fawn."
               "I go, but—"
               "The council fire is lit and the warriors wait to extinguish it. They listen not to the words of woman. Let the maiden go."
               Well knowing that it would be useless to plead farther Bessie Thompson left the circle of chieftains and tearfully sought her couch in the lodge of him who had adopted her as a child."
               A moment scarcely had elapsed ere the doom of the Crouching Panther was pronounced. It was death by the torture of fire. The words still were echoing on the air, when he, that death-doomed one, sprang through the circle of guards that surrounded him and dashed through the village into the forest. A horse was there ready, placed by a friend. In a moment, he was mounted and swiftly speeding from danger and death—another, and the Crouching Panther was free!
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               The signal given by Ned Erskine, ere he became the prey of the panther, was heard by Waters and his band, and soon they were by his side. Horror struck, they saw the savage beast, with his huge jaws covered with blood, as, at their approach, it stole away towards the thicket; and every rifle was quickly drawn to the shoulder, their sharp reports broke the stillness, their leaden messengers sped, swift as thought, and the blood-stained beast rolled upon the leafy ground in the agonies of death. Few that have never been on the frontier know how terrible it is to watch the expiring breath of one of these fierce denizens of the forest, as they lie panting in death, and their expiring breath struggling for utterance—choked by blood. Watch the glaring eye and stiffening limbs—listen to the deep agony wrung groan and snapping jaws—see the deep hued blood lessening the chances of life and bringing death nearer. Look and listen thus, and then tell me if it is not horrible, and yet grandly terrific and attractive—if it is not a tragedy of mindless beings?
               Lifted in the strong arms of his companions. Erskine was borne from the thicket and carried to the side of the river. There, upon the mossy bank, he was gently laid and his wounds carefully cleansed from the thickening gore. A deep one there was in his throat; his hunting shirt was torn from his breast and the prints of the sharp claws of the dead panther were deeply buried there.
               Forest trained, not a sound escaped the lips of the hunter, as those rude, yet kindly meaning nurses dressed his wounds. Slowly his eyes opened, and he gazed wildly around upon that band of sorrowing warriors.
               "Don't stir, Ned," said Waters, far more kindly than could have been expected from him. "Don't stir, or you will make your wounds bleed afresh. The cursed panther struck deep and sharp, and if we had not happened to be near you'd soon have been beyond the reach of help."
               "The attack was so sudden that I had no time to defend myself."
               No matter, Ned, you are as good as twenty dead men yet."
               "I'm faint, Frank."
               "That's nothing strange; so take a drink, it will warm up your heart."
               "That's good. Where is the panther?"
               "Well, I reckon, he's as dead as a door nail."
               "Save his skin, I want it."
               "Off with it, then, boys."
               "Aye, that we will, and quick too."
               "It will make a pretty shawl for Bessie—"
               "Don't mention it, Frank. Here I am useless, wounded, unable to follow her trail."
               "Then you had found it."
               "Certainly, just when—"
               "That d——d panther sprang upon you."
               "Yes. I had followed it sometime, and becoming certain of it I gave the signal, and you know the rest."
               "Aye; and if tears could do any good, I would cry like any baby."
               "Don't cry for me. But what are we to do?"
               "Do? Why, follow the trail."
               "But I cannot travel."
               "Well, I reckon, we can carry you."
               "Not as long as I have life left. But just think of my lying here, like a woman, when I should be off, as swift as Thunder can carry me."
               "Well, don't fret about it like a woman, if you are as weak as one; it can do no good. But see, Ned, here is the jacket of the panther; and you have his, instead of his having yours."
               "Yes, that is all right enough, but what is best for us to do, Frank?"
               "Why, camp here till morning."
               "What, and leave Bess Thompson in the hands of the Iroquois?"
               "If not already dead, she is safe enough."
               "Safe?"
               "Certainly, for they will keep her a prisoner."
               "Aye, and force her to be the bride of some demon of the tribe."
               "They will keep her, in hopes of a ransom."
               "Nonsense, Frank! You only say this to quiet me."
               "I do not."
               "Well, it matters not. I am not going to stay here like a sick baby."
               "You have not strength enough to travel, and would only run the risk of your own life to attempt it."
               "I care not! One of you bring Thunder here."
               With the words Ned Erskine rose to his feet, and endeavored to reach his horse. His cheek was ghastly pale, his eye dim, and his steps tottering, as, leaning upon the strong arm of Waters, he slowly walked along. Far too severe, however, had been the struggle and the loss of blood too great for even one of his strong frame, and nature asserting her power, he fell into the arms of Waters, as helpless as a child.
               "Get me some water, boys," he said, as he laid Erskine on the ground. "There, that will do," he said, as cup full after cup full was dashed in the face of the helpless man.
               "Stop! I say, don't drown him. And now some of you build a tent, to screen him from the sun. A good sleep will do him more good than anything else, though he will be as sore in the morning as if he had been poundered. Come, be lively, lads; clear a place, and cut the bushes. Down with your blankets, and now lift him up. So, gently," and Erskine was borne beneath the shade of sheltering branches. Let us leave him there, in a tranquil repose, and listen to the words of his companions, as they are seated around their camp fire, broiling their venison and talking of other days.
               "You know, Harry, began Waters, "when the cursed Iroqouis attacked Judge Reynold's house, killed his wife, and tried to burn us all up."
               
               "Certainly. I was young, then, but I shall never forget it; I have the marks to show for it yet. I reckon I have, and shall carry them to my grave."
               "The white-winged gull was sunning himself that morning when the cry of Indian's rang upon our ears. Clara, a baby, and a pretty one to—"
               "She has not lost her beauty yet."
               "No; but for all the good it may do you, you might as well talk of the beauty of the stars."
               "True; but that's no reason why I should not see that she is beautiful. Is it Frank?"
               "Well, no matter. She was playing before the door, at some distance, just about where the old elm stands, and the Indians were close upon us. In our hurry for the house, in order to secure our lives, she was forgotten. In a moment the doors were closed and locked, and then the cry of the mother broke upon our ears—
               "Clara! oh, God! where is my Clara?"
               "I seen many a fight, Harry, and many a scalp taken. I have been tied to a stake, and felt the hot flames, as they began to curl around me, but I have never felt my heart sink as it did then. If discovered, the child was sure of instant death! There was no time to consider—a single moment might be fatal. I sprang through an open window. Ned Erskine was close by my side. He reached it first, and snatching up the baby, shielded it with his form and hurried towards the house. Thick as hail-stones the arrows fell around us, and though wounded, we managed to reach the house just as the whole band of the warriors issued from the forest. Lucky indeed that it was so, for in a moment more, we would have had as many arrows sticking into us as a porcupine has quills."
               "Aye, and never have lived to speak of it."
               "True; but we were safe for a time, and not long in letting our rifles talk. A dozen red skins fell, and more cautiously they now advanced. Thus, watching each other, the day passed, and when night came, they crept, like cowardly wolves, as they are, around. Many fell victims to our rifles, and many a fire-tipped arrow was discharged at the house, but as yet vainly. Hours passed, and all was still as death. It seemed as if every one held their breath, save the children that as yet had not learned fear, and slept quietly on. Suddenly, the shrill war cry was heard on every side, and a lurid flame shot high in air, from the northern side of the cabin. Verily, now, we were doomed, like the fire encircled wolf, to death! A moment only was left for reflection, and almost with the speed of thought itself, we dashed out into the gloom. A few only remained to extinguish the fire, and the rest rifle in hand, met and battled with the the savages. It was a night of horror, and the thirsty earth drank much blood, but even while we battled, the shrill cry of women pierced our ears, and, freeing ourselves from our opponents, we rushed back to the house. The fire was extinguished and the wounded drawn in, when, great God! what a sight met our eyes! Near the centre of the room lay the wife of Judge Reynolds, scalped and bathed in blood, while with her tiny arms clasped around her murdered mother's neck, was the daughter! And—but go and see, some of you, if Ned still sleeps." And the strong warrior, reared to battle and bloodshed, turned away and wiped the tears from his eyes, murmuring—
               "I did not think anything could make me cry; why, I'm like a woman! No matter, hearts are the same in the forest as in the greenwood, and tears for such a cause are not things to be ashamed of."
               "Ned still sleeps as calmly as a young papoose."
               "Let him rest on, then, while we get ready for a tramp."
               "When shall we go?"
               "As soon as he wakes, at all events to-night."
               "But he cannot endure the travel, and none of us would leave him here alone."
               "Leave him alone? If ever I do, may I live to see my own heart cut from my breast, and broiling on a cursed Indian camp fire. Leave him alone! why, you deserve forty lashes on the bare back for the thought."
               "I meant no harm, Frank."
               "I know you didn't, boy, but it set my heart to bounding like a wounded deer. Well, no matter."
               "How are we to carry him?"
               "Why, you are as green as a six months fawn, and don't know the blat of a dam from that of a hunter."
               "Not so green either, Frank. Come, boys, let's make a litter."
               "Not green? Why, you are as much so as the bushes themselves."
               "It's all very well for you to laugh, but how then are we to get along with him?"
               "The very panther that wounded him, curse him, has furnished us with the means."
               "The panther?"
               "To be sure. Cut a few holes in his skin, and run your halters through them, then get a couple of strong poles and tie them on fast, swing this from two horses with a sapling fastened to each bit, to keep them from crowding, and you have a hunter's traveling hammoe that is fit for a queen to ride in."
               "I never should have thought of this."
               "Well, boy, we all have to live and learn, and when you have seen as many rough times as I have, you'll know as much I suppose. But I don't brag, so go to work."
               Waters hastened to the rude tent formed of boughs beneath which Erskine was sleeping, and gazed silently upon him. The cheeks were pale, the lips colorless, and the strong man quiet as a pulseless form.
               "I must wake him," soliloquized Waters, "for it is fast getting towards sun down. Yet, I hate to, for he is sorely wounded. He would never forgive me, however, if I kept him from following the trail of Bessie Thompson. Well, she is as pretty as he is brave, and I do not wonder at his love. I almost believe I love her myself. But pshaw! what have I to do with love, except for my horse and dog, and Ned?"
               Even as his name was mentioned, the eyes of Erskine opened, and he faintly murmured—
               "Where am I; who are you?"
               "Don't you know me, Ned?"
               "Aye, Frank, I do now. What has happened? Why am I here?"
               "The panther, Ned, struck you down."
               "True! But Bessie Thompson? I must follow her."
               Oh love! how strong art thou, even in the hour of affliction, suffering death. The poet has sung thy power, and every true heart will attest it. 
                     
                        "Yes, love is indeed light from Heaven,
                        A spark of that immortal fire,
                        By Allah sent—to angels given,
                        To win from earth each low desire;
                        Devotion wafts the mind above,
                        But Heaven itself descends in love."
                     
                  
               
               "So you shall, Ned, but you are weak."
               "Weak?" and the wounded man, strong even in his sufferings, sprang quickly to his feet.
               "Weak?" he repeated. "Some of you bring Thunder here, and then get ready to mount and be off."
               But even as he spoke, his steps became unsteady, though he still held his way towards his pet steed.
               "Here, Ned," shouted Waters, "take a drink, man. Why, you are weak as a kitten."
               Obedient to the request, Erskine took a deep draught, and then essayed to mount. At that very moment, an Indian war cry broke shrilly upon their ears, the sharp report of a rifle was heard, and a bullet whistled through the circle.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               HENRY ELLIOTT AND CLARA REYNOLDS
               "Henry Elliott!" repeated Black Pompey, as he threw the door open, and ushered him into the room where Judge Reynolds and his daughter sat conversing.
               "Henry, how are you, my boy?"
               "Well, quite well; and you, Miss Reynolds?"
               "Quite well, thank you," replied Clara, as she blushingly took his proffered hand, while her own trembled like a leaf in a summer breeze.
               "You have returned soon, Henry," said the Judge, "but not sooner than you are welcome."
               "I had nothing to keep me longer, Sir."
               "Nothing! But your mother?"
               "She is in heaven."
               "Dead! And you are—"
               "An orphan."
               Orphan! What a cold, bitter word. How it tells of trials to be met in the future, alone and friendless, without a single one to lean on, save Him who is the father of the fatherless. Kind friends, it is true, may do all in their power to, but they are not as the mother who cradled us upon her breast in infancy, or the father who aided our first tottering steps.
               "Death, Henry," said the Judge, "is about the only thing we are sure of, in this world. It must and will come at the appointed time to all, and it is well to be ever ready to meet it, for, in the words of the good book, it cometh 'like a thief in the night.' It is vain to mourn for loved and lost ones."
               "I know it, Sir, but nature will have its way, and the heart must feel and the eyes must weep."
               "True, true, my boy. I well remember when my poor mother died. I was young, then, but even now, her last words seem to be breathed in my ears."
               "I shall never forget those of my mother."
               "Remember them, Henry, it will make you better; and if you but follow her advice, you will, when the time comes, have no fear of death."
               Death! What is it? We know it is the paralyzing of the whole vital system—that it is to the whole what sleep is to a part. Still it is vague and undefinable, and who can fathom its mysteries? We gaze upon the icy form when the spirit has left its frail tenement, when the heart throbs no more, and the pulse is still, and call it death. But does this define it to the inquiring spirit? Does it teach us what we most long to understand? Does it satisfy the craving desire to see beyond the earthly grave? Certainly not. Well we know that "all that live must die, passing through nature to eternity," but yet the word seem fathomless—Death! 
                     
                        "What is to die?
                        I cannot hold the meaning more than can
                        An oak's arms clasp the blast that blows on it.
                        There is an air-like something which must be,
                        And yet not to be seen, nor to be touched."
                     
                  
               
               "Clara," said the Judge, wiping away atear, as he spoke, for the heart of the dweller in the West, and commingler in scenes of peril and danger, hardens not, whatever the purse-proud and fashion swayed dwellers in the East may say, but is as soft and true, aye, we believe, even more so than theirs, "Clara, it is nearly time that tea should be ready, and Henry must need some refreshment after his long journey."
               "Nay, Sir, do not put yourself to any inconvenience on my account."
               "Inconvenience, boy! why, the greatest boast of a western man is his hospitality, and that the latch string is never pulled in."
               "And true it would be proved, if all were like you."
               "Nay, don't flatter me, Henry; I'm too old for that."
               "I did not intend to, but—"
               "No matter; come, tea is on the table, and your ride must have given you an appetite."
               Leaving that trio to the enjoyment of the evening meal, and the care of Black Pompey, who strutted about with all the dignity of a major-domo, let us glance at Henry Elliott, with whom, as yet, our readers are unacquainted.
               Rather under, than above the medium size, with light-brown hair, that curled above a classic brow was he. His form was slight, but sinewy, and the curl of his upper lip and hazel eye denoted both pride and fearlessness. He had been liberally educated, had read the tomes of ancient lore, and was skilled in many an accomplishment. A poet and musician; his pencil could readily copy anything of beauty, and do it well, for he was truly a worshipper of the beautiful and sublime. A very pantheist about beauty, save that he did not see a God in every thing that attracted his fancy. Accident had brought him to the house of Judge Reynolds, and though it was long before he would own it even to himself, love had detained him there. Blessed with ample means, he had wandered at will, without giving a thought to the future, without thinking of taking a place in the great battle of life, without choosing a profession. But now that his mother was dead, his mind demanded employment, and he had resolved he would no longer remain the idler he had been. But what should he do? His heart interfered materially with his judgment in answering this question. and he determined that he would tell Clara of his love, win her's if he could, and then don the armor of life and go forth to battle bravely.
               Tea was over, and Judge Reynolds left the lovers, for such they were, together, to attend to his duties around his farm. Elliott, polished as he was by his intercourse with society, allowed no awkward pause to ensue, and though the cheeks of Clara wore a deeper rose tint than was usual, still all was a ease and sociability. Twilight came, it was a soft and beautiful one, and Elliott proposed a walk along the banks of the sweetly singing river. Gladly Clara consented, for she had a poet's heart and loved the silver moon, the globe of nebulus matter that floats through the blue ocean above, the brightly flashing stars that gleam as so many gems sown broadcast by the hand of God, the music of the gentle wind singing a low melody amid the grand old trees, the low plash of the ocean-ward running waters, and the heart-thoughts that fill the brain at such a time. Long they wandered, discoursing of heart and heaven, of beauty—but not of love.
               "What is beauty?" inquired Clara of her companion.
               "It is a question hard to answer, Lady. What is beauty to one, is not to another; and wisely it is, that we are differently constituted. You and I might gaze upon the same picture, the same landscape, the same face, and while they might be your beau-ideal of beauty, they would be uninteresting to me."
               "That is true; but is there no standard by which we can estimate beauty?"
               "None but the heart, that I am aware of. Education may chasten the taste, and render its standard higher, but the heart will still keep its controlling power."
               "Could any deny that the scene before us now is beautiful?"
               "There are undoubtedly some who would, Lady, but I am not one of them. Let us rest here—we are nearly home—and enjoy, while we may, the brilliancy of the scene."
               "Brilliant, indeed, it is."
               "See how the soft moon rays fall upon the tiny ripples of the waters, till they seem as if changed to silver; see how they dance upon the trembling leaves and twine amid the tendrils of the creeping vine. Watch them chasing away the shadows that you cloud has cast, and mark the line of light above you hill. See the countless stars, those bright eyes of heaven, flash and sparkle till we can almost believe they are gems gleaming upon the brows of angels. Listen to the gentle murmur of the river, as it glides quietly by to be whelmed for ever in the fathomless ocean, or exhaled to heaven, but to return again in diamond dewdrops. Hark to the song of the wind, as it sighs itself to sleep, amid the countless leaf clad branches, and the low love note of the dreaming bird. It is a scene of beauty and of poetry, the poetry of nature, the unwritten poetry of God!"
               "You are eloquent, Sir."
               "Who would not be, on such a night as this, when earth seems as if bathed in the refulgence of heaven."
               "It is, indeed, beautiful as visions that come to us in dreams."
               "Is it wrong to believe, Lady, that those whom we have loved, and who have loved us well, visit us again after death, to guide and guard us?"
               "It is a beautiful belief."
               "Aye, and it comes to us on nights like this. And such nights are fit only for beauty, poetry, and love."
               "Love, Sir!"
               "Yes, Miss Reynolds, love."
               "I understand you not," replied the fair trembler.
               "It is useless for me to attempt to deceive myself, or you farther. Miss Reynolds, Clara, I love you with all the passion of a warm and true heart. I love you devotedly—madly."
               "Me, Sir!"
               "Aye, Clara, you. Am I presumptuous in calling you so? May I not hope that I love not hopelessly. The whole of my future life rests upon your words. 'Tis yours to bid it all be sunshine or all shade. Yours to bid a star light my pathway ever, or shroud it in gloom."
               He took her hand, that trembled as it had never done before, in his own, and continued—
               "Hear me Clara, dear Clara, before you decide. I can offer you a true heart and a home that the—"
               "I can never leave mine own—my father."
               "I meant not that. I might speak of wealth, but it were worse than sacrilege to mention gold at such a time. I am young, ambitious, and my God-given talents are not without cultivation. Why turn away, why weep? May I not hope you will not deny my suit? May I not hope that you will be—"
               Let us draw a veil over the picture, for it is far too sacred for the prying eye of the busy and censorious world to gaze upon. The communion of young hearts, the budding forth of a first love are not themes for the world to canvass and gossip about—not subjects to be given to aught of mortal ken, and the words, actions, all are far too holy to be bandied from mouth to mouth, or talked about upon the corners of the streets. Bright angels hover over such scenes and smile approval, and who is there that dare dispute their decision?
               "Clara," continued Elliott, resuming the conversation, "will you not decide, will you not own that you love me."
               "I cannot, can—"
               "Nay, but, dearest, may I not hope?"
               "Henry Elliott, I can never leave my father."
               "I ask you not to do so. I will live with him, will be to him a son. I will help to cheer his declining years, and the life long worship of a truthful heart shall be yours. Clara, dearest, will you not be mine?"
               "Listen to me, Henry. I will not deny that you are dear, very dear to me; that my heart has long told me that you were its master; that I have looked upon you as a star, that I longed for but never might possess."
               "Say not so, dear Clara, for this is—"
               "Nay, hear me. I am a simple girl, born and nurtured in the wild woods. I know naught of the ways of city life, its manners, or its customs. Should I be your wife—nay, start not—and mingle with your friends, educated and polished, you would soon become ashamed of your country wife, and—"
               "Ashamed! By the bright heavens, no!"
               "And tire of her. You would feel that you had wedded too hastily, and I, a poor uncultured girl, would soon be neglected and forgotten."
               "Never! never!"
               "Who, then, could give me back my peace of mind; who, my happy home? Perchance you may deem me over bold in thus speaking to you, but remember I have been nurtured in the forest, have been forced to associate more with your sex, the rough, though honest hearted hunters, than with my own. Think of these things, and consider them well."
               "I do. I have."
               "And yet, despite of all, you would make me your wife?"
               "Yes! a thousand times, yes!"
               "Then, Henry Elliott, take me."
               "You will be my wife?"
               "I will be your wi—"
               "Mother," lisped little Clara, as she came tripping into the circle, "Mother, why don't you come home?"
               "MOTHER!" burst from the lips of Elliott.
               "Yes, this is my mother," said little Clara, as she clung closely to the form of Clara Reynolds.
               "What means this? Do I dream?" gasped Elliott. "Clara, tell me, explain to me, is this your child?"
               "My child? yes," involuntarily fell from her lips.
               "Your child, Clara? Great God, am I mad?"
               "Go, Sir!" said the maiden, rising from her seat, and choking down her sobs, while she clasped the form of the infant close to her throbbing breast. "Go, Sir, you have judged me, and henceforth we are strangers. Again I repeat that this is my child, mine, bound to me by strong ties, and which death alone can sever. Henry Elliott, mark my words, and may God forgive you for the interpretation that you have just put upon them. I have loved you well, too well, Heaven alone knows how well; but from this hour I'll tear your image from my heart, even though I die in doing so. Go, Sir, as I once loved you, I hate you now. I have not words strong enough to express the loathing I bear to one who would deem me what you have. Begone, I say; and yet, great God, how much I loved him! How much—"
               Nature could bear no more, and she fell fainting to the earth, bearing the innocent cause of all her troubles in her arms. The cries of the child soon brought Judge Reynolds and the inmates of the house to her assistance, and gently she was carried home, but Elliott was no where to be seen.
               Well, oh! how well, innocent of the wild wood, would it have been for two loving hearts, if Erskine had left thee to the hands of the destroying savages!
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               A FEARFUL DEATH.
               Scarcely had the form of the Crouching Panther become hid by the thick foliage that surrounded the encampment of the Iroquois, ere many were in pursuit. His horse was swift, and giving him a free rein, he soon was beyond their reach, and dashing like a demon towards the shore of the Illinois river. Without a purpose, save to free himself for a time from their toils, he still kept on; now speeding through the greenwood, and now picking his way carefully along the bed of the stony rivulet. Envy, says the poet, is a coal that
                     "Comes hissing hot from bell!"
                   and this, fully twin-mated with revenge, engrossed his entire soul. On still he sped, till he neared the camp where Erskine lay wounded, and his comrades were enjoying themselves in eating and listening to the stories of Waters, around the camp fire. With true Indian cunning, he heard the sound of their voices; and dismounting from his horse, and securing him to a tree, crept carefully, like a serpent, forward, until he could get a good view of the group. A long time he watched them, like the charmed bird would the bewitching snake, and then, just at the moment Erskine was about to mount his pet horse, "Thunder," his war cry was shouted forth, like the defying trumpet peal in battle, and his rifle sent its avenging bullet into their very midst. A moment more, and he was speeding away like the first flash of morning, and laughing at pursuit.
               Regardless of the course he took, he sought not to guide his steed, but dashed madly on, unseeing that he was again being carried towards the camp of the Iroquois, from which he had lately escaped. Many miles had he traveled when his horse, faint from fatigue, paused at the edge of a brook to slake his thirst, and that moment was fatal to the Crouching Panther. E'en as he sat there, with slacked rein and a heart running o'er with revenge, an hundred warriors, painted black as the locks of midnight, sprang from the thickets that surrounded the stream, and secured him as their prisoner. Vain was resistance now, and well he, that warrior of the wilderness, knew it; and submitting to his fate, he was bound and placed again upon his horse. No word was spoken, save the usual assent of an Indian, as at the sign of their leader he was lead towards the region of the setting sun, to the council lodge of the Iroquois. Hours had passed when the smoke of the camp fires were seen staining the sun lit air, and the prisoner was again led, securely bound, into the prison wigwam. Short, however, was his repose there; for the council fire was lighted, the war post blackened, and the braves of the tribe seated around, calmly smoking the calumet. At a sign from the aged and revered medicine man, the Panther was led into the very midst of the circle. With unquivering nerve, he stood there, awaiting his doom. And that doom? It is enough to make the strongest nerve tremble, and the stoutest heart grow faint, even to dream of it!
               "The Panther is again in the toils of the hunter," said the aged chieftain, as he slowly arose from his seat.
               "The Panther has often dashed through the circle of the hunters," replied the captive.
               "When the strong throng is around him, he is harmless as the fangless serpent."
               "The Kawabuk (the serpent) is not de-fenceless, although he may be deprived of his fangs."
               "The words of the Panther are like a trail in the running stream."
               "Must the Iroquois talk like the written words of the pale face, that his brothers may read them?"
               "The Manitou alone, speaks in language that his children cannot understand."
               "Like the bright sun to the eye of the red man, shall the words of the Panther then be."
               "Let him speak. The ears of the Iroquois are open."
               "When the hunter has robbed the snake of his fangs, he still may enwrap him in his toils and crush him."
               "You talk like women," said Prairie Fire, as he entered the circle and took his seat.
               "Women!"
               "Aye, like women! Is it the wont of the Iroquois to bandy words with one condemned?"
               "Corwin," was the response uttered by every lip.
               "No! Why then waste time here?"
               "The Panther is a brave of the Iroquois, well known in war and upon the hunting trail; his brothers would listen to his last words, ere he is sent to the dark hunting grounds, in the spirit land."
               "Let his words then be as brief as the warrior's death cry."
               "I have but a few words to say," replied the prisoner, "and I fear not to die. But I am alone. Why alone? with none to turn a kindly glance upon me. The wild wolf, howling on his midnight way, is not alone. The bird, not mateless, sings from midst the leafy branches where its nest is built. The stinging serpent's hiss of fear or love, is answered by its mate, and twining each the other in their shining folds, they know companionship. Like the crescent hunting wolves, I am surrounded and being driven o'er the fearful precipice of death. But my journey is near finished, and on the shores of life there waits a canoe to bear me to the spirit land."
               "The canoe is rotting there, and the warrior will sink in the rapid running stream."
               "The blood scenting wolf tires not, when the wounded deer runs slowly on the winding trail, and the wife of the Panther will paddle his canoe across the river of death."
               "Where the wife of the Panther, the Drooping Willow, has gone, he can never go."
               "The dove forgets not the love-note of its mate, nor the wife the words of the chieftain. My mocasson shall press the leafy trail in the happy hunting grounds, and my voice be heard in its forests. My curses shall rest upon the pale face, and—but hold! Has the Panther become a woman, that he should talk thus?"
               "The pale face taught not the red man to string the bow."
               "The maiden of the snowy brow and curling hair, the cursed daughter of the pale man, filled the heart of the warrior with revenge. His arm was strong, and the arrow sped swift as the angry lightning."
               "The warrior knows his doom."
               "Death?"
               "Aye; but not now by fire."
               "He is ready to meet it."
               "Death by being thrown into the cave of the rattlesnakes!"
               "The cave of the rattlesnakes!" and the strong warriors shuddered, as he repeated the words.
               And who would not? Of all deaths, though we must meet it in some form or another, God keep me and mine from such a death—horrid, most horrid, even in thought. An image that startles us in our day dreams, and terrifies us in those of night.
               "The warrior will not shrink," resumed the Panther, "he is not afraid to meet death."
               "His name will be forgotten by the Iroquois."
               "His name will yet be sung by the prophets of the tribe."
               "Never!"
               "Let the warriors of the Iroquois listen to the words of the Panther. His tongue is not forked, and his lips utter not lies. Where the waters of the Illinois sparkle in the sun light, the warriors of the pale face are encamped. Crawling like the serpent, the Panther saw and stung them. The war cry of the Iroquois was heard there, and his rifle drank their blood."
               "Let the Panther speak on."
               "His lips shall be motionless."
               "His brothers would hear his words."
               "His brothers have said that he must die."
               "Death, and a fearful one, is his doom."
               "The Crouching Panther fears not death."
               "Still, let him tell us more."
               "The warrior talks not like a woman."
               "The Manitou gives the words to the tongue."
               "The heart of the warrior controls it."
               "When the heart is black, the words of the tongue are false."
               "The night is dark, when the stars are hid."
               "And the warrior's heart, when the Evil Spirit controls it."
               "The tongue of the serpent is not his."
               "But he has shown its fangs."
               "The worm turns, when trod on."
               "The eagle preys not on its kin."
               "He has spoken."
               "The warrior may yet live, and his pouch be heavy with gold."
               "Gold? 'Tis the white man's God! He sells his very soul for gold. For that he tempts and braves all things, even the wrath of the angry Manitou. Murder, he buys and sells. He stains his hands with crimson blood for gold, and gives himself to the evil spirit. The red man worships the good Manitou, who whispers to his children in the gentle summer wind, and speaks in the loud thunder. The yellow earth of the pale face tempts him not."
               "Would the Panther not live?"
               "Can the braves of the Iroquois find the track of the lightning in the midnight sky; the bird of the swift wing, in the sun rays; the Manitou, as he rides upon the howling tempest; or the trail of the winter wind?"
               "The words of the Panther are like a hidden trail."
               "When the Iroquois can read these things, they can read the heart of the Panther."
               "The Panther must die! His words are like those of a child, and the warriors' cars are closed."
               "He is ready, but let the Iroquois listen to his last words; let their ears drink them in, and their hearts hold them fast. As I crouched, last night, in the dense forest, a heavy sleep came upon me, and my spirit was troubled with dreams. From the dark mists that hand upon the mountains, came the voice of the Manitou. The red lightning flashed, and the loud thunder shook the massive, giant rocks. The mighty oaks, of the forest trembled, and the yawning graves gave back to earth the forms of our forefathers. Fearful was the angry voice of the Great One, and my spirit quailed at the sound. 'Son of the warrior,' said the fearful voice, 'the home of the red man is fast becoming desolate. Like the mist of morning, they are vanishing from the earth; and like the sun dried fountain, they will soon be known no more forever! The pale face has made them his slave, and would bind them with his clanking shackles. The deer are vanishing towards the regions of the setting sun, and the pale man's axe is fast hewing down their hunting grounds. The smoke of the red man's council fire is lost in that of the pale one's; the rude plough has torn up the graves of your forefathers, and their bones bleach beneath the scorching sun of heaven. The sacred altar, where you once worshipped, is trampled in the dust, and the red man himself is fast vanishing from the earth. Awake! oh son of the red man! Let the fire be rekindled, and the war dance renewed; let the tomahawk and knife drink deep of the pale man's blood, and the poisoned arrow quiver in their very hearts. Let their scalps, as countless as the forest leaves, hang, blood dripping, in the wigwams of the Iroquois, and their wives and children scream, famishing upon the war path. So shall the Manitou be appeased, so shall the wrongs of the red man be avenged.' Thus said the voice of the Manitou to the dream swayed spirit. The Iroquois have heard the words whispered to the Crouching Panther in his dream. He has spoken, and his tongue is stilled forever. He is ready to meet death."
               "The Iroquois will not forget his words, though his name will be forgotten."
               At a sign from Prairie Fire, the Panther was led from the group, carefully guarded, to the banks of a brook, near by. A ledge of rocks was there, with a deep cave within. Its only entrance was low and narrow, and within it were myriads of rattlesnakes. And here, weaponless, was the one who attempted the murder of Bessie Thompson to be placed. Can the mind picture a more fearful death? From its entrance a stone was rolled away, the arms of the Panther unbound, he shoved within, the stone replaced, and his savage executioners keeping guard without. At its very entrance, coiled and ready for a spring, lay the well known rattlesnake pilot, the black snake, with its circle of crimson about its neck. This, however, he passed in safety, and his eyes becoming used to the darkness, saw a faint glimmer of light ahead. Hope of yet escaping made his heart beat fast, and he trod boldly forward. But how fallacious is hope? One moment that proud warrior stood in that fearful cave, a thing of life—the next, and he fell into the very den of the fearful reptiles! A thousand hisses were heard, a thousand poisoned fangs were buried in him—each one distilling death—a thousand scaly forms twined around him, a thousand mouths, breathing pestilential odors, were in his face, and his haughty spirit quailed, his heart ceased to beat, and a lifeless form, encircled by a countless host of fearful, deadly serpents, lay there!
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               THE HUNTERS ON THE TRAIL.
               The bullet sped swift from the rifle of the Crouching Panther, but failed in its aim, for at the very moment of its discharge, Erskine fell exhausted to the earth. Quick as the beast after which the Indian was named, were the movements of Waters and his party, but vain the search. Well they knew the war cry to be that of an Iroquois, and naturally presuming that the murderers of Thompson were still on the trail, they cautiously avoided an ambush, and crept from tree to tree. No sound, however, was heard, though long they waited, until, after hours had passed, a whistle as shrill as that of the plovers rang upon the ear. It was answered from many a quarter of the forest, and lowly repeated, till that brave band of frontier men were again gathered in a group. Ears uncultured in forest life would never have dreamed that it came from aught but the bird of the swift wing, but well they knew it, and led by the first sound, answered and followed it, until they again strode side by side.
               "The cursed red skin has escaped us," said Waters, panting with the exertion through which he had passed.
               "His trail must be deeper than that of the fish in the swift water, if I don't find it," feebly replied Erskine.
               "Aye, you say true, Ned, and if ever I get a sight at him and don't knock his 'hired sight' off, call me a fool."
               "It must have been some stray warrior, looking for scalps."
               "I'll scalp him!"
               "Or we should have heard more of Indian deviltry."
               "It is strange that we have not."
               "And you found no trail?"
               "The foot prints of a single horse."
               "Was there no mocasson prints around?"
               "Not one."
               "Then that horse was not riderless."
               "To be sure he was not, for a horse don't carry a rifle and shoot at white hunters!" and Waters laughed at the thought.
               "Was he shod, Frank?"
               "Yes; by nature."
               "Well, it is strange; but it is useless to remain quiet here, and now that I feel somewhat stronger, let's get ready and be off."
               "You are yet too weak, Ned."
               "No matter; I'm not going to stay here. Follow the trail of Bessie Thompson I will!"
               "It's no use disputing about the matter, but still, let me give you a piece of advice."
               "What is it?"
               "Will you listen to it calmly?"
               "Certainly; and then do as I think best."
               "If I didn't know that you are brave, and as good a hunter as ever trod, I should judge you a woman from your answer."
               "My body, it is true, is weak, but my heart and arm are yet strong."
               "I don't doubt it, Ned; but listen."
               "Go on, but let your story be as short as a squirrel's jump."
               "Don't fear that I'm going to make an endless trail of my words. Let a couple of the boys stay here with you, until you are able to travel again—"
               "Never, by Heaven!"
               "That don't sound like listening calmly, but no matter. The rest of us will follow the trail, leaving behind us such marks as you can clearly read, and if we see that there is any doubt about our success in the matter, we will camp and send a runner on the back trail to meet you. What say you to this?"
               "I like it not. My heart will never be quiet until I am avenged on—"
               "Bessie Thompson is again in your arms!"
               A deep flush mantled the cheek of Ned Erskine, revealing how truthful were the words of the other, and how deep they had sunk into his soul. Frank Waters noticed this, and laughingly continued—
               "Ha! ha! Ned, your cheeks are as red as those of a girl, or the blood of a bird when the fangs of the serpent are buried in its little, throbbing heart."
               "That matters not, although I have but little left since that skulking beast buried his teeth and claws in my body."
               "True, Ned, but I cannot but laugh when I think how a pair of bright eyes have rendered the heart that was not wont to dream of danger, as fearful as that of the doves when the peerless eagle is circling around."
               How natural to all is the simile of the eagle, the mist fawning dweller of the upper air, that can alone gaze unwinking upon the sun! How to every AMERICAN heart it brings thoughts of freedom, and sends memory flitting back through the vista of the past, revelling in the glorious days "when freedom from the mountain height unfurled her standard to the air." How beautifully true, and truly beautiful, has the poet spoken of the sky cleaving bird of the unflinching eye and tireless wing— 
                     
                        "Ho! behold in air,
                        Where a majestic eagle floats above
                        The northern turrets of the citadel;
                        And, as the sun breaks through yon rifted cloud,
                        His plumage shines, embathed in burning gold,
                        And sets off his regality in heaven!"
                     
                  
               
               "Laugh on, Frank; I'm not ashamed of my love," continued Erskine. "Aye love, I'll not deny it, for Bessie Thompson; and now to be off."
               "What do you say to my proposition?"
               "I do not like it; although it may be for the best."
               "Aye, and so it is. It will save you many a fatigue, and, therefore, render you more fit to meet the privations and dangers about the trail we follow."
               "That is true; and though my heart rebels against the thought of remaining thus quiet and useless, my mind tells me that it is right."
               "It is. And now, Ned, who shall stay with you?"
               "Let Elton and George remain. I may need some good woodsmen, and you have enough with you, unless in a case where the more would be useless."
               "Let them stay. But will they be enough?"
               "All I want. And now don't fail to let me know, as soon as possible, if you get any tidings of her whom we are following."
               "I shall not fail you; but do you remain quiet, till you hear from me."
               "I will, unless I feel strong enough to follow your trail, which I may do slowly after a time."
               "It were better that you should not."
               "I will be nearer you, in case of news."
               "And less able to render us assistance."
               "Less able! I do not understand your meaning. Explain it."
               "Why, fatigue will have rendered you still more weak, and it needs a strong arm and quick eye to combat with Indians."
               "I know it; and, perchance, you argue for the best. But you waste time, and every moment is as precious as gold."
               "That's true. Good-bye, Ned. Come, boys, let's be off. Look well to your weapons, for it's ten to one that we will need them before we get through."
               Soon all were mounted, and with a farewell to Erskine and the hunters who remained with him, they left the encampment. The spot where Ned had been stricken down was soon found, and from thence the trail was so plain that a child could have read and followed it. In single file, and cautiousless, they pursued their way, now through the tangled mazes of the forest, now across the arid prairie, and now skirting the brooklet and crossing its stony bed. At times the trail was very blind, and they were forced to dismount and carefully examine every mark and sign. An upturned stone, recently disturbed from its bed, a broken branch, the ashes of a camp fire, the buzzard that scared from its repast upon the remains of their meals, and whirled rapidly away, all were signs that they knew well how to read, and which would have been useless to the eyes of any untrained to forest life. The imprint of a small foot, amid the deeply impressed ones of brawny warriors, was to them like the well known star to the compass-less, storm-driven mariner. Still on they pressed, the trail becoming each moment more plain, till they neared the spot where the savages had entered the brooklet. Lost, here, they were like a hound at fault, when scent and sight are alike gone; but 'such a word as fail' never for an instant entered their minds, and in a moment they were dismounting and examining every particle of the river bank.
               Far too intent were they to notice the beauty, the sublimity of the scene around them. It was a bright and glorious morning, the sun rode high in his golden car, the wind crept softly amid the deep emerald foliage, the brook sang sweetly as it stole on amid its fringe of many hued, nodding flowers, the tiny songsters flitted on their bright plumed wings, like very air-fairies, the gorgeous clouds floated in the deep azur of the sea above. Beautiful, indeed, are such pages in the mighty volume of nature, and frrom their mysterious teachings, the author and the poet draw that knowledge and inspiration that gleam upon each page as if printed in letters of gold, and render his name, 
                     
                        "One of the few, the immortal ones,
                        That were not born to die."
                     
                  
               
               Little, however, thought these avenging warriors of the beauty of nature. The tread of a mocassoned foot upon the hard banks of the river was a sight that would have been an hundred times as welcome to their eyes as the most gorgeous display that ever was painted on the sky, or shone emblazoned upon earth. Still, theirs were not the eyes to pass them bye unnoticed in their hours of leisure, when they were seated calmly around a hunting fire, or lazily reclining beneath the shade of some giant tree, near where the cabin of those they loved stood; but when upon the trail of war, when their whole soul was absorbed in thoughts of revenge, when they were seeking for a lost trail, they thought not, cared not for them. The Indian, indolently reclining in his rude wigwam, watching the smoke of his pipe that slowly ascends in ever widening circles till it is lost forever in the immensity of space, feels the power and acknowledges the peerless beauty of nature; but upon the trail of war, when the hatchet has been dug up, and the scalp knife sharpened, he regards not, notes them not.
               And is it not so with us all? Let trial, privation, suffering come, let a dark shadow be cast over the heart, the soul robbed of its idol, the hearth stone be rendered desolate; let all earthly hopes and aspirations vanish, and who is there that revels in the beauties of nature, or gazes with pleasure upon the outspread map drawn by the hand of the master draughtsman, God!
               Thus felt Waters and his brave companions, as they crept cautiously along the bank of the stream, examining every inch of its surface. So well was the trail hid, that even these men, well versed in all of Indian cunning, felt themselves, for once, outwitted. No word of any, however, betrayed this feeling, and still on they all continued to search.
               "Ha!" exclaimed one of the searchers, as his eye, after being riveted for sometime upon the ground, saw the faint outline as of a mocassoned foot. A moment more he gazed upon it, and then the signal whistle was heard lowly sounding upon the air, and in an instant Waters was by his side.
               "What is it?"
               "The print of an Indian's foot, or my eyes are no better than those of an owl."
               "It is, boy, see, here are others. The toes point up the stream. Down low, and follow them."
               The order was obeyed, but the trail was soon lost again, for the footprints entered the water. This, however, was one great point gained, and fording the stream, they again searched on the opposite bank. Well knowing the landing would be made either above or below, and not directly opposite, Waters separated his band, and part proceeded up and part down the stream. It was a tedious task, and one that none but those who had been trained as these men were ever could have accomplished, for the wit must be sharp and the eye bright, that can match an Indian when his trail is intended to be a hidden one. At length, however, it was found, and all gathered around to examine it. Many an opinion was offered, but none seemed to meet the idea of Waters, who, after having looked around for some time, exclaimed—
               "More Indian deviltry here; the infernal red skins have walked backwards! Aye, and made Bessie Thompson do the same, the cowards. But I'll match them yet, or you may call me a fool. Don't you see, boys, how much deeper the print of the heel is than that of the toe?"
               "That is true!" exclaimed all.
               "Well, then, we will follow the trail up stream, and, mark my word for it, we will soon find that they have turned face about. Some of you lead my horse, while I go ahead so as not to put out the trail, and I reckon it will not be long before—. But hold! I should know that call," said he, as the cawing of a crow, when calling its mate, was heard. "It's Ned Erskine, or I'm a fool."
               Without hesitating a single moment, Waters answered the signal. Again were the call and answer repeated, a moment passed, and Erskine and his companions appeared on the opposite side of the river.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               JUDGE REYNOLDS, CLARA, AND ELLIOTT.
               Lifted in the arms of her father, Clara Reynolds was hastily borne into the house, and every attention bestowed upon her, requisite to restore her to consciousness. It was long, howeAer, ere this could be accomplished; for a nature like her's, once shocked, deeply, bitterly retains the wrong, till time, with its healing power, pours its balsam upon the wounded soul. Fainting fit after fainting fit followed, till even life seemed about to depart from its beautiful casket, and the soul to return again unto its native heaven. But nature and a strong constitution again asserted their power, a slight flush mantled the pallid cheek, the rosy hue returned to the lips, the breath became more regular, and Clara Reynolds returned to consciousness—and misery.
               "Clara!" murmured the Judge, as he bent over her trembling form.
               "Hush! Do I dream? Where am I?"
               "At home; and he? Great God, do I dream? Ah! I see it all now," and she covered her face with her hands, as if to shut out some horrid vision.
               Maiden, you can shut the light from your tearful eyes, but you cannot shut out the vision from the eyes of your soul. Your hands may hide the earthly forms of those around you, but a barbed arrow, one tipted with bitter anguish, is quivering in your heart, and you have not the power, cannot pluck it forth.
               "What has happened? Why has Elliott gone?" questioned the Judge.
               "Do not ask me now, dear father, for I have not strength enough to tell more; another time, I will tell you all."
               "This is foolish, childish, dear Clara. Who can console you better than I, now that your mother is in heaven?"
               "This is true, but I am a woman, am weak, and, oh! God, I cannot force myself to utter the thing that he—he deemed me."
               "He, who? Henry Elliott!"
               "Aye, dear father."
               "There is some mystery, here. Speak to me Clara; explain to me what it means, Some lovers' quarrel, I suppose, that a few kisses will soon make up."
               "Lovers? Aye; for my whole heart was his."
               "Why, then, your sudden swoon, and his swift departure?"
               "Listen, dear father, and I will tell you all," and briefly she narrated all, up to the moment that she had pledged her love, and become an affianced bride. "Then, oh! then," she continued, "when my heart was running over with joy, and earth seemed childhood's dream of heaven, little Clara came, tripping up to me, and called me, as is her wont, "Mother." Mother, repeated Elliott, and started from my side. Quicker, far quicker than the flashing of lightning, the thought stole through my brain, that he deemed me—but God! I cannot speak the word! With scorn, I drove him from my presence, and—I know no more."
               "But I will! Deemed you, Clara; you, my my daughter, a—"
               "Nay, dear father, speak it not."
               "By Heaven! but he shall bitterly repent even the thought. My daughter a—"
               "Hush, father!"
               "I would, to heavens, that Erskine and Waters were here! But I am not too old yet to teach him a lesson of Western vengeance. And, by Heaven! I will," exclaimed the Judge, as he strode madly about the room. "Listen to me, Clara, he shall be hunted like a wolf, till he thinks even that the dark hunter, Death, is upon the trail. By night and day, shall he be tracked, unknowing it, till he is in my power, till he has righted your wrongs, and my vengeance is fully satisfied. Oh! that my brave friends, Erskine and Waters, were here."
               "Speak not thus, dear father, he was, he is, my my affianced hus—"
               "Tut, tut; you talk like a foolish, love-sick girl."
               "Nay, be not angry."
               "I am not; but how can you expect me to be calm, after he has insinuated that you, the one to whom he swore his love, and to whom he had proffered his hand, was a—"
               "On my knees, I beg you not to talk thus!"
               "That she had lost the brightest jewel of her sex, that her brow was stained with infamy and crime, that she—great God, I shall go mad!"
               "Father, I need not tell you of my innocence, and it would only blazon forth to a censorious world this unfortunate episode, to attempt to follow him. Let him go; conscience and Heaven will, in good time, punish him—and although my heart is blighted like the autumn stricken flower, never to bloom again, yet here with you, and the innocent cause of my trouble, will I remain, contented if not happy."
               "I cannot, will not, listen to such words."
               "Think, before you act, think how soon, if you rashly follow him, the whole story will be bruited about, and my name become a bye-word and jest in every mouth. I beseech you to pause, and reflect. Come hither, pet," and she took the wondering child in her arms, and pressed it close to her throbbing bosom, "henceforth I will, indeed, be a mother to you."
               Astounded at her coolness, the Judge scarcely noticed her departure from the room: but if he had followed her, he would soon have seen that all her calmness was forced, and that a flood of tears stained her cheeks the moment she had passed from sight. Every one will attest the words of the poet— 
                     
                        "For a fearful time
                        We can keep down the floodgates of the heart,
                        But we must draw them sometime: or it will burst
                        Like sand this brave embankment of the breast,
                        And drain itself to dry death. When pride thaws—
                        Look out for floods!"
                     
                  
               
               Once in her own room, she gave way to the most passionate grief, and few would have recognized in that grief swayed woman the proud girl of an hour before. As if to comfort herself, she still held little Clara in her arms, until she had sobbed herself to sleep, for she, childlike, burst into tears the moment she saw that Clara Reynolds was weeping. Gently she placed her on the bed, and seating herself in a rude, though comfortable, rocking chair, communed with her own thoughts, and bitter indeed was that communion.
               "He said he loved me—but I must not think of that—and I told him of my love; and truly, fondly, madly, I did love him, aye do! Loved, aye, idolized him, but it is passed now, and I may never see him more. Never? Be still, my heart, or burst. But would I see him; would I again gaze upon his face, and hear his voice? Would I again listen to the accents that called me ——? Horror! horror!" And like the tempest tossed flower, her form trembled, and the tears again sprang to her eyes.
               "Where is my womanly pride, the strong spirit I have so often boasted of? Gone? All gone? No! it shall not be so. None shall ever know of this; and with the secret locked in my heart, I will appear unaltered before the world, till that secret has consumed me, and, heart-broken, I go to join my dead mother amid the redeemed and justified. But thou, poor, helpless orphan," and she laid down by the side of the child and clasped her in her arms, and pressed her curly head to her breast, "what will become of you? Who will guard and protect you in this cold and uncharitable world? May God, in His infinite wisdom, be thy stay, "be a father to the fatherless," as he has been to me a mother to the motherless.'"
               Gently, softly, the head of the speaker sank upon the pillow; slowly the tears fell from her eyes, and the lids closed. Slumber came with its soothing power, and as the viewed lids remained motionless, curtaining the mild, blue eyes, her heart resumed its accustomed beatings, her pulse became calm, and for the time, she was freed from the cares and trials of life.
               What a beautiful picture, this! That fair girl, with unbound hair, fast locked in the arms of sleep, and the sweet child fast looked in her arms. And, sleep! when thou hast waved thy leaden wand, how fast the evil passions, the spirits of sorrow, care, and unhappiness vanish, and the good ones remain to guard thy pillow. How true has it been written, "oh! watch ye well by daylight," for then temptation is around in every form, but when we have passed the ivory portals of dreamland, we need have no fear, for bright winged angels hover around us to guard us from harm, until the sun reins his impatient steeds upon the eastern verge, and his golden chariot wheels flash myriad rays over a dreaming world.
               Judge Reynolds, left alone to himself, continued still to walk the room, and his thoughts, like those of his daughter, were bitter indeed. Revenge, pride, and his true Western honor, all prompted him to follow Henry Elliott, and demand satisfaction—and that satisfaction, it is well known, in those primitive days, was only to be obtained in a duel. But, thank God, education, and the genial influence of women, have done away with this fearful custom, and wherever the sound of the church going bell is heard, duelling has become obsolete. The love, tears, and prayers of his daughter deterred him, however, from following the bent of his heart, and the knowledge that such a course would, most assuredly, place her fair name in the mouths of the thoughtless, was a strong argument in favor of his silence. Of the danger he thought not; thought not that he, perchance, might fall a victim in the struggle—for there was not in his composition a particle of that feeling termed fear. Between his excessive love for his daughter, and his wounded pride, and longing after revenge, he was long in deciding,; and had Erskine or Waters been there to have advised the latter certainly would have carried the day, and, therefore, it was most fortunate that they were not. Yet, could have known of their situation, of Erskine's wounds, he would have been the very first to have followed the trail, and aided in the rescue of Bessie Thompson. How well it is, frequently, that we cannot know what is passing, or what is to come! How much of misery is spared us by this wise regulation of Providence!
               Hours passed on their swift wings, the golden sands ran rapidly through the glass, and the rays of the sun were fast gaining their warmth and brightness ere he had decided. LOVE, however, as it ever does, came off victorious, and for the sake of his daughter, the idol of his heart, the strong man quieted his passions and resolved to bury the insult in his breast Leaving him there, outwardly as calm as if nothing had ever ruffled his spirit, though the fire was still raging within, let us follow Henry Elliott.
               At the moment Clara Reynolds fell lifeless to the earth, he sprang from her side, sought his horse, mounted, and dashed rapidly away. With a fire as if that of hell burning in his bosom, he still sped on, regardless of his way. The night was dark and the way dangerous, but he thought not of that, for his soul was occupied with but one thought, and that was whether the one he loved could be false? His heart, reason, all rebelled against it. "But yet," said he, "she told me, with her own lips, that it was her child. And then her pallid cheek and trembling limbs, were confirmation of the fact. But, great God, can it be true? Can she, until this time, have counterfeited? Why have I not seen the child, why not heard of it? There is something strange about this matter—something that I cannot understand. I cannot believe it; yet, can I doubt her words, can I—"the rest was lost in air, for at that moment his horse fell, and he lay, mangled and alone, upon the flinty earth, surrounded by darkness and gloom.
               Now, proud, haughty lover, for so thou wast, stricken by death, alone and amid the gloom of night, who shall succor and save thee? What soft, gentle hand shall bind thy wounds, and what sweet voice breathe words of consolation? Quickly thy mind formed the image of evil in another, and as quickly did thou meet thy punishment. Punishment? No! For the avenging angel of conscience will ever flit around thy pathway, to blast thy hopes and destroy thy happiness. The phantom form of as fair a one as God ever gave life to, will pursue thee in thy every path, and there is a miniature lined upon thy soul that years can never efface.
               That morn rose in beauty upon three as happy beings as the sun shone upon, and now the moon rays feebly fell upon the trio, two of which were almost hopeless stricken by sorrow, and one by death. What a striking commentary upon human hopes and happiness!
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               PRAIRIE FIRE AND BESSIE THOMPSON.
               From the scene of the death of the Crouching Panther, the warriors of the Iroquois returned to their wigwams with slow and measured steps. Not a single tear was shed, not a sob uttered, so well were they trained in the school of the wild wood—though the heart could not be kept quiet. Not a single muscle of the face betrayed emotion, nor, indeed, does it ever do so in your true Indian, feel what he may. Stoielike, he bends over the grave of those who are nearest and dearest to him; follows the uncertain path of war, and stands, unquivering, at the fire-surrounded stake. Yet, it is not that he wants a heart, for the same deep, strong, aye, and more abiding feelings and passions sway him, and hid from the eye of prying curiosity, they revel in all their strength in his bosom. True, it is not easy to find proof of this, unless you can see him when he thinks himself unseen; but watch him at such a time and you will find his eyes are not tearless and his from not free from quivering. Watch him when he has given back to earth the worshipped wife of his bosom, or that of a dearly loved child, and, my word for it, you will not find him passionless. Wandering far from the smoke of his wigwam, he sits alone in the grand, old forest, beneath the shade of giant, aged trees, where the larch blossoms, the flowers breathe perfume, the dew glistens on the emerald leaves, the wild bird sings, the sun shines unstained by the smoke of the pale man's fire, the brook runs unfettered by his works, the air unloaded with the clatter of his busy mill, or the hissing breath of his fire canoe, and communes with his own thoughts. Though the eye is tearless and the lip quivers not, yet, strong are his feelings, passions—and he mourns as truly as those robed in inky black, who follow the plumed hearse, to the tones of martial music, or the solemn peal of the church going bell; and such were the emotions that swayed the heart of Prairie Fire and the band of Iroquois, as they returned, after having committed the Crouching Panther to the fearful death we but lately described. For, say what you may, the dweller in the wild wood has the same sympathies and regrets as those of a more snowy brow, and retains far longer the memory of those who have gone to the spirit land. No snowy marble gleams over their grave, no wordy record tells of their exploits, no prayer, save that of the heart, is uttered, no sweet song sung; but, alone, in the care of mother earth and the great God of nature, are they left, till the last trump shall sound.
               "The name of the chieftain whose spirit the Matcha Manitou has just borne to the realms of the Evil one is forgotten by his tribe," said Prairie Fire, as they gathered around the blackened post and fast expiring fire; "let it never be heard in council, around the homes of the Iroquois, or even whispered upon the even-air. It is forgotten."
               "No grave marks the spot where his form is laid, and his ashes are gathered not within the sacred urn."
               "They are not even scattered by the swift winged winds, about the graves of his ancestors."
               "His name, fame, and form, alike are gone."
               "His lodge is, and shall be, desolate forever. No foot shall ever enter it. No flower ever grow within its darksome shade. We give it to ruin and to decay."
               What a dismal picture this of a once happy home, where the glance of bright-eyed woman and the smile of joyous children were seen, and their merry laugh heard. "We give it to ruin and decay!" A picture of utter desolation is pourtrayed in these words that seems to chill the very heart. Think but of the home of your infancy thus deserted—no living thing within or without it—no sound heard, but all silence, and death, and decay. Think of the once happy faces there, and glad song, and merry games of childhood—then reverse the picture, and your heart will be a better limner of utter desolation than my pen.
               "His name is forgotten!" was again uttered by every lip, and the warriors quietly separated from the circle and sought their respective wigwams. It is but with one, however, that we have at present to do, and within that were seated Bessie Thompson and the wife of Prairie Fire, the Woman of the Murmuring Stream.
               "It was horrible, most horrible!" said Bessie, as if continuing a conversation; "horrible! I shall think of it by day, and dream of it by night. Great God! that I could have saved him."
               "The heart of the maiden of the pale faces is as soft as that of the singing bird. She would faint at the sight of blood," was the reply.
               "Nay; but such a death! Why, oh! why did they condemn thus?"
               "The warriors of the Iroquois are not wont to counsel with their squaws," said Prairie Fire, as he pushed aside the skin covering of the lodge and entered, "and their lips would be closed as a tomb, if the ear should by chance hear them."
               "Yet, tell me, dear Prairie Fire, why such a fearful death!"
               "The maiden of the pale face would not understand it, even if I should do so, and the tongue of the warrior is not formed like that of the woman."
               Too well acquainted with Indian character to question further, the tongue of Bessie Thompson became silent, and screening her face with her hands, her head sank low upon the skins on which she reclined, and swiftly the tears stole down her cheeks. Well knowing that tears relieve the over charged brain, Prairie Fire remained silent until his quick perception told him that those of Bessie Thompson had almost exhausted themselves, and then, gently laying his hand upon that of the maiden, uttered in a whisper—
               "Would the Singing Bird of the pale face like to return again to her tribe?"
               Low as the words were uttered, they thrilled like lightning the very soul of the maiden, and with a shout of joy, she sprang to her feet.
               "Yes! oh, yes!" she cried, clapping her hands with joy.
               "When eagles are circling around, the notes of the dove should be as silent as the whisper of the summer breeze."
               "I had forgotten, in my joy at returning home, that warriors were around," replied Bessie Thompson, readily interpreting the words of the chieftain.
               "Let the maiden then whisper her replies, and listen to the words that my lips may utter."
               "My heart would force my ears to listen to them."
               "The warriors of the Iroquois are savage, and even revengeful—"
               "But you are—"
               "An Iroquois!"
               "No, no; you are a friend!"
               "When the hand of Prairie Fire gave to the maiden of the pale race—the sworn enemy of all the red men—the arrow marked by fire, he so declared himself, and, from that hour, his arm became devoted to her service. The tongue of Prairie Fire is not forked, like the crawling massasawger, and the trail of his heart is not hid, but open as the mid-day hunting path; yet, it were not well that all should read his thoughts, and the lips of the maiden must be silent—"
               "Aye, as the grave!"
               "'Tis well. The Singing Bird of the snowy brow and roses-tained cheek made music in the ears of the warrior, when his eye first saw her curling locks wave in the breeze of morn. Let her listen to his words, and let them be branded on her heart. The hatchet of anger, and the keen knife of revenge are still unburied, and the friends of the Crouching Panther long for the blood that flows in the veins of the pale face. The one that Prairie Fire saved from death brought back to his heart the image of his child, that is now in the happy hunting grounds of the spirit land, and paddles her canoe on the waters of the River of Light. The heart of the warrior warmed towards her, and he saved her from becoming what her soul shrunk from."
               "Aye, from being the wife of the Panther."
               "It is true. The maiden's song is as the dove's."
               "And you will still save me?"
               "The panther, the bear, the prowling wolf, the eagle, aye, and the hissing serpent watch their young and guard them in the hour of danger."
               "And you will me?"
               "The arm of the warrior is not weak as that of the mother carried infant, and his eye can see the dun hide of the deer when the stars 'have winked themselves out.'"
               "Save me, and Heaven will reward you."
               "The Manitou watches over his children, and he is not forgetful to reward or punish."
               "But how, when, am I to be saved—to see again the home of my childhood, my—my—Great God, they are all dead!"
               "The memory of the maiden is not as true as her heart."
               "I know not what you mean."
               "A fledgling there was in the nest, when the hunter's shaffles were buried in the breasts of the parent birds."
               "True, and thank God! I remember, now, that you told me that my baby sister had escaped."
               "Prairie Fire speaks not lies."
               "Hasten, oh! hasten my escape, my return."
               "The head and the hand of the warrior will not be idle, and hast not been. With the last drop of his heart's blood, will he guard her, and she shall again sit by the smoke of the wigwams of her tribe, or the warrior will sleep with his fathers."
               "Thanks, a thousand thanks. But you will not die?"
               "The lives of the warrior, the matron, and the maiden are ever in the hands of the Great Manitou, whose bow is bent and gleams amid the rolling clouds."
               It is true, he holds us ever in the 'hollow of His hand,' and to Him, and Him alone, can we look for succor in the hour of danger."
               "Like the pale face, the red man worships the Great and Good Spirit, and bows the knee of the heart before Him, and when the sun of life is sinking in the west the warrior is as powerless as the pappoose."
               "True, all must die; but you—you—Prairie Fire, and your wife, will be spared for many, very many years."
               "The wife of the warrior is ready to follow the footsteps of her lord to the river of death, and paddle his canoe on its dark, rolling waters," replied the Woman of the Murmuring Stream, for the first time speaking, since the entrance of her husband. Involuntarily, almost, the words sprang from her lips, and quickly recollecting herself, she again resumed her wonted silence.
               "I am ready to die," resumed Prairie Fire, "but in the heart of the warrior is still locked the hope that the bow of death may be unstrung until the Singing Bird of the pale face is within the wigwam of her friends."
               "God grant that it may be."
               "Like a sunbeam holden by its golden hair" is hope. Hope? It is the beacon star of life, the morning star of fragrant youth, the day star of self-relying manhood, and the evening star that lights the tottering steps of feeble, old age. Hope? It lights the gloom of the prison cell, it wreathes with flowers the war torn flag on the battle field, it floats an ensign of beauty and radiant hues from the fore and main, in the hour of tempest, upon which the heart-eye of the mariner is riveted, and shines, peerless of all the feelings of the heart, over the grave of lost and loved ones.
               "Daughter of Prairie Fire, listen well to his words, and let thy soul drink them in as your parched lips would the cool water of the mountain spring. The warrior has pledged his life, and, what is far more, his honor, to save thee, and he has prayed to the Manitou for power to do so. He will redeem his pledge, if she will but harken to and obey his words."
               "I will! I will!"
               "Let her freely wander, as if perfectly contended and fearless, amid the lodges of the Iroquois. Let her mingle with the maidens of the tribe, as if she had now become one of them. The wife of Prairie Fire will find her such garments as are worn by daughters of chieftains in our tribe, will bind the sacred wampun about her waist, twine the eagle plume amid her hair, and stain her brow with the nut brown berry. Will the maiden of the pale face—the daughter of Prairie Fire—consent to this?"
               "I will; I do."
               "Prairie Fire will soon return;" and rising, he left the wigwam, after having spoken a few words to his wife."
               The garments of Bessie Thompson were soon exchanged for an Indian dress of snowy fawn skin, beautifully embroidered and embossed with beads and quills, her zone was girdled with wampum, an eagle plume was twined amid the luxuriant curls of her hair, her feet encased in moccasons, her face, neck, and hands embrowned with the juice of a forest growing berry, and she stood there, as perfect a model of an Indian princess as ever trod amid the flowers of the prairie, or the budding shrubs of the wild wood.
               The Woman of the Murmuring Stream uttered a low, cricket-like sound, as soon as the transformation had been effected, and Prairie Fire stood before them. Astonished as he evidently was, yet by a strong effort he controlled it, although the swift flashing of his eye somewhat revealed it.
               "The maiden has done well, and Prairie Fire is prond of his daughter. She has followed his advice."
               "And will still continue to do so."
               "Thou shall be—"
               "Be what? Oh, tell me!"
               "BE FREE!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVI.
               THE TRAIL CONTINUED.
               Heartily, most heartily were the greetings of Erskine and Waters when they met upon the bank of the river. It was such a greeting as is only known to those who roam the wild-wood or follow the dubious chances of the ever restless, pathless sea. Such meetings where the whole heart is poured forth occur not in the gilded saloons of fashion, where beauty is arrayed in jewel baubles, in costly silks and laces fine as the gossamer web of the fly-entrapping spider, for hearts are wanting there. They cannot know or feel that true joy, that estatic thrill of pleasure at meeting a companion as the one who has roamed for months alone on the flowery prairie or amid the time-honored forest, or has been buffetted about upon the briny billows. Little can the votaries of fashion know of the pure feelings of friendship—the uncontaminated emotions and affections of the heart.
               "My God, Ned?" was the salutation of Waters, as he gained the bank where his companions stood; "what has brought you here?"
               "Why, Thunder," was the laughing reply of Erskine, as he caressed his good horse.
               "I did not doubt that, but you are not fit to travel."
               "As fit as to lay like a sick woman and be haunted with strange fancies."
               "You haunted?"
               "Certainly; do you think that I could be forgetful of the trail we followed, or that—"
               "Bessie Thompson was a—"
               "Prisoner, you would say, Frank. Well, I thank you for that—"
               "Never thank me, Ned, and I feel assured that it is no worse."
               "Why do you think so?"
               "Because we have found the trail far too plain to miss it again."
               "Was her foot-print on it?"
               "Just as plain as I can see that of your horse."
               "I thank Heaven for that!"
               "You had better thank some of the sharp eyes that searched for it."
               "I do. But tell me all."
               "I will, and while I am doing it, some of you boys strike a light, build a fire, and get as something to eat. I am as hungry as a three-day hunted wolf, and Ned looks as though he had lived on lily leaves for about a month."
               "I am well enough, Frank. Go on."
               "Well enongh! why, your face is as pale as a sickly winter moon, or a love-sick girl when she sees an infernal red-skin scalping her lover."
               "Be still, Frank. I am impatient to hear all."
               "And so you shall. Here, boys, one of you take Ned's horse, and throw a blanket or two under that big butternut tree. There—that will do. Now, Ned, take a drink and then listen."
               The arrangements being perfected, Erskine and Waters seated themselves, and the former eagerly listened, while the latter related what had passed since they separated. The recital proceeded not without many an interruption from Erskine, to which Waters paid but little or no attention, until he had finished, and then with a loud laugh exclaimed—
               "You are as nervous as a child, Ned. What has become of your self-command?"
               "You know, Frank, I am weak—am—"
               "In love! ha! ha! So am I with my dinner, and here it comes."
               Rude as was the meal, it was discussed with far more gusto than any ever seasoned with epicurean sauce and eaten from golden plates. Labor, privation, and want, are your true sauces to create a relish, and well they did so in the case of these hardy and danger-defying hunters. The most simple meal ever spread in the cabin of a poverty-stricken one is eaten with far more satisfaction and pleasure than any that ever graced the table of a luxury-pampered king. Give me the freedom and the appetite of prairie life, and I ask not for the dishes with high-sounding and almost unpronouncible foreign names, although I well know the truth of the adage—"De gustibus non est disputandem."
               "An hour or two for rest now," said Waters, as he sprang up from his seat and lit his pipe.
               "Who shall keep guard? You are all tired and I will," said Erskine.
               "If you do may I be—"
               "Hold on, Frank."
               "I'll take the first watch myself, and then some of the boys can relieve me. So you quietly go to sleep. Nay, Ned, don't talk about it, for it must be. I will have it so."
               "I'm strong enough to keep guard. I believe you want to make a woman of me."
               "I'd have a mighty hard time of it," laughed Waters, as, calling the dogs, he hastened to the river bank.
               Left to themselves all were soon fast asleep, and slept as calmly as if they were not on the trail of war, and thus it is that the human mind can be trained to be utterly regardless of all that is around. The sailor sleeps calmly amid the strife and roar of the elements in his ocean-rocked hammock, and dreams of home, and love, and happiness. The hunter stretches himself amid the leaves of the forest, and thinks but of the game he follows; and the Indian of an eastern clime pillows his head beneath the flower-crowned cactus, and calmly dreams on, while the poisoned serpent is wreathing its scaly folds above his head, and its forked, venom-breathing tongue hissing in his very face. How strange such things are, and yet as true as the words of holy writ.
               Left alone, Waters seated himself upon the shelving bank of the river, with his rifle resting upon his knees, and the brave and noble dogs by his side. He thought of the past, the present, and the future, until his mind because confused, and his eyes grew heavy and dim. A moment more and he was fast locked in the arms of slumber, and "quick-footed dreams, without order or number," were playing amid the mysterious meshes of the brain. Two watchers only were there now—Speed and Swift.
               An hour passed, and still all slept, while heaven grew darker and darker, till the sun became obscured, and the low, first muttering notes of thunder were heard. The deep breathing of the sleepers and the harsh growl of the dogs alone broke the silence for a time. Then the vivid, far-flashing lightning hurtled in the air, and danced and played amid the dun clouds, and the fearful thunder-drum of heaven rolled intensely. It was a fearful hour! It rained never so hard, and heaven shone betimes as if clothed in molten gold, and earth trembled at every discharge of the storm-worked artillery of heaven! The wind shrieked like hell-doomed fiends, the giant trees shook and writhed in the blast, and fell prone to earth splintered, twisted, and boughless! The neigh of the horses rang like a trumpet peal, and the prolonged howl of the hounds like departing, sin-terrified spirits. Oh! it is fearful to gaze upon the hurricane in the hour of its wrath, the hour that teaches to man his own littleness and dependence! It is at such an hour that the soul is forced to acknowledge God! At such a time 
                     
                        "——they faint and shudder—pale, and pray;
                        The burning oath that quivered on the lip
                        Starts back, and sears and blisters up the tongue;
                        Confusion ransacks the abandoned heart,
                        Quells the bold blood, and o'er the vaulted brow
                        Slips the white woman hand. To judgment, ho!
                        The very pivot of the earth seems snapped;
                        And down they drop like ruins to repent:
                        Such be the bravery of mighty man!"
                     
                  
               
               At the first fierce peal of the earth-shaking thunder, Waters sprang to his feet with a loud shout, as if to awaken his companions. But that was useless, for they also had been awakened, and arose confounded by the fearful glare and noise. Well all knew that the forest was no place for them at such an hour, when even the wild beasts ran forth affrighted and trembling, and eagerly they sought the river bank. Erskine and Waters, the most collected, strove to reassure their comrades and quiet their affrighted steeds. The latter, however, was no easy task, and more than one broke loose and dashed madly away, defying all restraint. One, apparently more affrighted than the others, sprang directly into the waves, now angry with the rain that had swelled it rapidly, with his rider upon his back. Vain were all his efforts to control him now. As well might Mazeppa have attempted to guide the unbitted and unbridled one that "bore him to a throne!" A moment they wildly combatted with the lightning-sweeping stream—then the horse's feet were swept from under him, and man and horse rolled over and over together!
               Quickly Waters ran along the bank to aid his comrade in reaching the shore. The shrill neigh of the dying horse and fearful scream of the dying man rang above even the roar of the tempest for an instant, and were heard no more. No more! What a terrible sentence! No more— 
                     
                        "——'tis a sound of sorrow,
                        The roll of time's waves on the wreck-strewn shore,
                        It tells of a night that knows no morrow,
                        Of dreams awakened from—of pleasures o'er;
                        'Twas Eve's last sigh above the corpse she bore:
                        Alas! my Abel comes again no more!"
                     
                  
               
               An hour after the sun shone forth gloriously, and Nature seemed to wear her brightest jewels and to have decked herself far more resplendently for the hour of darkness and gloom and tempest she had just passed through. But in that hour a soul had gone to its account and earth had lost one of its countless denizens. Far down the stream, upon a jutting point, lay the mangled forms of both horse and rider, and life had long been extinct.
               Over the dead corpse of their companion many a true and heart-felt tear was shed; his form was committed to the earth, and beneath the shade of the bending grass, with the swift river for a requiem, he was left to his last sleep. Sleep on, brave hunter of the forest, you have gone but a little before us, and we soon shall follow. Sleep on, for you rest as well 'neath the waving flowers, with the timid fawn and sweetly-carrolling wild birds of bright plumage for visitors at your lowly grave, as if surrounded by the pomp and pride of wealth and fashion.
               
                  
                     
                        
                           THE PRAIRIE GRAVE.
                           
                              In a quiet nook and lonely,
                              In a deep, wild prairie glen,
                              Is a grave unknown, save only
                              To the wandering hunter's ken:
                              A simple stone, unlettered,
                              From the rank grass rises there,
                              By the form from earth unfettered,
                              Freed from sorrow, sin, and care.
                           
                           
                              By the form of him who lieth,
                              Thus from life's deep trials free,
                              Where each wind autumnal sigheth,
                              As it sweeps o'er prairie lea:
                              Was no hand that, kindly tending,
                              Cooled thy fevered lip and brow,
                              And from every care defending?
                              Yet what matter is it now?
                           
                           
                              Calm he sleeps, though his clay pillow
                              Echoed back no heart-felt prayer,
                              Calm he sleeps, as stormless billow,
                              Though no song of praise was there;
                              Calm he sleeps, with rest unbroken,
                              Though no mourning friends were near.
                              Calm he sleeps, though friendship's token
                              Ne'er shall grace his nameless bier.
                           
                           
                              Whose the form that there is sleeping,
                              Where the golden flow'rets wave,
                              And the stars alone are keeping
                              Watch beside his lonely grave?
                              Whether youth with brow unclouded
                              By the sombre shades of life,
                              Whether manhood's, heart enshrouded,
                              Curtained by its ceaseless strife?
                           
                           
                              Whether age, that trembling presses,
                              With weak footsteps, towards the tomb,
                              Dreading still death's chill caresses,
                              Dissolution's night of gloom?
                              Ne'er, tho' searching shall be given,
                              Knowledge aught of that lone grave,
                              Or how parting, spirit riven,
                              Sank into death's troubled wave.
                           
                           
                              Still that grave with flowers is teeming,
                              And there breath of sweet perfume,
                              Load the summer air when beaming
                              Sun rays gild that prairie tomb;
                              And o'er it sweet music swelling,
                              Wake the prairie echoes wild,
                              As nature's songsters flit round dwelling,
                              Of her unremembered child!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               The rude and hasty funeral over, Erskine, Waters, and their companions, with sad hearts and sorrowing spirits, departed. Crossing the river, they soon found the trail, and struck boldly into the forest. Silently they journeyed on until the gloom of night had gathered around them, and then they prepared to encamp. If a prayer for their dead brother soared aloft it was an unuttered one of the heart, and as soon as a hasty supper had been prepared and eaten, a watch was set, and the remainder were soon fast locked in the arms of slumber.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               Long Clara Reynolds slept, with the child in her arms, forgetful alike of the past, the present, and the future. And at such times, when the heart is beaten down beneath the fearful power of anguish, how welcome indeed is repose, and slumber, and forgetfulness. But it cannot last for aye, and waking again brings torture back, as if with a more fearful power, for having remained dormant for a time. Such were the feelings, those of anguish, that returned to resume their power over the heart of the maiden, as her eyes were opened to the light, and she gazed through her tears upon the child that dreamed tranquilly by her side, with its head nestled upon her bosom. A most truly vivid panorama of the past gleamed before the eyes of the soul, that would willingly have owned the power to have turned away—but could not. Truly such visions charm and enchain us, as the snake does the feeble bird, and though we shrink from the gazing, yet we cannot help to do so.
               A panorama painted by love, hope, fear, disdain, and despair was before the eyes of Clara Reynolds, and far too well her heart certified to its truth. Now all was bright and lovely as an angel's dream. The sky was cloudless, "save with rare and roseate hues." The birds sang their sweetest songs, and the flowers shone in their brightest colors. No scene of earth could be fairer than the love-tinted, hope-gilded one her eye rested upon, and the heart of the fair girl beat as high and joyous as that of the lark whose wings are cooled in the gray mist of early morn, as he speeds aloft and carrols his song of praise at the very golden bar of heaven. How bright and beautiful all! And thus it was a moment, and then the scene was changed to darkness, gloom, and desolation. Love was shrouded in the habiliments of the grave, and hope fled on swift wings before the destroyer of human happiness. Verily, the picturing of love at such a time is like— 
                     
                        "Hopes that but illume to fly,
                        And joys that vanish while we sip,
                        Like dead sea fruits that tempt the eye,
                        And turn to ashes on the lip!"
                     
                  
               
               The plighting kiss of love now blistered on the lip, the honeyed words were turned to lies, the heart that was once worshipped now is hateful, and all of earth stripped of its garments of beauty and clothed in sack cloth and ashes. Oh! how bitter the waking from a dream of true love, to find its flowers, once so beautiful and fragrant, cast back upon the heart that gave them life to wither and die. Yet, such changes are ever our lot in this world, and the panorama of life is abundantly furnished with such scenes.
               Long Clara Reynolds reasoned with her own heart, and strove to stay its trembling pulsations by the power of her strong mind. A difficult task is this for any to undertake, and truly this fair sufferer found it so, for many a tear was shed ere she could sufficiently calm herself to venture into the presence of her father. At length, however, she succeeded, and having carefully bathed her hot brow and tear swimming eyes, adjusted her toilet, hastened down stairs, though with a hesitating step and quick beating pulse, to meet him.
               There was much of the same feeling about the heart of the Judge, and as he clasped her to his breast, and pressed a parental kiss upon her brow, he felt more like a girl than a strong and forest nurtured man.
               "Did you rest well, dear Father?" was the kind enquiry of the daughter, as she warmly returned his kiss.
               "Aye, Clara; and you?"
               "I slept well, but such—"
               "What, Clara?"
               "Such horrid, horrid dreams."
               "You dreamed of—"
               "Do not mention his name, Father."
               "There might have been some mistake, Clara."
               "I would never hear that name again. I have endeavored, and shall still continue to do so, to school my heart to forgetfulness."
               "I fear, Daughter, that you have overrated your own strength. Yours is not a heart to so easily forget, and when you have once loved—"
               "Aye, loved!"
               "Yes, loved, the struggle will be a hard one."
               "I know—I know it will."
               "Why not, then, let me write to Elliott and demand an explanation of his conduct."
               "Would you thus compromise me, Father?"
               "Compromise you? I do not understand you, Clara?"
               "Would you thus send your daughter begging for a husband?"
               "I did not think of that."
               "I have, dear Father, far too much pride for an act like this, and beside, it was him—aye, even you, Henry Elliott—that gave the insult, and from you, unasked, unsolicited, must the amend come."
               Her form raised to its full heighth, her eye flashed with fire, and her lip curled proudly as she uttered the words.
               "Spoken like your father's daughter! And you say truly, too, Clara. Yet, think well, dearest, are you not sacrificing yourself to years of anguish by this act?"
               "I may be—I feel that I am. But I would, aye, will do it, sooner than bend the knee and ask any man to be my husband—ask any man who, even in thought, would dare to tarnish my honor, to return to my side."
               "Still Clara, it might not be wrong for me to write him and ask an explanation."
               "I have no right to oppose your judgment or your wishes, but this hand shall never again be clasped in that of Henry Elliott, and sooner shall these lips be blackened with poison than bear his contaminating kiss."
               "You speak wildly, strongly, Clara."
               "No! not wildly, or more strongly than I feel."
               "Yet, with such feelings, it will be long ere your heart will become quiet. Time, however, will drop its healing balsam in your soul wounds, and another love compensate you for the loss of the former."
               "Father!"
               "Why do you start thus, child?"
               "Did you not say another love?"
               "Such were my words."
               "Can you thus judge me?"
               "I know, Clara, your heart is not like the butterfly ones of city life, but that it beats truthfully and well. You are young, however, and years will change you much."
               "Never! For, Father, 
                     
                        "How shall I find another like my last?
                        The golden and the gorgeous loveliness—
                        A sunset beauty! Ah! I saw it set.
                        My heart, alas! set with it. I have drained
                        Life of all love, as doth an iron rod
                        The heavens of lightning; I have done with it,
                        And all its waking woes and dreamed-of joys."
                     
                  
               
               "Those are but a dreaming poet's thoughts and fancies, and but little proved in every day life."
               "They are reality."
               "The heart of girlhood, when love-stricken, thinks them true, and would willingly affirm that none but the lost idol could ever occupy the vacant altar of the soul."
               "Father, forgive me for asking, but has any other but my dead mother ever obtained a foothold within your heart?"
               "No, daughter, no! But we will not argue the question;" and the strong man turned and wiped away a tear as he spoke.
               It is somewhat strange how a single word will crowd the brain with sorrowful recollections, and bid the tears well up to the eye. How, even although we think that time has robbed the stings of their once fearful power, yet, even at the slightest touch, they will bleed afresh, and wring the heart as in the hour when the wound was first given. All of us have felt this, aye, felt deeply, 
                     
                        "That many a shaft at random sent
                        Found mark the archer never meant,
                        And many a word at random spoken
                        May wound or heal the heart that's broken."
                     
                  
               
               "Nay, dear Father, forgive me," continued Clara, as she kissed away his tears, "forgive me, it was a heedless, girlish question, and I thought not what I said. Will you not forgive me?"
               "Aye, dear Daughter, I will—I do. It is true that your words caused my old eyes to fill with tears, but they were holy ones, and it were well that we should shed such more frequently, for the heart is far too apt to become callous and forgetful."
               "Still I would not, for worlds, speak a word to sadden your heart."
               "I know it well, dear Daughter. But, to the subject we were speaking of."
               "I would that it were forgotten."
               "That, I fear, it can never be."
               "Still, it were better that we did not discuss it, for it only serves to keep it more vividly before the mind, and renders the wound deeper and more lasting."
               "There is truth in what you say, and—"
               "Let us cease to talk about it, and see, here comes little Clara."
               It is somewhat surprising that a young girl could thus discourse upon a theme like this—one in which her whole soul was absorbed, and her whole earthly happiness at stake. That she could see every flower planted by Love, the rosy cheeked boy of the bow and arrows, in the garden of the heart, tore from their abiding place, and scattered broadcast to the winds—to wither and die. The strong, sinewy man often quails before misfortune, even that of the loss of gold, and by his own hand passes from earth with the vain hope of finding a relief from his troubles in the dark and cheerless grave. Oh, what a vain dream! What a delusive thought, that sending himself to his final account will ensure him happiness! When the proof sheet of his soul is made up—when the recording angel opens the ledger of his earthly career, what think you will be the fearful doom of the suicide? Let your own soul answer the question, for my pen dare not depict it.
               It is true, strange as it is, that frail and delicate woman ofttimes endure far more than strong and bearded man, and unmurmuring, pass through trials and privations that the stronger sex fail in surviving. Of this fact each are acquainted, with incidents sufficient to prove it, without pen of mine mentioning them. But is it not true, that 
                     
                        Trod 'neath oppression's iron heel,
                        The strong ones struggle still,
                        Till cracks the o'erstrained heart strings,
                        And quails the giant will.
                        
                        The weak ones kiss the hand that smites,
                        Repay with kindness, wrong,
                        Suffer, unmurmuring for years,
                        And grow in suffering strong.
                     
                  
               
               "Well, my little rose-bud," said Judge Reynolds, as little Clara came tripping into the room and springing into his lap and clasping her arms around his neck, kissed him, "well, my little rose-bud," repeated he, for the child's kisses had stopped his words, "where have you been, all the morning?"
               "I've been picking flowers, Pa, for you and Mother. See," and she twined them amid the hair of the Judge, who, laughing, allowed her to proceed, "see, Ma, how pretty he looks."
               "Yes, pet, but you have forgotten to kiss me, this morning."
               "Here, dear Mother," and she hastened to Clara, who lifting her up in her lap, smoothed her waving hair and gently caressed her."
               "I've been down to the river, Ma, and while I was picking these flowers I saw an Indian."
               "An Indian?"
               "Yes, Ma, he was creeping like a dog, along the bank, just as Wolf does when he is playing with me."
               "An Indian?" repeated the Judge, "this must be some childish fancy. Are you sure that it was an Indian?"
               "Yes, Pa; I have seen them often."
               "This must be looked to. An Indian; and skulking so near our very home. Here, Pomp!"
               "Yes, Massa."
               "Call some of the boys from the field; get my rifle ready; tell them to come here immediately. Much I fear that there is trouble ahead. Here, Clara; nay, let not your cheek grow pale, and do not tremble. Let some of your women take care of this little one, and you see that the house is prepared for defence. It is not the first time that you have done so, and I need not tell you what to do. You understand me, do you not?"
               "Yes, dear Father."
               "That's right. Aha! here come the boys. Are you all armed?—yes, I see you are. Little Clara has seen, or thinks she has seen, an Indian crawling along the river bank, and we must find out whether it be true or not. So, come along, boys."
               The bank was soon gained, and with but little search, they found a plainly marked trail. This they followed till it was lost in the water. Without waiting for canoes, they crossed the stream, and again it was visible. What could it mean? Certainly no spy would thus leave an open trail, though it twisted about like the path of a serpent. There was some mystery here, and anxious were all to fathom it. Again was the trail lost in the running stream, and even as they gazed, the head of an Indian was seen just above the waters on the opposite shore. Anxious to secure him alive, no shot was fired, but with a loud shout, all dashed in. Leisurely, and apparently indifferent, the Indian runner, for such his paint plainly told him to be, ascended the bank and disappeared amid the forest. A moment after he was surrounded and led, a captive, towards the house of Judge Reynolds.
               What business had he there—what his object in becoming thus a captive to the enemies of his tribe? One sentence only passed his lips, as he was lod on—
               "I AM AN IROQOUIS!"
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               BESSIE THOMPSON.
               "Light over strong, and darkness over long, blinds equally the eye," says the author of Festus; and so it is with both hope and fear. It was the power of hope that blinded the mind of Bessie Thompson, when Prairie Fire told her that she should 'be free,' to the almost impossibility of the accomplishment of the task. But, under such circumstances, it would have been the same with us, for hope is almost all powerful in its control over the human mind, and exercises nearly as full dominion as love. Through the narrow chink in the dungeon wall, where the sunrays can scarcely steal dimly and faintly, comes hope, on its pinions of glory, to cheer and bless. It seems to float as a halo of brightness around the form of the over-thought-worked poet and author, "to perch upon his pen and diamoned its way." It is the smile that cheers us amid gloom and darkness, aye, and even despair, for when all others have fled, when peace and mercy have vanished from our sight, upon the viewless winds," hope, the charmer, lingers still behind."
               Wrapped, completely absorbed in the visions conjured up by the power of hope, Bessie Thompson stood in the wigwam of Prairie Fire, until his deep-toned voice called her again to the consciousness of her situation—to the fact that she was still in the power of the warlike Iroquois.
               "The spirit of the maiden of the pale face is wandering in the land of dreams, and bright-winged birds are making sweet music in her ears."
               "I had forgotten all, save that you promised me that I should be free."
               "Prairie Fire tells not lies."
               "When, oh! when shall it be?"
               "The good Manitou, as he guides the bright god of day, and the pale moon of night, the swift running stream, and the course of the fire-winged lightning, will direct also the path of the maiden. The warrior's will, in His hand, is but as that of a drop of water in the fathomless ocean."
               "I know this well. But you will not desert me?"
               "Never! The veins of Prairie Fire hold not a drop of the blood of traitors."
               "Well, oh! how well I believe your words. But I long so to be again with my friends."
               "Has not the chieftain of the Iroquois ever been a friend to the Singing Bird of the pale face? Has his lodge not been her home, and his hand ever been open to her?"
               "Yes, oh, yes!"
               "The captive bird longs again to sing with its mates, the fettered deer to return to its wild wood haunts, the imprisoned warrior to return to his tribe, and the daughter of Prairie Fire to roam, at will, beneath the trees that sheltered her when her form was little and her step was feeble. It is well."
               "Tell me, dear Prairie Fire, how I must proceed."
               "Has the heart of the maiden forgotten the words that were breathed in her ears? Have they faded from her memory?"
               "Ha! I have changed my dress and dyed my skin, I have girdled myself with wampum, and placed mocassons on my feet."
               "Let her name, henceforth, be the "Corn Tassel," among the Iroquois.
               "You told me to associate with the maidens of the tribe freely, and apparently contented."
               "The mind of my daughter keeps the words spoken in her ear as safely as her heart would the name of the brave she loves."
               The keen eye of Prairie Fire marked, although he seemed not to, the deep blush that mantled the cheek of the maiden, and quickly read the strong incentive that she had to hasten her return home—although that home was in ashes, and her parents sleeping beneath the damp sod of the prairie. That of his wife also was bent upon Bessie Thompson, and her woman heart, Indian though she was, told her how true that love was.
               "Let the Corn Tassel," resumed Prairie Fire, "follow the advice of the chieftain patiently. When the warrior is surrounded by his enemies, he must lie in ambush, and wait till his cunning will ensure his safety. The maidens of the Iroquois go to gather garlands to wear 'mid their thunder-cloud-hued locks, let not the print of the mocasson of my daughter be missing from the trail."
               "I will obey you in all things. But, dear Prairie Fire, do not long keep me from returning home."
               "The heart of youth beats fast, and its foot is swift, while that of age is slow and trembling. The young wolf dashes on, unthinking of danger, but the oft hunted looks, before he approaches the trap of the hunter. It is thus with the maiden and Prairie Fire."
               "I know it, but I cannot control my wishes."
               "The hand of the chieftain will not be idle, and when the warrior dare take the trail, then shall the maiden go."
               "Thanks, a thousand thanks!" and bending, she kissed the brawny hand of the warrior.
               "Let the maiden go, her sisters wait for her, and must not vainly look for her coming. Let her heart be stout. The good Manitou will yet bless her in the home of her fathers," was the reply of Prairie Fire, as he turned and slowly left the wigwam.
               Hastily drying the tears which had gathered in her eyes at the thought of home and loved ones, Bessie Thompson, assuming all the dignity she could command, with a proud step, proceeded to join the group of maidens at the farther end of the encampment. Many an exclamation of surprise was uttered by them, as they saw her dressed in the garments of their tribe, and with her face, and neck, and arms stained to nearly the swarthy hue of their own. Around her they gathered, with almost childish curiosity, gazed upon her long, silken hair, and offered her every attention they were capable of bestowing. Her beauty, gentleness, and past danger had first won upon them, and now that she appeared as one of their own tribe, they were all anxious to gain her love and respect. And thus does beauty, gentleness, modesty ever win its way in the world. It is far more potent than the sword, the rifle, or the knife, and wins its way where all these would fail.
               Tell me if it has not been ever thus since light first burst from chaos, chasing away gloom, and bathing the whole world in a flood of glory? Tell me if it has not stayed the arm of revenge, assassination, of murder? Tell me if club, and tomahawk, and knife would not have been impotent when the beauty and gentleness, and love of Pocahontas was all powerful? If even the warlike form and command of Richard Cœur de Lion would not have been unobeyed, where Joan of Arc was triumphant? Thus it has ever been, and thus it will ever be, until earth fades from space, and time is whelmed forever in the waves of eternity.
               Many a pretty name was bestowed upon Bessie Thompson by her companions—such names as far excel in beauty any of those of civilized life, and can only be found in the uncultured language of the fast fading Indian tribes. Calmly she listened for a time, and then told them that Prairie Fire had already named his daughter—their sister—"Corn Tassel." Every lip repeated the name, every hand pressed hers, and then they gently led her towards the forest. Fully determined to follow to the best of her ability the advice given her, she, that captive maiden, entered fully into their sports, sang the songs she was wont to sing in her own happy home, wove the wreath of many hued flowers and twined them amid her luxuriant hair, and laughed as loudly as the rest. How strange it is that the lip can wreathe itself, when the heart is breaking with anguish! It is one of the God given powers of mind-endowed man, for most true it is, "man may smile, and smile, and be a villain still."
               Long they rambled, until they came to the bank of a rippling brook, and there seated upon the mossy ground, they wove flowery garlands, and with the waters of a still pool for a rustic looking-glass, they decked themselves. Many a gentle hand twined the freshest and fairest amid the curls of Corn Tassel's hair, and vied with each other who would do the most homage to their queen, as they now called her. And queen-like, indeed, she looked, as she sat there, arrayed in the habiliments of the forest, decked with flowers, and with a happy smile upon her lips. Well was it for you, Ned Erskine, if you had not loved her as you did, that you did not see her as she then appeared, for with the poet you would have sung— 
                     
                        "I crown thee, love; I crown thee, love;
                        I crown thee queen of me!
                        And oh! but I am a happy land
                        And a loyal land to thee.
                        I crown thee, love; I crown thee, love:
                        Queen of the brave and free!
                        For I'm brave to all beauty but thine, my love;
                        And free to all beauty but thee."
                     
                  
               
               Beautiful as was the scene—that rippling, flower-fringed brook—that mossy bank and grand old trees—those flower dressed girls, with the soft air gently lifting their inky locks, as they kneeled around the form of Bessie Thompson, it could not last for aye. The sun was fast circling towards its daily grave, soon to be shrouded in night, when the Corn Tassel arose from her seat, and adopting the figurative language of the tribe, addressed them—
               "The sun is speeding his last arrows to earth, and they fall faint and uncertain. The father longes to see his bright-eyed daughter, and the hunters wait for the maidens of the Iroquois to dress their venison and grind their maize."
               "The words of the Corn Tassel are music to the ears of the daughters of the chieftains, and they are those of truth."
               "Let the mocasson be turned towards the spot where the smoke rises from the camp fires."
               "Prairie Fire will look lovingly upon his daughter as she comes, clad like the spring, with flowers."
               "The warrior is ever kind to the Corn Tassel. Let us go."
               With light and springing steps they returned homeward, and as they entered the village separated and returned to their lodges. Many an eye of the younger braves looked lovingly upon them, and longed for the time when some one of the number should fill his wigwam, when the torch should be quenched in the neighboring stream, that would make her his bride. But he had a name yet to win, and until that time his love must be concealed.
               "Like summer, when the flowers are brightest and when the green corn dance is sung, comes my daughter," said Prairie Fire, as Bessie Thompson entered the lodge where he and his wife were seated.
               "I have done as you wished."
               "Aye, and gained many friends that may one day save you from death."
               "Death! Prairie Fire, death?"
               "It is around us at all times. The whistling arrow bears it, the rapid stream brings it, the forked lightning travels not without it. It is around us in as many shapes as there are leaves in the forest. Sleeping or waking, it is ever near us, and when it comes the strong armed warrior is as helpless, as feeble as the tiny insect."
               "It is too true. But need I fear it now?"
               "Not if Prairie Fire can save you. But let the maiden eat, she may need it before to-morrow's sun shines in the east."
               "Am I, then, to start to-night for home?"
               "Before the first bird of morning has sung its song, she will be on her way."
               "Joy! oh, joy!"
               "The maiden's tongue must be as silent as the grave. Let her eat, and listen to my words. Prairie Fire leaves her now. When she has feasted, let her seek her bed of skins and sleep till he awakens her. Then she shall know all, and the chieftain shall show her the trail towards wards the land of the rising sun, The Woman of the Murmuring Stream will guard her. I have spoken."
               Little as Bessie Thompson's appetite craved food, yet she forced herself to eat, and then, at the request of the wife of Prairie Fire, she sought repose. Long it was, however, ere her eyelids were sealed in slumber, but at length it came, bringing dreams of happiness and love.
               As soon as her watcher saw that she was asleep, she uttered a low whine, like that of a dreaming dog, and Prairie Fire entered. Seated beside the low couch where the fair girl lay, they conversed long in their native tongue, upon the plan to be adopted to save their charge. Midnight had passed when they awakened her gently, and Prairie Fire whispered in her car—
               "Let the Corn Tassel boldly follow the path she took this morning. If any one speaks to her, let her not answer, or even turn her head. Can she do this?"
               "I can; I will. But why?"
               "Let the maiden not question, but go. Prairie Fire will do the rest."
               Obedient to his instructions, Bessie Thompson, after a tearful farewell to the wife of Prairie Fire, who had been so kind to her, started boldly from the lodge, and pursued her way towards the forest. The watchers saw her as she passed, and addressed her, but she heeded them not. They would have stopped her way, but Prairie Fire, ever watchful, was close by her side and addressed them—
               "The maiden of the pale face is troubled by the spirit of dreams—she walks in her slumbers. Prairie Fire will guard his daughter from harm."
               The explanation was fully sufficient, as also to effectually prevent their molesting her, for to their superstitious mind it was 'proof as holy writ' that she was a 'medicine,' and gifted by the Great Manitou with power to bless or curse them. To the mind of Bessie Thompson, also, it was a great relief, as it fully revealed to her the part she was to enact, and well, from that moment, she counterfeited a somnambulist. In safety thus they passed from the encampment, and travelled on till they came to a huge ledge of rocks. Pushing aside some branches, a low entrance was discernable. Bidding the maiden follow him, Prairie Fire entered, and after proceeding a short distance, it opened into a large cavern. Drawing from his pouch flint and steel, the Indian soon kindled a small fire, whose light discovered a bed of skins, a goard filled with water, some dried deer meat, and a hatchet and knife.
               "Here," said Prairie Fire, "must the Corn Tassel rest, until the warrior again visits her, when the sun has again sank to slumber in the West."
               "What, alone?"
               "The good Manitou will be with her. Let her kindle no fire, make no noise, and let her foot not pass its portals. Let her not disturb the brush at the door, but hide as the bear in winter."
               "Must it be so?"
               "If the maiden would be free."
               "I will obey."
               "The great and good Manitou guard the daughter of Prairie Fire," were the last words of the chieftain, as he turned and left. A moment only he paused, to hide the entrance with bushes, and then swiftly returned to his wigwam.
               Alone in that dark cavern, for the feeble fire had gone out, Bessie Thompson stretched herself upon the rude bed, and communed with her thoughts, till nature could endure no more and she sobbed herself to sleep.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               The bright tints of morning were streaking the ebon of night with threads of gold, when Erskine and his companions awoke from their heavy slumbers and prepared to again follow the trail of the Iroquois. Refreshed by sleep and by their hastily cooked morning meal, all was life, and bustle, and activity—the horses were saddled, the arms examined, and the men mounted. Erskine and Waters, at the head, were soon busily engaged in conversation, in a low tone, while the others followed a short distance behind.
               "This has been the longest and most unlucky trail that ever I followed, Frank," began Erskine.
               
               "Yes; and, hang me, if I believe it will ever come to an end."
               "That it must do, for I never saw anything without an end, except a hoop."
               "Or a snake, with its tail in its mouth," laughed Waters.
               "That's like all your comparisons, Frank."
               "It is a true one, however; and you have lived long enough in prairie land to know it."
               "Why, yes, I have seen a hoop snake often, although I've had many a man laugh at the idea."
               "Let them laugh, and live among their stifling brick walls, packed as closely together as ants in their nests. It is no place for you or I."
               "You say true, Frank, and I've often thought with fear, of dying in such a place."
               "And of being buried there."
               "Yes; and though you'll own that I'm no coward—"
               "Certainly, Ned, certainly."
               "Yet, I have shuddered when I've thought of being put in one of their damp, stone holes, where hundreds have already been placed and gone to decay, and left their naked bones, and skulls, and rotten coffins, and worms."
               "Curses, I say, on all that would thus bury their dead!"
               "Bury? It is no burial, Frank. It is making a show-room of the chambers of the dead. Sooner, far sooner, would I have my bones picked by wolves, my form rot and fester in the open air, or my body burned and its ashes scattered to the winds, than be placed there a ghastly corpse for the eye of prying curiosity to remove the lid of the coffin, and gaze through the glass, and laugh at the decaying features. It is no burial place for any man, and much less a hunter."
               Crudely and brief as Erskine expressed these sentiments, yet they are true; and have you not felt thus? Have you never entered the vault where wealth, and manliness, and beauty repose, and shivered with affright and horror at gazing upon the pallid, half-decomposed faces and grinning teeth that met your vision, through the air excluding glass? Have you never seen coffin piled upon coffin, like boxes in a show room, till they reached the very roof, and felt as if their weight was lying, like an incubus, upon your very soul? Oh! it is fearful to gaze upon such a scene, to feel the cold and dampness there; aye, and know that in a few short years all there assembled will be thrown promiscuously into a cart and carried away to fill, perchance, some vile spot on the breast of mother earth.
               Bury me where I die, in some quiet spot where the bright sun rays steal softly through the leafy trees, and kiss lovingly the mossy sod. Where the birds sing sweetly, and the brook ripples on seaward. Where the God-cultured flowers breathe perfume and nod around my lowly resting place, decked in hues of glory. Let no stone blazon my name to the world to be scoffed at and made a jest of, as it has been in life; but let me sleep quietly on, in my little grave, with nature and the few that have loved me for mourners. Such let my last resting place be, when "life's fitful fever is over," and I ask no more.
               "You say true, Ned, that the city is no place for one born in the green wood to rest, and I think I shall not sleep quietly if my bones are laid there."
               "There is little fear of that, in either your case or mine, for if the arrows or rifle of some Indian does not bring us death, yet our lives will be spent far away from the smoke of manufactories."
               "Aye, this is true."
               "And we may meet death even on this very trail."
               "I have thought of this, but what matters it when or how it comes? It is but a pang, a struggle, a groan."
               "Nay, it is more, Frank, for there is an hereafter."
               "Even the skulking, thieving savage believes in a Great Spirit, and another land beyond the grave."
               "And who does not?"
               "I, for one, certainly do believe it. My mother taught me, when young, to believe in God, and my infant lips to pray, and I am not ashamed to acknowledge that even now, in times of danger, the words she taught me will come unbidden to my lips."
               "I never learned a word of prayer, and even if I had, they would long since have been lost in curses."
               "Not so, Frank, the teachings of a mother can never be forgotten; and when we least expect pect them, they will force themselves upon the mind and bring a tear to the eye."
               "I presume you say true, but I know nothing about it. Your friendship has been about the only one I ever knew, and that has been faithful to the last."
               "Not more so than yours to me. But, Frank, it is nothing when compared to that of a mother. She is our earliest and best friend. From the cradle to the tomb, her love is unwavering, and nothing can change it. Time, distance, aye, even crime cannot affect it, but true as the needle to the pole it remains for aye."
               "I would not, if I had the ability, argue with you upon this subject, for I have little in my nature of poetry or the appreciation of the grand and beautiful. I have been trained in a hard school, one of war and danger, and have learned nothing, save by bitter experience. With you, it is far different."
               "It has been somewhat, and yet, there is in every nature an innate feeling of awe and reverence that cannot be repressed. But, Frank, it is nearly time that we were reaching the encampment of the Iroquois, or they have gone beyond their wonted limits."
               "Yes, but you might as well tell where the fish hides itself in the freezing moons, or the black bird when the snow begins to fall, as to tell where their camp fire will be built when they retreat from the battle."
               "The trail is a broad and open one now, and we cannot well miss it."
               "Indian deviltry will soon hide it again, so that it will take the eye of a lynx and the ear of a stag to follow it, for their footfall is as light as snow."
               "I never yet was outwitted by an Indian, and don't think that there is any one that wears a red skin that can do it."
               "Nor I either; there is little fear of an ambush as long as the trail is so open. But see! Speed and Swift have come to a stand. There must be something wrong, for they never lied to me before."
               Urging on their horses, they soon arrived at the spot, and hastened to survey the ground. A moment the dogs circled around, and then bounded away into the forest. At the place where they had first paused were the remains of an Indian encampment and fire. Briefly Erskine and Waters examined this, and then following the dogs, were led to the spot where the rude lodge had been erected for the comfort of Bessie Thompson. A bitter curse fell from the lips of Waters, as he entered there and found a portion of her dress, stained with blood. The sight aroused all the strong passions and revenge of his fierce nature, while it sunk the heart of Erskine into the very lowest depths of agony and despair. How strange it is that the hearts of men are thus differently affected by the same sight, and yet not altogether strange either, when we consider how varied are the feelings, passions, motives, and circumstances that sway and control mankind. Placed in the same situation, we act so unlike, that it seems almost a paradox that we can be formed of the same clay, fashioned by the same Master Workman's hand, and endowed with the God-like attribute of mind. That man, "the paragon of animals," and but little lower than the angels, should so widely and differently act! Yet, it is true; and, ofttimes, we judge hastily and unfeelingly of others, when, if we but knew the motives and circumstances that sway their feelings and judgment, we would be the last to blame or censure them. If we would only control that unruly member, the tongue, and speak well of all, how much better and happier would the world be. There is an under current in every heart that is not laid open to the eye of prying curiosity, and until we can see what is there hid, it were better to remember the lines of the lowly plough-boy of Ayrshire— 
                     
                        "O, wad some power the giftie gie us,
                        To see ourselves as others see us!
                        It wad from many a blunder free us,
                        And foolish notion:
                        What airs in dress and gait would lea'e us,
                        And e'en devotion!"
                     
                  
               
               "Here! see!" were the exclamations of Waters, as he handed to Erskine the bloodstained fragment of the dress of Bessie Thompson.
               "Great God! It is hers, and she must have perished, been murdered by the hand of the Iroquois."
               "Nay, calm your fears, and be a man. The cursed scoundrels would not have brought her thus far and, then murdered her."
               "I trust, I pray not. But, Frank, you and I have seen when they captives struck down in cold blood even when thought themselves safe."
               "Yes; but here was only one, and that a woman. She might have been wounded at the time the old man was murdered, and her dress would soon become torn by traveling through this infernal wilderness."
               "It may be so, but much I doubt it."
               "Cheer up, Frank, don't let your heart grow sick, or your nerve tremble like that of a woman. It is far more likely that she would be taken to their wigwams, and kept as a bride for some young warrior, and—"
               "God forbid! Much as I love her, I would far sooner see her dead, even at my very feet, than to find her thus."
               "We will find her; and if any war painted devil has dared to make her his wife, may I be torn to pieces by inches, and see my own flesh kindle a fire about me, if I do not send a score of bullets through his throbbing heart."
               "That task shall be mine. No one shall rob me of it. Oh! that I could have him alone in the forest, with none near us to hear or see!"
               "Task, Ned? It would be a far greater pleasure for me than it would be for you to hold Bessie Thompson, alive and well, in your arms. Task, indeed."
               "Still, it is mine to avenge her; and if I fall—"
               "If you fall, Ned?"
               "Aye, be a father to her and the little one we left in the home of Judge Reynolds."
               "I have already sworn to do so, and may God curse me in my latest hour, if I do not keep my word."
               "I know you will, Frank, but—"
               "But think not of such things, my boy, there are bright days of sunshine before you, and the chances are ten to one that I go first."
               "Why do you think so?"
               "I'm reckless, while you are cautious. The Iroquois have many a bitter grudge against me, and they never will be either forgiven or forgotten."
               "That is true."
               "And it would make the fortune of any infernal Indian that could hang in his lodge the scalp of 'Red Hand.'"
               "Aye, or mine either, for the part I took when they were murdering Thompson, if for nothing else."
               "You may well say that, Ned, though they would skin me alive, while you might escape without torture. But come, it is useless to loiter here. Away, boys, for this state of suspense is worse than to know the worst."
               "Yes, and we have no time to spare; so, spur hard, and let us be many miles away before night comes. on."
               "Must I endure another night of torture? Sleeping or waking, my mind runs ever on the same subject, I dream of it, only wake to find it reality."
               "I felt nearly the same when the Iroquois kept me bound all night at the stake, with the promise of burning me alive in the morning. A pleasant idea, was it not, Ned? But, ha! ha! I fooled them all, and will do so again if they but give half a chance."
               "The rest are all ready, Frank; so, let's away."
               "Mount and off, then!"
               "Wo, Thunder!" said Erskine, as he sprang upon the back of his gallant steed, and dashed swiftly along the trail, closely followed by Waters and his companions.
               Mile after mile was accomplished, ere a rein was drawn, for the riders thought little of their horses when bent upon such an errand. At length a swift running stream was reached, and here they paused to examine the bank and again discover the trail. Unknowing it, they were near the spot where Bessie Thompson was secreted. The low murmur of their voices came to her ears, and her heart fluttered like a snake alarmed bird, at every sound. Fearful of pursuit, she dared not stir, and stilling her very breath, she lay there until the hunters had passed on and every sound was lost in the distance.
               Shortly after leaving the margin of the wandering stream, the trail opened upon a gently rolling prairie, radiant with flowers and beautiful as the far-famed lands in the oriental climes, where dwell the houris and float birds and butterflies plumed with golden hues. At their approach, the shy prairie hen and quail, the whistling lark and the red winged black bird soared on swift wings away; the gopher chattered for a moment, and then sought the security of his newly dug home; the wolf, with his long gallop, 
                     
                        "That can tire,
                        The hound's deep hate and hunter's fire,"
                     
                   sped swiftly away, and the quick-footed deer sprang up from its lair and bounded, lightning-like, towards the cover of the forest.
               Oh! it was a sight to gladden the heart of any hunter, and it required all the command that these wood-trained ones had over themselves to keep them from letting their rifles talk and securing a large amount of booty. Each read these feelings in the other's eyes, and smiled to see the hand that involuntarily grasped the rifle and almost raised it to the shoulder. Habit and stern experience, however, told them a single shot would but be fired to knell their death; and silently they rode along. Your city dwellers may boast of the command he has over his feelings, but it is but as a drop in the bucket to what the western hunter or the roving Indian possess at all times, and especially when danger is around him. It is the strongest feeling in the breast of a true Indian, and one that no white man's school and philosophy can never teach. The very pappoose cries not, when strapped to a board and left to swing for hours from some swaying bough, and the aged warrior meets death amid torture as calmly as "him who wraps the drapery of his couch around him and lies down to pleasant dreams."
               "Hold!" ejaculated Erskine, as he laid his hand on the bridle of his companion.
               "What do you see, Ned?"
               "Look there, just on the rise of yonder hill."
               "An Indian and mounted, as true as I am a sinner!"
               "Yes, and he seems to be watching us."
               "There can be no doubt of that."
               "What is to be done?"
               "Follow him, certainly."
               "Off then, boys! and now, Thunder, speed swift as a bolt, and we'll soon learn who this spy is, and what his purpose."
               Leaving these brave and hardy men dashing madly on, let us turn to another scene. Passion had full possession of their breasts, and little they recked of the danger in riding thus swiftly over a roadless prairie—as little as Erskine on the night we first met him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               HENRY ELLIOTT.
               Alone, sorely wounded, and amid gloom and darkness, we left Henry Elliott on the night when he so grossly insulted and questioned the honor of his betrothed bride, the beautiful and true-hearted Clara Reynolds. Insensible from the effects of the falling of his horse, he lay there with none to aid, to succor, or to save. No kind hand was near him to raise him from the flinty ground, and no strong arm to bear him to a spot where his wounds could be dressed, and render nature assistance in again making him a man, fairly formed and fashioned as he stood but a short time before by the side of her he loved, who loved him then, aye, and did now with all the fervency of woman's adoration. A crushed, broken form, bereft almost of vitality, he lay there, with the dark wing of the angel of death flapping convulsively over him, and none to stay its course in bearing him through the valley and the shadows of death.
               How feeble is man! How entirely dependent upon others for assistance! How foolish the boast of independence, and that we care for none or nothing in the world, when, from the cradle to the tomb, we are entirely dependent upon those around us. Vain the boast indeed, when the first and last offices of earth are performed by other hands than our own, as we drift feather-like down the stream of time, to be 'whelmed soon, alas! how soon, in the whirlpool of eternity. Yet true as these things are, man, an atom in the vast scheme of creation, boasts of his power, his God-like will, his strength, and his wisdom, and ofttimes dares even to profane with impious lips the name of him, the creator of all things, who rides upon the whirlwind and directs the storm. And of the for a time seems to run riot in his course, to overcome every obstacle, and laugh to scorn all opposition. But it is but for a time only, a few brief years, and then the sickle of the reaper Death is busy, and he, the proud and might one, is garnered in the store-house of the Sexton—Past!
               Hours passed, as aye they will, and morn was shaking from its wings feathers of gold to earth, and still Henry Elliott lay unsuccored. Bright gleams shot athwart the ethiop curtain of night, and upon the eastern verge appeared the God of day, that smiling upon earth colored all with hues of glory. Pale was the cheek of the wounded one and closed his eye. The heart beat slow and faintly, and the pulse throbbed feebly as that of a new-born infant first waking to the light. Gastly wounds were upon his brow, and the blood had congealed into many a rivulet incarnadine upon the cheek and throat. Upon his leaden ear broke not the sound of the early breeze that sighed through the forest, as if in pity of his fate, or the sweet carol of the birds of bright plumage that floated fairy-like in the gladsome sun rays. A very picture of death, sudden and violent was he, and yet the lamp of life was still burning within the stiffened form, where the angels of life and death were contending for mastery. But even as he lay thus hopeless and death-stricken, an all-wise and ever-beneficent Providence had sent ministers of succor to his aid.
               "A lovely morning this," said a hunter, dressed in a suit of untanned deer-skin, to his companion, as they rode carelessly along.
               "Aye, just such an one as when we fired our first shot together."
               "And saw a certain bright-eyed one picking flowers on the banks of the Illinois."
               "Yes, and a pleasant time she would have had of it, if I had not been so near her."
               "You mean from the rattlesnake."
               "Aye, the one that was coiled around the very flower she had stooped to pick."
               "Yes, I remember."
               "And so shall I always the shriek she uttered as she fell backwards just as the cursed reptile unwound itself from its coil and struck at her."
               "It rung in my ear for many a day, and yet who would not have been frightened if he were in the same place?"
               "For my part I'd sooner have a bear or a panther come suddenly upon me than one of these hissing devils."
               "A fair girl and a true one she was, and is, and the belle of the whole settlement. How she trembled with fear and shrieked for help as the scaly monster's forked tongue hissed and trembled and his rattle sounded the alarm. I shall never, I trust, look again upon such a scene and—but great God! what have we here?" said the speaker, as his horse sprang suddenly aside, with swiftness and suddenness sufficient to have thrown any but an experienced rider.
               "A man, wounded, bloody, and dead!" was the reply of his companion.
               "No, not dead!" said the other, as he sprang from his horse, and placed his hand over the heart of Henry Elliott.
               "Not dead? Then let's lift him up and carry him to the brook. Perchance we may save him."
               "Yes, that is the best thing we can do at present.
               "He looks like a gentleman."
               "Aye, and is a stranger here. You take the horses and lead them on and I'll follow."
               "Shall I not help you to carry him?"
               "What! a baby like this," laughed the stalwart hunter, and he lifted the form in his arms as if he had been an infant, and bore him to the bank of a brook near by.
               Laying him gently on the grass there, these two strong men procured some water from the stream, washed the blood stains from his face and throat, chafed his hands, and in true hunter fashion poured from their flasks a large portion of whiskey down his throat. Almost useless seemed their efforts for a time, but at last nature, and the strong stimulant they had administered, asserted their power, and he slowly revived. Opening his eyes, he glanced wildly around, and his pallid lips parted as if to speak. Vain, however, was the struggle, for nature was yet far too weak to sustain the effort, and he again relapsed into insensibility. Unwearied, however, were the toils of the hunters to resuscitate him, and the never-failing remedy of the bottle was again resorted to, while they conversed together.
               "He's no more strength than a doe with an arrow through her heart."
               "As weak as a scared woman."
               "Or a rattlesnake beneath the branches of the ash."
               "I've seen many a girl stronger when faint with fear and weak with fatigue."
               "Yes, when the Indians were as thick about as the lilies that are floating on the waves in yonder bayou. But see, he breathes again more freely, and the color is returning to his lips."
               "Aye, and his pulse beats far more strongly than before."
               "It's faint enough yet, and he trembles like a little fish when chased by an alligator gar."
               "Give him some more whiskey."
               "Well, here goes, but if we keep on feeding him in this fashion we'll have to go dry ourselves."
               "Not while the dew falls and rivers run."
               "Where am I?" gasped Elliot, as he slowly opened his eyes and gazed around him upon the green foliage above his head, and upon the strong forms and weather-bronzed faces of the hunters that bent over him.
               "Safe, my boy, safe," was the reply of the eldest of his kind though rude attendants.
               "And she?" replied he, for his mind was wandering to the scenes he had so lately passed through, and he thought Clara Reynolds was again by his side.
               "She? Who?" questioned both with surprise, for, unacquainted with his secret, they thought he must have had a female companion at the time he was injured.
               "She—Cla—, Oh God! I remember it all now. I spurned her. I cast her from my arms—I called her—" and he buried his face in his hands and wept like a child.
               "His mind is wandering from the effects of his fall," whispered one of the lookers on.
               "Aye, or there is some mystery—perchance murder."
               "Murder! murder!" gasped Elliott, "murder, no, far worse than that."
               "Worse than murder?"
               "Aye, far worse than murder, and yet my hands are not stained with blood. Ha! ha! I see them both now! I hear again her words and see her lip of scorn! Great God! I shall go mad."
               "There's little use of that, for you are so already," said one.
               "If he's not, I never saw a wolf mad when his legs were fast in a trap."
               "No, gentlemen, I'm not mad, though I've had enough to drive me so. I've—" The voice of the speaker failed, for his heart was far too busy with his thoughts to allow his tongue to utter farther the words that crowded thick upon his brain.
               "Well, don't let it trouble you. We have learned in the forest to attend to our own business, and if you have any fearful secret, why, God forgive you, and keep it to yourself."
               "I have committed no crime. I am no murderer! I am not flying from justice, and yet I might as well be doing so, for my heart could not be more crushed or my brain be more on fire."
               "Well, it matters not. We found you lying in the road covered with blood, and a man must be worse than a brute to have left you in such a situation. We brought you to the side of the stream, and have done our best to bring you back to life and ease your pains."
               "Thanks; but where is my horse?"
               "Your horse? We saw none, and if you had one he certainly must have ran away. From which way did you come? Tell us, and one will follow him."
               "From the North—from Jud—. But no matter, I have money enough to pay you for your trouble and buy another."
               "Pay us, stranger, for an act of kindness. I reckon you don't know us."
               "No offence, my friends, but I'm used to paying all who serve me."
               "What! those who have done you a simple act of mercy like us?"
               "Yes—every one."
               "Then you must live in a d——d heathenish country, that's all, and though I say it, there's not a single Christian among you. Why, stranger, I've heard my poor, old mother read in the good book about some one who saw a stranger that had been wounded by thieves and passed by on the other side without offering to help him, and I rather reckon that must have been in the country you live in."
               "You speak strongly, my friend, and I regret it much."
               "Strongly? Not half as strong as I would act if I saw any one of my friends taking pay for saving a man from death. I reckon he'd stand about the best chance of getting a flogging that he ever had in his life. But you are weak and faint, take a drink of whiskey and lie down. We'll get you something to eat, and then you shall ride to some place where you can be more kindly tended."
               "Thank you, my friends, thank you."
               "Nay, no thanks. We are but poor woodsmen and hunters, know nothing of city ways, but we carry our hearts in our hands. Here, comrade, you get a fire going while I hunt up something to eat, for the fact is I am about as hungry as a three months' cub that has lost its dam."
               Even as he spoke, the head of a deer, armed with branching antlers, was seen to thrust aside the thick bushes on the opposite bank, and bend its neck to drink. It was a fatal action, for quick as thought itself the hardy hunter had grasped his rifle and brought it to his shoulder. An instant only had passed, the finger touched the spring, a bullet whistled through the air, and the buck sprang high and fell dead amid the waters. It was a sure proof of the skill of the hunter and the marksman. Dragged across the stream, much of woodcraft was displayed in robbing it of its dun hide and preparing it for cooking, and soon upon the embers of the fire that had been kindled its flesh was emitting an odor that would have tempted the palate of an anchorite. A true western hunter never travels without well-salted pork, and this hung above the broiling venison, dripped slowly upon it, at once basting and seasoning it. Eastern epicures, it is true, would laugh at a dish thus cooked and served upon a piece of bark, but little do they know of the keen relish with which it is eaten, and how much more grateful to the palate it is than any of the trumpery cooking imported from foreign climes.
               The meal ready, the most tender portion was proffered to Elliott, who, faint from hunger as well as from his recent injuries and exposure during the night, ate willingly and well, while his companions made to disappear sufficient to have furnished a modern table. This done, the never-failing pipe was lit, and, stretched upon the ground, they smoked in silence, and watched Elliott, till, overpowered by fatigue and suffering, he fell asleep. Carefully covering him with a blanket taken from behind one of their saddles, they left him to repose, and conversed apart and in a low tone.
               "There is something strange here. I know not what to make of this man," began one.
               "Nor I either. There is evidently something weighing upon his mind, some recent event preying upon his heart that I cannot fathom."
               "He said he had done something worse than murder."
               "Yes, and what could that be?"
               "I know of nothing, and yet he seems not to be crazy."
               "No, but he is evidently not one of us, and a stranger in these parts."
               "Yes—but I hear hounds. Aye; and a loud whistle."
               "I know it as well as I know my own name."
               "So do I. It is Fred. Watson's. Hallo boy, come this way."
               The words were scarcely uttered, when a weather-beaten hunter dashed through the forest upon a strong horse and reined up by their very side.
               "You're taking it mighty easy, boys, when there's game afoot."
               "Do you think so—look there," and the speaker pointed to the sleeping form of Elliott.
               With somewhat of wonder the new comer dismounted, and as soon as he gazed upon him exclaimed—
               "I know him, boys! I have seen him often at the house of Judge Reynolds."
               "At Judge Reynolds'?"
               "Yes. Where did you find him?"
               "Upon the road and badly wounded. From what he said his horse had fallen with him."
               "Well, well, we must take him back there at all events. The trail is short to the road which he had travelled, and we must make a litter and carry him there."
               The task was soon accomplished, and throwing in their blankets they lifted in the unwaking form, and relieving each other they soon accomplished the distance, and carried the litter into the very house of Judge Reynolds!
               Once more betrothed ones, once more lovers, once more Henry Elliott and Clara Reynolds, you are beneath the same roof! Once more shall you meet. But how, as strangers, as you parted, or in happiness? The future can alone answer the question, and it is not ours to pry into it.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE CAVE AND THE ESCAPE.
               Alone, and in the darkness, Bessie Thompson lay, in the cave where she had been left by Prairie Fire. Exhausted, both by fatigue and fear, she had sobbed herself to sleep, and slept long and soundly. The sun was shining brightly and beautifully when she awoke, and stealing ing through the branches that concealed the entrance to the cavern, dotted the rocky floor here and there as with spots and streaks of gold. Brave as she was, and used to the trials and hardships of a frontier life, she could not but shudder when she found herself thus alone and unprotected in a dark and gloomy cave. Remembering, however, the instructions that had been given her, she avoided all noise, and waited, as patiently as she could, the return of the chieftain. Many were the gloomy thoughts which entered her mind, as, with her sharp eye, she tried to pierce the almost total darkness by which she was surrounded; and many a vision flitted before her of the past, now joy-tinted and beautiful, and now drawn by the darkly tinting pencil of agony. Stronger minds than hers would have shrunk from the communion and, the heart become a coward. Long and wearily the moments passed, and hunger began to assume its power. This, from the store provided by Prairie Fire, was soon appeased, and again she sought repose, but vainly, and with watching eye and listening ear she awaited the arrival of him who had—promised to set her free. Many times, during the morning, she heard the tread of feet and the loud and laughing voices of the maidens who had been her companions the day before, in her flower gathering walk, and her heart beat tremulously as she heard her name mentioned, and thought what would be her fate if discovered.
               "The Corn Tassel," said the Indian who had been the most active in welcoming her, "has flitted from sight like the swift-winged night hawk."
               "Like the dew when the sun shines, she has vanished from the home of the Iroquois."
               "The warriors of the tribe are in fear, for the spirit of the daughter of Prairie Fire was troubled with dreams, and she wandered in slumber far towards the leafy woods."
               "The Manitou guards the dream-swayed one, and touches her lips with wisdom."
               "The arm of Prairie Fire was near to save her from the frowning precipice, the swift running stream, and the night prowling wolf and panther."
               "The maiden is very dear to Prairie Fire."
               "He saved her from death, and from being the wife of the Crouching Panther. Prairie Fire has no children, and the Corn Tassel of the pale face has entwined herself like a golden serpent about his heart."
               "The foot, even though dream-directed, fails not to leave a trail, and the print of the mocasson of the chieftain must be deep upon the ground."
               "As we came from the encampment, my eyes were not idle, and the foot prints of the Corn Tassel and Prairie Fire have been commingled together."
               "Their course was—"
               "Towards the rising sun."
               "Aye, for here they are now, as plain as the star, when the eyes of the moon are closed."
               "The foot print of the maiden is no more to be seen."
               "The arms of Prairie Fire are strong, and the form of the maiden is light; he can carry her in his arms as easily as a mother does her tiny babe."
               Wandering on, they still conversed, until the words were lost to the ear of Bessie Thompson, who now felt somewhat reassured, as her place of concealment had remained undetected and she had learned that she was looked upon with feelings of awe, and as a sleep walker, a Manitou gifted medicine.
               During the day, several parties of warriors, as well as maidens, passed her hiding place, as if in search of her, and she distinctly heard their every word. The opinion, however, of her somnambulism, and that she had wandered far into the forest to converse with the Great and Good Spirit, and that she would return again, gifted with knowledge for the benefit of the tribe, rendered her comparatively more tranquil, and enabled her better to bear the lonely hours that intervened until the time of Prairie Fire's promised return. Still, she was frequently startled by the sound of footsteps and of voices, and it required all her courage to remain perfectly noiseless. But not alone was she thus alarmed, for another trial awaited her, compared to which the others were as nothing.
               A party of warriors had just passed the entrance to the cave, and their voices had just become lost in the distance, when she heard a low rustle amid the branches that hid the entrance. Was she discovered? Had she passed through all the agony of that day for nothing, but to be discovered and led back a prisoner at last? Was she to be again in the hands of the Iroquois, and if so, would Prairie Fire be again powerful enough to save her? A thousand querries like these flashed quickly, madly through her brain, as she lay there with her hands pressed tightly over her throbbing temples and aching eyes. Dare she look, and solve the mystery? Still, for a moment the rustling continued, and then all was still. Nerving her heart for the very worst, she opened her eyes and saw, great God! by her very side, a huge snake crawling stealthily towards her. With upraised head and quivering curves, it came nearer and nearer still, till she could almost have touched it; and then, as if aware for the first time of her presence, it twined its scaly folds and coiled itself ready for a spring. What a fearful moment for that fair young girl! High was its head reared, with eyes that flashed like fire and gaping, blood hued jaws, and trembling, hissing tongue. A motion, now, a shudder, a quiver almost, and, maiden, like the spring of a watch will that coil unwind, and that forked tongue, and those poisoned fangs be buried in your heart.
               Oh! it is fearful even to gaze thus upon a pen-drawn picture of such a scene. A fair and beautiful girl, loving and beloved, alone, amid darkness, without a single hand to save her, and a deadly moccason coiled by her very side, with upraised crest and angry eye! Death has countless forms; but such an one! The blue, scaly folds may encircle they snowy limbs, the hissing, ever trembling tongue kiss thy ashy lips, the crooked fangs distil their green poison into thy very heart, and serpent lips suck out thy life's last blood. God keep such deaths, even in dreams, from those I love.
               A moment, the maiden, with soul affrighted and eye distended, gazed at the fearful enemy of man, and then nature could sustain no more. A faintness crept over her soul, and she was soon in the realms of insensibility; and well it was that it had been so ordained, for death would certainly have followed any motion. Slowly the head of the serpent sunk upon its coil the moment the form of Bessie Thompson cease to quiver, and then it gently unwound and crawled across her very bosom. God, in his mercy, keep thou still unmoving, unknowing aught that passes now, for no power of earth could save you. Attracted by the warmth of her form, the moccason coiled itself quietly up, and with its head resting upon the neck of the maiden, stilled its tongue and closed its eyes, as if in slumber.
               Minutes passed, and still the maiden and the tempter of our mother Eve lay there, a fearful picture of loveliness and deformity—of attraction and repulsion—of winning charms and disgusting appearance. An hour had passed, and a low sound of the rustling of the bushes that hid the door awoke the watchful serpent, which raised his head aloft, and, with eyes of fire and arched and undulating neck, scanned the cavern.
               "Corn Tassel!" was uttered, in a low voice, and a form crawled within. It was a moment ere the eye of the intruder could pierce the gloom, and then, when the form of the maiden and the threatening serpent met his vision, a quiver ran through his frame and he slowly sunk upon his knees on the flinty ground. For a moment only was the tremor perceptible, and then the ready bow was strung, the string twanged loudly, showing well the strength of the arm that pulled it, an arrow sped, meteor-like through the gloom, and transfixed the gaping mouth of the serpent. Useless were its tongue and fangs now, and ere a single fold could be twined around the form upon which it rested, the strong arm of Prairie Fire had hurled it to the farthermost part of the cavern, and Bessie Thompson was again safe.
               To kill the serpent was the work of a moment, and to raise the maiden from her recumbent posture that of another. Little versed as the chieftain was in the medicinal art, yet he hastened to bathe her head and chafe her hands. A gasp, a moan, a heart-rending sob were the first symptoms of returning life. The pulse fluttered, the heart beat more wildely and strongly, and nature again tinted with rudy blood the cheeks, and lips, and brow. Long it was, however, before the power of insensibility was wholly lost, the shuddering had left the frame, and Bessie Thompson became calm and herself again. And with whom would it have been otherwise? Are there any of us brave enough to pass through such an ordeal without shuddering, trembling, fainting. Man, strong in his power and will, has and will brave death in many forms—the gibbet, the axe, the rifle, the sword, the tempest-swept ocean, and the earthquake-rocked world unflinching, but when the serpent's scaly folds are about him, when its forked tongue is playing about and kissing his lips, when its venomous, stifling breath is entering his mouth and filling his lungs, when its eye of fire is fascinating his own, and the gaping jaw is opened to bury the crooked fangs in his heart, where is his boasted courage, where his disdain of death? Gone, like the dew of morning when the sun kisses lovingly the earth—gone, like the foam upon the shore, and the circle on the stream—gone, like the shadow of a dream, and the heart-throb of yesterday. Verily such is the bravery of man, the boasted ruler of the earth—the one to whom was given 
                     
                        ——the scepter of the world,
                        To rule and govern every mindless thing,
                        To know no master, bow before no shrine,
                        Save His alone, creation's God and King!
                        Gave to his rule—the mighty rule of mind—
                        All things of earth, of ocean, and of air,
                        The strength to bind, the cunning hand to use,
                        The will to do, the fearless heart to dare.
                        Made the fierce beasts low cower at his feet,
                        Tremble at his frown, lie fawning at his word,
                        The ocean monster in his caverns hide,
                        When the dark waves by rushing keel were stirred;
                        The wind a plaything in his giant hand,
                        The sea itself, though fetterless, a slave!
                        The rocket lightning a very toy,
                        The earth his footstep, and his throne the wave!
                     
                  
               
               "Corn Tassel!" were the first words that fell upon the ears of the maiden, as she awoke to consciousness.
               "Spare me, oh! spare me," was her half shrieked reply, for to her bewildered senses it seemed as if she was again a prisoner.
               "Does the maiden of the pale face not know the form of her father?"
               "Prairie Fire!" and she flung her arms around the swarthy neck of the warrior, and hid her face upon his breast.
               "The heart of the maiden is faint, she has watched long."
               "I have had such a fearful, horrid dream."
               "The Corn Tassel trembles as the leaf in the breath of autumn, and the maiden of the pale face is as feeble as the flower."
               "I thought I saw a huge snake coiled by my side, ready to strike me—I could not speak, I could not move, I heard its hiss, I felt its hot breath, and then—"
               "The Manitou in kindness took from the maiden all power of motion and feeling."
               "Aye, I know nothing more, for I fainted. But was it all a dream?"
               "Where the shadows are darkest lies the lifeless form of the death dealing moccason. It was coiled on the very breast of the Corn Tassel, but wandering in the land of insensibily, she knew it not. An arrow transfixed its wide spread jaws, and a strong arm tore it from its resting place."
               "Who saved me? Ah! I know. It must have been—"
               "Hist!" and Prairie Fire placed his finger on the lips of Bessie Thompson, for at that moment his keen ear heard the tramp of horses and the sound of voices. It was those of Erskine, Waters, and his companions.
               With an ejaculation of silence, the warrior crawled quickly out, secured the entrance, and dashed into the woods. Returning as quickly, however, as they were gone, he called the maiden from her hiding-place and lifting her before him, on a strong horse that stood near at hand, he galloped swiftly away through a winding trail in the forest. Well knowing the ground, he was not long in reaching a ridge where he could readily command a view of the prairie, or hide himself in the timber, at will—and here, lifting Bessie Thompson from his horse, he bade her crouch low in the bushes and wait his return.
               Perfectly satisfied that the one she loved and his companions were near at hand, this was indeed a difficult task for the maiden to fulfil, and many a time she, almost unconsciously, raised her head from her hiding-place to gaze out upon the prairie. The honor, however, of Prairie Fire had been too well tested to leave her in any doubt as to his object of saving her, and mastering even, for a time, the swayings of love, she awaited impatiently the issue.
               Prairie Fire, for a time, kept hid from the eyes of the hunters, and then presented himself plainly to their vision, well knowing that a lone Indian would soon be followed, and trusting to his own skill and the fleetness of his horse to save him in case of danger. The result was as he had anticipated, for no sooner was he discovered by the hunters, than they dashed madly after him with Erskine, on his pet horse Thunder, far in advance of the others.
               
               Leaving them thus, in the very midst of a prairie race, with life for the stakes, and Bessie Thompson, crouching and trembling in the bushes of the forest, we must turn to other scenes.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               ERSKINE AND PRAIRIE FIRE. WATERS AND BESSIE THOMPSON.
               We left Erskine, mounted on his pet horse, Thunder, in full pursuit of the brave and noble chieftain of the Iroquois, and dashing on at a furious rate. Very soon he was far ahead of his companions; and Waters, with a fearful curse, saw that he, as well as the rest, would be outstripped, and that the race was between his friend and the Indian alone. Deeply vexed as he was that this should be the case, yet he regretted it the more from the fact of Ned's being still weak from his recent wound. Still, with this knowledge, and that he was every moment loosing ground, he pressed on for a time, urging his horse to an effort beyond his speed, and then, as the forms of the pursuers and pursued were lost in the distance, he drew his bridle rein, and freely gave vent to his feelings.
               "May curses light on such a carrion steed as this. He's only fit for the crows, and not a bit faster than an old cow. I've half a mind to leave him here for the wolves to make a supper upon. And I would but—no—you've served me well many a time, old fellow, and I'll e'en take you home to die. I say, boys," resumed he, as his mind became quiet with regard to the speed of his horse, "the best thing we can do is to take the back track, like whipped hounds, for we can do no good by following at this distance; and, if Ned Erskine falls, which God forbid, why, the only chance Bessie Thompson has for succor is in us."
               How natural for all it is to turn to God and call upon His name, in the hour of suffering, trial, or adversity. The soldier, amid the din and carnage of battle, turns his eye trustingly aloft and calls on God to succor and to save. When the tempest howls the loudest and the storm fiend shrieks the fiercest, the poor, almost hopeless mariner sees by the eyes of the heart the cynosure star of Him who, alone, can create, and breathes in prayer his name. The Christian and the blasphemer alike call upon him—the man of knowledge and the ignorant one—the dweller in the castle and the lowly hut—in the city and the wild-wood, all turn to Him in the hour of trouble, privation, death, and willingly acknowledge that he is the "Be all and end all"—the mightiest of the mighty! Many will laugh at this in the hour of their prosperity and pride, but let the skeleton, Death, but swing his scythe around their heads, and their every word will be proof of its truth.
               "Aye, Frank, this is the best course that we can pursue, for it is little use to be standing idle here."
               "There's game afoot, boys, and the sooner we are after it the better."
               "We can surely follow the trail again?"
               "Yes, when you find it," laughed Waters.
               "That's easily enough done."
               "I've seen many a pup think the same when the old dogs had about given up the scent."
               "That ain't a fair comparison, Frank."
               "Yes, it is, my boy."
               "But dogs don't reason."
               "Aye, man has not got their scent and eyes, and I've seen the time when their instinct—I believe they call it, for I never read a book in my life—was better than all your or my knowledge."
               "Well, we'll see who will find this trail first, Speed and Swift, or some of us."
               "They will, to be sure, or I'll tie their tails together and set them fighting like cats. I'll bet you a new hunting shirt they do."
               "Done. I wish it was a dozen."
               "All right; and now, boys, let's be off." And turning his steed, he rapidly sped on the back trail, his companions following him, and his faithful dogs in the lead, while he communed with his thoughts, which were of Erskine and his fate.
               Pursuing their way through the flowery and almost trail-less prairie, they passed in silence along, most anxiously watching for the place where they departed from the trail of the Iroquois and took that of the lone warrior. So intent was every eye upon this but that of Waters, that they noticed not that the dogs were far in the rear, searching over the ground, and that he had quietly dropped behind and was watching them. Not long, however, were they in ignorance, for deep, prolonged howls rang upon the breeze, starting the deer from its lair, and the bird from its nest. Again and again were they repeated, when the loud whistle of Frank Waters stayed their progress just as they were about to dash madly away. Far too well trained to disobey, they crouched low at his feet with open jaws, quivering tongue, and wistful eye, as he dismounted and examined the ground. Little was to be seen there. True, the grass was trampled down, but it was by the hoofs of a single horse, and those feet had never been fettered by iron bands. Sure proof was this to the practiced eye and discriminating mind of Waters that he was the identical one that was being followed by Erskine. Instantly arriving at that conclusion, he spoke gently to his dogs, who quickly arose, and with a low whine watched his motions.
               "Steady, Speed—steady, Swift. So, ho! On, boys, on!"
               The dogs obeyed his words, but they followed not the trail left by the horse, but headed directly for the timber. Here was a riddle for the mind of Waters to solve, and one not very easy for him to accomplish. The dogs not follow the trail he had found them on! As soon would he have expected to have seen an Indian show mercy—the crescent hunting wolves have spared the wounded doe—the fish leave the water and graze upon the prairie—or the sun rise in the West and set in the East as to have seen his dogs waver thus.
               "There is some Indian devilment here, as I'm a sinner. Here, Speed, Swift!" and he led them back to the point from which they had started.
               "On, now, boys!" and again they broke away as before, and again he called them back.
               "What the devil can this mean?" exclaimed Waters; "can any of you tell?"
               "I never saw anything like it before."
               "Nor I, nor I" was repeated by every tongue, and the dogs alone seemed to have any conception of the part they were acting.
               "I've seen many a caper cut up, and many a man fooled by Indian deviltry, but curse me if ever I saw dogs fooled before, and I'm going to see the bottom of it, if ten thousand red painted devils are about."
               The ignorant are ever superstitions, and this feeling was very strong in Waters, who, although fearless to a fault, felt a strange awe at anything that his mind could not grasp, could not fathom, or, as he expressed it, "that he could not see into." And all of us have more or less of this in our composition. Who has not, when passing up some old cathedral isle, venerable with years, when the deep-toned anthem was breathing melody that vibrated and reverberated amid the lofty arches, felt a deep and solemn, if not holy feeling steal across the soul? Who has not felt it when the Storm King was freed from his prison caves and swept over the land, riving the gnarled oaks and shrieking like tortured fiends; when the lightning played in fantastic forms amid the jetty clouds of night, and the voice of God was heard in the deep rolling thunder? Who has not felt it when standing by the graves of friends, when 'dust to dust and ashes to ashes' had been spoken, when the clod rattled with a hollow sound upon the coffin, and we turned tearfully away to gaze upon that beloved form no more? All, aye, all have felt it, at such times; and shall we then blame the uneducated hunter for a similar feeling as that which was to him as inexplicable as the pointing of the needle to the polo?
               "There may be danger," said one of the company, in reply to Waters.
               "Danger? If there were twenty thousand deaths I'd brave them all to know the meaning of this."
               "An ambush, perhaps?"
               "I know not, and I care not! You stay here, and if you hear my whistle, come; if my rifle, leave me to my fate and follow the trail we commenced upon. Nay, no words. Come, dogs, let's see what has fooled you."
               Loosing his knife in his belt and examining the flint and priming of his rifle, Waters left the group, and slowly preceded by his dogs, was soon lost to sight amid the thick forest. It was a moment of fearful suspense to those who remained, and they were just consulting with regard to following him when a shrill whistle rang upon the air, and with relieved hearts they sprang forward. Guided by the barking of the hounds, they were soon by the side of their leader, and saw him holding a beautiful Indian Princess in his arms! A moment ment they gazed with astonishment—another, and they saw it was BESSIE THOMPSON!
               Leaving them forming a strange tableau of surprise and happiness, with the woods for scenery and nature for an orchestra, let us follow Prairie Fire and Erskine on their air-like ride.
               It was evidently the object of the Indian to lead Erskine far from his comrades; and with this view, and seeing at a glance that he had the foot of his pursuer, he kept the horse of Erskine at full speed while he rode his own carefully in hand and sparing him on every occasion. Ned, also, soon became aware of this fact; but having confidence not to be shaken in Thunder, and believing that in the end he would be victorious, he determined still to push on. And thus mile after mile was passed, and night was soon to gather around them, and their horses were evidently being overtasked, when Prairie Fire wheeled rapidly and confronted Erskine. It was a sudden movement, and a fearful one to both. Quick as a flask of light, the bow of the one was strung, the arrow drawn to the head, while the rifle barrel of the other reflected the fast expiring sun rays. A single movement, and death, certain and inevitable, would claim both. A picture fully worthy of any painter was this, as much so as that of Cœur de Lion and Saladin; for two such perfect representatives of the white and red races it would be difficult indeed to find. Mounted and armed, amid the wild prairie scene around them, with unflinching nerve and almost unthrobbing heart, with unblanching cheek and unwinking eye, they seemed more like some rare work of statuary than things of life, of feelings, and of passions.
               A moment only they stood there, and yet the whole of life at such a time seems 'curdled into an hour.' A perfect panorama of all we have thought or acted is before us, and the eye drinks it in at a glance. Fearful as it would have been to any of us, yet it was a proud one to them, for it revealed the command of nerve and the scorn of death that each possessed. It was the same feeling that animates the martyr at the stake, when his limbs are surrounded and scathed by fire; that bids the Hindoo throw himself beneath the car of an accursed Juggernaut, and that in all walks of life makes us submit to pain unmurmuring. It is a feeling stronger with the Indian and the Western hunter than with any others, and well was it illustrated here.
               And thus they stood there, the eye of the one intently riveted on the other, until Prairie Fire slowly lowered his bow, returned his arrow to the quiver, and drew forth his pipe. For a moment only Erskine paused, to be sure that it was not an act of treachery, and then dropping his rifle he urged his panting steed close to the side of the Indian, who had already dismounted and was busily engaged in filling his calumet and lighting it. This done, he handed it over to Erskine, who, seated by his side, inhaled also the fragrant weed. It is useless to tell any acquainted with Indian character, that, from this moment, they were friends; for the calumet, to the red man, is sacred as the salt to the dweller in the Eastern climes. With as much stately courtesy as an ancient baron would have welcomed his guest, so Prairie Fire did his; for such, according to Indian custom, he was, and it devolved upon him to begin the conversation. An Indian rarely speaks unless questioned, but at such a time, even his stoic indifference must vanish.
               "My brother," began Prairie Fire, "has traveled swift and far. The iron hoof is buried deeper than the one the Manitou gives to the swift runner of the prairies."
               "The chieftain speaks the words of truth, and his horse is swift as the affrighted antelope."
               "My pale brother has ridden on a long trail. He was wont to slake his thirst by the waters of the River of Men."
               "The red man's eye is keen."
               "And his heart is true—"
               "And his arm is strong."
               "Let the pale face listen. Where the waters of the River of Man (Illinois) sparkle in the sun rays, as they glide towards the waves of the Father of Waters, two doves had built their nest. Twelve moons had hardly passed, and a little one blessed them. The feathers of the doves were tinged with the snows of winter, and another little one cooded in the parents' nest. Happy as the lark that whistles to the opening day were all, when the forest afar the spoiler came. Strong winged and fierce hawks buried their talons in the hearts of the parent ones, and carried away the eldest of the brood—"
               "Great God!" exclaimed Erskine, "I thought so;" for too well he read the figurative language of the other to be but a description of the murder of Thompson and his wife, and the incidents connected with it.
               "An eagle, proud and strong of wing," continued Prairie Fire, without noticing the interruption, "swept from his eyrie, and bore away the tiny one that the ruthless destroyers would not have spared."
               "It is true, the tongue of my brother knows nought of the guile of the serpent. But the elder bird—'
               "The one of rare plumage and musical voice?"
               "Aye, she."
               "Away towards the nests of the destroyers was she borne, but not only one eagle was on the wing, another swooped from afar, and she was saved—"
               "Great God! I thank you. She is—"
               "Hist!" was the only reply, and finger of the Indian pointed towards the West, as both sprung to their horses; and time it was that they did so, for the prairie that surrounded them was on fire.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               THE MEETING OF THE LOVERS.—THE ABDUCTION.
               Astonishment, surprise, are not words half strong enough to express the feelings of both father and daughter—Judge Reynolds and Clara—when they saw the body of Henry Elliott, apparently lifeless, brought again into their very house. It was a sight, that very form, that they had hoped never again to have gazed on, after what had passed; but now he lay there, helpless as a child upon its mother's bosom; and what was to be done? The noble spirit of both revolted at the bare thought that he should not have every attention that they had it in their power to bestow; and any one that should have had the hardihood to have offered such a suggestion, would have been treated with the scorn and contempt he so richly merited.
               There are spirits, however, in this sin-swayed world, that cannot rise superior to the base feelings of envy; who cannot look on and see another prosper, no matter in what sphere it is, without at once using every means in their power to rob them of their justly-earned rights,—of fame, fortune, or of love; who willingly descend to abuse, slander, aye, even lies, and everything that is mean, servile, and base, to carry their point, which, even if gained, does them not the least particle of good, reflects not to their credit, and adds not gold to their coffers. It is a spirit worthy only of the scorn and contempt of the good, the true, the beautiful and virtuous; and who would not wish that a lash could be "placed in every honest hand to whip the rascals naked through the world?" It is the spirit that cried, "Crucify him! crucify him!" when our Savior was on earth, and one that makes Satan glad when he posts up the ledger of the lost. Out upon such lago-like souls!
               To remove the inanimate form to a bed, and disrobe it, was the first action of the Judge; to send for the only medical man in the neighborhood, the second; and to order refreshment for the hunters, the third; for amidst all scenes, whether of trial or pleasure, true western hospitality is never forgotten.
               Calmly, tearlessly, Clara Reynolds heard the rude description of the finding of her once lover, the description of his being carried to the brook, and the wild words he had uttered there, and her heart told her that he still loved her; and what woman heart would not? Gifted by nature with a keener insight into the mysteries of the rosy boy of the bow and arrow, they discover the secret of our love long before our tongues have uttered a single word, and, indeed, many a time before we truly know it ourselves. Well, oh! how well, they know that love is more than a "spider's web, fit but to mesh a fly," and watch its blossom, bud, and full fruition, ere we know that our love is returned. So had it been with Clara Reynolds; but she had given up her whole soul to love, idolatry; and when the flowers of her heart had been cast back withered upon its altar, her very soul shrunk back within itself, and, like the sensitive plant when touched, folded its leaves around its innermost shrine, as she thought, never to open again.
               But now, he whom she so truly loved, even though he had bitterly wronged her, was almost a corpse at her feet, helpless, hopeless, perchance death-stricken; and could she calmly see him die? Undecided how to act, she listened to all the hunters had to say, nay, even ventured to question of his wounds.
               "Yes, Miss Clara, he's pretty bad off, I can tell you, and I don't think he's in his right mind. Do you, Fred?"
               "No. When a man says he's not committed murder, and yet done something worse, I can't think he's all right here," and the speaker tapped his forehead with his huge hand.
               "Yes," chimed in the third, "and he spoke something about a woman, and about his casting her off, and calling her something, and then he fainted away."
               "A woman—casting her off—calling her—Great God!" gasped Clara.
               "Aye, Miss, it is all true; and then he laughed—curse me if it was not more like an Indian yell—then he talked about a lip of scorn, and then about going mad, and if he is not so, I'm no judge of what is what."
               Could woman's heart bear more, when thus her lover's name and words were spoken of, and her own sufferings again portrayed before her mind. The heart may suffer much, but it must either at length bend or break! "Going mad? I believe I am," shrieked Clara, and pressing her hands to her head, fell senseless into her father's arms, who gently lifted her up, and carried her up stairs.
               "Here's a pretty muss," exclaimed Fred Watson, the moment Judge Reynolds had left the room, "and I'll be hanged if I can see through it."
               "I'd sooner follow the trail of a wolf in a dark night, or the flight of a swallow in the sun rays."
               "But why should Miss Clara faint?"
               "Why should a woman do a thousand things that we cannot understand?"
               "I don't know anything about women. They are a perfect riddle to me, and always will be, I expect."
               "I thought a pair of blue eyes down about the mill had taught you something about what the schoolmaster calls woman's religion."
               "What's that!"
               "Why, Love!" laughed the other in reply. Unconsciously had this rude hunter spoken the truth, and given a fit name for the love of woman. It is her religion! It is her all! Happy in her love, life is all sunshine, and joy, and beauty. Not a cloud dims her horizon, but hope and happiness twin-mated soar aloft on angel wings to the very acme of human glory, No colors are too bright for her then, no fancy-tinted dreams too resplendent. Hours pass like minutes, days like hours, and years like days. But wake her from that heaven-like dream, and all is darkness and despair. Religionless, beaconless, compassless, hopeless, her bark rides upon the tempest-tossed sea of life, with no moon to cheer her way, and no star to light her path. Death indeed were welcome now, for the fire is extinguished upon the altar of the soul, never to be re-illumed, and "with heart as dry as summer dust," she passes through this vale of tears a heart-broken being, 
                     
                        "Which the dove might pity as she sets,
                        Brooding in silence on her lonely nest."
                     
                  
               
               Truly, oh! how truly, brave hunter of the forest, did you say that "Love was woman's religion."
               "Well, my brave boys," said the Judge, as he returned to the room, "I thank you for assisting my wounded friend (but in his heart did he?), and did I not know you far too well, would offer to reward you."
               "We ask none—expect none."
               "And would scorn to receive it."
               "I know it well, boys," replied the Judge, and therefore would not offend your feelings by offering it."
               "How is the stranger, Judge?"
               "Improving, improving, I think. But, Judge Reynolds, anxious to change the subject that so much wrung his heart, continued, "have you heard anything from Erskine and Waters? Ah! my pretty one," said he, breaking off with his questioning as little Clara tripped into the room, and taking the child in his arms, and kissing it most tenderly, "what brings my little rose-bud here?"
               "See, Pa.," replied the child, holding up a tiny and gaudily painted splint basket.
               "Where did you get this from, darling?" questioned the Judge, closely examining the paint upon it, and then passing it to Fred Watson. But, before the child could reply Watson exclaimed—
               "It is from Prairie Fire!"
               "How know you that?"
               "Do you not see that there is a small arrow, burned upon the splints? It is his mark."
               "True; I did not discover that."
               "I got it from the Indian, Pa," lisped little Clara.
               "By Heaven!" exclaimed the Judge, rapidly, as he started to his feet, "I had forgotten all about him in the excitement of the morning. Here, Pomp!"
               "Yes, Massa;" and a woolly head appeared within the door.
               "Go and tell the Indian to come in here."
               "Me no talk Indian, Massa," said Pomp, with a grin that displayed an astonishing amount of ivory—an amount that would have made any housewife tremble for the larder, in these delicate times.
               "Go along, you scoundrel!"
               "Yes, Massa;" and Pomp disappeared. Possessing the unaccountable, yet inveterate hate that the African race always entertains for the Indian, as well as the Indian for his more sable brethren, the task was a difficult one for Pomp to perform. Fear, also, had something to do with it, and yet, he knew he must obey; and collecting all his courage, and standing at a respectful distance, he began by signs to execute his mission. The proud lip of the red man only curled with scorn, and the interview would probably have been as protracted and resulted about as satisfactorily as most of the present day, when the heads of foreign nations meet in council, had not little Clara tripped into the room, and gently taken the warrior by the hand, and led him towards the door. A smile played momentarily over his thin lip, and then he was the stoic again. Entering the apartment where the Judge and his companions were seated, he drew his fine form to its utmost height, fixed his piercing eye upon the group, and remained motionless, a very model of true forest chivalry! And so it was, aye, is, of all your true red men—
               "Our red brother," began the Judge, adopting the figurative language of the Indians, 
                     
                        That ne'er would bear the pale man's iron yoke,
                        Ne'er bend the knee at altar of his make.
                        God made them free! and like the mountain oak,
                        Such hearts ne'er bend, and only yield—to break.
                     
                   "came to the home of the pale face. Does he wish food? Is his wigwam empty and his arrows pointless, or have the deer fled from his hunting grounds?"
               "The hunter's foot is not upon the trail. His bow is strong and his arrows sharp. His eye is not like that of the owl in the sunshine, and the deer hear not the twang of the bowstring like the voice of the fire weapon of the pale face."
               "The warrior wanders not causeless, from the camping ground of his tribe."
               "The foot of the warrior is as free as the wing of the early song bird, it is not fettered by the beaten trail. The sun guides him by day, and the stars by night. He is as fetter-less as the mountain torrent."
               "The warrior speaks true, but not alone does he thus venture into the home of his enemies, seeking for scalps."
               "See!" and he unwound his wampum girdle from around his sinewy form, "the scalping knife and hatchet are not hid within its folds."
               Tired of bandying words thus, the Judge aimed, by more direct questioning, to find out the cause of his visit.
               "Will not our brother tell us of his mission?"
               "The pale face reads not from marks like the red man, and the warrior cannot read the written words of the pale one."
               "This is but a riddle. Let my brother speak plain, we are not children."
               "Let the pale chieftain read this;" and he drew forth a small piece of bark from a secret biding place in his dress.
               It was an ordinary piece of bark of the white birch, carefully smoothed, and upon it was traced very rudely a bird upon the wing with a foot and claws pointed at it, while between the two was interposed a hand holding a burned arrow. To the eye of Judge Reynolds, it was as inexplicable as Greek would have been, but Watson read it in a moment, and exclaimed—
               "By Heavens! but this is good news."
               "What is it, Fred? Tell me quick."
               "Bessie Thompson is safe!"
               "How know you that?"
               "Tis as plain as noon day."
               "It may be to you, but its worse than chochaw to me."
               "See! here is a bird, that's Bessie; here is a paw trying to clutch it, that's some cursed red skin called the Panther; and here is a hand and an arrow partly burned, that's Prairie Fire saving her. Huzza! she's safe."
               "Is this true?" questioned the Judge, of the Indian, who, during the whole scene, had remained motionless.
               "My brother reads well the written talk of the red man. He would make a great chief, and be heard in council."
               "If ever I am, may I be—"
               The rest was lost in air, for at that moment a shriek was heard that sent a chill to every breast—one to curdle the blood and still for a time the beatings of the heart. Such a shriek as we can imagine to come only from the regions of the lost. All, at its sound, sprang to their feet and hurried into the apartment from which it issued. Prostrate upon the floor they saw Clara Reynolds, with disordered dress and unbound hair. Lifting her carefully up, the hardy hunters carried her to her room, while the Judge called her attendants and gave her to their charge. This was but the work of a moment, and then they returned again to question the Indian, when, to their horror, they found the warrior and little Clara both gone!
               The tiny, painted basket was on the floor, but where the child?
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               BESSIE THOMPSON AND THE HUNTERS.
               It was strange grouping, that of the wilderness, when Waters clasped the agile form of Bessie Thompson in his arms, and the brave hunters gathered around. He, that weather-bronzed and stalwart one, she, that maiden fair, with unbound and wampum-decorated locks and fanciful Indian dress, and those hardy woodsmen, gathered there beneath the giant, leaf-clad trees, with the bright, blue sky above them, the gay flowers beneath their feet for a carpet, and the thick emerald foliage for a background. Truly, it was such a picture as the hand of man, gifted with genius though he may be, can never truly copy, or transfer to his canvas a single line of the undulating, ever-changing beauty of the sky. It would be like painting thought, to attempt such a thing—to attempt to paint the myriad changes of ether-born clouds that float far above us in all their varied beauty, now tinged with gold, now with azure, and now with the dim hue of the thunder-bursting storm—or to picture the waves of the ever restless sea of forest-leaves, as the wind steals through the branches and sings itself to sleep, or makes the oak of an hundred centuries tremble till its giant heart grows faint and its leafy crown is scattered like chaff before the whirlwind. Tell me, ye who like nature, alike in calm and in tempest, if the hand of man is not impotent to portray these things, even though the eye drinks in their beauty and the heart feels them? We have seen the portrait of some loved one, who has long slept the silent sleep of death, have gazed upon it with a most mournful pleasure e'en until it seemed stepping from its frame to greet us, and our hearts bounded with joy, as in days gone long past. But look again! The cheek is cold, the eye wants its wonted fire, the lip is motionless, the hair rests waveless upon the brow, and we turn sadly away for the mind, that inner light, that glorious mystery of our being is wanting, and without it all is but a cold semblage of the one we loved and mourned—but a faint shadow of reality!
               Speechless, the companions of Waters gazed for a moment, as much astonished as if an angel on light-plumed pinions had descended from her home on high, to become for a time a dweller on this revolving orb of beauty and crime. And well might they gaze, for it is rare such visions are presented to mortal ken, save in the hour when the ivory gates of dream-land are passed and we revel in the realms where every thing is robed as in garments of gold, and we tread at will the gardens of the unknown and invisible world, which are denied to us when the busy cares of earth have power, and wealth holds its iron rod over us. Dressed as she was in garments of rare beauty, quill-worked and wampum-decorated, with her shining masses of hair covering like a veil her full rounded neck and bust, her eyes flashing with joy and astonishment, her form drawn to its loftiest attitude, and her nut-stained cheeks, though now somewhat etiolated by suffering, she looked indeed a very Diana, and was a sight that would rivit the eye and stay the wandering gaze. Much hast thou passed through, maiden of the wilderness, and well may thou look proud, queenly, and happy now that thou art again with friends, with those who love thee and who will guard thee safe again to thy own home, beside the swift running waters of the ocean-sweeping Illinois, or stain the prairie flower with as true and deep-hued blood as ever coursed through azure veins or welled up from a human heart.
               "Be quiet, men," said Waters, as his companions gathered around with curiosity depicted upon every face. "Let Bessie Thompson have time to recover her wits, for this sudden rescue has sent them all wool-gathering, or my name is not Frank Waters."
               "It was so sudden—I was left alone—I have been through so much," gasped the maiden, "that it seems to me more like a dream than reality."
               "Those confounded red devils would find it no dream if I had hold of them," replied Waters, ever forward as he was both in act and speech. "But they did not dare to harm you?"
               "No, I was well protected."
               "Protected? An Indian protect you? Well, I'll begin to believe what the parson says about the world coming to an end some day; for if a cursed red skin can do an act of kindness, why, anything is possible after that."
               "Yes, he saved me from being the wife of one whom I loathed, whom I never would have followed to his wigwam with life. He saved me from death—he assisted me to escape from the power of his tribe—hid me in a cave till danger was over—and even now, when you first appeared in sight, was returning home with me."
               "Well, if this don't beat all I ever heard of Indian doings; and if I did not know better, girl, I should think that you were asleep and dreaming."
               "Far from that. When your dogs came so suddenly upon me, I own I was frightened, for I've had the venom-armed snake crawl with his slimy folds over me, and pillow itself upon my breast; have heard, aye, even as I lay in this very spot, hid from all eyes, and far from protection, the fierce wolf howl in my very ears,—have seen his fierce, fiery eyes and gaping jaws, and felt, almost, his hot breath, but yet I am not dreaming, am not mad, though I've had enough to make me so."
               "You are a brave girl, Bessie," said Waters, as he drew the arm of his hunting shirt across his eyes to wipe away a tear; for there are times with all of us, brave and hardened as we boast ourselves to be, when our better nature will prevail, and tears will unbidden well up from the deep, and apparently hidden, fountains of the heart.
               "Nay, I am not, for I trembled fearfully, and even fainted, when the snake, with vibrating tongue, crawled towards me. I saw him raise his head high—I heard his fearful hiss, as in anger—I saw his forked tongue play fitfully, and—and—I saw no more."
               "Well, I call myself brave, but curse me if I wouldn't sooner have twenty painted red skins around me, armed to the teeth, and all trying to get my scalp, than one snake. It makes me crawl when I think of it. I've seen a mad wolf, and I tell you it's no fun to deal with them; but I shuddered not when he crossed my path and darted at me. I grabbed him by the throat, and soon made my knife acquainted with his heart. But a crawling, hissing, poisoning, devil-formed snake, is too many for me; and though I've killed hundreds, yet I'm not ashamed to own that I always give them a wide berth when I can. And you had one crawl upon you?"
               "Yes, and slept upon my very bosom."
               "Great God! And you trembled not?"
               "Heaven, in its mercy, took away from me the power to move."
               "Well, it was merciful, that's a fact. But if I'd woke up and found one coiled upon me, I reckon either the snake or I would soon have left that settlement, and I rather think it would have been me. But how were you saved?"
               "Some motion I made while sleeping disturbed it, and he reared his crest high to strike. Open were his jaws, and anger sparkled in his eyes. His neck was drawn back, and his tongue played fearfully, when the twang of a bow-string was heard, and an arrow pierced his jaws. A moment more, and a strong arm had thrown the scaly form into a distant corner of the cave, and, thank God, I was safe!"
               "If you were senseless, how do you know this?" questioned Waters, who thought he saw some discrepancy in the statement.
               "It was told me by the one who saved me."
               "By whom?"
               "By a brave and noble one. By the one who, from the time of my capture, has been as a father to me."
               "By an Indian—an infernal red skin."
               "By an Indian, a brave, and, oh! how noble a one. By Prairie Fire!"
               "Prairie Fire? Why, he's the chief of the Iroquois."
               "Yes, and if it had not been for him, I should have either been cold in death, or, worse than that, the wife of the Couching Panther."
               "Well, this beats all of Indian performances that I ever saw before, and curse me if I can rightly understand it."
               "He was taking me home when you first came in sight."
               "And then hid you here in the forest, and started off alone."
               "Yes, it is true; but I cannot tell the reason why."
               "You might about as well tell the reason why the winter-green grows here in the forest, and not on the prairie; why the moss is always the thickest on the north side of the beech tree; why the leaves of the compass plant ever turn towards the north star, or the sun-flower towards the sun, as to attempt to tell the reason for an Indian's movements. But," soliloquized he, as if unaware of the presence of the others, "it must have been him; it could not have been any other. But why he should lead Ned Erskine off on such a wild-goose chase, it would puzzle the devil himself to tell."
               "Erskine! Ned Erskine!" shrieked Bessie Thompson, who had overheard his words.
               "Yes, Erskine; but I had forgotten that he was your lover, and that you had not heard a single word about him. It's just like me, Bessie, when I get thinking of these red devils, to forget everything I ought to do, and I hope you will forgive me."
               "Yes, yes; but—"
               "Oh, he's well and hearty; at least he was the last time I saw him, and that was when he chased off your jack-o'-lantern Prairie Fire. By my life, that Indian is well named, or else his horse is, for no fire ever ran swifter; and if Ned's horse is no better than mine, he will have about as good a chance of catching him as I would a shark in the water."
               "Well—safe," was all the maiden could reply.
               "Yes. It's true he had a pretty hard time of it with a panther that took quite a fancy to his heart, and, mayhap, hugged him a little too close, and spoiled his beauty for a time with its claws; but he was well when he left us, and unless your Indian father," and the reckless hunter laughed loudly at the idea, "takes a fancy to his scalp, he is all right now."
               "Then he is safe! Great God, I thank you," and the forest maiden, rudely tutored though she had been, sank upon her knees, and, with uplifted hands, poured forth a silent, unuttered prayer of thankfulness.
               Quietly Waters waited, with uncovered head, the end of the heart-spoken devotions of Bessie Thompson, and then he answered her question.
               "Yes, he is safe, if your Indian friend be but his friend also."
               "On that I'll pledge my life."
               "That's more that I would do for any Indian that ever drew a bow-string. But you are like all the rest of your sex, when you once put your trust in a man all the powers of earth cannot shake it. Now, if had said Ned Erskine, I'd—"
               "Ned Erskine!"
               "I'd bet my life against a straw on the result, for he is as true as steel, and if any mandare question it, he'll soon see knives flashing in the sun-rays," said Waters, looking savagely around, as if some present were not his friends. "But," resumed he, his fierce features lighting up with a smile, as he thought upon the foolishness of the boast, at such a time and in such a place, "I'm half inclined to think some more Indian deviltry is afoot, or he would not have led Erskine off at such a distance."
               "Why not follow him, then?" questioned the maiden.
               "It is too late now. Ned is no fool, and will not be caught asleep; and as for fighting and again the speaker's features lighted with savage smile, "I'll back him, single-handed against all the Prairie Fires that ever handle a hatchet or took a scalp. But if he does have a single hair of his head, by—," and a sound affrighting oath escaped his lips, "I'll follow him day and night, sleepless, foodless, until not a single drop of blood remains in his red carcass. I'll—"
               "Nay, Waters, you need not fear. Erskine is as safe with Prairie Fire as he would be with you." But cannot we follow him—meet him."
               "Nay, this cannot be. He must take care of himself. I'd go, but there is no one here to guide you home. These boys are true and brave, but green as a leek. No, no, it will not do. There is but one thing left, and that is, for us to take the back trail. If Ned is safe, he'll soon be after us; if not, why I'll e'en take you home, and then return; and curse me if I don't earn ten times the name of Red Hand. I'll—but I'll not brag like a child. Come, boys, one of you give Bessie Thompson your horse. There, that will do, and now keep a bright look-out for Indian deviltry."
               Leaving these brave hunters and that rescued maiden on their homeward way,—Bessie riding and Waters walking by her side, cheering her in his rough way, and guiding her horse,—let us look at those whom we left in danger the most fearful.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               PRAIRIE FIRE.
               "Great God!" exclaimed Erskine, as he gazed upon the fire that was rapidly circling around him and his Indian companion, "we are surrounded by fire! No, one hope is yet left us—it is the speed of our horses—if they fail us, there is naught left us but to meet death like men. I could do so, were it not for the thought of Bessie Thompson. If she was only safe, I could brave, endure all willingly."
               "The Manitou guards alike the lowly dove and the sun-braving eagle. The maiden and the warrior are alike in His hands; His eye takes in all of earth at a glance, and He is not forgetful of His children. Let the pale chieftain have no fears for the bird that has nestled in his bosom, she is safe."
               "Prairie Fire, I thank you for those words. And now let death come, I shall not shrink from its embrace, though my sinews crackle in the flames and my blood boil in my veins."
               "The angel of death is yet flapping his wings afar off, and the harsh croaking raven scents not his prey."
               "Let us mount, then, and be off. See! the flames are every moment coming more near, and if we remain, we must both perish."
               "The heart of the pale warrior beats too quickly, and his blood flows like the mountain brook when swollen with the rains of spring."
               "It is worse than useless to bandy words now; I, for one, mount and trust to the speed of Thunder;" and suiting the action to the word, he sprang upon the back of his noble steed, whose keen nostrils had already scented the midnight smoke that rolled aloft in the distance.
               "Stay!" said Prairie Fire, as he laid his strong hand upon the rein of Erskine's horse, "stay! If the ears of my pale brother would be again greeted with the songs of the love bird, let him listen to the words of Prairie Fire. As well might he strive to outrun the fear-urged antelope, the flight of the swift-winged swallow, the trout in the pebbly stream, or the winged lightning, when its course is swiftest, as to fly from the spirit of the flames. Were his horse speedy as, almost, the avenging angel, he would tire in his course and fall to rise no more. The pigeon, that measures an hundred miles ere the tongue can count as many, is not as swift; the far-flashing light is scarce swifter, and the wrath of the Matcha Manitou not more fearful. The spirit of the pale warrior would quail before its power, his heart grow sick, his limbs faint, and the serpent of the fire would twine its dark folds about him till his spirit was gathered to the land of his fathers."
               "These are but vain words, and will not save us."
               "Then, we are lost."
               "Prairie Fire, you know how well I love the girl you have so nobly saved, and you know I am no coward—still I would not, without an effort, die a dog's death like this. You have a wife, and will you not try to save your life for her sake?"
               "There shall be no blackened faces and mourning in the wigwam of Prairie Fire, and the warrior of the pale faces shall clasp to his heart once more the bird that has made sweet music in his ears, if he will but listen to the words of his red brother."
               
               "Speak on, then, but be quick, for see!"
               The eye of the Indian turned rapidly to the point indicated by the finger of Erskine, who, being mounted, had a better command of the scene, and then sprang upon his horse and standing upright upon his back, glanced rapidly around. For a moment his eye flashed wildly, and his thin, proud nostril distended, and then all was calm again, as if naught had ever ruffled the surface of his heart's sea. Seating himself, he calmly resumed his conversation with Erskine—calmly as if seated in his own wigwam, smoking from his huge pipe the odorous tobacco mingled with the spicy bark of the willow.
               "The Great Spirit," said he, "gave to his white children written talk from whence they could gather the words of wisdom; but to the red man he gave only such knowledge as is taught by the sky, the wood, the lake, and the river. He taught the pale one to raise maize and win from the earth the precious stores; but to the red one he gave a bow and arrow, that he might gain food for his wife and little ones. To the pale man he gave the fire canoe, that he might brave the storm and the tempest, and to his red children the birch built one that floats like a feather on the tide. From the leaves of his written talk my brother has learned many things that Prairie Fire understands not, and Prairie Fire, taught by the Great and Good Spirit, knows how to check the fire spirit when the pale warrior would perish."
               "All this is true," replied Erskine, when the other had ceased speaking, "but it will not save us. At least our horses will, for a time, save us, and then we must trust to Providence."
               "To the Great Spirit and our own wisdom."
               "Let's go ere it is too late. Come! No; it is too late already! We are surrounded by fire, and might as well meet death here as any where."
               "My brother's eyes would be better, if the singing maiden of his tribe were near. His sight is far keener when love has possession of his soul than when danger is around. He is a brave warrior, and his name will yet be sung in the wigwams of his tribe."
               "I understand you not."
               "Let my brother look!" and Prairie Fire pointed to a low spot in the distance, over which the smoke seemed to settle heavily. "Does he see nothing?"
               "Naught but flame and smoke."
               "Let him look again. Let him trace the line of fire until it reaches there, and see if it is not lost."
               "It is; but I think it appears again at a short distance."
               "The length of my brother's rifle may save his life."
               "Let us hasten to it, then."
               "Aye, it is time;" replied the Indian, as he urged his horse slowly forward. "The hounds of death are upon the trail of the hunter, but he is not yet caught in the toils. The snare is set and will soon be sprung, but the head of the fox shall not be found within."
               How like a thousand fiery, hissing serpents twining themselves in fanciful contortions, is a prairie fire! Those who have never witnessed one cannot imagine anything so wildly, fearfully grand; and those to whom they are familiar as household words cannot describe them. Watch the flame in the darkness of night—see it now crawl stealthily along, as if afraid to be seen, and then leap wildly, madly forward, and on high. Mark the black clouds of smoke rolling over and over, like some huge snake, while ever and anon a jet of fire appears like a tongue of forked flame darting spitefully forth. Hundreds of acres are on fire! The air is filled with lurid sparks, and the crackling and rustling of the herbage, as it fades to ashes, fall with a terrific sound upon the ear. Birds on their swift wings try in vain to flee for safety, and with scorched pinions and smoke filled lungs flutter, flutter, flutter—and then fall to rise no more. The grey hair of the wolf is scorched and his hide shrivelled—his tireless foot is at last followed by a swifter and a surer one—his race is over—he slowly creeps, howling along in agony—then faints, stops—and the fire sweeps over his blackened corpse. The silver-hoofed antelope, little of limb and swift as the flash of a sunbeam, is slow to the destroyer that with longer bounds and swifter steps pursues. A moment his fear-urged limbs are ahead—another, and his mottled skin is blackened—his pensive eye is filled with tears—his heart throbs tremulously, and then his race is over forever. The huge buffalo thunders on, but vainly, for soon flame-enwrapped, his giant frame smokes as a peace-offering on the altar of the demon of the flames. Aye, even the gallant horse, the noble, proud, and true one, snuffs from afar the tainted gale, throws high his crest in the air, snorts proudly forth defiance, and dashes away. Vain hope, proud courser of the wilderness! Your limbs have never worn a chain, or your mouth been galled by the iron bit; free as the mountain air have you wandered, unchecked and untamed. The 'speed of thought' is in your limbs, and vainly have you been followed, for you have left all behind, as a shooting star would the iron horse of mighty man. Beautiful art thou in all thy proportions, majestic in thy figure, and proud in thy every step. Speed on, while you may! Strain every sinew in the race, it is for thy safety—life! Ha! your step grows slow and your gait feeble. Well, but vainly have you struggled. A fleeter and a surer one followed thee; one that pauses not and knows not of rest. The flame spirit has been upon thy track—he is by thy side—he breathes into thy nostrils his breath of mingled fire and smoke, and it reaches thy very heart. Struggle bravely as you may, it is in vain. Proud courser of the prairie, he has outrun thee in the race, and thy blackened, burning corpse alone tells of thy former prowess.
               Hecatombs of lives are yearly sacrificed to the insatiable appetite of this monster, and insect, reptile, and beast, aye, and even man, are alike gathered into its burning maelstroom. Still it is a sight fearfully, wildly grand, and one that once seen can never be forgotten. What Niagara is to water, is a prairie fire to the flame: and should we write page upon page in description of it, we would fall far, very far, short of its grandness and awful sublimity; now it is but as a golden serpent twining itself along amid the rank foliage—then 
                     
                        the jetty clouds are riven
                        With sudden flash, as swift along the lightning's car is driven;
                        Now seems the sky more thick and black than human tongue can tell,
                        And now, upon the scroll glares bright the very hues of hell!
                     
                  
               
               It were worth 'many a year of peaceful life,' to view a scene like this, when autumn has withered the foliage and all is dry and ready for the sickle of the flame; and, a scene it is to thrill upon the heart, and one that long years after will flash across the page of memory, radiant in its coloring and unapproachable in its beauty, majesty, sublimity, and grandeur. Paint it for me, man of genius, if you can, spread it out upon your canvas, truthfully and well, and then essay next to paint the swift-winged lightning and the deep diapason of the the far rolling thunder!
               Steadily, for some time, Prairie Fire and Erskine moved forward, and then the former, who had been steadily watching the progress of the flames, spoke in a low voice to his companion—
               "The swift-footed deer loiters not, and the wing of the flame is not stayed. The pale faced hunter would have fled when danger was afar off, let him now give both the rein and the spur to his horse. He must be both swift and strong that would gain a place of safety from the evil spirit of the fire. It is aroused and will stay not its course."
               Erskine needed no second warning, but urged on his affrighted horse who dashed madly forward, followed closely by Prairie Fire, who, save that his eye flashed more fiercely than was its wont, showed no sign of motion. Erskine was equally brave; but never before had he gazed upon a scene like this, and besides his heart was swayed from its usual calmness by his anxiety for Bessie Thompson. Well was it that they had sped swiftly forward, for swift as light the flame was following them and gaining upon them at every breath.
               "Let the spur of my brother be not idle," whispered Prairie Fire, as he gave his horse the rein and took the lead.
               Quick as the hint was given it was taken, and Erskine's horse, roused by the keen steel, rallied, and dashed forward like an arrow from the bowstring. Another mile was passed and another, the fire still gaining upon them.
               "If we can but reach you wet swale, by the banks of the creek, we are safe," shouted Prairie Fire.
               "It is too late," replied Erskine; for at that moment his brave Thunder, who had so often borne him in safety, fell exhausted to the earth.
               Quick as was his fall, was the movement of Prairie Fire, who turned his horse and dismounting stood holding him by the side of his companion, who lay resting upon his fallen steed.
               
               "Go, Prairie Fire," said Ned, generous ever, "your horse is still fresh. Go and place yourself in safety. Be kind still to Bessie Thompson, and may God bless you as I do."
               "Let the pale warrior take the horse of the chieftain; he will bear him far beyond the power of the flames."
               "Never! never!"
               "Then Prairie Fire will stay."
               "It is useless for us both to perish."
               "Let my brother go, then."
               "And you?"
               "Will remain. The Manitou guards ever his children."
               "I would not go, if it were to save all I love from torment."
               "Does the pale warrior forget the singing bird of his tribe?"
               "No! that I can never do."
               "Let him go then and make her happy."
               "And leave you here?"
               "My brother has spoken it."
               "If I do, may I be ——" was the characteristic reply of Erskine.
               "The pale warrior speaks not well."
               "Well or ill, I shall abide by it. But see! the fire is fast nearing us. Go, Prairie Fire, and leave me to my fate."
               "If the pale man fears not death, why should the red one? There is a happy hunting-ground beyond the grave."
               "This is folly, madness!" replied Erskine, and then seeing that the Indian did not heed his words, he pated the neck of his panting steed, and continued: "Well, pet, at least we'll die together; we have seen many a hard time, and will not part now."
               "Brother!" broke the deep-toned voice of Prairie Fire upon his ear: "would you save your life and see again the one dear to your heart?"
               "Yes, certainly yes; can it be done?"
               "It can, if you will follow my words."
               "Quick, tell me how!"
               "Let him kill his horse, strip from him his dark skin, and wrap himself up in; the fire will but scorch the hide as it passes over, and my brother is safe."
               A flash of lightning was not more quick than the movement of Ned Erskine, as he sprang to his feet.
               "Kill my horse? Kill Thunder?" almost shrieked he.
               "It will save my brother's life," quietly replied the Indian, as if he had not noticed the excitement of the other.
               "May lightning blast and wither me and mine, if I do!"
               A moment Prairie Fire gazed upon the proud form and flashing eye of Erskine, and then taking his hand and placing it upon his heart, replied:
               "He is my brother now, and shall be saved."
               Plucking up the grass so as to form a circle around the horses, Prairie Fire drew from his ample pouch a flint and steel, and pouring from Erskine's flask a small quantity of powder upon the grass he had gathered, struck a spark into it. A flash followed—a light, and then the dry herbage-taking flame spread in all directions around them, enveloping them for a moment in smoke. A breath of wind cleared this away, and the circle had so rapidly widened as to call forth an exclamation of surprise from Erskine.
               
                  It was making fire fight fire! and they were safe.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               THE RECONCILIATION.
               
                  
                     "Love they like Wilton and like Clare?"
                  
               
               Swayed by the power that ever holds dominion over the heart, Clara Reynolds had wandered from her room to that of Henry Elliott, with the intention of once more seeing him, unseen herself—with the determination to gaze upon his face while sleeping, and then—her own heart dared not attempt to answer what. Her purpose, her fixed resolve was to forget him; but could she do this? It is not an easy task to forget, when we have once loved truly and aright; when the whole soul has been wrapped up in its idol till an earthly one takes the place almost of God—till a face, and form, and voice haunts us waking or sleeping, and our every thought is tinged with hues reflected from the worshipped one, and our mind unwittingly assumes the same positions, and sees through the same eyes as the one we love. Coldness, aye, even neglect may follow; but forgetfulness, never! The heart may wear a mask that the prying eye of curiosity can never pierce, but there is still a fire burning within, that the slightest breath will rekindle into a flame. There are, it is true, those who laugh at this feeling; who scoff at love, and make it a byword and jest; who sneer at heart, save in a physical sense, and know naught of its spiritual sensations—but they are those who have risen in the scale of humanity to a level scarcely higher than the unreasoning brutes of the field, who know not of aspirations above this dull globe, and who are given wholly to self-gratification and sensuality. The heart has a holier, nobler acceptation. It is a spark of living light thrown to earth from the giant spirit of God, to sparkle, illuminate, and flash resplendent for a time, and then be again recalled to its pristine home—it is a portion, minute thought it be, of the great soul of the universe; the soul that is in all and pervades all, and when freed from its earthly trammels is seen to glitter again resplendent, a very jewel in the court of heaven—in the peerless tiara of God himself. Such is the heart; and not the fleshy, blood-purifying thing that the unloving talk of. And, oh! how pure and holy should be its aims, its end, its aspirations. No impure thought ever entered the heart, say what you will of the mind; and the purest, noblest, holiest power that ever swayed it is love.
               But Clara Reynolds had left her own room to visit that of the sufferer, and although strong of will and of an evenly balanced mind, yet, when she saw him, with ashy lips and pallid cheeks, with bruised and blood-stained brow; with flickering, feeble breath, her woman fortitude gave way, and she, with a loud shriek, fell to the floor, where she was found by her father and friends and carried to her own room. It was long ere she recovered, and then it was only to feel her own misery; for the slight glance she had had at Elliott broke down all the barriers of her pride, and she felt, oh! how she loved him—and him alone—with all the fervancy and devotion of a true woman. How a single moment changes the whole horizon of life, as the sun does when it gleams through the cleft clouds of the thunder storm. Reviewing, as she lay there, pale and trembling, the scene in the garden, when Elliott had so suddenly left her, on the evening of their fatal misunderstanding, she saw and felt that she had been very much to blame, and that she had nearly, if not totally wrecked her hopes of happiness upon the foolish rocks of pride. Bitter are such communions with ourselves, but they chasten the heart, render it more pure and free from the taints of earth, and more like to Him who, thorn-encrowned, forgave the thief upon the cross, and pointed upward to that bright star that shines in the midst of the gardens of heaven, never to set, or fade, or waver, e'en "amid the wreck of matter, and the crush of worlds."
               Henry Elliott awoke from his deep slumbers very much refreshed, and when Judge Reynolds visited him, he had already risen and dressed himself; he also had bitter thoughts—thoughts that wrung his innermost soul, and made his frame tremble convulsively. What should he do? He could not remain under that roof; and, yet, he was still far too weak to attempt to travel. And how should he meet Judge Reynolds, and, worse still, his daughter? These were questions not easy of solution. He felt that he had been deceived; but how? Clara had told him that the child was her daughter; but his better reason told him of some mystery unexplained. Tossed thus with conflicting emotions—vacillating between love and fear, hope and despair—he sat, when the step of the Judge was heard, and the door opened. There was a kind, though sad smile on the face of the old man, as he gently took his hand and sat down by his side; and his words were kind also, and fell upon his heart like evening dew upon the parched lip of the fever-dying one.
               "Henry, my boy," began the Judge, "you seem much better."
               "I am, thank you, sir."
               "You are still very weak, and will suffer yet much. It was a kind Providence that preserved your life, and that directed you hither."
               "Judge Reynolds, pardon me though I say it, it is the very last place that I would have been brought to, even though I had died in the wilderness."
               "Tut, tut, boy, you know not what you say."
               "I feel it most keenly, deeply. I feel, aye, let me confess it, for my recent injury has subdued my pride, I feel that I have bitterly, foully wronged your hospitality, and the honor of your daughter."
               "I may not deny it, Henry."
               
               "But yet there is some mystery, that, even now, after reflecting upon it as I have, I cannot understand."
               "What seems to you a mystery, is as clear as the sun at mid-day."
               "To you it may be, Sir, but not to me. Clara—I beg pardon, Sir—Miss Reynolds told me that the child was her daughter."
               "Aha! I see it all now! She told me of this, and I can well understand how you felt. But was it kind, was it just for you thus to depart without an explanation, without giving both her and me time for an explanation?"
               "It was not, Sir. But I was mad—I knew not what I did."
               "Listen to me, Henry Elliott, and what seemed to you a mystery will become as bright as day." And the Judge recited what our readers already know of the saving of the babe by Erskine, and its subsequent history.
               "Good Heavens!" exclaimed Elliott, when he had concluded, "I can never meet your daughter again, after having so grossly insulted her. She could not, would not forgive me; and I from this roof shall go forth an outcast, branded as with the curse of Cain, unloved and despised."
               "Nay, Henry, these are strong and wild words. The past will teach you a useful lesson, and the love of Clara is not beyond recovery. This very day you shall see her; talk to her frankly, like a man, and my word for it, you will not plead in vain."
               "Thanks, oh! thanks; but how shall I ever meet her? I think I shall sink before the very glance of her eyes."
               "Good lover talk," laughed the Judge.
               "Aye, and reality, Sir."
               "We shall see if the clouds do not disappear and sunshine again assert his power," was the reply of Judge Reynolds, as he turned and quitted the room.
               It was a bright, sunny afternoon; the golden rays stole through the forest boughs, lighting up the tiny cups of the many-hued flowers and stealing, fairy-like, amid the velvet moss. They peeped in at the vine covered windows of the abode of Judge Reynolds, and revealed a scene as pure and holy as the eye would wish to rest upon. Seated near the window was Clara Reynolds, radiant in beauty, and with a face beaming with joy, and happiness, and love. A manly arm encircled her waist, and her hand was clasped in one stronger than her own. Her ears drank in the music of sweet words, and it was the lips of Henry Elliott that uttered them. What right had he there; and why did she calmly, aye willingly submit to his embrace? Oh! rosy god of the bow and arrows, thou hast much to answer for! It was a beautiful picture; and, as Judge Reynolds had predicted, all was sunshine, and joy, and happiness now.
               Mutual explanations had passed, and mutual vows again been uttered. The tempest of distrust had settled into calm of love, and a holy stillness ruled the heart where all had been passion-swayed. Verily the night had passed, and joy came with the morning.
               "Henry," said Clara Reynols, in continuation of the conversation they had long been engaged in, "you have not yet redeemed your promise."
               "What promise, dearest?"
               "Have you forgotten that long since you promised me some poetry, that you said you had written to me while you were wandering in your own sunny Virginia?"
               "I must confess, lady mine, that in the happiness of this hour, I had forgotten all else. But I will redeem it now. I am no poet, however, though I must own that I have sometimes amused myself in 'sorting rhymes and stringing them.' Here they are, dearest, and if you can make poetry of them you will be a magician indeed."
               Taking from his pocket a small manuscript volume, Henry Elliott read, in a clear, manly, well-modulated, and flexible voice, the following lines, addressed
               
                  
                     
                        
                           TO ——
                           
                              I have roamed where the gay and the happy were met,
                              And brilliant eyes flashed from 'neath lashes of jet,
                              And soft, radiant glances, bemoistened with dew,
                              Came peerless from eyes of a deep azure hue;
                              Where silken tress, braided with summer's bright flowers,
                              Reflected the beams of the sun's dying powers,
                              Yet still to my heart every charm was not fair
                              As the idol I worship, for THOU was't there!
                           
                           
                              The bright smile was then wreathed on each rose mantled face,
                              And glad flashed each eye, in each motion was grace;
                              And the silver laugh rang upon evening's soft air,
                              As the zephyr moved gently the bud-laden hair;
                              And mirth had forgotten her pinions, forgotten to fly,
                              To bask for a time in some swift-flashing eye;
                              And yet still on my heart lingered sorrow and care,
                              To oppress with their sadness, for THOU was't there!
                           
                           
                              Then gay rose the song, and sweet, flute-like it stole,
                              And moved the swift pulse of my innermost soul,
                              And I bowed as to syren, when fain I would save
                              Each soft note that gushed from their ocean gem'd cave;
                              And happiness reigned o'er each joy bounding heart,
                              As if freed by Lethe's waters from Memory's dart,
                              That would bring the dim future with visions of care,
                              Yet I was not happy, for THOU was't there!
                           
                           
                              And added to all this, kind Nature had given
                              A spot that glowed bright as the confines of heaven;
                              But yet I have gazed on a scene not so bright,
                              No flower-decked houris', no soft, summer light,
                              No music's sweet cadence, that floated along,
                              And bade the mild zephyr go laden with song,
                              That was brighter by far than each moment past there,
                              For THY presence would render a desert more fair!
                           
                           
                              If earth is thus rendered a desolate way,
                              When far from the power that can misery stay,
                              Or so bright when we near it, bedecked with the flowers
                              That perennial bloom in joy's roseate bowers,
                              Oh! what would be heaven save as fable of old,
                              If given us all, yet the being withheld
                              That we worshipped on earth, but if that too were given,
                              THE REST WOULD BE VALUED, WITHOUT IT NO HEAVEN!
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Poetry, too!" laughed Judge Reynolds, who had slightly entered and heard the above rapsody, "well, Elliott, you seem to be coming on bravely. I knew you were somewhat given to the use of the pen, but never was aware that you wooed the muse before."
               "It was the work of an idle moment, Sir, and deserves not the name of poetry."
               "And you, my pretty daughter, when did you take such a fancy to jingle and rhyme? Methinks I never heard of it before."
               "Father!" exclaimed the blushing girl.
               "Who was that, Master Elliott, that had sooner die in the greenwood; in the wilderness, than have been brought into this house? Do you know any such a person?"
               "Spare me, Sir. I was mad, I knew not what I said."
               "I don't believe you are much better now. If a man head over ears in love is not about half mad, I'm no judge of the human heart."
               "Father," replied Clara, in lieu of her lover, "this is not fair, it is not like you."
               "Well, you need not blush so, my beauty. Take your lover's part, that's right—and mind that you always do the same for your husband, for a wife that wont defend her husband deserves never to have had one," and the Judge, half-laughing, left the room, singing a favorite hunting song.
               Left alone, Elliott and Clara were free to converse of the past, the present, and the future; and as lovers always do, they freely improved their time, and when the ebon wing of night was spread over earth, and twilight was fast coming on, the sun went down upon as happy a pair as ever treaded, hand in hand, and heart with heart the subtle labyrinth of love.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE SLEEPING BEAR AND LITTLE CLARA.
               The Sleeping Bear, the Indian who visited the house of Judge Reynolds without any apparent object, waited not an instant after his departure from the room ere he secured the child, and bore it rapidly towards the river. Fearless and confiding, as childhood ever is, little Clara believed his confidious tale, that he was but taking her to gather flowers, and that they would soon return. Quieting her thus, no alarm was given, and he soon reached the river and waded rapidly up stream, the plash of the water completely drowning the noise of his footsteps, and the overhanging branches hiding him from sight.
               The Sleeping Bear was a brother of the Crouching Panther, the one who had died such a fearful death in the cave of the rattle-snakes, and though he had concealed all emotion at the time, as a true Indian ever does, yet he had in his heart swore a dreadful oath, that he would be fearfully avenged—that the sister of Bessie Thompson should die the same death as his brother, that she also should meet death in that horrid den of scaly, poisonous reptiles! Dreadful, is it not? That fair, young, and innocent child to be thrown amid myriads of poison-breathing, venom-distilling serpents! Oh, how the heart shrieks even at the very thought! Think of it, mother, you whose child is playing by your side, whose eyes beam with love, and whose laugh sings like a tiny silver bell; whose silken hair floats in wavy curls over her snowy shoulders, and whose lips have just learned to lisp your name. Well may you shudder and clasp your idolized one nearer to your bosom, for the thought itself is agony and despair. Yet, such was the fate to which she was doomed ed by that bronzed warrior of the Iroquois, and who shall save her? who rescue her from a death, at the bare mention of which the heart grows faint and the pulse seems to stand still? God, in thy infinate mercy be her guide and guard now!
               Long and earnestly had Judge Reynolds and the hunters who were with him, searched, but in vain; no clue could be gained, no trail found, and with sorrowful hearts they returned home. All, indeed, felt sorrow, but none a tenth part as deeply as poor Clara. Half distracted she wandered about the house, refusing comfort and unheeding the consoling words that fell from every lip. Around her heart the child had twined itself as with cords of triple steel, cords which death alone could sever. It was a fearful shock to her, one unexpected, sudden, and fearful! How like mockery seem the well-intended words of consolation at such a time; how dim seems the golden flashes of the orb of day, and how dull, and dark, and gloomy all things of earth! Sunlight seemed to have vanished from the entire household, until even black Pomp, whose face was ever twisted into a smile, sat sullen and alone in the huge chimney corner, smoking his pipe with tearful eyes and low bowed head. No sound of joyous laughter rang in that usually happy home, but all appeared to wear the livery of thought and sadness, of sack-cloth and ashes. Bad as it was, how much worse would it have been had they but known the fate for which that dear one of their hearts was reserved? Had they but known of that fearful den and its accumulated horrors—of the hissing tongues, the gaping jaws, the poisoned fangs, and the scaly folds. Well it is, that we cannot see into the future, that we cannot lift the veil that screens it, and read its unknown pages. Truthfully has the poet written— 
                     
                        "To each their suffering, all are men
                        Condemned alike to groan;
                        The tender for another's pain,
                        The unfeeling for their own.
                        But ah, why should we know our fate?
                        Since sorrow never comes too late,
                        And happiness too swiftly flies,
                        Thought would destroy their paradise:
                        Where ignorance is bliss, 'tis folly to be wise."
                     
                  
               
               "Why do you take me so far from home?" questioned little Clara, as the Indian, still bearing her in his strong arms, emerged from the stream and rested upon the grassy bank.
               "The flowers are brighter and sweeter here, and the berries more luscious," was the cunning reply.
               "But I want to go home; mother will be calling for me."
               "Gather the pretty flowers first;" and the child in the innocence of her heart did his bidding, and, running around, plucked the most beautiful, and then in her amusement, forgetting for a time even her adopted home, sat gaily down by his side and twined them into a wreath, and placed it over his long, black hair.
               "Oh! how beautiful!" she exclaimed, and clapped her little hands with delight.
               Sullenly the Indian gazed upon the petite form of the maiden that was busily engaged in twining the showy flowers amid his long, black hair, and thought only how he would gloat over his fearful revenge when that beautiful form, beautiful as childhood ever is, should lay, a quivering helpeless mass, in that dark and poisoned den. And yet he was not wholly without feeling, for even as he thought of it, a thrill passed momentarily through his heart, like a lightning-flash, and then his strong will controled it and he was again apparently as passionless as the sculptor-chiseled marble. Judging, very correctly, that he would be followed, he had resolved to remain in ambush until the shades of night had gathered around, and then, when slumber had sealed the eyes of his little captive, to take her on his homeward journey. And this plan he would, without doubt, have followed, had not the little maiden become tired of the play and begged him to return home with her.
               "Do take me home," lisped little Clara, as she rested her hand upon his knee, and looked beseechingly into his face.
               "Gather more flowers first, to twine amid the curls of your mother's hair, as you have amongst mine."
               "I have enough; see!" and she held a boquet almost as large as herself up for him, to look at.
               "Shall I not make another for you, to take to your mother?" questioned he, carefully adopting her own style of expression.
               "Yes, oh yes! it is so pretty."
               Slowly the task was performed; he lingered upon every flower, while Clara with childish petulance hurried him on, till at length it was finished, but not before the sun-rays were becoming coming feeble and the God of day was rapidly sinking in the west. The shadows of twilight were so fast gathering around, and the pale mistress of night was beginning to assert her prerogative, when the Sleeping Bear, finding he could no longer quiet the fears of his tiny captive, slowly arose, and, taking her by the hand, declared his intention of taking her home, while at the same time he was leading her still farther from it. Unconscious of the fact, Clara walked by his side, "for youth is joyful," and ever and anon asked him some pretty question about a flower, a bird, or concerning home.
               Night now began to rule alone, and Clara, becoming very tired, begged that the Indian would carry her, as he had done when they first started. Consenting willingly to this, he lifted her in his strong arms, and with head reclining upon his brawny breast she was soon in a deep and tranquil slumber, and slept as quietly as if in her own bed beneath the roof of Judge Reynolds. This very much favored the plan of the Sleeping Bear, and, carrying his burden as if it had been but a feather, he strode rapidly forward although all around now was darkness and gloom. His eyes, however, were far too keen to loose for even an instant the narrow trail he traveled, and many leagues had been accomplished ere he felt the need of repose. Gently laying his baby captive down by the root of a giant tree, he placed his back against it, and stretching out his limbs prepared himself for slumber. And thus ofttimes it is that the Indian runner rests, when upon a trail requiring speed or danger, disdaining even the luxury of reposing at full length, but ready ever to start at the slightest alarm. Calmly he slept, as if his soul was not stained with murder, the most fiendish, for murder consists as much in the premeditation as in the commitment of the deed. But how strange it is that guilt can thus quietly repose like the sinless child that is cradled upon its mother's bosom. By the very gibbet that shall to-morrow claim him, has the thief slept; the murderer by the prison bars that shall open but to let him pass to execution, and the martyr even on the rack. A strange anomoly this, and it is most true.
               Morning was rapidly dawning, when little Clara awoke, cold and benumbed by the night-air and dew. A moment she gazed wildly around her, and then with a loud shrieck ran to the side of the Sleeping Bear and aroused him.
               "Where am I? Why do you not take me home?"
               "I lost my way."
               "You lost your way? You are an Indian," was her reply, for even her childish mind has learned that the red man needs not compass or chart to guide him through the pathless forest or the trailless prairie.
               "It was very dark; I was tired and slept."
               "Oh! take me home. I am so cold."
               "Take my hand; we will walk together;" and slowly they proceeded forward.
               "Shall we not be home soon? I am hungry and want to see my mother."
               "You will soon be at your home."
               "Let us hurry, then. Come—faster," and she essayed to run and pull the brawny Indian along by the hand.
               They were rapidly nearing the cave of the rattle-snakes, and for a moment the heart of the Sleeping Bear wavered from its purpose, as he gazed upon the slight form and looked upon the confiding face that was upturned towards his own. Like a flash of light only was the feeling, for so it came and so departed, leaving all again darkness and revenge. The path had now become very rough and stony, and the tender feet of little Clara were becoming bruised and sore, when the Indian lifted her up in his arms, quickened his pace until it was almost a run, or what is commonly called a "lope." Scarce a mile remained to be accomplished ere the place of the destined death of the child would be reached, and, as they neared it, the fire in the heart of her savage captor seemed to burn more strongly and fiercely. The blood coursed more rapidly through his veins, and his sinewy frame trembled with excitement; his speed became more rapid, and as he sat his tiny burden down at the very door of the fearful cavern, every wish of his savage heart appeared to have been gratified. Even there, many, very many feet above the horrid den, the mingled hisses of thousands of serpents fell upon the ear, and the heart-sickening stench filled the nostrils. Affrighted the child ran back to the Steeping Bear for protection; but he heeded her not, and with his giant strength rolled the stone away from the entrance. Great God! tiny orphan of Indian-butchered parents, must you enter there where hisses ring upon the ear, like the sound of the waters dashing over the foam-chiseled brink of Niagara, and a stench rises as from the seething cauldrons of hell!
               Lifting the child in his arms, he bore her to the very entrance of the cavern, despite her shrieks and cries and agonizing prayers, and, holding her firmly there, uttered the death-cry of the Iroquois.
               "Shade of the Crouching Panther," said he, "look upon thy brother. Thus he revenges thy death! The maiden of the accursed pale face gave thee thy doom; her sister, dear to her heart as thou wast to mine, the Sleeping Bear has destined to the same death. Thus I fling her into the very midst of the fearful den where thou, brave-hearted one, met thy doom, that her ashes may mingle with thine, and thy wandering spirit be appeased. Thus——"
               The report of a rifle and the twang of a bowstring was heard, and with a heart pierced both by a bullet and an arrow, the Indian fell prone to the earth, convulsed in death.
               "It is Thompson's child," said Ned Erskine, as he sprang from the cover of the forest.
               "It is the Sleeping Bear," replied Prairie Fire, as he gazed upon the death-tortured features of the Indian.
               "He sleeps well, now, at all events," laughed Erskine, as he pressed the head of the child to his manly bosom, and strove to still her cries.
               Which was the captor now, and which was the captive? How suddenly had the tables turned: the captor was the captive now, and the captor was death!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVIII.
               "LAST SCENE OF ALL IN THIS STRANGE, EVENTFUL HISTORY."
               
                  SCENE THE FIRST.
                  How brightly and beautiful breaks the morning! How with roseate, dainty fingers it draws back the sombre curtains of night and reveals the burning disk of the flame-like sun! How swiftly the glad bird springs up from its downy nest, cools its hot breast amid the dewy gleaming, and thrills its song of thanksgiving and of praise to the God of nature! How the flowers, dew-begemmed, hold their tiny goblets up to the light, and breathe their sweet scented breath over woodland and lawn. Beautiful indeed is all, and the heart of man must feel it, and willingly bow the knee in praise and adoration to Him who created this fair and beautiful world, rested from his labors, and called it "good."
                  Many years have passed since the scenes we have faintly pictured, and time has flitted ceaselessly on towards the shores of the unknown ocean of Eternity. Youth has, at the touch of its wand, changed to age, and childhood to youth. The world has grown older, but who shall say wiser; and the primitive customs of our early frontier men have vanished before the arbitrary power of fashion. The red man has departed from the scenes we have pourtrayed, following the setting sun, and 
                        
                           "Westering still, the star that leads
                           The New World in its train,
                           Has tipped with fire the icy spears
                           Of many a mountain chain.
                        
                        
                           The snowy cones of Oregon
                           Are kindling on its way;
                           And California's golden sands
                           Gleam brighter in its ray!"
                        
                     
                  
                  And who shall dare to predict the boundary that shall stay the onward march of freedom? Who say where the glorious banner of the stars shall not float in triumph—upon what land, or upon what sea? Who, upon what shore there shall not be built an altar dedicated to the brotherhood of men? None, indeed! As well bind Niagara, when in its fiercest mood, with a gossamer thread, or bridle the swift-sweeping waves of the 'Father of Waters' with a tissue spun in the loom of the busy spider as to stay the onward, ever onward march of freedom. Vain, vain indeed, the task! for like the circle on the waters, it shall still enlarge and extend its area, until earth be blotted out forever from amid the jewels that flash in the peerless tiara of heaven, and time is lost in the fathomless ocean of eternity.
                  It was morning, and the sun shone gaily over the abode of Judge Reynolds. Art had improved and chastened nature, and many a flower born in other climes bloomed there, radiant with beauty and loading the balmy air almost to faintness with perfume. Oh! it was beautiful that residence by the waters of the Illinois, unstirred as yet save by the paddle of the Indian, or the voyageur, and untroubled by the fire-breathing monster of the deep—the certain proofs of man's skill, daring and creative genius. The lawn in front of the house, dotted here and there with roses, lilach, snowballs, and evergreens was closely shorn, and presented a soft and velvety appearance. The giant trees whose leafy coronets shaded many a portion, hung full of the ripened fruit of early autumn, and the busy squirrel chattered from their very tops as he gathered his winter stores. The robin, the black bird, the fire bird, and the tiny wren chirped and floated in the warm sun beams, and the swallow cut with active and untiring wing the golden air. It was beautiful all! the very picture of contentment, repose, and happiness.
                  Seated in a rustic arbor, beneath the shade of huge, moss o'ergrown trees, sat an old man, with locks as white as the spotless snow of winter. Time had dealt lightly with him, and he was still strong and hearty. Many a scene of trial had he passed through, much suffering undergone, and now, with one eye turned on the past, that varied panorama of human life and emotions, and the other upon the swift coming future, he calmly waited the summons that would call him to the regions of the just made perfect. At his feet tranquilly sleeping, lay a hound, grey as was his master with age, and like him, soon to fall before the sickle of the reaper—Death. His once fleet foot had become slow, and his flashing eye dim. No more could he follow the lightning-footed deer, and battle with the gaunt wolf—his race was run and the goal would soon be reached.
                  "Wolf!" said the old man, as he bent down and kindly patted the head of the dog, "we have had our day, and are fast growing old. Growing? It is too late to talk of that, for we have already outlived the lease granted to man or beast. A true friend you have been to me, and I could not part from you without tears. But, old friend, we must soon separate forever. You and I must soon fade from earth—must die!"
                  "What is that, dear Father?" said a beautiful woman, in the very pride of matronly beauty, as she entered and clasped her arms about the neck of the old man, and imprinted a kiss upon his wrinkled cheek. "What was that you said, dear father?"
                  "Nothing, child—nothing, Clara. I was only talking to poor old wolf."
                  "You spoke of dying, Father. Do not talk thus," and the hot tear trickled down her cheeks.
                  "Clara, daughter," replied Judge Reynolds, for it was he, "I have lived long; the scale of life is upon the very center, and the index is already wavering. My time has nearly come, but I shall die contented when the summons comes. I have lived to see you happy, blessed with a husband's love, and proud of your children."
                  "Aye," said Henry Elliott, as he entered the circle, "loved by her husband, as well and truthfully as wife ever could be loved, though even then, not half as well as she deserves to be."
                  "Nay, Henry, talk not thus," replied Clara, her eyes again filling with tears, as she listened to the kind words of her husband, who clasped his manly arm around her slender waist.
                  "Father," continued Elliott, "you are low-spirited to-day, more so than usual. Cheer up, you will live yet many years."
                  "It is the day, Clara, when your mother died; and methinks I can hear her whisper—'come!'"
                  "Recollection is busy with her heart now," whispered Henry Elliott to his beautiful wife, "and it were best to leave him alone for a time. The dark hour will soon pass away, and then he will be again merry as he is wont," and drawing her arm within his own, he gently led her towards the house.
                  And that dark hour did pass, and with its flittering came the glorious sunshine of happiness, and joy, and contentment. Morning had faded to noon, noon to evening, and again that hale old man sat there, with his dog at his feet, watching the setting sun as it slowly sunk in the flame illumined West—a fitting emblem, methinks, of thou, brave old man, was the setting of the fiery orb of day. Like that sun, thou art slowly sinking into the grave—slowly, calmly, softly as fades the light, and like that sun to rise again on resurrection morn, clad in spotless garments, and crowned with the crown of immortality. No tear is in his eye now, no tinge of sadness upon his cheek—a smile has chased them all away, and the heart that in the morning was passion tossed, is now calm as the water of an untroubled pool.
                  Merry, light-hearted laughter falls upon his ear. It is the voice of manhood, womanhood, girlhood, and childhood commingled; and oh! how sweet the thrill upon the chords of that old man's heart, as they float upon the evening summer air, like the rejoicing of angels whose harps are tuned by love, and breathe melody around the throne of the "Highest of the Highest." They were the voices of Henry Elliott, his lovely wife, Clara Thompson, (who had now fully fulfilled the promise of her youth, and was as beautiful a being as the eye would wish to rest upon,) a prattling boy of scarce four summers, rosy-cheeked and stout, and a merry bright-eyed infant that was not yet released from its mother's arms, and bore the pretty title of the Lady Clara.
                  "Aha!" exclaimed the silver-haired man, as he placed the boy upon his knee, and clasped the smiling babe in his arms, "you rogues. So, you have come to see your old Grandfather," and a tear of happiness trembled in his eye-lids.
                  Kneeling at his feet, sank Clara Thompson, with her deep blue, loving eyes upturned and gazing into his, while one hand was placed upon his knee, and the other rested on the head of the hound. On one side of him was his queenly looking daughter, resting on his shoulder, and on the other side her manly and noble husband. The children nestled in his bosom, a very picture of January and June—of spring in the lap of winter; and as the old man raised his eyes aloft and moved his lips as if uttering a prayer of thankfulness, the last rays of the expiring sun wreathed every head as with a halo of glory. It was a tableau such as the eye rarely rests upon, and a scene worthy of "another and a better world."
               
               
                  SCENE THE SECOND.
                  Amid a clearing, some distance up the river from the residence of Judge Reynolds, stood a large log cabin, surrounded by a garden. The frost of autumn had left its impress upon the golden corn, and many a dainty plant had felt the impress of its footsteps. The smoke rose in circles aloft, staining the clear air, from a huge fire, around which two children, a rollicing boy and a very hoyden girl were rolling and tumbling upon the floor. A stout, rosy-cheeked woman, with a firm step and laughing eye watched their gambols, and seemed as deeply interested as they were in their play. Changed as is that face, it strikes the eye at once as familiar—as one which we have met before, and in which we were deeply interested. The same eye is there—the same waving tresses—the same self-dependant expression, and the same proud, curling lip. Yet the hands upon the dial of the clock of time have not been idle, and the sorely tried girl has changed into the proud and happy wife and mother. Bessie Thompson, for surely it is thou, well, oh! how well art thou repaid for all thy suffering—aye, even for the fearful hour that you spent alone with the poisonous moccason in the dark and gloomy cave; for the scenes through which thou passed in the village of the Iroquois, and for all thy youthful heart was called upon to endure. Do you think of these things, now, save in dreams, or when you sit by the cheerful fire, with your children on your knee, and cheat time of its weariness by rehearsing the tales of you infancy. Far too happy art thou to think often of the eventful past, and seldom is it that the mind treads the dimly lighted halls of memory. Kind, indeed, has an all-wise and over-ruling Providence been to thee, maiden of the forest, and well may thy knee nightly bow to Him who brought thee safe through every trial.
                  "Mother," said that ruddy-checked boy, as he stopped for a moment, in his gambols, and laid his curly head in her lap, "Mother, why does not Father come home?"
                  "Why, Frank, you are just as impatient as your namesake, Frank Waters."
                  "Well, Father has been gone all day, and I want him to come back, so as to play with me, and teach me how to shoot. You know he promised me he would."
                  "Yes, child, and he will when he comes."
                  "Why can I not go a-hunting with him?"
                  "You?" and the mother laughed loud at the very idea. "You? why, it would be like sending a squirrel after a bear."
                  "When I get to be a man, I'll have a rifle and hunt, if I live."
                  "Yes, yes, Frank; but go and play with your sister," was the reply, and tears quickly chased away the smile from her face, at the bare thought of his death. His, her only boy, the image of his father, and the idol of her heart. She could not, dare not think that death could come to him. And yet, who does it spare? Is the babe that slumbers upon its mother's bosom exempt from the grasp of its skeleton hands? or the youth, the rosy-cheeked and sunny-haired maiden, manhood, or old age? No! not a single one! All are alike to him, and all times the same. Vain is love, wealth, power, or agonizing prayers to stay his career. Like a 'thief in the night' he comes, the heartless one of the scythe and the hour-glass, and his summons brooks no delay. "Come," is the fiat, "I am waiting for thee," and it must be obeyed. Once spoken, there is naught left for us but tears, the coffin, and the recording stone on the grassy grave. Oh! how bitter the thought must be to the mother, as she gazes upon the face of her first born, lovely child—the thought of parting with it and yielding it to the embrace of the King of Terrors! Well may the heart grow sick and faint, and the life-blood flow convulsively when we reflect that to this we must come at last. And well, oh! how well it were, if we all could, with the dying, hopeful Christian, exclaim: "Oh! death, where is thy sting? oh! grave, where is thy victory?"
                  It was fast approaching the hours of evening when that fond mother, with her children seated beside her, gazed from the window towards the distant forest, somewhat anxiously, for the return of her husband. Accustomed as she was to his absence, yet, true woman-like, her heart ever yearned for his return. Amusing her pretty children, yet often turned her eye forest-ward, she still sat there till the shades of night gathered thickly around. Arising then, she procured a light, and placed it near the casement, trimmed the fire, and calling her children about her, told them many a pretty story, and sung them many a pretty song, of bye-gone days. Although employed thus, her ear was keenly alive to every sound, and soon her watchfulness was rewarded, for a loud shout was heard, and two large hounds sprang in at the door, which she quickly opened. A moment more and Ned Erskine entered, threw a load of game from his shoulders, hung his trusty rifle on the anters of a deer that were fastened above the fire-place, and clasped his wife to his heart.
                  "Ah! my bonny Bess," said he, as he imprinted a kiss on her willing lips, "you have been watching for me, I see."
                  "Yes, I thought you would have returned sooner, Ned."
                  "And you, Frank, what have you been about?"
                  "Waiting for you to teach me how to shoot."
                  "Pretty business, truly. And you, my little Corn Tassel," continued he, kissing the girl and swinging her upon his shoulder.
                  "Listening to mother, Pa."
                  "Good business, my pretty Corn Tassel," for the child had been named as the mother had been by Prairie Fire. "And Bess, give me and the dogs some supper, for I'm sure we have earned it well to-day, and brought you home game enough to last a week, so there is no fear of starvation. Come here, pretty ones," he continued, as his wife proceeded to get supper, while ever and anon she cast a kind and loving look upon him as he toyed with the children, and recounted to their wondering ears the scenes through which he had passed during the day, and of the birds he had shot while soaring high in air, and the deer that had fallen before his unerring rifle, when its foot was the fleetest and its bound the highest.
                  Supper over, that happy family gathered around the blazing, clean-swept hearth,—the girl upon her father's lap and the boy upon his mother's, and passed in social converse the hours. How beautiful it is to look upon such a scene, and how sacred are such moments passed around the holy altar of home! Point me, if you can, to any such in the midst of your fashion-swayed, heartless cities. Show me the love and purity like here displayed, where wealth has power and rules supreme. Truer, more lasting far, is the love born and nurtured into bloom amid the groves of the wilderness and the flowers of the prairies, than any known where Folly, with his jingling bells, riots, and a purse-proud, brainless aristocracy have power.
                  But the hours crept silently on, and all was still in that hunter's home. Sleep had sealed every eyelid, and all was hushed in repose, but to wake again, with the early bird, to life, health, and happiness. Even the hounds, with their heads resting upon their huge paws, dreamed quietly on, and it seemed as if the angel of repose had chosen that rude cabin, in the then almost unknown Prairie State, as its chosen resting-place.
                  Well—oh! how well and how justly—art thou, Ned Erskine and Bessie Thompson, repaid for all thou was't ever called upon to endure. Happy in each other's love, and in thy children, smoothly shalt thou glide down the stream of life amid flowers, safe from quicksands and shoals, and thy bark be guided by bright-winged angels, and safely moored at last in the harbor of Heaven.
               
               
                  SCENE THIRD.
                  There is a huge rock standing upon the bank and high above the waters of the Illinois River, known to many by the name of "Starved Rock," and many a story has been written and many a legend told about it, which, although ofttimes fabulous, have given it a name, and invested it with a charm that will long out-last the names of those who have written or told about it.
                  On the very summit of this rock, looking far westward, on a warm evening in September, were seated two persons. One was a man of large and sinewy frame, with long, matted, and grizzled hair and whiskers. Silently he sat there, leaning upon a long rifle, and gazing intently upon the rippling waters, as if he would pry into their hidden mysteries. His dress was that of a hunter and trapper, and had once been gaudily decorated, but was now travel-stained and frayed by long usage. His companion, an Indian of giant frame and muscle. An eagle quill was twined amid the slightly-silvered scalp lock; a large wampum girdle encircled his waist, guarding the keen-edged scalp-knife and tomahawk; and a necklace of bear-claws was twined around his brawny throat, and hung low down, so as to meet the silver crescents upon his breast. Erect and stately was his form, though the snows of eighty winters had fallen upon his head, and his eye was yet keen as the sun-gazing eagle's. Upon his bow he leaned, with a solemn shade upon his countenance, and he seemed to be musing upon the past. Long had they sat there unspeaking, when the white hunter, rousing himself from his lethargy, addressed the Indian.
                  "Prairie Fire," began he, "it is a long time since we have met before, and may be long ere we meet again."
                  "Red Hand," was the reply, "it is the moon of the fading leaf."
                  "I know it well," replied Frank Waters.
                  "And before the moon of the falling leaf shall come, Prairie Fire will be hunting in the happy grounds of the spirit land."
                  "If we part, then we shall never meet again."
                  "We shall meet there!"
                  "I mean upon this earth."
                  
                  "Prairie Fire has traveled far to gaze once more upon the form of his daughter—upon the Corn Tassel. His limbs are fast becoming as feeble as the wounded deer, and his heart is as faint as the arrow-pierced dove. No more may he follow the hunting trail, for his eye is dim, and his arm is fast becoming too weak to draw the bow-string."
                  "Go with me to the home of Bessie Thompson—Erkine I mean—or Corn Tassel, as you choose to call her. With whole hearts will you be welcomed there, and there remain until the angel of death calls you to the spirit land."
                  "The ashes of Prairie Fire must mingle with those of his tribe, the once lordly Iroquois."
                  Once? How true, oh chieftain of the wilderness, have you spoken! Once? Yes, for they have faded away like the mists of the morning before the hot breath of the god of day. Once? Aye, for the places that knew them shall know them no more forever. Gone, like a shadow—like a ripple on the waves—like the notes of a song—like a lightning flash—like the breath of an infant, death-stilled—like the pulse of a soul! Gone to return no more for ever. Gone? Aye, no vestige remains. 
                        
                           "Not a stone on their turf, nor a bone in their graves,
                           But they live in the verse that immortally saves."
                        
                     
                  
                  "Well, that is natural enough, I suppose," answered Waters, "and I would like to lay my bones by the side of my old, dear mother, even though I never saw her. But what think you, Prairie Fire, does it matter where a man is buried?"
                  "The whole world is alike to the Great and Good Manitou. He will gather his children together in the happy spirit land."
                  "And will the different tribes quarrel and war as they have done in this?"
                  "No, all will be brothers there. The hatchet and the knife will be buried, and the angel of peace shall take the place of the evil one of war."
                  "I don't understand Indian religion, but curse me if I don't think that if I was to catch that infernal Sleeping Bear there, I'd just kill him over again, to pay him for wanting to put that pretty baby of Thompson's among those confounded snakes."
                  "The heart of my pale brother is hard as the rock. He must forgive those who have wronged him."
                  "If I ever forgive that skulking devil, may I—"
                  "Go to the spirit land," said Prairie Fire, interrupting him ere he could finish the sentence.
                  "Well, I don't know how it is, but if we meet, I rather reckon there will be a tussle—and a fight."
                  "The hunter carries not his rifle beyond the grave, and his bullets would be harmless there."
                  "Well, no matter, I won't argue the question with you, for I believe your Indian cunning would get the best of it. But, Prairie Fire, tell me where is your wife?"
                  "The canoe of the woman of the murmuring stream lies rotting on the farther shore of the river of death."
                  "Dead! I knew not that."
                  "Many moons ago, the shadow of the dark wing of the death-angel drove that of life from the wigwam of Prairie Fire, and the song of rejoicing rose from another pair of lips in the regions of the blest."
                  "Much I regret it, and yet all must die."
                  "The Manitou has told his red children so."
                  "Well, I didn't expect to have lived so long, for I thought some infernal red skins would have had my scalp."
                  "Red Hand has been a great warrior."
                  "Yes, I have killed some in my time, but I'm good for nothing now but to play with Erskine's children, and hunt a little now and then."
                  "Prairie Fire would see the Corn Tassel, her chieftain, and the papooses, before the Manitou calls him home."
                  "And so he shall. Come into my canoe, that lies here at the foot of the rocks. I'll paddle you down, and then you can see them all."
                  "Let Red Hand go, Prairie Fire will follow him."
                  A moment the Indian paused, and looked around as if for the last time. A tear-drop stood in his eye, but, brushing it quickly away, as if ashamed of such weakness, he clasped his bow tightly in his hand, drew his still unbent form to its utmost height, and quickly descending, took his place in the frail bark. Swiftly down the river they glided, talking upon scenes that had long past, as calmly as if they had not been the principal actors therein. Two brave and resolute men were they, hardy and laughing alike at fatigue and danger, and perfect models of a western hunter and an Indian, uncontaminated by association with the pale face and his accursed fire-water. The sun sunk slowly to his rest as they entered the cabin of Erskine, and were welcomed with a true-hearted welcome. Lower still it sunk, till it was lost from sight, never again to rise in glory, majesty, and beauty upon the living form of one of the number.
                  Where the Illinois sweeps seaward, amid leafy trees and between flower-fringed banks,—where its ripples are ever singing a requiem for the departed spirit,—where the birds are gay of plumage and bright of song,—where the snorting steamer dashes madly on,—even the song of the village maiden is heard, and the sound of the church-going bell,—many years since the wandering hunter found a lonely grave—it is gone now, all traces of it gone! But, then, at its head was a rough board, on which was carved, in rude and quaint letters, the name of PRAIRIE FIRE.
               
            
         
      
   
