
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). The Pioneer's Daughter .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5800
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               THE PIONEER'S DAUGHTER; 
               AND THE UNKNOWN COUNTESS. 
             
            BY EMERSON BENNETT, AUTHOR OF "THE PRAIRIE FLOWER," "THE BORDER ROVER," "CLARA MORELAND." "VIOLA; OR, ADVENTURES IN THE FAR SOUTH-WEST," "BRIDE OF THE WILDERNESS," "ELLEN NORBURY," "FORGED WILL," "KATE CLARENDON," "HEIRESS OF BELLEFONTE, AND WALED WARREN," "THE PHANTOM OF THE FOREST," ETC. 
             
                
                  
                     "The author of this book has been long and favorably known as one of the best novelists of the day. We doubt whether there is in all the west an author whose writings have been so universally read, and have received so much attention and praise, as have those of Mr. Bennett. The frequent appearance of his thrilling stories in the columns of some of the first literary journals in the country, speaks no less loudly of their worth and excellence, than do the high prices which they at all times command. Though he has often followed in the footsteps of the illustrious Cooper, in describing with a truthful pen the character and eccentricities of the Red Man, the success with which his books have met, proves him most decisively to have been no servile imitator, for he who can write a good book, locating the scenes and events on ground passed over by the world-renowned author of 'Leather Stocking Tales,' must, indeed, wield a pen of more than ordinary strength, and this we, without a moment's hesitation, pronounce him to have done. Whether as the delineator of border life and wild western scenes, or the more pleasing aspects of civilized life he ever wields the same graphic pen. The drawing-room and the prairie seem alike familiar to him. We can award this book no higher praise than to say it is better than any which have preceded it from the same pen. The moral of the story, which stands out boldly upon every page, cannot fail to produce a good effect upon all by whom the book is read."
                   
                  -Waverly Magazine, Boston.
                   
                
             
            
               PHILADELPHIA: 
               T. B. PETERSON & BROTHERS;  
                     306 CHESTNUT STREET. 
                  
               
             
             
            Entered according to Act of Congress, in the year 1851, by T. B. PETERSON, In the Office of the Clerk of the District Court of the United States, in and for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania. 
          
       
      
         
            The pioneer's daughter ; The unknown countess 
             
            THE PIONEER'S DAUGHTER. 
            A TALE OF INDIAN CAPTIVITY. 
             
               CHAPTER I. 
               ST. CLAIR'S DEFEAT. 
               ONE of the most disastrous battles for the whites ever fought on the Western frontier, was that known by the inglorious but significant appellation of "St. Clair's Defeat." This took place within the limits of what is now Dark County, on the Wabash river, in the present State of Ohio, on the 4th of November, 1791. The facts relating to it are briefly these: 
               At the period above referred to, the depredations of the Indians had become so frequent and alarming, that the few whites who had ventured within the precincts of the North-Western Territory, were in danger of being exterminated. In consequence of this, General St. Clair received orders to raise as large an army as possible, march from Fort Washington (now Cincinnati) along the whole Western frontier, and establish military posts at all such points as he might think advisable, in order to awe the savages, and put a check upon their bloody enterprises. In September, St. Clair left Ludlow's Station, six miles distant from Cincinnati, with two thousand three hundred troops under his command, exclusive of some five or six hundred militia. Advancing northerly, he built Fort Hamilton, and soon after Fort Jefferson, and then continued his toilsome and perilous march through the wilderness. 
               The progress of the army was necessarily slow; for the troops were entering a new and unexplored country, full of blood-thirsty savages, where every inch of ground must be examined with great caution, and roads be prepared through thick woods, and over dangerous morasses and streams, in order to bring on in safety the baggage and cannon contingent upon such a body of hostile men. Accompanying the troops was also a large number of women and children, who preferred pursuing the perilous journey of their husbands and fathers into the wilderness, to remaining in comparative safety in the forts and strongholds behind. To add to the discomfiture of the march, much of the provision of the army was delayed in coming forward as fast as was expected, and some three hundred of the militia, becoming alarmed and discouraged, deserted and returned to their homes. Fearing these latter might seize upon the army supplies in their retreat, General St. Clair finally determined on sending back the first regiment to bring up the provisions, and, if possible, overtake and arrest some of the deserters. Having put his plan in execution, he continued his march with what supplies he had on hand, and on the third of November arrived at a branch creek of the Wabash, on a commanding piece of ground, where he resolved to encamp and await the return of the detachment from below. By order of the General, the main army encamped on the east side of the Wabash, and the militia were advanced to a commanding point on the west side, some two hundred rods distant. In this position the forces rested through the night-it being the intention of the General to commence a work of defence on the following day. In this he was disappointed: "For, (to use the words of Judge Burnet,) on the next morning, November 4th, half an hour before sunrise, the men having been just dismissed from parade, an attack was made on the militia posted in front, who gave way and rushed back into the camp, throwing the army into a state of disorder from which it could not be recovered, as the Indians followed close at their heels. They were, however, checked for a short time, by the fire of the first line; but immediately a very heavy fire was commenced on that line, and in a few minutes it was extended to the second. 
               "In each case the great weight of the fire was directed to the centre, where the artillery was placed, from which the men were frequently driven with great slaughter. In that emergency, resort was had to the bayonet. Colonel Darke was ordered to make the charge with a part of the second line, which order was executed with great spirit. The Indians instantly gave way, and were driven back several hundred yards; but for want of a sufficient number of riflemen to preserve the advantage gained, the enemy soon renewed their attack, and the American troops in turn were forced to give way. 
               "At that instant the Indians entered the American camp on the left, having forced back the troops stationed at that point. Another charge was then ordered and made, by the battalions of Majors Butler and Clark, with great success. Several other charges were afterwards made, and always with equal effect. These attacks, however, were attended with a very heavy loss of men, and particularly of officers. In the charge made by the second regiment, Major Butler was dangerously wounded, and every officer of that regiment fell, except three, one of whom was shot through the body. The artillery being silenced, and all the officers belonging to it killed, but Captain Ford, who was dangerously wounded, and half of the army having fallen, it became necessary to gain the road, if possible, and make a retreat. 
               "For that purpose a successful charge was made on the enemy, as if to turn their right flank, but in reality to gain the road, which was effected. The militia then commenced a retreat, followed by the United States' troops-Major Clark, with his battalion, covering the rear. The retreat, as might be expected, soon became a flight. The camp was abandoned, and so was the artillery, for the want of horses to remove it. The men threw away their arms and accoutrements, even after the pursuit had ceased, which was not continued more than four miles. The road was almost covered with those articles for a great distance. 
               "All the horses of the General were killed, and he was mounted on a broken down pack-horse, that could scarcely be forced out of a walk. It was therefore impossible for him to get forward in person to command a halt, till regularity could be restored, and the orders which he despatched by others for that purpose were wholly unattended to. The rout continued to Fort Jefferson, where they arrived about dark, twenty-seven miles from the battle-ground. The retreat began at half past nine in the morning; and as the battle commenced half an hour before sunrise, it must have lasted three hours, during which time, with only one exception, the troops behaved with great bravery. This face accounts for all great slaughter which took place. 
               "When the fugitives arrived at Fort Jefferson, they found the first regiment, which was just returning from the service on which it had been sent, without either overtaking the deserters or meeting the convoy of provisions. The absence of that regiment, at the time of the battle, was believed by some to be the cause of defeat; but General St. Clair expressed great doubt on that subject." 
               The foregoing is a brief outline of this disastrous battle; but the detail would be horrible, heart-sickening, revolting. It is impossible to ascertain the number of killed; but it must have been very great; for an old squaw was afterward heard to say-"Oh! my arm, that night, was weary scalping white man." Some estimate of the loss to the country may be formed, when we state that not less than forty brave officers, some of them highly distinguished, were killed; and not less than twenty-five wounded: and of the women there present, it has been variously estimated that from fifty to two hundred were among the slain, besides a great number that were taken into barbarous and hopeless captivity. 
               But as it is not with the general features of the battle that we have especially to do, but rather with a certain train of incidents arising therefrom, we shall leave the former in the hands of historians, while we proceed to narrate the latter in the best manner consonant with our humble abilities. 
               It was, then, while the battle was raging at its greatest height, and on all sides the dead and dying were mingled in bloody confusion, and heaped one upon the other, over which the living forces were trampling, as they alternately rushed to and fro in their advance and retreat, that a tall, veteran officer was riding up and down the lines, and encouraging his men, by look, gesture, speech, and action, to bear down upon the foe, and sell their lives as dearly as possible. His appearance was not a little remarkable, and needs a passing description. He was well mounted on a coal-black charger, and sat erect, with his head bared to the breeze, and his long gray locks streaming out behind. In one hand he held a bloody sword, the point of which was broken, showing that its owner had been no idle spectator; and as he swung it to and fro, and shouted words of encouragement to his men, his lips compressed, and his dark eye flashed a fire that would have become one of half his years. Wherever the battle raged fiercest, and the danger was most imminent, there this gallant officer could be seen, doing his duty like a true hero. 
               So conspicuous a mark could not, of course, escape the quick eyes of the savages, and more than a hundred Indians made him a target. But in vain they burned their powder and spent their bullets. All failed to bring down their intended victim, or even check the progress of his fiery charger. Yet they did not shoot wide of the mark. More than twenty balls passed through his clothes, as many more penetrated the saddle on which he rode, and one even out a lock of his gray hair from his right temple. And still he remained unharmed. Surely, a watchful Providence preserved him for another destiny! 
               Colonel Danforth-for so we shall designate this brave veteran-was still in the thickest of the fight, encouraging his men, now reduced to a small number, to hold out to the very last, and die like Spartans, when a young officer, an aid to General Butler, came dashing up to him, on a horse nearly as fiery as his own, and cried out: 
               "For heaven's sake, save yourself, Colonel Danforth, while yet there is time! General St. Clair has ordered a retreat, and already the men are flying in every direction, and you will soon be surrounded and cut off!" 
               The Colonel reined his horse directly in front of the speaker, and eyed him with almost savage sternness; while his men, catching the word retreat, and seeing their comrades flying, turned and rushed after them, leaving him and the aid for a moment alone. 
               "What's this?" shouted the Colonel, as soon as his astonishment would permit him to speak. "Retreat, say you?" 
               The young man made no reply; but with a gesture of impatience and alarm, he caught the bit of the Colonel's horse with one hand, struck the animal on the flank with a sword he carried in the other, and at the same time buried his rowels in the sides of his own gallant charger. Both horses reared and plunged, and the next moment were rushing away, with the speed of the wind, guided by the bold, strong arm of the young and daring aid. At first the Colonel was so astonished that he offered no resistance; and it was well he did not; for a large party of Indians had nearly surrounded them, and another minute's delay would have been fatal to their escape. As it was, they had barely time to dart through the nearly closed circles; and many a hatchet and ball came whizzing past them, too close for safety, though, fortunately, both remained unharmed. 
               "This is sheer cowardice, boy!" cried the Colonel, at length, tightening his grasp upon the rein, and making an effort to check his horse. 
               "Your wife and daughter!" shouted the other. 
               "True! but are they not in safety?" 
               "Nothing is safe here, Colonel Danforth; but I trust they will escape; for I sent them down the road, with an escort, as you advised." 
               "We must join them, then, with all speed!" 
               "So I thought, and therefore ventured on doing what I did." 
               "You did right, Edward, and I was at fault. But still, I cannot but think it is cowardly to fly and leave these poor wretches here to the mercy of the savages. Oh, woful day! How will it sound abroad, to say that a body of Indians defeated two thousand white men, in an open combat? Ah! St. Clair should have kept out spies! I told him so; but he did not heed my advice-now will he reap his reward. The old man is brave, but he is not a good general, or this would not have happened. Look! behold the poor wretches flying on every side of us, and some of them entreating us with looks, gestures, and supplications, to save them! Oh, it is heart-rending! and were it not for my wife and daughter, I would dismount and die with them-for the shame of his day is more to be dreaded than death." 
               Such were the remarks of Colonel Danforth, as, side-by-side, he and Edward Allen dashed along the road, past the dead, and dying, and wounded, and parties of flying fugitives, who were straining every nerve to escape the horrible fate which awaited them if overtaken by the pursuing savages. And there were women, too, and children-mothers with infants at their breast-all flying in hopeless despair; and in some cases these mothers dashed their tender offspring upon the ground, to lighten themselves, and enable them to flee faster from the shrieking and yelling horrors behind. Parties on foot, and on horse, all doing their utmost to escape, and all alike regardless of every life but their own, were alternately passed with the uncommonly swift-footed steeds of Danforth and Allen. But though our friends passed many, the road ahead was still lined with fugitives; and the shrieks and Indian yells behind, proclaimed that the horrible work of human butchery was still going fearfully on in their rear. 
               "Oh, woful day! oh, woful day!" groaned the Colonel; "that I should live to witness such a terrible defeat as this! Edward, we should have died on the field of battle, along with our brave comrades." 
               "Then what would have become of those who need our protection?" 
               "True, true-most true-my wife and daughter. But where are they, Edward?" 
               "They must be on ahead, I think." 
               "You think! Suppose we have passed them?" 
               "Do not say that, Colonel! It makes me shudder," cried the young officer, turning deadly pale. 
               "You sent them by an escort, you say?" 
               "I did, as you advised." 
               "Where did you direct them to stop?" 
               "No where short of Fort Jefferson." 
               "Of how many was the escort composed?" 
               "A sergeant and five privates." 
               "Were there any other ladies in company?" 
               "Ay, four-the wives and daughters of some of the officers of your regiment." 
               "God grant they may have escaped!" 
               "Amen! I trust we shall soon overtake them. Remember, they have had nearly an hour the start." 
               "Spur on, then-our poor beasts must do their duty now." 
               "For some twenty minutes longer, the Colonel and his young friend rode as fast as their gallant steeds could carry them, by which time they had passed all the fugitives on foot, and nearly all that were mounted. Not less than five or six miles now intervened between them and the battle-ground, and yet they had not overtaken them for whom they were in search. 
               "This is strange!" observed the Colonel, reining in his foaming and panting steed, and looking eagerly around, on every side. "Edward, they have either escaped faster than I should think it possible for them to do, or something serious, if not alarming, has happened them." 
               "God forbid the latter!" cried the young aid, again turning pale, and reining in his horse so fiercely as almost to throw him upon his haunches. "It does seem strange, Colonel, I admit. Oh, heaven be merciful to them, if we have unwittingly passed them! But that cannot be, if they kept the road. If they turned off-Ha! what is that yonder?" 
               "Where? where?" eagerly demanded the other. 
               "Yonder-ahead-beside the road. As I live, I do believe it is a dead soldier; and if my eyes do not deceive me-oh! the thought is too horrible!" and burying his spurs in his horse's sides, as he spoke, he sped away like a meteor, followed instantly by the now really alarmed veteran officer. 
               A rule of less than a minute brought Edward to the object he had espied; and again reining his horse to a halt, he uttered a cry of horror, and placed both hands before his eyes, and bowed his head in silence toward the saddle-bow, while his whole frame shook with heart-rending emotion. 
               "What is it, Edward?-what is it?" cried Colonel Danforth, riding up along side. 
               The young aid raised his head slowly, withdrew his hands from a face of the ghastly hue of death, and pointing to the awful scene before him, fairly gasped- 
               "Behold!" 
               "I see! I see!" returned the other, quickly; "six soldiers dead and scalped. Well?" 
               "The escort!" again fairly gasped Edward Allen. 
               "Merciful Heaven! the escort!" groaned the Colonel. "Then my wife and daughter are lost!" 
               "Lost!" echoed the other, in a hollow tone; then both remained silent, for a moment, gazing shudderingly upon the bloody scene, and both experiencing such feelings as alone could be felt by a husband, father, and lover, in such a situation. 
               "My wife, my daughter-my daughter, my wife-death and defeat-oh! it is too much!" groaned Colonel Danforth. 
               At this moment several horsemen passed our friends; but as each was intent on saying his own life, they merely glanced at the two officers, with inquiring looks, and rode on without speaking. 
               "Ha! the sergeant!-see! he moves!" cried Edwards and instantly dismounting, he sprang to the poor fellow's side, and raised him in his arms. 
               In doing this, he exposed a deep wound in his left side, some two inches below the heart, from which the blood was slowly oozing. He had been lying on his face, and was scalpless; but changing his position seemed to revive him; and opening his parched and livid lips, he gasped faintly: 
               "Water! water!-oh, give me water!" 
               By this time the Colonel was dismounted, and standing along side. 
                
               "We must save him, if possible," said the latter. "There is a small stream about a mile ahead; and we must place him on one of our horses, and bear him to it with all speed." 
               As the Colonel spoke, he tore off the scarf which he wore about his waist, and bound it around the wounded man, in order to staunch the blood. Then placing him upon his own horse, both he and Edward remounted, and set off at as fast a pace as was deemed prudent for one to be carried in a situation so critical. 
               In a short time the party gained the stream; and having bathed the brow and temples of the sergeant, they scooped up water with their hands and placed it to his lips, which he drank eagerly, and soon revived so as to be able to open his eyes, look around, and speak distinctly. 
               "Who are you?" was his first question; "and why am I here? Ah! I remember now. These are Colonel Danforth and Major Allen-I remember all now. Don't blame me, gentlemen-I did my best to save them." 
               "And what happened to them?-Where are they now?" cried the two officers in a breath. 
               "Heaven knows, I cannot answer either of your questions. Oh! my side pains me." 
               "Be thankful for that, for it shows your wound is not mortal," rejoined the Colonel. "But tell us of this affair, all you know, with as little delay as possible." 
               "Give me more water. There-I thank you. Ah! I feel revived again." 
               "Would that we had a surgeon here!" said Colonel Danforth, putting his hand upon the sergeant's side, and finding it still continued to bleed. 
               "Your wish is granted," rejoined Edward, looking up the road, where a horseman was descried approaching. "Here comes Dr. McAllister, one of the best in the army, were it not for what I call his selfish, cold-hearted eccentricity." 
               As the doctor approached the party, Colonel Danforth stepped forward, and briefly informed him what had happened. 
               "Umph, wife and daughter gone, eh? Sorry. Sergeant wounded, eh? Sorry. So-ho, Thibault-so-ho, nag. Umph! Bad place for surgery. Indians about, Colonel. Can do nothing here. Must take him on to the fort. Terrible day, Colonel. Plenty for us men of science to do. Rare sport, if it was'nt for the danger. Can't do any thing for that fellow here, Colonel." 
               "You can at least look at the man. Come, come, doctor, his life may be as valuable as yours or mine-so dismount and see what can be done." 
               "Bother!" rejoined the eccentric doctor, slowly complying with the Colonel's request. 
               The surgeon as we have intimated, was both a man of talent and eccentricity; and it were difficult to say which he prided himself most upon, his skill in his profession, or his oddity. He was a Scotchman by birth, but spoke English very smoothly, and only with a slight brogue. His costume was a compound of the old English and backwoods' hunter. He wore a broad white scarf around his neck, and ruffles around his wrists, which latter were now not a little soiled by labors in his profession. His velvet breeches and buckles were mostly covered with deer skin leggins; and his small grey eyes, and sharp, bony, wiry countenance, had a rather comical look under his heavy white wig and small three-cornered hat. 
               Having examined the sergeant's wound with a haste occasioned by his fears of being overtaken by the Indians, Dr. McAllister gave it as his professional opinion, that the man should be taken forthwith to Fort Jefferson, where he, the said doctor, would guarantee to save his life, by means only known to men of his scientific calibre. 
               "Then you must take him there, Doctor," said the Colonel; "for Major Allen and myself are about to set off in search of my wife and child." 
               "Nonsense, Colonel-can't find them; and if you did, what could two of you do against two thousand. Stuff! So-ho, Thibault, nag. Excuse me, I am afraid my horse will depart;" and the little doctor waddled off to secure the bridle of his beast, which was standing very quietly in the road. 
               "I think, Colonel Danforth," said the wounded man, "it is useless to search for your friends now. They are undoubtedly prisoners, and time must elapse ere they can be recovered, if ever. As soon as I am able, I will 
                     gadly
                     gladly
                   accompany you; and in the meantime, you can perhaps collect a band of old hunters, who understand Indian stratagem and manuvres better than ourselves. If you attempt any thing now, you will be likely to lose your own lives, without rendering them any assistance." 
               "What think you, Edward?" asked the Colonel. 
               "Alas! sir, I fear it is as Sergeant Bomb says. We must wait and take our chance." 
               "Oh, it is terrible!" groaned the Colonel. 
               "But tell me, Bomb, how it happened!" 
               "All I know, sir, is, that we were set upon by about twenty howling devils, and were despatched as fast as rifles, tomahawks, and knives could do it. I saw two or three of the enemy fall, before I fell myself, and I saw the women hurried away, and that's all I now about it." 
               "Here come fugitives on foot, and Indians behind them," yell d the Doctor; and remounting Thibault, with all haste, he put spurs to the animal, and dashed away without any further ceremony. 
               "There goes a man, whose own life is of more consequence to him than all the rest of the world," observed Colonel Danforth, his lip curling with contempt, as he gazed for a moment after he retreating surgeon. 
               "Well, we must follow," returned Edward; "for the t are coming up rapidly, and the Indians may be close behind. We must take care of our own live, now, in order to save these near and dear to us." 
               "Right, Major-let us mount and away." 
               A minute or two later, Colonel Danforth and Major Allen were dashing down the road, bearing the sergeant with them; while hundreds behind, in wild disorder, came panting after, straining every nerve to escape the horrors they had so recently witnessed. 
             
             
               CHAPTER II. 
               OUR HERO AND HEROINE. 
               COLONEL Danforth was a native of New Jersey, and had served in the war of the Revolution with some distinction, first as Captain, and afterward as Major. He had been married twice. By his first wife he had had no issue; his second had borne him a daughter, some eighteen years previous to the opening of our story. As this was the only child he ever had, and he being a man of strong, ardent affections, it is not perhaps too much to say that he idolized her. At the close of the war by which we so signally gained our independence, Major Danforth returned to his family, and for several years settled down to the quiet life of a farmer. But being naturally restless and ambitious, this kind of occupation did not altogether suit him; and in 1790 he removed to the West, and located himself in Cincinnati, then a very small village. The encroachment of the Indians soon aroused his ire and military ardor, and he signified his intention of again joining the army, and lending his aid to the protection of the frontier. This was represented to Governor St. Clair, who knowing something of his history, and anxious to secure to valuable an officer, tend red him a Colonel's commission, which he accepted, and immediately took command of a regiment, with which he subsequently left Cincinnati under the military direction of the Governor himself, and proceeded on that march of peril, the awful terminus of which we have already briefly chronicled. 
               It was neither the design nor wish of the Colonel that his wife and daughter should accompany him; but as they earnestly pleaded to be allowed to go, he finally gave his consent; which was the more readily accorded, from the fact that he believed there would be no fighting with the Indians, and consequently that they would be as safe under his own immediate protection as in remaining where they were. 
               Now it had so chanced, during his journey to the West, that Colonel Danforth and his family fell in company with Edward Allen, who, his parents being dead, had joined a party of emigrants, for the purpose of trying his fortune in the new countries, whither so many were then bending their steps. It was not an uncommon thing, in those days, for two distinct parties, both journeying westward, when coming in contact with each other, to mingle almost indiscriminately for the time, and share each other's company for mutual protection. All in those times, and on a similar journey, were considered equals; for the poor man's arm and rifle were of as much account in the moment of peril, as those of him, who night in another clime, encase himself in an armor of gold, and stand aloof from the humble denizen of society. Nor did refinement and intellect then hold that distinction above the unlettered and vulgar which it does now. The man of flowery ideas, and classic lingo, was as likely to become a victim to the Indian's rifle, tomahawk, and scalping-knife, as he who could not call the letters of his own name. No! Physical strength, native cunning, hard experience, a sure rifle, and a quick eye, were what was most needed then; and he who could excel in these, took the highest station in the hour of danger; and no matter what were his other qualifications, was regarded by all with a feeling akin to deference. 
               We do not wish the reader to infer from these remarks, that we are going to class our hero with the unrefined and unlettered. No, far from it; for his early training and education were of no inferior grade; but we merely state the facts to show how natural it was for Colonel Danforth's party to be united with another, not a single member of which was known to himself or any of his friends at the time of joining. 
               From the very first, a mutual liking sprang up between Colonel Danforth and Edward Allen; and this liking soon ripened into the warmest friendship, when both found themselves acquainted, through the memory of the father of Edward, who was mortally wounded in a severe engagement with the British, while commanding a company of infantry in the same regiment to which Colonel, then Major, Danforth belonged, who well remembered and lamented him as a brave and worthy officer. Had there been any of the polite and formal coldness of strangers between the Colonel and Edward previous to this discovery, this would have been sufficient of itself to thaw it away, and let the genial warmth of friendship take its place; but fortunately nothing of this kind was needed for this purpose-though its effect was perhaps in equal ratio, in causing those who desired to be friends, to feel as if a sacred tie, amounting to more than friendship, bound them to each other. 
               The Colonel in his enthusiastic delight presented Edward to his wife and daughter as the son of a deceased and highly valued military friend-though in truth no further intimacy had ever existed between himself and Captain Allen, than what naturally arises between a superior and inferior officer in the ordinary discharge of their general duties. But time, place, and circumstances rendered mere acquaintanceship friendship, in the eyes of the Colonel; and he really felt in reviewing the past, and looking upon the offspring of the deceased captain, as if the latter had been regarded as a personal friend, rather than as a subordinate officer. 
               But if the mere meeting of the Colonel and Edward was productive of such an ardent, mutual attachment, what shall we say of the meeting between Edward and the Colonel's daughter, who was as impulsive, as generous, as high-minded as himself, and, withal, far more impressible. What does the reader suppose would be the natural consequence of bringing together a handsome, noble-looking youth of twenty, and a lovely accomplished maiden of seventeen, under the circumstances we have described, provided that the affections of neither had been previously engaged, and that each saw in the other the identity of a perfect ideal? What, we say, does the reader suppose would be the natural consequence of such a meeting? Love at first sight, of course, with all the etceteras. And the reader supposes right; for such indeed was the result of the meeting between Edward Allen and Lucy Danforth. There are, we know, a few cold-hearted cynics in this world, who make a point of denying that there is any such thing as love at first sight, even if there be such a thing as love at all. But we have only one word for such sceptics; and that is, that we know them to be in error, and we speak from experience. 
               And Lucy Danforth was a being to love, and be loved. Her frank, artless, beautiful countenance, lighted with intellect, and the bloom of a maiden just verging upon womanhood, with her lustrous dark eyes sparkling with merriment, or beaming with tenderness, through which could be perceived a soul of depth and feeling, made her an object of admiration, and fascination, that would not have failed of exercising a strong influence on a heart less susceptible than was that of our hero. Nor was her outward appearance, lovely as it was, without a mind to correspond. 
               A good education, and, more important still, a mother's careful training, had enlarged her quick understanding, and instilled into her soul all those noble and holy virtues which most adorn her sex; and thus was she fitted to take her place, as becomes a true woman, in any station in life to which all eventful destiny might call her. 
               But lovely in person, refined in manner, and noble in virtue as she was, Edward Allen was a meet companion for her; and this we consider as one of the highest encomiums we can pass upon him. Tall, handsome, and manly in person, he too possessed an intellect of no inferior order, well balanced by a sound, discriminating judgment, and a moral rectitude that would not suffer him to go astray from the path of duty and honor. He, too, had been fitted by a good education, and a pious mother's precepts and example, to enter properly upon the stage of action, and conducting himself becomingly through life. True, that mother was now no more; but the golden seed of virtue that she had early sown in his young breast, had not been strewn on stony ground, but upon rich soil, capable of bearing fruit an hundred fold. Amid all the eventful circum stances in which he was subsequently placed, her righteous counsels were remembered; her holy precepts were not forgotten; and whether in prosperity or adversity, he was one to acknowledge the wisdom of God in all. 
               Thus prepared, as it were, for each other, were this youth and maiden brought together; and, therefore, it can be no wonder that a pure and holy love was the spontaneous result-a love that would not weaken and dissolve, but rather strengthen and cement, by time and continued intercourse. Each saw in the other something to admire, and something worthy of imitation; and as they journeyed together through the wilds of the forest, and allowed their souls to expand in cordial unison, each felt that his or her thoughts and expressions were properly understood by the other, and that the indescribable void which had heretofore existed in the heart, was now happily filled by a presence dearer than self. Both possessed a degree of romantic poetry, which gave to every new object a secret charm; and as they journeyed under arching trees, over beds of flowers, and across sparkling streams, every object was noted and commented upon, with a delight, a quiet inward rapture, known only to lovers. Thus day after day was their toilsome and perilous journey pursued, and the toils and perils wholly forgotten in the golden joys which each experienced in the society and converse of the other. 
               At last the party arrived in Cincinnati, the present destination of Colonel Danforth. As Edward had gone West without any settled purpose, other than to seek a change, and, if possible, better his pecuniary condition, it mattered little in his view where he took up his residence; and he cheerfully accepted a cordial invitation of the Colonel to make his house his home for the time being. Not so with the other members of the party. Some had one destination, and some another; and gradually they separated, to go to their respective places; so that of the fifty persons that had crossed the mountains together, not more than a dozen landed at Cincinnati, and a part of these were destined for Symmes, a place since known as North Bend, the residence of the lamented General Harrison, whose remains still repose in a tomb on a high mound conspicuous from the silvery Ohio. 
               Edward continued to reside with the Danforths for several months, and every day he enjoyed the company of her who was dearer to him than life. He had brought a few hundred dollars with him, being the amount received from the disposal of the little property his parents had left him; and these he placed in the hands of Lucy's father, to be invested in such real estate as he might deem proper. On learning the resolve of Colonel Danforth to volunteer his services in the defence of the frontier, a military ardor was awakened in the breast of Edward, and he privately expressed a desire to the Colonel to be allowed to accompany him in the event of his again betaking himself to the field. From this, at first, the Colonel endeavored to dissuade him; but finding him determined, he finally applauded his resolution, and said he would use his influence to procure him a commission. On receiving his own from Governor St. Clair, and learning that the latter was about to raise an army for the purpose already shown, Colonel Danforth wrote to him, giving a brief history and personal description of Edward, and soliciting as a great favor that he would appoint him as one of his aids. In course of time he received an answer, to the effect that he, the governor, had already appointed his aids, but that he had written to General Butler on the subject, and doubted not the services of the young man would prove acceptable to that gallant officer. The result verified his expectations; and the first knowledge Edward had of his so conceived good fortune, was the receipt of a document, in which he found himself elevated to the honorable post of aid-de-camp to General Butler, with the rank of Major. 
               It is difficult to portray the feelings which the reception of this missive awakened in the mind of the young, enthusiastic, and nobly ambitious Edward Allen. His father had died honored with the rank of captain; and his wildest boy-dreams, and most sanguine expectations, had never led him to look beyond that without years of service, even if he ever entered the army and attained such an eminence at all; and now, without having struck a single blow, he was suddenly advanced to a grade above it. 
               "Love, honor, and glory, at twenty-one," mentally exclaimed Edward-"am I not blest?" 
               Alas! he knew not what the future had in store for him, or his exuberant joy would have suddenly changed to gloomy forebodings. 
               With his commission in his hand, and joy on his countenance, and his heart wildly beating with a thousand bright hopes for the future-in which rank, fame, honor, glory, and love were strangely mingled-he entered the presence of Lucy Danforth, and hurriedly told her all. 
               But, oh! instead of greeting his present joy and brilliant expectations with smiles of delight, and expressions of rapture, the poor girl burst into tears, threw her arms around his neck, and sobbed bitterly. To her simple guileless, mind, loving fondly as she did, there came no visions of glory, fame, and greatness for him before her, but in their place the unwelcome prognostics of danger, defeat feat, death, and despair. She was a soldier's daughter, it is true; but she had not a soldier's feelings. She did not delight in scenes of blood and carnage, and, least of all, to hear of the warlike preparations that were to take from her friends both near and dear. Edward, touched by her grief, did his best to tranquilize and console her; and so far succeeded, that when he left her presence, there was a faint smile upon her pale lovely features; but his own heart felt heavier and sadder than he had known it for a long time. All his dreams of greatness, by military achievements, he would now have gladly relinquished for one hour of that quiet, peaceful joy he had ever before experienced in the society of her he loved. But it was now too late to repent of the step he had taken, and he made an effort to console himself with the reflection, that his country needed his services, and that he was only doing his duty as became a true and patriotic citizen. 
               As we have before stated, the pleadings of his wife and daughter to be allowed to accompany him on his march into the wilderness, at last gained the reluctant assent of Colonel Danforth; and therefore Edward and Lucy were spared that trial scene to lovers, a parting with a great uncertainty of ever meeting again. During the toilsome march, whenever he could be released from duty, Edward was ever at the side of Lucy, breathing in her ear tales of love and words of encouragement; and thus the journey, fatiguing as it was, was rendered far less irksome to both than it would otherwise have been. 
               The sudden attack on the morning of the fourth of November, being wholly unexpected, no provision, of course, had been made for the protection of the females; and they were thus necessarily left exposed to all the surrounding dangers. Each officer was required to be at his post, in the performance of his duty; and there was consequently, no time for tender partings with those he most dearly loved, but whom he might never behold again on earth. Lovers may imagine the feelings of Edward, husbands and fathers those of Colonel Danforth, as both plunged into the heat of battle, knowing the defenceless condition of those to save whose lives either would willingly have laid down his own. 
               Fortunately for Mrs. Danforth and Lucy, they occupied a marquee pitched near the centre of the encampment, where the danger was less imminent than near the outer circle of tents, as the Indians would not be so likely to reach them without the interference of American soldiers to check and change their course. Here, locked in each other's embrace, more dead than alive with mortal dread and mental agony, they remained in terrible suspense, for two long hours, praying God to preserve them and their friends, yet expecting every moment would be their last. At length, in carrying orders from General Butler to one of his subordinate officers, Major Allen and Colonel Danforth met. 
                
               "My wife and daughter?" cried the latter. 
               "I have not seen them since the action commenced," was Edward's reply. 
               "For heaven's sake, Edward, beg General Butler to allow you to send them away with an escort! If not butchered by these red devils, you will most likely find them in my marquee." 
               "I will," rejoined Edward; and the two parted. 
               Half an hour later, Edward again met the Colonel. 
               "I have followed your directions," said the former, "and I trust our friends are now in comparative safety." 
               "Thank God! my son, you take a weight from my heart. Now shall these accursed red-skins feel the force of an old man's arm." 
               And Colonel Danforth kept his word. Believing his wife and daughter to be out of danger, he entered into the spirit of the combat, and fought with a heroism worthy of a better fate. He was thus engaged, as the reader has already seen, when young Major Allen came to warn him of the order to retreat; and in fact to preserve his life, by boldly forcing his horse from the ensanguined field. General Butler having in the meantime been killed, Major Allen, as his aid-de-camp, was of course free to depart with his friend; and the result of that departure is already known. 
               Having thus given a brief outline of matters necessary for the reader to know, in order to have every thing clearly understood, we shall forthwith resume the thread of our story. 
             
             
               CHAPTER III. 
               THE EXPEDITION FOR THE RESCUE. 
               ON reaching Fort Jefferson, Sergeant Bomb was immediately deposited upon a rude pallet, and Dr. McAllister called upon to dress his wounds. After a careful examination of the hurt in his side, the doctor declared that he was seriously, but not very dangerously, injured; and that with care and good attendance, he would recover and be able to be about in a few days. The result verified the eccentric doctor's prediction. In less than a week the sergeant was allowed to sit up and walk about his room, and in the course of a fortnight was pronounced out of danger, and almost fit for duty. 
               Meantime Colonel Danforth and Major Allen had been active in raising a small party of experienced hunters and spies, to accompany them in their contemplated search for their lost friends; and for this purpose had remained behind at Fort Jefferson, though the majority of the soldiers had been forced to continue their retreat the same night they reached there, owing to a want of provisions to feed so large a number. The party in question was composed of ten persons, namely, Colonel Danforth, Major Allen, Lieutenant Wilkes, Sergeant Bomb, who insisted on going, and six experienced athletic hunters and scouts, whom the Colonel had, by various means, enlisted into his service, as day after day one after another came dropping into the fort. This force the Colonel deemed sufficient for his purpose; and as time enough had elapsed for the Indians to become quieted, after the excitement occasioned by their signal victory, it was decided the party should set off forthwith. Accordingly the morning following the night on which this decision was made, this little, but hardy, and intrepid band, armed with rifles, pistols, knives, tomahawks, and costumed as hunters, with hunting frocks, leggins, moccasins, and deer-skin caps, quitted Fort Jefferson, and plunged into the forest on their adventurous and perilous expedition. We may as well remark here, en passant, that the Lieutenant Wilkes mentioned was one of the officers in Colonel Danforth's regiment, whose wife had joined the escort commanded by Sergeant Bomb; and the only one on the field, related to any of that party of four, who had survived the fortunes of that ill-fated day. 
               It was an early hour in the morning when our friends left the fort, and the day was cloudy, raw, and cold, with a strong east wind, which betokened a storm. The frosts of autumn had browned the forest, and the dead leaves were falling in showers, and crumbling and rattling under their careful tread. It had been decided, by consultation, that the Piqua settlement, on the Great Miami, should first be visited, and if no traces of the prisoners were to be seen, other villages, in turn, should receive as close a scrutiny as should be consistent with their own safety. Accordingly, they set off in an easterly direction, bending their steps toward Piqua, distant some twenty-five miles from their place of starting. 
               For several hours they pursued their journey without any occurrence worthy of note, when one of the three scouts who had been sent forward in advance of the main party, hurriedly returned, and held his finger to his lips, in token of silence. 
               "What is it?" demanded the Colonel, in a low, guarded tone, motioning his friends to halt, as the other came up to him. 
               "Thar's Injen sign ahead," was the brief reply. 
               The speaker, whom we shall denominate John Carnele, was a true specimen of the backwood's hunter, a class of beings now almost extinct, or which can only be found occasionally in the still Far West, beyond the borders of civilization. He was a tall athletic man, some six feet in stature, with coarse features, bronzed by exposure to all kinds of weather. He had a large, Roman nose, and sharp, restless, keen, black eyes, which were habitually turned from side to side, in quick succession, as if continually on the lack out for danger. He wore the loose hunting shirt, leggins, and moccasins of the regular woodsman, with a belt buckled around his waist, in which were confined tomahawk and scalping knife; and a rude knapsack was strapped to his back, by leather thongs passing over his shoulders and under his arms. 
               "Well, what did you discover?" pursued the Colonel. 
               "Why, I was jest stealing keerfully along-I always go keerful, Curnel-and throwing my day-lights from side to side, before and behind, when all at onc't it struck me that I seed a leaf as had been crunched down in a way natur never did it. Well, I drapt on my hands and knees, stretched over for'ards, and let my peepers rest right plump upon it. As soon as I'd tuk a good look, I knewd it was made by a sed-skin's mocca'; and then I sot to, to looking for other sign. I wasn't more nor a few minutes, afore I made out thar'd been a party of three about; but as they'd been dodging around considerable, I concluded on 'em being hunters. At fust I thought I'd foller on, and make 'em out; but remembering your orders, Curnel, to come in and report on the fust sign, I tuk a back'ard trail, and here I is." 
               "And here come the others," spoke up Edward, pointing to the right and left, where two men, from different directions, were seen approaching, so as to form an angle where the main party stood. "Probably they have seen the same traces." 
               His conjecture was right. On coming up, the other scouts confirmed the report of Carnele, and gave it as their opinion the Indians could not be far distant. 
               "What is to be done?" asked the Colonel. "I fear we may be discovered, the alarm be given, and our present design of reconnoitering Piqua be frustrated." 
               "Ef we could cotch one on 'em and kill tother two, without raisno alarm, it's not unpossible we could turn the hull affa'r to our advantage," suggested Carnele; "for though a Injen prisoner is powerful close about his people's secrets, yet I've knowed them as you could skeer ekal to a white man; and ef we should happen to git hold on a skeery one, it's not unpossible we could find out the secret about where the prisoners is." 
               "The idea is a good one, but how is it to be managed?" inquired Colonel Danforth. 
               "Jest let me, and Wade, and Miller fix it," rejoined Carnele. "Jest you and the rest stay hereabouts, till we come back; and ef such a thing can be done decent, we'll do it. Ef you're too cold, jest start a fire to warm yourselves by, somewhar in the bushes here; but don't raise no more smoke and blaze nor you can help, for the red-niggers see a powerful ways, and they're as skeery as deers." 
               "Well, well, friends, do as you think best," replied the Colonel; "only restore me my wife and daughter, and you may command both my purse and my gratitude. But do not make any mistake in this matter-do not sacrifice all my hopes by an imprudent act. Pardon me this caution to men as experienced as yourselves, and remember that I am a husband and a father. Oh! it makes me groan in spirit to think what my dear wife and child may now be suffering." 
               "Alas!" sighed Wilkes, "it is terrible!" while Edward turned away to secretly give vent to the emotions which agitated his breast; nor was there one of the old hunters but felt a deep sympathy in the cause they had undertaken. 
               "Rest assured, Colonel, and gentlemen," said Miller, one of the three that had been out as a scout-"rest assured, we'll do our best; but don't count too much on us; for we're only human, and the best may fail. But one thing I'll promise you, for myself; and that is, if we are fortunate enough to discover the prisoners, they shall either be set free, or Harry Miller shall walk his last trail." 
               "So say we all," cried Wade. 
               "Ay, all, all," echoed the others. 
               "Gentlemen," said the Colonel, his voice husky with emotion, "I thank you from the depths of my heart, and may God preserve you from harm?" 
               "To which I will add, amen!" rejoined the Lieutenant, hastily brushing a tear from his eye. 
               "Well, ef all's fixed, let's tramp," said Carnele, abruptly; and turning on his heel, with his long rifle thrown into the hollow of his left arm, he glided away, followed by Wade and Miller, Indian file. 
               As soon as they had departed, the other three hunters declared they could not remain idle, but would just scout around, and be within sound of a rifle. Accordingly, they set off in another direction, leaving the Colonel, Major, Lieutenant, and Sergeant to themselves. 
               "Come," said the senior officer, "since we can do nothing for the present in the way of assisting our friends, let us start a fire; for I am chilled to the bone with this piercing cold wind." 
               Leaving our friends in the act of carrying out Colonel Danforth's suggestion, we will follow the first party of scouts. For something like a quarter of a mile, they proceeded in the same manner as at first-silently, steadily, warily. This brought them to a deep hollow, or glen, through which ran a small stream, one of the western branches of the Miami. Crossing this, they began their ascent of the opposite hill; but had scarcely advanced fifty yards, when the foremost suddenly came to a halt, and dropping quietly upon his knees, examined the earth with great care. 
               "I make it out one o' the same varmints," he said, at length, in a whisper, as he rose to his feet: "what think you, Bill Wade, and Harry Miller?" 
                
               The two hunters appealed to, now stepped forward, and after a close examination of the ground, asserted that, to the best of their judgment, it was one of the three moccasin prints they had previously discovered." 
               "Let's divide," rejoined Carnele. "This trail as comes in from the left, and goes straight up the hill, I'll foller, while you two strike off ayther way. Ef ye diskiver any thing new or startling, make a bee line for the top o' this hill, so as to hit a straight line from here, and you'll find me thar a waitin." 
               As he spoke, Carnele glided stealthily forward, parting the bushes carefully, while the others, separating, moved away to the right and left, in the same silent and cautious manner. To the brow of the hill, in a direct line, was not less than a hundred yards; and it was therefore several minutes before Carnele reached it. The side of the hill which he ascended, was heavily timbered; but on its summit was an opening of several acres in extent, where the tangled, withering grass, interspersed with innumerable wild-flowers, all now in a state of blight and decay, proclaimed the fertility of the soil, and gave one an idea of the Eden-like beauty of the scene when viewed in all the bright and golden luxuriance of mid-summer. This opening extended some half way down the opposite side of the hill, toward the same stream our scouts had crossed, which wound around its base in the form of an ox-bow or magnet. What seemed a little remarkable, not a living tree or bush was to be seen within this open space; but all around it, the forest stood up dark, bold, and abrupt, reminding one of a light, pleasant, airy picture, set in a black, heavy, cumbersome frame. 
               But though there was not a tree, bush, or stone, for the eye to rest upon, within the area described, there were three dark objects that failed not to rivet the attention of the wily old hunter, as he carefully parted the bushes which skirted the clearing at the point where he gained the top of the eminence. On a little knoll, which commanded a view of the whole opening, and squatted around a fire that had been kindled of dried grass and brush, for double purpose of warming them and cooking their mid-day meal, were three half-naked savages, busily engaged in roasting and devouring slices of meat, which ever and anon they cut from the carcass of a deer that lay within reaching distance. From the spot where Carnele first beheld them, the distance was too great for a certain shot; but below them, to the nearest cover, was apparently not over a hundred yards; and there he felt certain a sure aim would tell. 
               He had not been watching the Indians long, when the bushes to the right were carefully parted, and Harry Miller glided silently to his side; and a moment or two later Bill Wade also made his appearance, so alike had these two scouts timed their movements. 
                
               "Well," observed Carnele, scarcely above his breath, "you seed the three varmints-so what hev you got to propose?" 
               "That we gain the nearest cover to them, and give them the contents of our rifles," said Wade. 
               "Two on 'em, you mean," rejoined Carnele; "for one on 'em, you know, has got to be tuk alive." 
               "Exactly." 
               "Well, you and I, I reckon, had best do the shootin' part, and let Harry here, do the runnin'; for his legs is a heap the longest, and I've knowed him do some tall walkin' afore now." 
               This personal allusion of the old hunter occasioned a smile, which was extended to a broad grin on the face of Wade, as Harry threw forward one foot, and displayed a leg which certainly had its full share of extension. In other respects, he was well proportioned, and would pass for a very good-looking man of thirty. His countenance was one expressive of more than ordinary intelligence, which was particularly perceptible in his clear hazel eye. He was noted as one of the fleetest runners on the frontier; and there were the very fewest number, even among the savages, that could keep him company on a trial race. His history was somewhat eventful. When quite a youth, he and a younger brother, named Christopher, had been taken prisoners by the Indians, during one of their marauding expeditions into the State of Kentucky. On returning home, two of the Indians adopted the brothers; and in course of time the latter became real savages-at least in appearance, manners, and customs, if not in feelings. For a number of years, Harry remained with his captors, apparently contented; but at last he began to tire of Indian life, and longed to return to his white friends. Taking advantage of a favorable opportunity, he at last set out alone, after vainly trying to persuade his brother to accompany him. He finally succeeded in reaching the settlements, though he suffered severely on his journey for want of food. But during his residence among the Indians, he had imbibed new habits, and could never afterward content himself to settle down to a quiet life. Hunting and scouting had since been his principal delight and employment. He could speak the Shawnee and Wyandott languages almost as fluently as a native, and had often acted as an interpreter between the white men and red. He enjoyed his wild life remarkably, as in fact a true woodsman can alone enjoy it, and had been often heard to say, that he only needed the company of his brother to render him perfectly happy. 
               "Well," he answered, in reply to Carnele, "if it 's decided that I'm to do the running, we had better be on the move, or the game will be lost." 
               "Nothing more truer nor that thar argement," rejoined Carnele, who, being the oldest hunter,-his age was about forty,-took it upon himself to act as leader to the party. 
                
               Accordingly, all three set off, Carnele in advance, and in about five minutes arrived at the cover nearest to the savages. Along the edge of the opening lay a fallen tree; and resting their rifles on this, Carnele and Wade took a preparatory glance at their victims across the barrels. The latter were in high glee; and as they roasted and devoured their meat, they chatted and laughed, and occasionally jumping up, cut wild and grotesque antics around the fire. For several minutes the scouts watched them in silence, as the cat does her game; and then Carnele said, hastily, in a whisper: 
               "Come, come, we must stop their fun, for the Cunnel 'll git tired 'o waitin'. I think it 'll do-eh, Bill?" 
               "A sure shot, I reckon," replied the one addressed. 
               "Well, then, you take the right one, I'll take the left, and the centre varmint we'll leave to Harry's legs." 
               "All right," rejoined the other. "I'm ready." 
               "One moment," said the old hunter, sighting his rifle-" we must both shoot together. Harry, give the word." 
               "Fire!" returned the other, after a moment's pause. 
               "Both rifles flashed together as he spoke; only one report was heard, and with cries of pain, two of the savages sprang up suddenly, and fell back upon the earth. 
               With a wild, loud whoop, Harry Miller instantly bounded through the bushes into the opening, in pursuit of the third; who, changing a merry laugh to a yell of dismay, on witnessing the horrible tragedy that had taken place before him, turned and fled, shaping his course down the hill, so as to gain the forest at a point about a hundred and fifty yards distant from where Miller emerged from it. Perceiving his intention, the scout redoubled his exertions, well knowing if he could head him off, and keep him in the open field, his capture would be comparatively easy. It was a close contested race, and for several moments it was doubtful which would win. The superiority of Miller as a runner, was now made strikingly apparent. He had a third further to run than the Indian; and yet, for a time, it was thought he would beat him, notwithstanding the remarkable odds against him. But the Indian won by a few feet, and bounded into the cover with a yell; though Miller was so near him that he could easily have buried his tomahawk in his head, had it been his design to kill instead of taking him alive. 
               But the savage had no time to congratulate himself on so trivial a victory; for scarcely a moment elapsed after his entering the cover, ere the rustling of the bushes and dried leaves announced that his pursuer was close upon him. Just below him was a steep bank, which overhung the little stream we have before mentioned; and finding there was no chance of escape for him, either to the right or left, the panting and frightened savage, as a dernier resort, gave a loud yell, and a leap, and down he went out of sight. The next moment the scout, without a thought of consequences, and only fearful the fugitive might escape, leaped boldly after him Down, down he went, some fifteen or twenty feet, and then found himself quietly sticking in mud and water up to his waist, within reaching distance of the object of his pursuit, who was alike in the same disagreeable predicament. 
               The moment the Indian found his pursuer in such close proximity, he drew his knife, the only weapon he had retained in his flight, and under the expectation of an immediate attack, prepared to sell his life as dearly as possible. Turning fiercely upon him, Harry brandished his tomahawk, and addressing him in Shawnee, informed him that he did not seek his life, but that unless he threw away his knife instantly, he would brain him on the spot. 
               On hearing this, the Indian gave one quick, eager glance around, as if to convince himself there was no hope of escape, and then quietly sunk his knife in the mud, thus tacitly surrendering himself a prisoner. 
               Miller now made several desperate efforts to extricate himself; but finding it to be impossible, without 
                     assitance
                     assistance
                  , as each attempt only sunk him deeper in the mire, he called lustily to his companions to come to his assistance. Presently Carnele and Wade made their appearance on the high bank above; but on beholding the discomfiture of their friend, and his captive, both with faces elongated to a woful extent, the sight impressed them so forcibly with the ridiculous, that for several minutes they could do nothing more effective than hold their sides and laugh. This over, they set to work in earnest; and by means of deer-skin ropes, which they carried with them, succeeded at last in getting Miller and his captive upon dry land. Carnele then despatched Wade to inform the Colonel and his party of their success, and to bid them hasten forward, as the day was wearing away, and he was anxious to get within sight of the Piqua village by dark, if such a thing were possible. He then bound the hands of the Indian, and, in company with Miller, set off for the fire, driving the captive along before him. 
               We have said it was a bitter cold day; and in consequence Miller felt greatly chilled and benumbed, by reason of his immersion in the mud and water. The fire, however, soon restored warmth and circulation to his blood, and he began to view the whole affair in the light of a most excellent joke; though at first, during the merriment of his companions, he had regarded himself in the same 
                     catagory
                     category
                   with the frog in the fable-"if it were fun to them, it was death to him." 
               Meantime, Carnele had busied himself in trying to gather some information from the captive, as to who he was, and to what tribe he belonged; but the savage kept a stubborn silence, and would not answer. 
               "I say, Harry, I can't make nothin' out 'o the varmint-so 'spose you try your hand at him," said the scout, at last, turning away to examine the dead Indians, and take off their scalps. 
               Miller now put questions to his captive in Shawnee, Huron, and English; but the latter preserved an immovable countenance, never so much as showing, by the change of a single feature, or by the gleam of his eye, that he understood what was addressed to him. He was apparently a young warrior, about twenty-five years of age, and his features seemed to bespeak intelligence-though so bedaubed were they with paint and mud, that it was almost impossible to make out their original expression. He was of medium stature, stood erect, and had altogether a very lithe and nimble appearance; though he was not, as we have seen, any match for such a runner as Miller. With the exception of the before mentioned mud and paint, his arms, neck, breast, and a part of his legs, were mostly bare-his only covering being a large panther skin around his loins, with a strip of the same passing obliquely from left to right across his back, and breast, together with short leggings below his knees, and rude moccasins on his feet. 
               "Now I'll tell you what it is, young red-skin," said Miller, at length, in a rather savage tone, greatly vexed at the other's obstinacy-"I know you understand Shawnee, for it was that language I used when I ordered you to throw away your knife; and so if you don't answer my questions, before the party comes that I'm expecting, I'll have you roasted at a slow fire." 
               But still the young Indian made no reply; and with an imprecation that we will not repeat, Miller turned away, and seated himself at the fire, to await the arrival of Colonel Danforth, and receive further instructions. It was not many minutes after this before the expected party made their appearance; and on informing the Colonel of the obstinacy of the prisoner, he decided that it would not be worth while to lose any more time, but that all should set off for Piqua, taking the young savage along; and that at the first stream they crossed, the latter should receive a thorough washing-stating it as his belief, from what little he had seen of his features, that he would turn out to be a white man. Accordingly, the whole party again set out, taking along a good supply of the deer meat, to serve them for their supper, and leaving the remainder of the carcass, and the dead Indians, to be devoured by wild beasts. 
               Their most direct route to Piqua lying across the stream below, the party halted for a few minutes on its bank, while a couple of the scouts took the prisoner down to the water and effectually removed the dirt and paint from his face. As the Colonel had anticipated, he, indeed, turned out to be a white man; and after gazing upon him in silence for a few minutes, during which time emotions deep and strange agitated his breast, Miller walked up to him, and exclaimed in Shawnee: 
                
               "Neethetha Posetha."
                     My brother Posetha, or Cat. This incident of the meeting of the brothers Miller, strange as it may seem, is a historical fact.
                  
                
               To the surprise of all, the prisoner started, and looking wonderingly on the other, replied, in the same dialect- 
               "Who speaks?-who is it that knows Posetha?" 
               "My brother! my long lost brother!" cried Miller, in English, instantly throwing his arms around the captive's neck, and shedding tears of joy, while the latter stood passive and amazed at what was taking place. 
               "Oh, God! I thank thee that at last thou hast granted my prayer! pursued Henry Miller, fervently. "Oh! Christopher, don't you know me?" he continued, looking eagerly into the other's face "Don't you remember your brother Henry, that was taken by the Indians at the same time you were, but who afterward got away from them?" 
               "Yes, me now know," replied Christopher, in broken English, returning the warm embrace of the other; and then suddenly starting back, he added-"Posetha warrior now-no cry-squaw cry." 
               "Posetha is warrior no longer," rejoined Henry: "he must join the pale-face, and not fight against his brothers." 
               "No," returned the other, with dignity, "Posetha's brothers Indian-him got no other." 
               "We are all your brothers," now interposed Colonel Danforth, who, with the rest, had stood looking on in amazement, during this wonderful scene. "Christopher-for so I hear you are called-you must henceforth go with us, and fight no more against your race; the red man is our enemy." 
               "The red-man Posetha's brother," persisted the other, drawing himself up haughtily, with an air of defiance. 
               The Colonel was about to make some reply, when Henry stepped forward, and in a low tone said: 
               "Pray, Colonel Danforth, let me deal with him, for I know his nature better than you, and an ill-timed word might ruin all our hopes." 
               "Your are right," returned the veteran officer. "Draw him aside, and confer with him, and we will await the result; and as the other complied with his request, he added-"This is indeed most wonderful! that brother should meet brother under such strange circumstances!" 
               "The ways of Providence are sometimes very remarkable," observed Edward, reflectively. 
               "May we not take this as a good augury of our own success?" rejoined Wilkes. 
               "We will hope," replied Danforth, heaving a deep sigh; "we will hope," and he relapsed into a thoughtful mood. 
                
               Some ten minutes elapsed, and then rejoining the party, Miller said, in a low tone, so as not to be overheard by his brother: 
               "I've got good news for you all. Christopher says that there's a number of women prisoners in Piqua; and that for my sake he'll help us to get them away, provided we'll set him free, and allow him to take his own course." 
               "Truly this is cheering!" rejoined Colonel Danforth, not a little excited, as indeed were all the others. "But can you trust him, Harry?" 
               "I think we can, Colonel. I never knew him to break a promise." 
               "Act, then, as you think best, and may Heaven guide you aright!" 
               "Yes, I'd jest let him go," observed Carnele, who stood along side, and who felt himself privileged to bestow his advice on all occasions: "yes, I'd jest let him go; for sence we've got the grease and mud off on him, he looks a heap honester. Besides, he's your brother, Harry, and nothin' good'll come 'o keepin' him tied up like a snappin' bull dog. No, no-let him go-that's the advice of old John Carnele, and he's seed a few snakes in his day." 
               Harry held another short conference with his brother, and then cutting his hands loose, told him he was free. Posetha uttered a few emphatic words in Shawnee, and then, with a whoop, as of triumph, he bounded away, and disappeared in the forest. 
               "Alas! I fear we have been imprudent," exclaimed Colonel Danforth anxiously. "If he betrays us now, we are lost. What do you think, Harry?" 
               "I don't think he'll betray us, Colonel. His last words give me reason to hope we've made him our friend; but I can't tell how much Indian life may have altered his nature. It's too late to repent at all events; and so I think we had best resume our journey." 
               "Yes, yes, we must reach Piqua to-night-for something tells me we shall then be near our friends," cried Edward, with energy. 
               "Forward, then," rejoined the Colonel, "and may a watchful Providence guide our steps aright, and deliver from evil hands those near and dear to us!" 
               With this the whole party again set off at a rapid pace, the scouts as usual taking the lead. A little after nightfall, they arrived at a point commanding a view of the lights of the Piqua village. Here they halted, ate a hasty meal, held a council of war, and finally decided on reconnoitring the town forthwith. For this purpose they divided into pairs, and separated, with the understanding that all should rendezvous at the place of separation before mid-night, and each report on what they had seen. 
               Alas! for human calculations. Midnight came, and a part of the company met according to agreement-but it was a gloomy meeting. However, let us not anticipate the result, but first in order follow the adventures of our hero, and his companion, John Carnele. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IV. 
               THE CAPTURE. 
               ON parting for new adventures at the Rendezvous Mount, as one of the scouts appropriately termed the place, Colonel Danforth and Edward embraced each other, and separated, as friends who are about to encounter perils, with a great uncertainty of ever meeting each other again on earth. Tears dimmed the eyes of both for the time, and the farewell prayers for each other's safety were said in tones tremulous with deep emotion. Each party had been assigned their post for reconnoitring, and each cautioned the other against unnecessary exposure. Carnele was to accompany Edward, Miller the Colonel, Wade the Lieutenant, Hale (another of the scouts) the Sergeant, and the two remaining scouts were to go by themselves. By this arrangement, each party had an experienced woodsman to act as leader, who perfectly understood the habits of the Indian, and knew the caution necessary to succeed in their enterprise. Thus, two by two, they led off, in different directions, for different points of observation, and, in five minutes from the time of starting, were effectually separated. 
               The night had set in dark and gloomy. Clouds driven from the East overspread the heavens, and not a star was visible. The wind still blew strong and cold, but seemed to be more damp than during the day, an almost certain prognostic that a storm of rain would follow soon. From Rendezvous Mount to the Piqua village, the distance was about half a mile; and for a quarter of a mile, the direction taken by Carnele and our hero, led them down a declivity, from which the lights of the town were plainly visible. They then came to a level but heavily timbered bottom, which extended to the Miami, on the opposite side whereof they could dimly perceive the wigwams of the Indians, by the light of their fires, scattered along a high bank, that rose almost abruptly above the water, which was here too deep to be forded. 
               "We'll hev to swim, or go below," said Carnele; "and I think we'd best go below, for it's powerful cold work swimming, and it mought not be the wisest thing to come out of the water right under the noses of the Injens." 
               "You are right," rejoined Edward; "but how will our friends get across, unless they come below, also?" 
                
               "That's thar look out, and not ourn. May be they'll go above, and may be swim. Ef we've got to look arter them, it'd been best to had 'em with us; but sence they aint with us, it's best to look arter ourselves. Yes, we must go below;" and as the old woodsman uttered this, he glided away down the bank of the river, and Edward, with gloomy feelings, followed in his steps. 
               A quarter of a mile brought them to a point where the current ran swift; and cautioning Edward to be careful of his steps, and not let the stream prove too much for him, the old scout entered the water, and waded across, apparently without difficulty. Not so Edward. Unused to fording streams, and the river in some places being breast high, he found it exceedingly troublesome and laborious to maintain an upright position himself, and keep his rifle, pistols, and ammunition above water. 
               He succeeded, however, in gaining the opposite shore in safety; but was so fatigued by his exertions, and benumbed with cold, that for several minutes he was unable to proceed. But intense excitement, caused by the reflection that he might now be near her he loved, soon aroused all his faculties, and nerved him to new exertions; and starting abruptly to his feet, he declared his readiness and ability to go on without more delay. 
               When he came to the trial, however, he found that he had overrated his power of locomotion; for a strange, cold numbness seemed to change his nether limbs to the earth, so that it was almost impossible for him to get one foot before the other. At length after going a few rods, he sank down upon the ground, and in as loud a tone as he dared to use, called to his companion, who was several paces in advance, to come to his assistance. 
               "What's the matter?" inquired the old hunter, anxiously, as he retraced his steps to where Edward was lying. 
               "I fear the water has so chilled me that I shall be unfit for further service to-night," replied Edward, with a deep sigh, that amounted almost to a groan. 
               "That comes o' being' raised in the settlements," rejoined the other, with something like contempt. "I al'ays arg'ed they was the places for spilin' all young chaps like you. They're only fit for sich good-for-nothin,' soft-handed, meally-mouthed things as doctors, lawyers, women, and them; and ef I'd got a boy-which thank fortin,' I haint-I'd stripe his back, ef ever he staid over night in one on 'em, till he was a man-grown. Oh, it's woful to think what people now-a-days is comin' to! It's my opine the men is all turnin' women, and that the world will disgenerate, till thar won't be a man of as much account as a two-year old Injen babby Now I've bin in the water when it war so cold it friz right afore my eyes; and I've stayed in't for more'n a hour to time, and never felt the wuss for't when I got out. But howsomever, I reckon you think as how this here kind o'talk don't help your case none- which is a fact-and so I'll set to work, and make a fire to warm you up by." 
               "But surely, Mr. Carnele-" 
               "Don't mister me?" interrupted the other. "I don't want none o' them settlement fixins hitched to my name. I'm jest plain John Carnele, and John's the shortest, and saves talk. Jest call me John when I'm alone; and ef that's another John along, why jest put on the tother for a distinguishfier." 
               "Well, John, surely it would be imprudent to start a fire here, so near an Indian village. Why, we should have the whole town upon us in less than an hour." 
               "Tush! you're a boy, Ned-a settlement boy at that-and haint follered by a few as many trails as I hev, nor laid out in the woods quite so many nights, with howlin' imps all round ye. I said I'd have to start a fire to warm ye by-but I did'nt say I war going to raise a light for Injens to look at." 
               "But where there is a fire, there must of course be a light," persisted the other. 
               "And that's whar you show your ignorance," rejoined the scout, 'and your settlement raisin'. But wait a bit, and you shall see what you never seed afore." 
               Saying this, the old hunter leaned his rifle against a tree, and drawing his hatchet from his belt, began to dig a hole in the hard earth at his feet, scrooping up the dirt, and throwing it out with his hands. When he had made an excavation large enough for his purpose, he collected a few dry sticks, and placed them in the hole, in the form of a coal-pit or cove, with a handful or two of leaves at the bottom. These he next ignited by means of flint, steel, and spunk, and then covered the whole over with the loose earth thrown out, taking care to leave one or two small air-holes on either side. 
               "Thar," he said, as soon as he had done-"thar, young man, thar's a fire without a light; and ef you'll jest plant yourself on top on't, you'll find the frost 'll leave your legs right sudden." 
               Edward immediately followed his directions, and in a very short time the steam began to rise from his wet garments, while the warmth restored an animated circulation of blood to his chilled and almost frozen limbs. As he revived, he was profuse in his thanks to the old hunter, for having, as he expressed it, given him renewed life. In the course of fifteen minutes, he declared he was again ready to pursue his adventures, and accordingly both set off toward the town, Carnele leading the way, and charging the other repeatedly to exercise great caution, and not make the least noise. 
               Less than a quarter of a mile brought them to the outskirts of the Indian village; and by the aid of a few fires kindled outside, they could plainly perceive the lodges of the savages scattered over a large area of ground, and occasionally a dusky figure stalking about in the uncertain light, which, together with the growling and barking of a few restless mastiffs, warned them they were already treading on dangerous ground, where a single wrong movement might prove fatal to their hopes, if not their lives. 
               The night, however, disagreeable as it was, was favorable to their adventure, by keeping most of the Indians closely housed; while the sighing and moaning of the wind, prevented any ordinary sound from being heard-or, if heard, proved a ready means of accounting for it, without creating suspicion or alarm. The main thing to be feared, was the watchful dogs, whose keen sense of hearing was less easy to be deceived than that of their masters, while their power of smelling, or scenting, would be almost certain to detect the presence of strangers. 
               "It won't do to go into the village here," said Carnele, in a whisper. "No; we'll hev to go up a piece, and wait a spell." 
               Our two friends accordingly moved away, and taking a circuitous route through the forest, approached the town in the rear, or rather on the side farthest from the river. Ascending a little hillock, which was well covered with bushes, they found themselves in a very comfortable position for overlooking the lodges of the Indians, and noting every thing of consequence taking place within their limits. Fearing the effects of the cold upon his companion, whose garments were by no means dry, and thinking he might as well enjoy the luxury of being warm now himself, Carnele immediately set to work, and prepared another underground fire. This done, both he and Edward seated themselves over it, with the design of waiting till toward midnight, or until the savages should have retired to their slumbers, before making any further explorations. 
               But they had not so long to wait as they at first anticipated; for in less than half an hour, the storm, which had been so long brewing, came on with fury, and the rain poured down in torrents, completely drenching our spies, and extinguishing the fires about the village. It was so cold, that the drops of rain often froze as they fell, forming a kind of sleet, which the wind drove with such fury against the faces, hands, and necks of our friends, as would have rendered their situation almost too uncomfortable to be borne, had not their spirits been cheered by the reflection, that the same peltings would drive their enemies under cover, and consequently lessen the danger of detection. 
               "Every thing so far favors our enterprize," whispered Edward; "shall we not venture now to enter the village?" 
               "Directly," replied Carnele, "jest as soon as I can git my dog feed ready;" and he unstrapped his knapsack from his back, and began to fumble inside of it. 
               "What do you mean by dog-feed?" inquired Edward. 
               "Why, I've got a fixter here, that'll quiet dogs better nor all the the pothecacs you could buy from the fust settlement to sunrise. It's made from yarbs, and I made it myself-though I'll allow it war an old Indian as fust showed me how to do it. It's made in little balls like, about the size o'bullets; and all we has to do in gom' into the village, is to seatter 'em around; and the fust dog as comes about, will nose on 'em, and eat it; and it'll be the last fodder he'll ever cram. It'll make him arful dry; and he'll break for the drink; and the fust swallow he takes 'll do his business; and ten to one but the stream takes his body down it; and that ll be the end o' him. Ah! here it is, all right-so now we'll be for a tramp. Cover your we'pons as much as you can, and mind your powder don't git wet." 
               Saying this, the old hunter replaced his knapsack on his back, and rising to his feet, led the way into the village, treading very cautiously, and scattering his unknown compound, for the destruction of the canine race, in every direction. Either this latter worked to a charm, or else the dogs, like their masters, did not care to encounter such uncongenial weather, for not one of them approached our friends, as slowly and cautiously they now moved about among the huts, gradually nearing the centre of the village, where three or four lodges larger than the rest, proclaimed them the abodes of the chiefs of the nation. Most of the huts were dark inside; but occasionally a ray of light gleamed out through the crevices made by the swaying to and fro of the skins, which were hung at the doors to protect the inmates against the inclemency of the weather. Wherever a light of this kind could be seen, Edward or his companion would approach the hut, and cautiously raise the skin a little, and peer inside; and they would generally perceive a few Indians, or one Indian and his family, either lounging about in careless attitudes, stretched at full length on their rude pallets, or sitting near the light, engaged in making wampum belts, mending or making moccasins, and other similar employments. 
               The interior of some eight or ten huts had been examined in this manner, without the occurrence of any incident worthy of note, when, just as Carnele approached another, a large Indian suddenly pushed aside the skin and came out. The old scout suddenly drew back, and stood still, and the savage passed close to his person, without perceiving him. Carnele then softly advanced to the real of the hut, where he remained in deep shadow till the Indian had re-entered, when he heard him comment, in his own peculiar way, upon the rough state of the weather. Then he drew a long breath of relief; for he had been in great fear, lest Edward should be discovered; but fortunately the latter had seen the Indian also, and had exercised sufficient presence of mind to remain motionless till the danger was past. 
               Some three or four more lodges were now examined in the same manner as those described, which brought our party almost to the centre of the village, and still no traces of the prisoners had been found; and they were already beginning to think themselves deceived by the information obtained from Posetha, and were debating whether it were best for them to look farther or retrace their steps, as they had even now exceeded the limits assigned to them at Rendezvous Mount, when a long deep moan, followed by a sharp reproof in broken English, proceeding from a darkened hut close by, reached their ears, and turned their thoughts into an entirely different channel, arousing both curiosity and sympathy, and, in the breast of Edward at least, exciting emotions strange and indescribable. 
               Without speaking a word, and scarcely venturing a natural respiration, our two spies, acting in concert, slowly and silently drew near the hut whence the sounds proceeded, and listened. For some moments all was still; and then several low moans succeeded, and another sharp and angry reproof was given, which evidently came from the lips of an old squaw, and, from the tenor of the language, left no doubt in the minds of our friends that it was addressed to a white female prisoner. 
               Oh! how wildly beat the heart of Edward; and what strange, almost uncontrollable, feelings were excited in his breast, as these few broken sentences reached his ear: 
               "Lie down! why you make noise? Me strike you, beat you, take you scalp, you no be still and go sleep." 
               What would he not have given then to know to whom they were addressed? Could it be that he was so near his dear Lucy, and that it was her groans, wrung from an agonized soul, that had sounded in his ears, and caused those harsh threatenings in return? And oh! if such were the case, how gladly would he now take her place, and endure all the horrors of imprisonment, if by this means she could be restored to liberty and happiness. Edward loved, and loved truly, and there was no sacrifice too great for him to make for the object of his affections. 
               All within had once more become still; but, without, the storm was raging as fiercely as ever; and the wind moaned and whistled among the lodges, and flapped the skins, and drove the rain and sleet against them with a loud pattering sound. Taking advantage of the noise, Edward now drew Carnele aside, and in low hurried tones informed him that he had resolved upon the bold expedient of entering the hut, and endeavoring to ascertain whether it contained any one of the party of whom they were in search. 
               "Why, boy, it's a foolish risk, and no good can come on't," was the hunter's reply. 
               "At least, I can ascertain whether my hopes have any foundation." 
               "And if they hev, what'll you do? 
               "Endeavor, by some means, to get the captive away." 
               "Yes, and hev the whole village at your heels. No, it'll never do for you to go, lad, for you've not had exper'ence enough; and, besides, you'd be too nervous in sich a case to do things right. Ef any body goes, it'd best be me; and ef thar's only one old squaw thar, I'll try and still her." 
               "Surely, you would not murder her!" exclaimed Edward, his mind revolting at the thought of such extreme measures. 
               "Not ef I could get along without, sartingly; but ef thar's a white captive in thar-and thar must be, else why did she speak English to her?-I'd fetch her out, at all risks, or die trying." 
               "Well, then, go, but for heaven's sake, do no violence, if it can possibly be avoided!" 
               "Don't fear for me," rejoined the old woodsman. "I'll be very keerful-I al'ays is keerful. Here, take my rifle, and wait for me at the door; but don't move nor speak till you hev orders from me; and mind you keep the lock down, and don't let the powder git too damp-like." 
               "May heaven prosper this undertaking!" was the silent prayer of Edward, as he retraced his steps to the lodge, preceded by Carnele. 
               The latter now turned to his companion, put his mouth to his ear, and said, in a whisper: 
               "Stand right still, and don't move. I'll jest slip round this old shanty, and see ef thar's any other opening;" and the next moment his dusky figure was lost in the darkness. Something like a minute elapsed, when he again made his appearance, on the opposite side of the hut, and added: "It's all right-be keerful, Ned, I'm jest a going' to enter now-keep a good lookout;" and with these words he dropped quietly to the earth, extended himself at full length on the wet ground, and cautiously raising the lower part of the skin, which hung at the door, put his head under, and slowly and silently drew his body after him. 
               The moment of Carnele's final disappearance, was one of the most mentally and physically painful to Edward he had ever experienced. It seemed to him as if his blood had all rushed to his heart, and his heart to his throat, producing a strange species of suffocation and strangulation. For some moments, as he stood and listened, he could not breathe; and then, with a degree of pain that almost forced him to cry aloud, his heart seemed to leap back to its proper place, and began a series of palpitations, that to him really appeared audible; and which, to his excited fancy, threatened to force a passage through his breast. Gradually he grew calmer; and then he approached the hut, so as to place his ear against the skin at the entrance, and listened, with every faculty of hearing exerted to the last degree his will could give it. For a time, however, all remained still within, and no sound, save that caused by the driving storm without, could be heard. Suddenly, a quick, sharp Indian ejaculation, followed by a stifled scream, smote upon his ear and and then he could distinguish sounds indicating a struggle, where one is endeavoring to strangle another. Next he heard a voice, that sent a thrill of joy and fear through every fibre of his frame, exclaim- 
               "Oh! Heaven help us! What is taking place here? mercy! mercy!-help! help!" 
               "Hist! hist!" cried the voice of the old hunter, "or you'll spile all." 
               "Who are you?" cried another female voice. 
               "A friend come to save you, and git ye cl'ar of these blood-thirsty varmints. Be quiet, now, or else go out, where you'll find a young chap ready to take you away. 
               "Quick, then, release us!" cried the first speaker-"for we are bound by cords." 
               "Ha! that voice-that voice!" almost shouted Edward, bursting into the lodge. "Lucy! dear, dear Lucy! is it indeed you?" 
               "Edward! oh, merciful Providence!" was the response; and then the fair speaker burst into tears. 
               "Quick! quick!" rejoined Edward-"where are you?-let me cut you loose!-we have not a moment to lose!" 
               'You're mad-mad, boy-mad!" fairly groaned Carnele. "You 've ruined all by your foolish doin's." 
               "What do you mean?" gasped Edward, as he cut the cord that bound Lucy Danforth, and almost convulsively clasped her in his arms. 
               "Your talkin' and yellin' has roused the Indians in the other lodges, and they're hurryin' out in search of the cause." 
               "But we may escape!" rejoined Edward tremulously. "Nerve yourself, dear Lucy, for the effort, and lean on me;" and as he spoke, he raised her in his arms, and made for the door. 
               "And what will become of me?" cried the other female prisoner. 
               "Hush! hush!" began the old hunter-"I'll-" 
               The sentence, if finished, was drowned by a loud, shrill whoop, and Edward who had just gained the outside of the wigwam, with Lucy in his arms, was laid senseless upon the earth by a blow from a war club. At the same instant, some three or four savages, one of them bearing a lighted torch, sprang over his body, burst into the wigwam, and secured Carnele a prisoner. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER V. 
               THE CAPTIVES AND THEIR CAPTORS. 
               IT is of course impossible for us to convey any thing more than a general idea of the alarm and confusion which prevailed throughout the village at the time our friends were taken prisoners. 
               Just imagine more than five hundred men, women, and children, many of them suddenly awakened from a peaceful slumber, and all, or nearly all, under the impression that the town was attacked by an overwhelming force of the whites, and that a horrible massacre was even now taking 'place-just imagine, we say, such a number of both sexes, all ages, and sizes, rushing pell-mell from their dwellings, and jostling one against the other, with whoops, yells, and screams of terror resounding on all sides, mingled with the yelping and barking of dogs, the report of fire arms, and the howlings of the storm, and you will have as good a general conception of the scene presented, as our humble pen is competent to portray. So great and universal was the alarm this midnight arousing occasioned, that it was more than half an hour before all could be made to understand the true cause thereof; and then anger gradually took the place of fear; and the loud invectives poured upon the heads of our friends, proclaimed the general desire of the nation to have the disgrace, which each felt had been brought upon him by his cowardice during a false alarm, washed out in the heart's blood of the poor prisoners. Alas for those who had unintentionally raised this terrible storm of human passion! 
               But there were more prisoners taken that night than Edward Allen and John Carnele. Of the remainder of their friends, who had set off at the same time with themselves, to reconnoitre the town, only three had escaped the clutches of the savages. These three were, Sergeant Bomb, and the two scouts who had gone by themselves. How Bomb escaped, is beyond our power to explain; and as he never had any definite idea of the matter himself, it is altogether probable the mystery will never be cleared up; and that, consequently, coming generations will be as much in the dark as we are. All he ever remembered, was, that when the alarm broke out, he was not a great way from the river; and that, soon after, he found himself chilled to the very bone swimming the Miami. The escape of the scouts was more early accounted for. They chanced to be on the northern side of the village, on the very out-skirts thereof, and on the point of entering it-having waited till such an hour as they deemed advisable to insure the success of their design. On the first alarm they fled, and in due time reached Rendezvous Mount, where they were shortly after joined by the Sergeant, who, under the excitement from which he was laboring, immediately embraced the old woodsman, and solemnly declared, that if he ever lived to reach a white settlement again, he would never have any thing further to do with Indians. He had escaped a horrible death twice, he said, and in a third risk there might be a fatal charm. 
               Those of our gallant little band who were captured, had, like those whom we have followed step by step, penetrated to the very heart of the village. Consequently the alarm at once surrounded them with Indians, and rendered it impossible for them to escape. They did their best, however, and all that men could do. They were not captured without a struggle for liberty. It was their firearms that were heard, and more than one of their enemies bit the dust, though none, as it chanced, were mortally wounded. Yet they fought alone, and each party without the knowledge of the whereabouts of the other; for no two had met after the separation which we described in a previous chapter. Why they were not killed on the spot, will he readily perceived by those who know the nature and habits of the Indian; and to those who have no such solution to what may seem a mystery, we will merely say, that they were reserved for the greater vengeance of the most diabolical and excruciating tortures. 
               Death in itself, as viewed by the savage, has no terrors; it is merely the manner of dying that can appal him; consequently he rarely inflicts a sudden death upon his most bitter enemy, when it can be as well avoided. Thus it was in the case of our friends. Each party being surrounded by numbers, who were certain of securing them, their lives were spared, by mutual consent, for a vengeance a thousand times more terrible. If there is any doubt existing in the mind of the reader as to how each could be so readily discovered in the pitchy darkness that prevailed, we must remind him that all the village had not retired to rest-that in every third or fourth cabin there was a light, generally a torch-and that in rushing out at the first alarm-whoop, each party exercised sufficient forethought to take one of these with them, which, though it might reveal their own persons to the enemy, would, in return, reveal the persons of the enemy to them; and this, under the circumstances, was necessary, in order to know whether it were the better policy to stand their ground or take to flight. 
               To such a degree of vindictive fury were the passions of the populace excited, that for a time it seemed probable the prisoners would be torn in pieces, in spite of the efforts of a more calculating few to reserve them for another fate. But at last, by entreaty and menace, they succeeded in restraining the mob from present violence. Gradually the tumult subsided, and the prisoners were severally rally conducted to the council house, bound hand and foot, and put under a strong guard, to await their hour of trial, which was to take place on the following day. Sentinels were next stationed throughout the town, to prevent the recurrence of a similar scene, and guard the village against surprise; and a party of young warriors, headed by a daring, experienced, and sagacious chief, were selected to set off by daylight, to ascertain if any of the adventurous whites had made their escape, and if so, to follow their trail, and endeavor to take them prisoners, that all might die at the stake together, and create a savage jubilee. 
               Order at length being restored, the recently alarmed denizens of Piqua quietly withdrew to their homes, all more or less elated at the prospect of shortly being both spectators and actors in the barbarous amusement of human torture. 
               Silence, as concerning the human storm of passion, again reigned in the village; but the storm of the elements still raged as fiercely as ever; and the wind sighed, and moaned, and whistled among the lodges, and the rain and hail pattered on their bark roofs as before, rendering the night pitchy dark, disagreeable, and gloomy. 
               And doubly gloomy was it now to our friends, whose last hopes had expired, and who could look forward to nothing better than a horrible death on the morrow. As one by one each was conducted within the council house, and, by the lurid, flickering light of the torch burning within, beheld so many of his friends prisoners also, a keener pang than even his own captivity occasioned, penetrated his breast. 
               As for Edward, on coming to himself, and perceiving at a glance what had transpired, and believing it was all occasioned by his own imprudence, his anguish of soul knew no bounds; and he repeatedly groaned aloud, and rolled to and fro in his fetters, as one in mortal agony. On the point of liberating her he loved, he bad been struck down, she had been torn from him, and now there was little hope that he would ever behold her sweet face again. 
               And more than this, he had involved others in his own ruin, and brought upon them a doom of which he shuddered and grew sick at heart to think. Oh! he thought, if he could but die alone, and thus atone for his incautious acts, how gladly would he do so; but no, this could not be-the father of her he loved would also be a victim-and not only this, but those who had so nobly consented to risk their own lives to rescue those so dear to him, would receive the same horrible doom and fate. And then, alas! what would become of poor Lucy, without a protector? Alas, indeed! 
               The prisoners, though near each other through the night, were not permitted to speak; and as the day dawned-a cold, disagreeable, drizzly morning-and the dull rays of light penetrated the chinks and crannies of the council house, and spread a gray or leaden hue over each object, it revealed the pale, anguished features of the prisoners, with their bloodshot eyes, and clearly showed that the night had been one of intense, restless, mental agony, devoid of hope. 
               The positions of Edward and the Colonel were such, that though tightly bound and extended at full length on the damp, cold ground, they could look into each other's faces; and as they did so, tears involuntarily started to the eyes of both; but they knit their brows, compressed their lips and strove to be stoics; yet strove in vain; for the tears would occasionally gush out afresh, in spite of their efforts to the contrary. The Colonel was unhurt, as were all the rest, with the exception of Edward, whose head was somewhat bloody from the wound he had received at the time of his capture. But the contusion was not a dangerous one, and he experienced very little inconvenience from it; though the Colonel, in looking on him, could not forbear a groan, for he knew not the extent of the injury, and he already loved him as his own son. 
               About sunrise, the guard over the captives was changed; but nothing else worthy of note took place, for a couple of hours, when Posetha, the brother of Miller, made his appearance. As he entered the council house-which was a large, circular building, with a row of rude benches around the walls-he glanced his dark eye, coldly, almost savagely, over the prisoners, without the least sign of recognition, even when it fell on his own brother. He was still costumed as we before described him; but his face and breast had been re-painted, and he now presented an appearance which our friends considered revolting in the extreme-the more so, perhaps, that they knew him to be a white man, and looked upon him as a being sunk to the lowest degree of human depravity and degradation. It was bad enough, they thought, to behold so disgusting a spectacle in an Indian; but for a white man, it was monstrous, and his presence became hateful to their sight. Previous to his appearance, there had been a faint hope in the mind of his brother, that he might, in some unknown, unexpected way, assist them in their difficulties; but the moment he looked upon Posetha, that hope fled, and he closed his eyes and shuddered. 
               All this the white savage noted, as his keen, black eye glanced from one to the other; and when he had finished his survey, a grin, which seemed one of fiendish delight, rested on his now ugly countenance. He had read their thoughts, and knew himself despised by all, and this seemed to give him inward satisfaction. 
               "Dog of the pale face!" he said, addressing his brother in Shawnee, "your time, and that of your companions, has come; and Posetha laughs-tell them so. As sure as the sun rises and sets, you will all be doomed; and still Posetha laughs-tell them so. Your cries at the stake will be music in Posetha's ear-tell them so." 
               "Begone!" exclaimed Miller, vehemently, his indignation raised to a pitch he could not control. "Begone, base ingrate and fratricide! and may your brother's blood be on your head, and in your breast the torments of the damned!" 
               "Ha! ha! I laugh-I laugh!" was the taunting rejoinder; and Posetha drew closer to his brother, who was so bound as to be unable to move a limb. "I laugh at you-I spit upon you-I defy you!" he continued still drawing closer and closer, by a slow movement, till his feet fairly touched the prostrate man. "Oh, yes, I laugh; and I will laugh at the stake, as I invent tortures wherewith to make you groan anew. Let me tell you one of the tortures now, that you may laugh too-let me whisper it in your ear;" and he bent down his head, apparently for the purpose; but instead of the language Harry was expecting to hear, these words almost made him doubt his senses: 
               "Courage! Posetha is true-but know him not-for he must deceive the Indians to save his friends." Then he added aloud:-"Ha, ha, ha! How does the dog of the pale-face like the invention?" and turning abruptly away, he strode to the door, passed a few words with the guard, and disappeared. 
               About an hour later, several inferior chiefs and warriors made their appearance, and after walking around the prisoners, and examining them, and occasionally turning them over with their feet, in a careless manner, they gathered themselves together in a group near the door, and a very animated discussion took place, of the nature of which Miller was ignorant, the conversation being carried on in a tone too low to reach his ear. 
               Suddenly all ceased speaking, and drew back with deference, and a man of venerable appearance entered the council house. The new comer was decorated with all the trappings of a great chief; out even had he not been, there would have been no mistaking his character and position; for his erect carriage, dignified mien, graceful step, and lofty bearing, would at once have proclaimed him a man of no inferior grade and intellect. 
               His features were venerable and striking. He was apparently not less than eighty years of age; but his movement was as graceful and energetic as one who had numbered only half his winters. In his rather handsome countenance, was more than ordinary intelligence; and his slightly Roman nose, prominent and well turned chin, compressed lips, and eagle eye, gave him a look of lofty decision. In his ears he wore heavy jewels, which came down almost to his shoulders; and the skin around his loins, the belt around his waist, his leggins and moccasins, were all richly and tastefully ornamented with wampum. A bright red scarf passed from left to right across his back and breast, and was carelessly tied around his waist; and his long gray scalp-lock was adorned with feathers of beautiful colors. Such was Catahecassa, or Black Hoof, one of the most cunning, sagacious, and successful warriors of the Shawnee nee nation. He was a great orator; and in speaking, ever used the most flowing, sublime, and effective language. Stepping forward to where the prisoners lay bound, he regarded them a few minutes, with a stern, almost vindictive, expression; and then said, in a full, sonorous, majestic tone: 
               "Is there one among the pale-faces that speaks the language of the great Shawnee nation?" 
               "There is," replied Miller, in Shawnee. 
               "Let him be unbound and stand forth!" said the chief, turning to one of his attendants. 
               Instantly a warrior sprang forward to Miller, cut the cords that confined his limbs, and led him into the circle that had now silently formed around Black Hoof, much to the astonishment of all the rest of the prisoners, who, not understanding what had been said, could not of course divine what was about to take place. 
               In detailing the interview between Miller and the chief, as also in recording other remarks and speeches of the Shawnee, we wish the reader to understand that we give a free translation, but at the same time preserve the true spirit of the Indian language, with all its striking vigor, eloquence, and poetical imagery. 
               "Warrior of the pale-face," began Black Hoof, in a calm, dignified, almost haughty tone, drawing up his handsome form to its full height, and fixing his eagle eye keenly and sternly upon the captive: "Warrior of the pale-face, whose race is from the rising sun, how is it that the language of the great nation of the South
                  
                     Shawnee-or, as it is more correctly spelled, Shawanoese (though, for various reasons, we have adopted the common orthography)-means "the South," or "people from the South."-COL. JOHN JOHNSON.
                   is upon they tongue?" 
               "Because I have mingled much with the red men, and have closely noted his speech," replied the undaunted scout, in a firm tone. 
               "So have you learned much that is good," was the proud rejoinder; "for the Shawnee is a great nation; and he who hears and understands its mighty men, gains wisdom. But why, like a cat upon its prey, did the pale-face warriors last night steal into the stronghold of my people?" 
               "The old bear will follow its cub-the dove will seek its mate," was the figurative reply of Miller, who well understood how much the prolonging of the interview with the great chief depended on his skilful answers. 
               "Yet those you sought were the rightful property of those who conquered the pale-faces, and gathered scalps, as the harvester gathers corn. Warrior of the pale-face, you and your companions were more brave than wise, to enter the stronghold of the red-man on such an errand." 
                
               "Is the she bear wise that rushes upon the hunter's bullet in defence of her cub?" was the interrogative reply. 
               "The she bear takes the consequences of her temerity-the paleface must take his," was the rejoinder of the Shawnee chief. "Warrior, the red-man was once as the leaves of the forest in numbers, and, like the deer that runs free, was happy on his own domains. The pale-face came, and the red-man retired to give him room. But not content with territory, the pale-face still intrudes upon the hunting grounds of the red-man, to rob him of his own, and drive him farther towards the setting sun. Let him go peacefully, and what then? The pale-face, more arrogant and avaricious from easy victory, will follow his trail, and seek to drive him farther. There are no bounds to his cravings. But he must and shall have limits. Already the red man knows he is not invincible. Does the pale-face warrior want proof-let him seek the wigwams of my people, and he will there behold the long-pole bending with the weight of trophies, as the tree bends with the weight of fruit. Let the pale-face ask whence came these trophies, and the red-man will point him to a great victory, where the arms that took them were made weary by numbers. The warriors of the pale-face were there that day, in all their strength, with their women and children by to cheer them on, and nerve their arms for deeds of valor. Yet the red-man conquered. He shall always conquer. Yes, (raising his voice, and throwing into it all the powerful eloquence of lofty, energetic passion, while his eyes brighted till they fairly seemed to flash,) yes, he shall always conquer. The pale-face shall be driven from the land that is not his own; and then, and not till then, shall there be peace. He shall wail for his women-he shall weep for his young. He shall sue for mercy-but find it not. He shall tear his hair, and curse the hour that he was born. His women shall become squaws of the red-man-his children shall hunt with their father's victors, and forget the race they are of, and the mothers that bore them. The war-cry is sounded, the hatchet is red, the pipe is broken, and the pale-face shall never know peace, till he finds it in dust, or his trail leads toward the rising sun, and crosses the Great Hills
                     Alleghany Mountains
                   that divide him from his fatherland. Warrior of the pale-face, the lips of a great chief have been opened, and thou hast heard words of prophetic wisdom. Catahecassa has spoken." 
               Nothing could exceed the dignity, the majestic bearing of Black Hoof, as, upon ending his brief speech, he turned away from the captive, amid outbursts of applause from the hearers of his own nation. His eye emitted an almost unearthly gleam, his nostrils expanded, his form towered aloft, and he did, indeed, seem a prophet of the olden day, who had just broken the seal of the great book of the future and read its contents. 
                
               As he drew near the door of the council-house, several of the minor chiefs and braves surrounded him, and a short consultation was held in a tone too low to reach the ears of Miller, who still remained unbound, but surrounded by a strong guard. The scout had seen, and heard enough, however, to know that his own doom, and that of his companions, was sealed. In fact he believed, when taken, that no mercy would be shown; and, therefore, had he fought with desperation, until overpowered by numbers. The words of his brother, however, were not forgotten; but the more he reflected upon them, the less ground there seemed to build a hope upon. His brother, whom at first he considered false, he now believed to be true. Yet what would it avail, save in the consoling reflection, that he had one friend among many enemies? What could Posetha do? His will might be good enough-but what could he do? What was one man among hundreds? What was one voice among thousands? 
               While revolving these thoughts in his mind, a young, athletic warrior, from the party near the door, came up to Miller, and tapping him on the shoulder, made signs that he should follow him. At the same time, another party, numbering one to each prisoner, approached our friends, and proceeded to cut them loose. The Indians then made signs that the captives should arise and follow them; but in attempting to stand, only one of them succeeded at the first-trial. The exception was Lieutenant Wilkes, who, by some means, had not been as tightly bound as the others, and did not therefore experience the same numbness, in consequence of the stoppage of the circulation of the blood. He however felt very much stiffened from the cold, and weak from loss of rest and food; for the reader must bear in mind, that the party had not tasted any thing-not even so much as a drink of water-since their capture. 
               After repeated trials, during which the Indians exhibited their haste, and vented a small share of their hatred, by repeated kicks on the bodies of our friends, the latter succeeded in getting upon their feet. Edward was the last to rise: and when he finally did so, it was only by a great effort he could stand. He felt stiff, numb, and weak, with occasionally sharp darting pains through his body, and a slight dizziness in his head. 
               "Cheer up, poor lad!" said Colonel Danforth, in a low, tender tone. "It is a great trial we are about to undergo, and I sincerely pray we may be able to bear it as becomes American officers." 
               These were the first words the Colonel had ventured to address to one of his companions, since being taken a prisoner; and he was now warned against repeating the offence, by receiving a backhand blow across the face, from one of the savages, which caused his lips to swell. The Colonel started, his eyes flashed, and he instinctively placed his right hand to his left side, as if to draw his sword; but instantly recollecting himself, his countenance fell, and and turning a hopeless, mournful look upon Edward, he bowed his head upon his bosom, and quietly walked alongside of the young savage that had him in charge. 
               As one by one our friends passed out of the council-house, each beheld a sight which involuntarily made him recoil. But ere we describe what they saw, we will open another chapter. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VI. 
               THE GANTLET AND TRIAL. 
               THE morning was cold and disagreeable, with a sharp north wind. It had ceased storming; but heavy, dreary-looking clouds were floating through the icy atmosphere, if we may be allowed such a phrase, and the ground was covered with a thick sleet, making it very slippery. But this was scarcely noted by any but the old scouts, and only by them, as it regarded their chances of escaping from immediate death, even as the sailor scrutinizes each object on the coast against which he knows his vessel is about to strike. What more especially arrested the attention of all, were the signal preparations made for the prisoners to run the gantlet. About a dozen or twenty yards from the council-house, and extending down nearly to the bank of the river, forming two parallel lines, of something like a quarter of a mile in length, were arranged the majority of the men, women, and children of Piqua, armed with muskets, tomahawks, knives, and war-clubs. They were indiscriminately mixed, as regarded sex, age, and size, but the lines were very straight, the distance between them being about ten feet. 
               The moment our friends neared the assemblage, accompanied by their savage guard, they were greeted with one universal yell of ferocious delight; and as they passed down the lines, several old squaws and children, with now and then a warrior, came up to them, and indignantly saluted them with foul epithets, pinching them with their fingers, striking them with their hands and fists, and sometimes with the weapons they carried-so that before they reached the other end, most of them were considerably bruised. But here the greatest trial of all awaited some of them; for here were assembled all the female prisoners, to the number of ten, among whom were Mrs. Danforth, and Lucy, and the wife of Lieutenant Wilkes. 
               Of course it is useless for us to attempt to describe the feelings of the Colonel, the Major, and Lieutenant, as each beheld the being he best loved on earth, surrounded by a strong body of savages, who would permit no communication, but who seemed to take a demoniac delight in the more refined mode of torture, of exhibiting one to the other, as it might be for the last time-for there was a great uncertainty that either would be able to run the gantlet successfully, and the chances were greatly against them. Mrs. Danforth, Lucy, and Mrs. Wilkes, were weeping bitterly, and wringing their hands in the agony of despair; and tears of sympathy were coursing the cheeks of the others, although there were none among the prisoners of any kin to them. 
               "This is the severest blow of all," groaned the Colonel. "Better for me had I died on the field of battle." 
               "Oh! could I see my friends in safety, how willingly would I purchase the boon with my life!" sighed Edward. 
               At this moment some half a dozen warriors, whom our friends had not before observed, approached the prisoners; and fixing their eyes upon the Colonel, a few hurried ejaculations passed between them; and then suddenly rushing up to the veteran officer, much to the surprise of all, they peered eagerly into his countenance, and uttered loud, peculiar whoops. Then they commenced dancing around him, shouting, in Shawnee: 
               "The chief that dodged the balls! The chief that dodged the balls!" 
               The cry was immediately taken up by others, the lines were instantly broken, and in a few moments the prisoners found themselves surrounded by the whole assemblage, all eager to get a sight of one so distinguished; and their whoops and yells of delight, made the welkin ring as with the orgies of demons. 
               At first it was the belief of the Colonel, and the other officers, that they were to be sacrificed on the spot; but a hurried translation of the Shawnee words, made by Miller, re-assured them, and solved the mystery. The warriors who last approached the party, and uttered the whoops, had discovered in the Colonel, notwithstanding his disguise, the brave officer who commanded a regiment on St. Clair's ill-fated field of battle, and in him the living target which so many unerring marksmen had failed to touch. The capture of so noted an individual, of course, caused great rejoicing among the savages, mingled with a degree of respect they had not before felt for any of the prisoners, whom, hitherto, they considered rather in the light of thieving vagabonds, than as personages of any greater consequence. 
               The Indian, as all know, who know anything of his history, is a being of great natural superstition; it is a part of his early training and education; and when he is brought in contact with a mystery his limited mental attainments will not enable him to solve, he experiences a feeling of awe, in some cases amounting to veneration. 
               This, to a certain degree, was the effect produced on the unlettered minds of the savages, on hearing each warrior of the six declare, that the Colonel had been the mark against which they had collectively directed more than fifty bullets, and that all had failed to take him from his saddle, a thing before unknown in their experience. He must, they argued, have been especially protected by Mishemenetoc,
                     The Great God, or Good Spirit.
                   and was, in consequence, rightfully entitled to a degree of respect and consideration never bestowed upon ordinary victims. A hurried consultation among the principal men of the nation, decided that the Colonel should, for the present at least, be exempted from running the gantlet; and he was immediately escorted back to the council-house, by a large party of warriors, who were in turn followed by a great number of women and children. 
               This diversion in favor of the Colonel, was doubtless the means of saving his life, and, it may be, the lives of more than one of his fellow prisoners; for the lines being immediately formed again, of course the number withdrawn reduced the chances against those doomed to the race. Edward was the first selected to make the trial; and as he prepared to start, he turned his eyes for a moment upon the being he loved, who seemed to implore him, with anguished looks, to make an effort for his life, if only for her sake. We have said, that when brought upon the ground, he was very weak and exhausted; but looking upon her, somehow, seemed to renew his strength, and nerve him for the dreadful task before him: and when at length he suddenly bounded forward, it was with such fleetness, that for a time he fairly escaped the blows aimed at him on both sides. But he had not run more than twenty yards, when a stroke on the head from a war-club, in the hands of an old squaw, made him reel, and he heard Lucy shriek in terror. Again he redoubled his efforts; but the blows now unfortunately fell thick, fast, and heavy; and he was on the point of sinking under them, when he heard the voice of Miller shouting: 
               "Break the lines! break the lines, and escape outside!" 
               This he had before heard, according to the Indian code, was a lawful mode of proceeding, and he determined to take advantage of it. Turning suddenly upon the right line, therefore, where it chanced to be supported by women and children only, he exerted his remaining strength, and burst through. He now knew if he could reach the council-house, he would for the time be safe; but this required another almost superhuman effort, for a hundred yells behind assured him he was followed, while the way before him was blocked up by a large crowd, who had forsaken the gantlet to bar his progress. With no time for thought, but acting rather by instinct stinct or impulse, he bounded away to take a circuit, while the most active of his enemies darted forward to intercept him. By this means his chances of escape were reduced to the very smallest number; and already looking upon himself as lost, he was on the point of yielding to their mercy, when a guardian Providence again interposed in his favor; for his friends, seeing the lines broken, thought it a favorable moment for themselves to gain the place of refuge, or Indian sanctuary, and instantly set out; and the cry that the prisoners were escaping drew down the whole assemblage upon the latter, and left Edward's course unobstructed, who, instantly profiting by his good fortune, reached the council-house alive, but so exhausted that he fell fainting in the door-way. 
               As for the others, though in some instances badly bruised, all reached the council-house save one. This was the scout named Hale, who, chancing to slip on the sleety ground, was struck on the head with a tomahawk, and instantly killed, much to the regret of his enemies, who mourned the loss of another victim to the stake. 
               The running of the gantlet over, the captives were again bound, but with their hands at liberty. They were then offered food, which they eagerly devoured; after which water was given them, and they were informed that their trial would immediately take place. 
               In the meantime, the party that had been sent out as scouts, returned, and reported that they had fallen upon the trail of three white men, who had escaped from the village the night previous; that this trail they had followed several miles, but finding it led directly toward Fort Jefferson, and the pursued having had several hours the start, they had deemed it advisable to return and state what they had seen. This report was made to Black Hoof, just as he was on the point of entering the council-house the second time, to take part in the trial of the captives. On hearing it, he immediately advanced to Miller, and questioned him concerning those who had escaped. The answers of the scout tallying with what he had heard from his own informants, the chief nodded his head, in token of approval, and moving away toward the centre of the council-house, signified to his subordinates that he was now ready to proceed with the grand business of the day. 
               About fifty persons were present, consisting of chiefs, and the most distinguished warriors, whose signal and daring feats in battle had entitled them to take an active part in the councils of the nation. These were all that were allowed to enter the council-house; but a large crowd, composed of inferior warriors, women, and children, surrounded the building, all eager to catch the words of wisdom that were sure to fall from venerated lips. 
               Black Hoof, making known his readiness to open the trial, the prisoners were all brought forward, Colonel Danforth among the number, and placed in the centre of the building; while the chiefs and warriors proceeded to seat themselves upon the benches ranged around the walls, with all the solemn gravity of judges entering the courts of olden time, when justice was dispensed in the dignified apparel of black gowns and powdered wigs. 
               For some moments a deep and solemn silence prevailed, during which the eyes of the captors were fixed with savage sternness upon the captives, while here and there a sudden gleam of vindictive malice, which the former could not wholly restrain, warned the latter that all hope of mercy must be abandoned. At length an aged man arose, whose wrinkled features, white scalp-lock, and palsied limbs, proclaimed him bending under the weight of a century; and after looking upon the prisoners for a short time, during which his still keen black eyes seemed to burn with a deep-seated, unconquerable hatred, he slowly turned toward Black Hoof, and raising his right hand, thus delivered himself in a cracked and tremulous tone: 
               "Many, many snows have fallen upon the head of Unemake,
                     Thunder.
                   and it is white with years of wisdom-therefore let my brother's ears be open, that his words may enter. A great many moons before any here beheld the sun, Unemake was a warrior, on the trail of his red-foe. The trail fed along the sands of the salt waters of the South, and there were no spreading feet
                     Alluding to the whites turning their toes outward when walking-a thing never done by a savage.
                   to come after, and hide it from the eyes of Unemake. 
                     Whan
                     When
                   Unemake had taken the scalp of his red enemy, and hung it upon his lodge-pole, he was done; there were no more foes to conquer; and the pipe of peace was smoked, and the deer bounded free in the hunting grounds of the great Shawnees. The wives and young of Unemake then laughed in their security, and gave thanks to Mishemenetoc for all his blessings. 
               "Now it is not so," pursued the aged speaker, growing impassioned with his subject, while a heavy scowl deepened the wrinkles of his forehead. "From the rising sun has come the detestable pale-face, who seeks to destroy the red-man, root and branch. Not content with hunting his game, laying waste his fields, and burning his towns, he seeks to kill the rightful owners of the soil, that there may be none to dispute his possessions. Have my brothers forgotten the awful destruction of ten snows agone, when the Piqua people were made outcasts, with not a hut to shelter them, and all by these white blood-hounds?
                     In 1782, General Clark, with an army of one thousand men, attacked and destroyed the Piqua towns.
                   The Great Spirit has ever since been angry with his children, for being women, and he demands constant sacrifice to be appeased. When the combined nations of the red-man won the last great victory over his enemy, the Great Spirit looked down and smiled, for he was glad to see that all were not squaws. But he still demands victims, and the Shawnees must offer him all they have. The prisoners must die by torture, that the Great Spirit may continue pleased, and that the bones of murdered friends may rest in peace. So says Unemake, and years give him wisdom." 
               As the old man ceased speaking, and resumed his seat, there was considerable sensation among his auditory, and many were the nods and grunts of approbation which he received. As soon as perfect silence was restored, a young chief, in whose grim countenance were depicted the most fiendish passions, arose, and in a fierce, harsh voice, and with a manner truly ferocious, gave utterance to the following: 
               'Brothers, the words of the great Unemake are true. The Great Spirit is angry with his children for being cowards. He demands the blood of the pale-face dogs to appease his wrath. The dogs are here, ready for the sacrifice. Let them die! Wishemuck would have them burned at a slow fire. Wishemuck will be there to make them howl. The women and children of the brave Shawnees shall have a day of rare sport. The old and the young shall laugh to crying at the howls of the coward dogs. Let them die! let them die! Wishemuck has said." 
               Several short speeches were now made in quick succession, by chiefs and warriors, all similar to those we have recorded. All were for the death of the prisoners-all were for having them die at the stake. At last it came Black Hoof's turn to give the closing address. The most profound silence now reigned in the house, and every eye was fixed upon him-for such are the marks of the deference which the true orator never fails to command, whether in the Senate of a civilized nation, or in the councils of the untutored savage. 
               Slowly, calmly, and with grace and dignity combined, the great chief rose to his feet, and glanced his dark, eagle eye over the assembly. There was no expression on his countenance by which one could tell the thoughts of his soul. Every feeling, whether of mercy or revenge, was so controlled as to leave no outward sign. At length, in his peculiarly distinct and sonorous voice, he broke the impressive silence. 
               "Brothers," he said, and again his dark eye wandered over all present-over the prisoners, as well as those of his own tribe:-"Brothers, when the Great Spirit made man, he made two races. To one he gave a white skin, and the knowledge of books, with great power of invention-to the other, a red skin, with all the facilities of hunting. The one he placed on the land beyond the great waters-the other on the hunting grounds between the mighty seas. The Great Spirit knew that the two races were not alike, could not live in harmony together, and thus he divided them. Brothers, a great many hundred snows came and went, and still the two races remained separate, and neither knew aught of the other. At last the pale-face, not content with what the Great Spirit had given him, built him a big canoe, and paddled over the great waters, to seek new lands. When he came, he was an infant, and the red man could have killed and scalped him; but he begged so hard to stay a few moons, when he promised to go away peacefully, that the red-man, full of mercy and kindness, bade him remain and eat his homminy. 
               "Now mark the result! Brothers, the pale-face spoke with a forked tongue. When the time came for him to go, he went not; but more pale-faces came, and all declared they would stay. The red-man, indignant at their falsity, made war upon them; but still more pale faces came, and they kept their ground. They brought with them poisoned water, and made beasts of the red-men-made them idiots and madmen-and when they lacked reason, the palefaces took advantage of it, and, by many false devices, got possession of their hunting grounds. A hundred and fifty snows came and went, and the red-children of the forest had no home beyond the Great Hills, and could no more bathe in the salt waters of the rising sun. But they said to themselves, the land of the setting sun is ours, and we will be content to live in peace. 
               "Brothers, have the red-men been allowed to smoke the pipe of peace, and bury the hatchet forever? No! for the pipe is already broken, the hatchet has been dug up, and is now red. Why is it so? Because the pale-faces have made their trails toward the setting sun, and have sought to trample under foot the red-children of the Great Spirit, who gave them the lands for a possession forever. The Great Spirit is angry with the pale-faces for seeking what is not their own; and he has made the arms of his red-children strong against them in battle. The lodge-poles of his red-children are always heavy with the scalps of the pale-faces, and, are many moons pass over, they shall break with the weight that shall be upon them. 
               "Brothers, the pale-faces must be exterminated, or driven back to fatherland! The Indian must have his hunting grounds, his home, his forests, and the wild beasts must roam unmolested by other hands than those for whom the Great Spirit made them. The red-man and pale-face cannot live together, unless one has the supremacy. Who shall it be? Shall the red-man, who, for hundreds of snows, has walked freely and proudly from the salt waters of the rising sun, to the salt waters of the setting sun, and has said boldly, 'These are my hunting grounds; here will I build my wigwams; there will I plant my corn; yonder will I shoot my deer:' shall he, the favored child of the Great Spirit, now cringe, and bow, and bend the knee, and peaceably wear the yoke of his white invader? Shall he forget the proud race he is of, the hot war-blood that courses his veins, the deeds of his fathers and become a squaw, an infant: ay, worse than these, a servile slave? Shall he sink to that depth of degradation, that the spirits of his fathers, who have gone to the spirit-land hunting grounds, shall be forced to bewail him as lost, and thus be rendered unhappy? Brothers, shall all this be?" 
               Then pausing, and sweeping his auditory with an eagle-glance, an eye of fire, the old chief raised himself to his fullest height, till he fairly seemed to tower aloft like some giant, and stretching his arms upward, and bringing them down with wild vehemence he thundered forth: 
               "Catahecassa says no!-his people say no! a hundred nations of red-men-say no!-the running deer, the stealthy catemount, the leaping panther, the hugging bear, the forests, the rivers, the mountains, the lakes, the winds-all, all, all shout no, no, no!-and last, and best, and greatest, the Great Spirit says no, through the months of his prophets." 
               As Black Hoof uttered the last words, a fierce, universal yell of delight, from the assembled chiefs and warriors, and also from the listeners without, attested the popularity of his language, and the great power he had of working up the feelings of his people to the highest degree. In fact, the instances were very rare, that a grave council, like the present one, had ever been known to be disturbed by such fierce outbursts of applause; and the speaker that could so readily overcome the apparently cold indifference of the Indian, might be set down as possessing natural gifts of the very highest order, and only needed the refinement and enlargement of a proper education, to fit him for the lofty station of a statesman in the civilized world. 
               Waiting quietly till silence had again been restored, the chief resumed, in a deep, solemn tone: 
               "But, brothers, though the Great Spirit is now on the side of his red-children, and is pleased with their success in battle against the pale-face, he desires not the sacrifice of victims at the stake. 
               "No! the cries wrung from torture are not music in his ears, whether the tortured be white man or red. It is right to slay in battle, and gather scalps; but to burn prisoners is wrong, and unworthy of a brave people. The offences of the captives before me are great, and perhaps death should be their punishment-but let it be a quick and speedy death. Our ends would be answered all the same-for there would be so many foes the less to come against us. Catahecassa would even go still further, and spare the lives of the pale-faces, on condition they would become Indians; for then the red-man would not only weaken the forces of his enemies, but add so much strength to his own. But Catahecassa will not urge this point; for he sees his brothers are set against it, and he will be satisfied with their death without torture. Against torture in any form, he now utters his solemn protest, and warns his brothers that the Great Spirit will be angry. Brothers, let reason and right have ascendency over passion and wrong, and great shall be the blessings which Mishemenetoc will shed upon his chosen people. Truth from the heart has passed the lips of Catahecassa, and entered the ears of his brothers-let them retain it and be wise. The great chief of the Piquas has spoken."
                     Though a great and daring warrior, and for a long time a bitter enemy of the whites, Black Hoof was ever distinguished for the possession of many noble virtues; and among the rest, that rare attribute in an Indian-humanity toward his enemies, when left to his mercy. He was ever opposed to torturing prisoners, and to poligamy. After the peace of 1795, he became a warm friend of the whites. He lived to the great age of 110 years.
                  
                
               The closing remarks of Black Hoof were not without their effect upon his hearers; but still it was plainly to be perceived, even by those of our friends who understood not his language, that what he had just spoken was far from being as popular as what he had uttered previously. But the time had now come for deciding the fate of the prisoners by vote, and accordingly no more speeches were made. The voting was done in this manner. A war-club was passed around the circle, and whoever was in favor of putting the prisoners to death by torture, struck it fiercely on the ground-whoever was opposed to this, handed it quietly to his neighbor-the votes for and against being recorded by cutting notches on opposite sides of a stick, which were afterwards counted. Black Hoof passed it in silence, as did some half a dozen others; but the majority decided against the prisoners, and accordingly their doom was sealed. 
               A short discussion now followed, in regard to the time and place for the execution of the horrible sentence, which was finally settled for the following day, on an open piece of ground, just below the southern limits of the village. 
               The council now broke up, and the hands of the prisoners were bound, and a guard set over them. They were informed of the decision by Miller, who added, that unless Providence interposed in their favor; they had not over twenty-four hours to prepare themselves for the last great change of death. 
               But the night following the doom of the prisoners, was one of strange, startling, and thrilling events, to which we shall forthwith call the reader's attention. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER VII. 
               THE MYSTERIOUS GUIDE. 
               IT was past midnight, and silence once more reigned in the Piqua village. Chiefs, warriors, women, and children, all had retired to their several places of repose. We say all; but we must except the sentinels that guarded the town, the guard set over the prisoners, and the prisoners themselves, with whom poignant thought was too busy to permit of sleep, or even rest. The morrow was looked forward to as an eventful day-by one party as a day of fiendish amusement and savage delight-by the other, as a day of calamity the most terrible. 
               In one of the largest lodges, the female captives were all confined together-an unusual occurrence-and three old hags were placed over them, whose duty it was to sit up and watch all night, to prevent the recurrence of a scene similar to the one we have previously described. The night was cold, but still cloudy and dark, and the female prisoners were huddled together in one corner, with no other bed than the damp ground, and no other covering than the few pieces of wearing apparel which they had been allowed to retain since being robbed of the balance. The old hags, with warm skins thrown over their shoulders, and wrapped around their persons, were squatted upon the earth, near the only door of the wigwam. Till a late hour they smoked their pipes, and talked over the events of the day, and at last became silent, and, if the truth must be told, began to doze, and nod, notwithstanding they had been repeatedly charged to be very watchful. Had there been but one, it is altogether probable she would not have suffered her eyes to close for an instant; but there being three, all felt more confidence, and became more careless, in consequence of each relying upon her companion's vigilance. Suffice it to say, that it was hardly an hour past midnight, ere, from nodding and dozing, in a dreamy state, all glided into the utter forgetfulness of a heavy sleep. Even the white females, with all the painful incidents of the past day fresh in their memory-with all the horrors of the coming day staring them in the face began to doze; for such is our nature, that long fatigue and excitement will cause us to sleep upon the very brink of death-the awful threshold of eternity. 
               Lucy and her mother had, by the arrangement of the night, been brought together, and left to comfort each other-a circumstance which had not before occurred since their captivity. Entwined in each other's arms, they had mingled their tears, and had both united ted in a fervent prayer to the great Father of Mercy, that he would deliver them from the hands of the enemy, with the friends they loved, or take them to himself. Weeping, and praying, and striving to console each other with words of hope which each believed fallacious, and which were spoken in whispers too low to reach any ears but their own, they gradually fell into that state which can neither properly be called sleeping nor waking, but which partakes very strongly of both. 
               At this moment, had you, reader, been standing close beside the lodge without, within a step of the entrance, with your eyes fixed on the ground at your feet, you would doubtless have observed some object, which owing to the darkness, you would, without closer inspection, have pronounced a log of wood, a stone, a slight elevation of the ground, or any thing, in short, but what it really was. But had you watched it closely for a few minutes, you would have been undeceived, as to its being a collection of inanimate matter; for though you might not have seen or heard it move, you could not have failed to be made aware that its length gradually shortened, as if it were being drawn into the wigwam. Three minutes later, you would have found it had entirely vanished, without being much the wiser as to what it really was. 
               In another five minutes, had you waited patiently, you might have seen the same object re-appear, but much quicker than it had disappeared, and, by its suddenly rising to an erect posture, you would have pronounced it a human being, and made no mistake. 
               Yes, it was a human being-a man-and if not an Indian, it at least had all the appearance of one, even to the habiliments and paint. As this mysterious, nocturnal visitant, rose to his feet, he moved softly around the lodge, and at the point where the prisoners were huddled together, began to remove the outside covering, as if to effect another entrance. In this proceeding he was not long engaged, when, from the dark hut, a single female figure glided to his side, and then another and another, till at last not less than ten surrounded him, all as silent as spectres, and to which, in the manner of making their appearance, without noise, they might be truly likened. 
               Not a word was spoken-not a whisper breathed-not a respiration, sigh, or sound of any kind was audible, as the liberator of the captives proceeded to close up the orifice he had made in the building. When he had completed this, he drew close to each female, and made signs of silence, by placing his finger upon his lips; and warned them of the danger of discovery, by rapidly going through the motions of taking a scalp. He then glided away in the darkness, apparently without touching the earth, and the ten figures followed, Indian file, in the same silent and stealthy manner. 
               For something like ten minutes, they carefully threaded their way among the clustering lodges, which could just be discerned in time to be avoided; and then, with a degree of joy amounting almost to wildness, but which they were forced to restrain, the prisoners found themselves on the outskirts of the town, and on the borders of a mighty forest. The guide still continued, with stealthy tread and guarded silence, to pick his way among the trees, as he had done among the huts; and as well as they could, the captives imitated his movements. It was of course impossible to prevent the feet from causing the dead leaves to rattle, while here and there the sharp snapping of a dry twig made many a heart beat almost audibly with fear. 
               For several minutes all went well, and the prisoners were just congratulating themselves, mentally, upon having passed all immediate danger, when the guide suddenly stopped, and in the lowest possible whisper, said, "Hist!" so low, indeed, that it had to be repeated half way down the file to make the last one hear it. 
               It must be confessed, that, for females, the captives had so far behaved with the most praiseworthy prudence; and for once ten female tongues had done sufficient penance to pardon ten hundred gossips, by keeping still at a time when a few inquiries, if only for curiosity-sake, would have been a wonderful relief to minds wrought up to the highest degree of mysterious excitement. And now, when all heard the word "hist," the questions, "What is it? what has happened? is there great danger?" were upon every tongue, but fortunately were not spoken. 
               As soon as the guide had uttered his warning exclamation, he dropped upon his knees, applied his ear to the ground, and listened. Then rising to his feet, he made signs to the one nearest to him not to speak nor stir; and she, in the same silent way, communicated it to the next behind her, and so it went down the line. The guide then strode forward, and a single moment sufficed to lose his figure in the pitchy darkness; but the unavoidable crushing of the dry leaves could be heard some time longer, indicating the course he had taken. 
               At last all became still, and a short, but painful, suspense succeeded. Suddenly, all were startled by an Indian exclamation, like the challenge of a sentinel. There was a reply, in another voice, and then a conversation in low tones followed. This fasted only a few moments, and was apparently broken off by the treacherous commission of a terrible crime-for a sentence, seemingly only half completed, was ended by a sharp groan; and then was heard a dull sound, as of the fall of some heavy body. 
               The females now became really terrified, and, no longer able to control their feelings, had just begun to consult one another, in startling whispers, upon what was best to be done, when a voice close to them said- 
               "Follow!" 
               It was the voice of their liberator; and though it in a great measure sure re-assured them, yet it was with trembling steps, and palpitating hearts, they complied with his request. The recollection of that groan, and the fall and silence that succeeded it, made them shudder; for the suspicion that murder had been done, seized upon them, and could not be reasoned away. True, it might be it was murder in self-defence, to save their own lives, and the life of their conductor; but it was still a fearful thing to think of, even under the exciting circumstances in which they were placed. No questions were asked of their guide, however, and no explanations were made by him, but all continued to move forward silently and stealthily. 
               At length they came to a small stream, one of the tributaries of the Miami, which the guide entered, followed in turn by the others. The run was not deep, but rapid, and it was with no little difficulty that the females could maintain a foothold on the slippery stones that formed its bed. The water, too, was so cold as to be painful; and to persons who had previously known but few or no hardships, this walking a rivulet, in the late hours of a freezing night, was a trial of a very severe nature. And when we add the fact, that the prisoners knew nothing of whither they were going, or for what purpose, we think we can safely say, that they displayed a degree of prudence and firmness that might well place them in the rank of heroines. 
               True, they believed they were escaping from a barbarous captivity; but the only reason they had for supposing so, were the few sentences in broken English, which the guide had conveyed to one of them, in whispers, during the interval of his entering and coming out of the hut in which they were confined. It so chanced, that the first one he addressed, was the wife of an officer who had fallen in the battle we described in the opening chapter, and one of the six that sought to escape under the escort of Sergeant Bomb. She was a woman of great firmness, and strong nerve; and when she was suddenly aroused from a kind of dreamy doze, by feeling a strange, cold hand touch hers, she had sufficient presence of mind not to make the least noise. 
               "Would pale-face escape?" was whispered in her ear. 
               "Yes," was the eager reply. 
               "Hist! no noise-squaw wake! was the rejoinder. "Tell friends so. When pale-face squaw see hole in lodge, him come. If speak, if scream, him lost;" and with this the hand was withdrawn, and, by the slightest movement of the skin at the door of the hut shortly after, she felt certain that the mysterious visitant had made his exit. 
               She had then proceeded to gently rouse the others, and communicate what she had heard; and had so well succeeded in conveying the information, and impressing upon them the importance of silence, that all escaped, as we have seen, without creating the least alarm; and believing their fate could not be changed for the worse, all had quietly followed their guide, who so far had offered no explanation. But to return. 
               After continuing up stream for some thirty or forty yards, the guide came out of the water, and held the same course on the land for a similar distance, when he again entered the stream, and facing about, proceeded to retrace his steps-the females still following, but greatly wondering what would be the result of this apparent change of purpose-they not having had experience enough in Indian wiles and cunning, to know that the object of their conductor was to break the trail, and, if possible, baffle the parties that were sure to be out in pursuit, as soon as the escape of the captives should become known. 
               Continuing now adown the bed of the stream, the guide passed the place where the whole party had at first entered the water, and, as the creek run close to the northern extremity of the village, the captives began to entertain fears that he had changed his first generous intentions, and was now leading them back to savage bondage. 
               "Why do you return, friend?" queried the foremost, in a whisper, the same the guide had first spoken to, and who was the widow of Captain Marvale, slain in battle. 
               "Tush!-no speak!-lose scalp!" was the warning reply; and again a long silence followed, during which nothing could be heard but the rippling murmur of the stream, as it dashed along its rocky bed, with occasionally a splash, as now and then a foot slipped in the water; and which slips were rendered more frequent, in consequence of the feet being benumbed with cold. 
               At last the party came opposite the village; and the stream, which thus far had run swift and shallow, now began to grow still and deep. The guide here came to a halt, and merely whispering, "Squaw no breathe now," he continued to move forward some eight or ten yards, in which distance the water deepened from eight inches to three feet. Approaching the bank farthest from the town, this mysterious individual now unloosed three canoes, and waded back, drawing them after him. These canoes were securely lashed together, side by side, with strips of deer-skin; and in consequence of this, were rendered almost secure against upsetting, even in a rapid and serpentine current. 
               The mysterious Indian now informed the prisoners, in whispers, and in his own peculiar manner, that they must enter these boats, and in no case allow the slightest exclamation to escape them, no matter what might happen, nor how severely they might be tried by perceptible dangers. Seating four in each of the side-boats, and the remaining two in the centre one, he entered this last himself, and standing erect in the bow, with a long paddle in his hands, made a few vigorous but silent sweeps, and then allowed his singular craft to float quietly down the stream. 
                
               For a time all went smoothly, safely, and silently, and the town was almost passed, when the musical sound of running water began to be audible, gradually growing louder, till presently all became aware they were approaching either a cascade or furious rapids. Had there been light sufficient for the purpose, there might have been seen many a pale face, and compressed lip, in that triple barge, as it slowly but surely floated down toward the rushing waters, whose first low, distant murmurs, were now changed to a solemn, heavy roar. 
               "Hist!" whispered the guide; and his words were uttered with that fearful distinctness which, more than louder tones, impress one with something awful and mysterious; "Hist! Squaw no speak-no move." 
               Scarcely was the warning given, when a slight shock was felt underneath, and the boats were sent forward with a velocity that showed they had struck the rapid. Now to this side, now to that, were they suddenly shifted by the winding current, dipping here and dipping there, and jerking, and rocking, and obeying every undulation and impulse of the water, but still floating onward as airy and buoyant as a feather or cork. Swifter and more swift now speed the boats, and louder and more loud comes up the roar of the foaming waters from below, giving one the impression of a fearful chasm, adown which one is about to plunge and be for ever engulphed in a whirling pool. 
               On, on speed the boats, and every breath is held, and every heart has ceased to beat, in fearful expectation. Now the last dread moment has come. The boats are suddenly lifted, as by giant hands, and flung forward into the boiling, hissing, foaming surge. Round, round, here and there, right and left, up and down they go; and the flashing of the furious element, and its thundering roar, are all that can be seen and heard by their helpless inmates, as, speechless with terror, they cling spasmodically to their frail sides, and to one another, and mentally call on God for mercy. Suddenly a more fearful shock is felt-a downward, lightning plunge is given-and now, just at the moment when all hope is lost, and the agonized shriek of despair is about to be uttered, the boats glide off quietly into still water, and the roar of the rapids is heard behind. 
               "Danger past-squaw brave," spoke the guide, drawing a long breath of relief; and with his single oar, he gave the boats a vigorous shove, which sent them farther from the hissing waters. "Squaw safe," he continued, "if him make no noise; and still using his paddle gracefully and skillfully on either side, he kept the boats in motion. 
               Presently a slight grating underneath, and the stoppage of the boats, together with a dark mass of something looming up above them, assured the still trembling captives that they had gained land at last. The guide now bade them remain quietly where they were; and stepping ashore, he made the boats fast, and strode away along the beach, and beside the rocky cliff, that rose almost perpendicularly above him to the height of fifty feet. Suddenly he disappeared into a narrow fissure of the rocks, and was absent some five or ten minutes, when he re-appeared, and returned to the females. 
               "Squaw now come," he said, in a low, guarded tone; and immediately retracing his steps, he led his wandering followers in between gigantic rocks, where all was total darkness. 
               The change in the air, and the narrow covered passage, convinced the more experienced of the party that they were entering a cavern; while the others, completely bewildered with their already strange adventures, hardly knew whether the things around them were real, or whether they were being made the sport of some wild, fantastic dream. 
               At length, after following the guide for a considerable distance through a winding, zig-zag passage, which apparently had no outlet or termination, Mrs. Mervale, who was still the foremost of the females, came to a halt, and said- 
               "Mysterious being, be you friend or foe, I will go no farther, till you tell me whither you are leading us." 
               "Me no traitor," answered the guide, in a tone that showed he felt offended by the suspicion. "Me friend-squaw friend-warrior friend." 
               "But say, whither are you conducting us?" 
               "'Spose me no say?" 
               "Then you would lead us to suppose you have some sinister intention." 
               "What squaw do den?" queried the other. 
               "Refuse to go," answered Mrs. Mervale, resolutely. 
               "Squaw no stand there all time, eh?" 
               "But we would go back." 
               "Where go? Injun wigwam, eh?" 
               "Oh! no-not there. Heaven help us; for I perceive we are too impotent to help ourselves, and we must perforce rely upon your mercy." 
               "Oh! heaven help us indeed!" exclaimed Mrs. Danforth. "Alas! what will become of us, and my poor husband! Ah! well I know what will become of him-for to-morrow he will die at the stake!" and the poor woman fell to weeping, and moaning piteously. 
               "Oh, mother-dear, dear mother-do not say that!" cried Lucy, bursting into tears. 
               The silence once broken by speech, the poor females, one and all, were in a fair way to give loud vent to their long pent up griefs, when the guide restored order, by exclaiming: 
               "Hist! Injun have big ears-hear great way. Squaw be still, and come, and pale-face warrior no die; if don't, him burn to-morrow." 
               "Lead on then! lead on!-oh, for heaven's sake! lead on, and we will do as you desire," returned Mrs. Danforth, in great agitation. 
               The guide said no more, and the party again proceeded in silence. A few more turns in the rough passage, and they were agreeably surprised to find themselves entering a large dry cave, in the central part of which was burning a fire, whose ruddy blaze formed a cheerful contrast to the cold dreary night without. Near the fire were several large pitch-pine knots, to serve them both for fuel and light; and the mysterious guide showed them a quantity of hominy also, which had been conveyed hither expressly for their own use, in the event of their being obliged to remain here any length of time. 
               He then warned them they must in no case leave the cave till his return, even though his absence should extend to a week. Giving them some other advice, unnecessary for us to repeat, he left them to themselves, and re-threaded his way through the narrow passage leading to the water's edge. On reaching the canoes, he cut the thongs that bound them together, and proceeded to secrete two or them in the mouth of the cave. This done, he jumped into the third, and with several strokes of his paddle, sent it floating down the stream. For a moment or two, his dark figure, standing erect in the boat, could be faintly traced in the dim light; and then it blended with the darkness and was lost in the gloom. 
             
             
               CHAPTER VIII. 
               THE ESCAPE AND ALARM. 
               FOUR Indian braves, selected for their keen watchfulness and tried courage, were set as guard over the prisoners doomed to die on the morrow. They were armed with knives, tomahawks, and muskets; and were so placed, that the slightest movement of either of the captives could be seen. But this last precaution seemed unnecessary; for the latter were so tightly and securely bound, that to move at all was next to an impossibility. They were all placed separately in a row, and every man was bound hand and foot, with a strong ligament around his neck and attached to a stake near his head. Two torches stuck in the ground, on either side, cast a ruddy gleam over their dark figures, and showed the swarthy, painted, and repulsive persons of the guard standing over them with that untiring vigilance for which the Indian is so remarkable. 
               It was perhaps two hours from the release of the female captives, as recorded in the foregoing chapter, that a noise outside of the council-house drew the attention of the guard to that quarter. As the noise continued near the entrance, one of the young warriors leveled his musket, and challenged in his native tongue. At the same moment, the skin was pushed rudely aside, and Posetha staggered into the council-house, holding in one hand a small canteen, which he seemed in vain trying to get to his lips, with a drunken gravity truly ludicrous. The Indian that had pointed his musket at the intruder, now elevated the muzzle, and indulged in a silent laugh-a proceeding in which his companions also joined. 
               Posetha, apparently not aware where he was, but winking violently from the effects of the light on his eyes, continued to stagger forward, still trying to bring the canteen to his lips, but, from the unsteadiness of hand and body, not being able to succeed in his purpose. At length he came to a sudden halt-that is to say a drunken man's halt-and balancing himself as best he could, stared curiously upon the guard, whom he now seemingly beheld for the first time. 
               "What are you doing here?" he said, in Shawnee, accompanying his remarks with the usual number of hiccups, and flourishing his canteen with the comical gestures of an intoxicated man endeavoring to appear very wise and dignified. "I say what are you doing here all drunk as beasts? go home, and get sober! and take a sensible friend's advice, and don't ever taste liquor again." 
               Again the guard laughed, and one of them said: "What are you doing here, Posetha!-what have you got in that canteen.?" 
               "Poison," answered the other, fumbling about his dress for a place to hide it, as if afraid it would be taken from him. "Yes, poison," he repeated, beginning to stagger back, as if with the intention of making his escape. "Yes, yes, it wouldn't be good for you-it would make you sick-and so Posetha will take care of it." 
               "Let us try if it will make us sick," laughed the young Indian, approaching the drunken man, and extending his hand, as if to seize it. 
               "No, no, no!" returned Posetha, with drunken eagerness, fumbling more than ever under his scanty garments, and retreating all the time toward the door. "No, no, no!" he repeated dropping the canteen on the ground, and, apparently unconscious of it, continuing his retreat, with quickened, but still unsteady, steps. "It isn't good for ye-its poison-it would kill ye;" and as the last words were uttered, he made a sudden lurch toward the doorway way, missed it, and fell sprawling on the earth, where he lay as if stunned. 
               The Indians laughed heartily, as they passed the canteen round, each taking some three or four large draughts, and smacking their lips with true relish. This emptied the flask, which was now cast toward Posetha, with good-humored derision, and the guard resumed their places near the prisoners. 
               Then it was, reader, had you been near enough for the purpose, you might have seen, in the dark eyes of Posetha, as he still lay extended where he fell, a gleam of intelligence, of malicious triumph, such as the eyes of no really drunken man could by any possibility send forth. And the meaning of this peculiar look was soon apparent; for after the lapse of a few minutes, the heads of the guard, in spite of their efforts to the contrary, began to nod and droop; and in the course of five minutes more, they themselves dropped down in their places, unconscious of every thing around them. 
               The moment Posetha witnessed this, he sprang to his feet, and gliding forward with the stealthy tread of that feline animal from which, and for this reason, he had received his appellation, he approached the prostrate warriors, and bending down, examined each closely, and then carefully withdrew their arms. All this, or as much of it as their peculiar positions would allow, was witnessed by the prisoners, with emotions of hope and joy impossible for us to describe, but with a cautious silence that spoke volumes in favor of their great presence of mind. The hope of liberty, and the fear of failure, caused the blood to alternate between the head and heart, and they in consequence experienced an acute sense of suffocation. 
               The instant Posetha satisfied himself the guard were safe, and deprived of all their weapons, he drew his knife, and with a rapidity that threatened injury to the captives, severed the thongs that bound them. 
               "Brother," he now whispered, in Shawnee, to Harry Miller, "tell your friends to be silent, and speedy, and follow me. If they speak, or make the least noise, all will be lost. I will go before and lead the way; but the moment I halt, let all sink to the earth, and remain so till they hear my signal." 
               "Thou art worthy to be my brother, Christopher," returned Harry, brushing a tear from his eye; and it seems just as if Heaven discovered you to me for the Providential preservation of our lives." 
               He then hurriedly informed the others what Posetha had said, and urged an immediate departure. The force of his words were felt; but unfortunately it was impossible to comply with his request, owing to a want of circulation of blood in their limbs, particularly their legs, from being so long and tightly corded. By quick and vigorous rubbings, however, urged with the desperation of men straining every nerve for life, our friends soon had the satisfaction of finding themselves able to stand, and even walk. The arms of the guard were then distributed among them; and extinguishing the torches, the whole party followed Posetha through the door of the council house, and once more breathed the open air of freedom, though surrounded by dangers the most imminent. With a quick but stealthy step, Posetha led the way through the least frequented and most thinly settled portion of the village, and in the course of ten minutes our friends had the satisfaction of seeing the last but left behind them. 
               It may seem a little surprising to the reader, that two parties should thus have been enabled to leave the town in the dead hours of night, without any disturbance from the dogs; but when we inform him, that all the canine animals which had escaped the deadly drug of Carnele, had been poisoned by Posetha in like manner, there will, we trust, no longer be any mystery. 
               A little distance from the village, the party came to a large enclosure, full of horses. Posetha now informed our friends, through his brother, that they were about to engage in a bold and hazardous adventure, which, if successful, would place them in safety but that there was great danger of creating an alarm, in which case it was impossible to tell what would be the result, though in all probability it would either be death or captivity, and that the fate of himself, as a traitor to the Indians, would be even worse than their own, if, indeed, such a thing were possible. 
               "Well, replied the Colonel, firmly, "it may be death-I cannot say-but as for myself, I will never again be taken alive by these inhuman red-skins. Oh! my wife and child! my wife and child! if they were only free-if I could only know they were in safety-it now seems to me I could endure any fate; but alas! alas! I fear it is useless to hope. But can we not make another effort to save them?" he added, eagerly. "What say you, my brave comrades?" 
               "We can, we must," returned Edward; "at least I for one will go, and either liberate them, or die in the attempt." 
               "Ay, ay, we may as well die now as any time," put in Wilkes. "Come, Posetha must know something of their whereabouts-let us consult him." 
               "Yes, yes, a good idea," chimed in Edward. "But where is he?" he asked, looking around, and addressing his brother, who stood near. 
               "He's scouting round the enclosure, to find out if there's any Indian sentinels about; and, if so, where they're posted," answered the other. 
               "Well, ef I mought just open my jaws agin, arter havin' on 'em shut for sich a infernal long time, by them thar red-niggers, as don't know a B from a buzzard," put in Carnele, who really spoke for the first time since his capture, "I mought jest say to you hot-headed gintlemen, that ef you think o' going back into these here bloodhound's den, to hunt for women, this night, with any hope o' gittin' them away, you're ayther downright mad, or thunderin' sight bigger fools nor ever old John tuk ye for, that's all." 
               "Well, then, what do you advise, Carnele?" queried the Colonel. "You must recollect that the friends we have in captivity are even dearer to us than our own lives; and hence, we would willingly lay down our lives to save them. You, of course, have no such urgent reasons for again putting yourself in jeopardy; and, therefore, I cannot blame you, if you refuse to return on such a hopeless adventure; but as for myself I am resolved, come what may, I will not go hence without them." 
               "Nor I," said Edward. 
               "Nor I," echoed Wilkes. 
               "Now, ef you think what I said, was said because 'o my being afeard to go back with you," rejoined the old scout, "then I've jest got to tell you, that ef you know a heap more'n I do, thar's one thing you don't know, and that's John Carnele, and nothin' else. No, Cunnel Danforth, thar's not a man, boy, red-nigger or black, that you could skeer up atween daylight and sundown, that 'ud risk more'n I would, ef I thought as how any good 'ud come en't: but what's the use 'o your gittin' killed outright, or captur'd and burnt at the stake, jest to show yourself manly-like? Eh! tell me that? D'ye think your wife and child 'ud be any the better for't, eh!" 
               "We run our risks, of course," replied the Colonel, "and if Providence will that we die in the bold attempt, we shall at least have the consolation of knowing we have done our duty, as soldiers and men." 
               "Yes, that may be powerful consolin' to you; but do ye think it 'ud he so to the women? that's the question." 
               "But it is possible we might succeed," interrupted Edward. "We run a great risk, of course; but we are not certain of failure; and we are certain, that unless the trial be made, those we love will remain in captivity worse than death. There is an old saying, that if one waits to have all objections first removed, he will never enter upon any great undertaking." 
               "Well, ef you're determined on goin'," replied Carnele, "here's what'll go along; for nobody never knowed John Carnele desart a friend in need; but I'll tell ye one thing, and that's as true as that we've been in the red-nigger's hands; and that is, ef we go, we'll never come back; and so we mought as well say our prayers, look to heaven, and bid good-by to airth." 
               "But why are ye so positive on this point?" asked Wilkes. "It seems you forget we have once made the trial already. 
                
               "No, it's you that forgit-or ef you remember it, it don't seem to do ye much good. You won't say you succeeded that time, I reckon." 
               "But we might, only for my imprudence," put in Edward. "Had I followed your directions, friend Carnele, as I should have done, doubtless our friends and ourselves would now be in safely, beyond the reach of savages." 
               "I don't know 'bout it, Major-I don't know 'bout it; we mought, and then agin we moughn't; but I know we had a better chance then nor we'll ever hev agin, leastwise for the present. Now ef it was men-old Injen hunters-we was goin' to git out o' deficulty, thar mought be some chance; for with thar exper'ence in such affares, they'd know enough to hold thar tongues at the right time; and when once they was free, they'd add so much strength to our party, instead o' weakening it like women would. And, besides, that's no use in thinkin' as how a feller and a gal as loves one and tother, is ever agoin' to keep their mouths shut when they once git together. The thing arn't in reason, kase it's agin natur, and thar's the upshot of the hull matter. Now ef I was agoin' to advise, I'd say jest let us git away safely ourselves this time, and then wait for a favorable time for makin' a new trial: and then I'd hev nobody go 'cept old exper'enced hunters; and then the women wouldn't hev nothin' to scream about. You see, Cunnel, we knows whar they is now, and that's half the battle." 
               "There is something reasonable in whar you say, I'll allow," replied Colonel Danforth; "but still it seems cruel and cowardly to desert them in the manner you counsel. At least, before I decide either way, I will consult Posetha, and take his advice." 
               "And here he comes," rejoined Miller. "With your permission, I'll speak to him by himself." 
               The foregoing conversation, though not exactly carried on in whispers, was spoken in tones too low and guarded to be audible half a dozen paces from where the party stood, within which distance it was well known there were no unwelcome listeners. The return of Posetha put an end to the discussion, and all stood in silence awaiting the result of the interview between the two brothers. Suddenly Henry Miller made an exclamation in Shawnee, and threw his arms around Posetha's neck. All were of course surprised at this singular proceeding at such a time, and every one was curious to know what it meant. They were not long kept in ignorance; for hurriedly rejoining the party, and dashing the tears from his eyes, Henry exclaimed, in English: 
               "God bless my noble brother, Christopher! He has this night, alone, and unaided, set your friends at liberty, and conducted them to a place of safety." 
               "Heavens! what is this I hear!" said the Colonel, in a low, agitated voice. 
                
               "Our ears must deceive us!" gasped Edward, not daring to believe what he had heard. 
               "It cannot be possible!" put in Wilkes. 
               "It is true," said Miller. "Here's my brother; question him. Come forward, Christopher, and tell us what feats you've performed to-night." 
               The white Indian slowly advanced to the group, and said, in his own peculiar way: 
               "Posetha no lie-no forked tongue got. Pale-face wife, paleface dove, pale-face daughter, safe." 
               "Where? where?" demanded Edward, the Colonel, and Wilkes, in the same breath. 
               "No tell now-spoil all. Come with Posetha, and him show soon-bi'me-by-sometime." 
               "Can this be true?" pursued the still doubting Colonel-doubting through fear, yet believing through hope. 
               "O, I could clasp you to my heart for the words you have spoken, Posetha!" said Edward, rapturously. "May the Great Spirit bless you for this, my friend!" and seizing the hand of the other, he pressed it to his heart, and thought of Lucy as a being whom he might yet so clasp in safety and freedom. 
               Nor were Wilkes and the Colonel behind in testifying their gratitude to the author of their present happiness. Each grasped a hand of the noble fellow, and the eyes of both were dim with tears; as they invoked the blessings of heaven upon his head. 
               "In this, my friends," said the Colonel, solemnly, and feelingly, "do we all behold the hand of a mysterious Providence; for by saving the life of Posetha, we have saved our own; our friends have been set at liberty, and to one of our party has been restored a long lost brother. And more than this, do we not behold the doom of the Indian, when out of the three, only one was spared, and that one a white man. Yes, a doom is upon the red-man; and in spite of all his struggles, all his victories, a few more years will see him driven far beyond his present hunting grounds, and the all-conquering white man will take his place. These forests will then be felled, these fields be turned up by the ploughshare-villages, unlike this behind us, will spring up, and the quiet hum of civilization will be every where heard; and if we live to the appointed age of man, we shall see it. Wo to the Indian-wo! But come, this is no place for moralizing. Posetha, let us away. Yet stay! First tell me how it is possible you can have placed the females in safety, in so short a time? Suppose, for instance, an alarm be given-and there is no knowing how soon that may be-may they not be discovered, and re-taken, before we can get to their assistance?" 
               "Posetha speak no lie, and him say no. Injen cunning, but he no look for him in Haunted Cave." 
                
               "Haunted Cave! and where is that, pray tell us?" 
               "Bi'me-by tell-not now. Come, hosses waiting." 
               "But, surely, you will conduct us to them at once?" queried the Colonel. 
               "Best let him take his own course," interposed Miller, who feared too much pressing on the subject might irritate his brother, whose sulky disposition, when angered, he well remembered from a boy. "Best let him take his own course, Colonel, and you may be sartain he will act discreetly. If he tells you the women are safe, you may depend upon't they are. The Haunted Cave I think I remember; and there was also a few old Indians in the village I knew; but I saw they did'nt recollect me, and so I didn't care to renew the acquaintance-though it might have saved my life, at the expense of my liberty. But come! if I was to give advice, I'd say the quicker we're off, the better; and so 'spose we set about catching these nags. Have you bridle-ropes, brother?" 
               "Me got all him," answered the other. "Me catch hoss, not to make noise-pale-face ride him, eh?" 
               "Yes, you had better catch them yourself, and lead them out here, one at a time; for too many venturing into the enclosure might frighten them." 
               Posetha at once opened the gate, and entered the yard, wherein were confined more than a hundred high-mettled steeds. From one of the pickets near the gate-way, he took down a dozen halters, which he had previously placed here for the very purpose he was now about to use them, and catching the nearest horse, he threw one over his head, and led him forth. There was a fire in the eye of the proud animal, as he arched his neck, champed his teeth, and pawed the earth, that seemed to bespeak safety from Indian pursuit, provided the rider could manage him without saddle, and with no other guide than the halter, which was all he would have to depend upon. Handing the leading rein to the Colonel, Posetha went back for another animal; and but a short time elapsed, ere each of the party had a beast ready for mounting. Posetha then caught one for himself, and announced that all was ready for the start. 
               "Had we not better let the rest loose?" said Colonel Danforth. 
               "For what reason?" asked Miller. 
               "Why, if an alarm should be given, before we are far on the way, would not the savages at once resort here for horses to pursue us? And would they not be more baffled on finding them gone?" 
               "There's something in that-eh, brother?" returned Miller, appealing to Posetha. 
               "Me tink much danger let hoss loose," replied the guide. 
               "But I think there is more to let them remain," pursued the Colonel; "and so, men, we will turn them out-that is, if Posetha does not object." 
                
               "When chief command, warrior obey," replied Posetha, rather coldly. 
               "I mean no offence, my friend," said the Colonel; "but what I have suggested, I think is best; and so, men, throw wide the gate, and let the fiery animals have their liberty." 
               His command was obeyed; and a minute later the snorting, whinnying, prancing and running of the half-tamed beats, created a noise that bade fair to alarm the town. The Colonel saw his error, but it was now too late for remedy. At once he gave the orders to mount and away; but this was much easier said than done; for the haltered steeds, seeing their companions loose, became impatient to join them in their frolic; and they reared, and plunged, and pulled upon their reins, and for a time were wholly unmanageable. 
               Suddenly a shrill whoop came borne upon the still air, making the hearts of our friends sink with fear. This was immediately succeeded by the discharge of a musket, and then by a succession of whoops, in different parts of the village, showing that the alarm had spread. 
             
             
               CHAPTER IX. 
               THE FLIGHT AND PURSUIT. 
               "GRACIOUS heavens!" cried the Colonel, "mount, mount, and away, or we are lost!" and with desperate exertion, as he spoke, he vaulted upon the back of the rearing, plunging, and half-mad steed, which he had only kept within reach by the halter. 
               The moment the animal felt a weight on his back, he made a clean spring from the earth, which nearly threw his rider, and finding himself free at last, darted away like a meteor, bearing directly for the village, in spite of the Colonel's efforts to change his course. Already the first two or three huts on the outskirts of the town were passed, with a velocity that left the Colonel no time for other reflection than that he was being borne with lightning speed into the very hands of his enemies, whose yells and screeches of fury made a horrible din in his ears, and his stout heart quailed as it had never done before, when another horseman, riding even faster than himself, brushed against him, and the next moment he found himself clinging to the mane of his charger, without even so much as a halter in his hands, and speeding away in a direction that quickly placed the town, with its pandemoniac orgies, in his rear. Conscious scious that his horse was guided by the rider along side of him, it was not until the last hut of the town had been left at least two hundred yards behind, that the bewildered Colonel thought of ascertaining whether he was in the hands of a friend or foe. Then, to his surprise and shame-shame for his-own imprudence and bad management-he beheld Posetha, sitting erect on his rushing horse, holding the reins of both halters in his hands, and apparently as calm as if merely riding out for pleasure. With the hot blood mounting to his very temples, at the thought of his own inferiority in such a trying scene, to that of one who had only the barbarous training of savages-he, too, who had commanded a regiment in battle, and won honor and renown for his skill and bravery-the Colonel would have stammered out an apology for his rashness, and expressed his gratitude in the warmest terms for this second preservation of his life, and also his admiration of the bold heroism of his companion, only that his deep emotions choked his utterance, and kept him silent; and in despair of saying anything, he looked behind to see what had become of his friends. To his great delight, he beheld the dusky figures of one after another following close in the lead of Posetha; and with a feeling of security, even though he might soon be pursued by a host, he again turned his attention before him, to note the chances of escape. 
               The course taken by the guide lay over an undulating country, partially cleared, and in some places very stony; and the line of flight, if not deviated from, would strike the Miami about half a mile above the village, at a point where the hill, forming the eastern bank of the river, sloped down into the water, and made an easy ford. As they neared this place, a succession of Indian yells, apparently from a party at no great distance, led our friends to believe themselves hotly pursued by mounted savages, who had anticipated their purpose, and, coming directly up the bank of the river from the town, were striving to cut them off, or engage them in a deadly conflict. And their supposition was correct; for a dozen or twenty of the horses let loose by the Colonel's order, had been caught, and now bore as many hostile riders, all armed and ferociously eager to overtake the fugitives. A resistance, under the present circumstances, was not to be thought of by the latter; for setting aside numbers, they had not a single musket between them-those taken from the guard having been thrown away, as so many incumbrances, at the place of mounting; and knowing flight alone could save them, they lashed their fiery steeds into a perfect fury, and sped on with the velocity of the whirling car of modern days. 
               As Posetha and the Colonel gained the height of the sloping bank, they espied a number of dark moving objects away to their left; and it scarcely needed the furious yells which came borne to their ears, to inform them that these moving bodies were so many mounted and ferocious enemies. Down the bank they plunged, and the next moment the cold water, splashing in their faces and over their persons, told them that their gallant steeds were struggling across the ford; and plunge, plunge behind them, assured them also that their friends were close in their rear. 
               A brief and vigorous floundering in the watery element, which occasionally dashes over horse and rider, and the foremost fugitives have gained the opposite bank, up which they urge their panting and smoking beasts. Another, and another, and still another, and another follow; and as the last one touches the dry earth, and disappears into the undergrowth, which here comes down to the water, the loud yells and splashes behind, warn him of the close proximity of enemies, and that he has still desperate efforts to make to render his escape possible. Up the acclivity press the van, the centre, and rear, to use military terms, and soon the height is gained, and the foremost find themselves upon a small, level opening, over which they still urge their horses with the speed of fear and desperation. They have scarcely gone fifty yards, and the hindermost of the fugitives is just emerging from the thick copse fringing the plain, when suddenly, as if they had touched enchanted ground, a horseman breaks through the covert in every quarter, and bears down toward the centre; and a loud clear voice shouts, in English: 
               "Are you friends or foes?" 
               "Thank God, we are saved!" cried the Colonel, in an exstacy of joy, which may better be imagined than described; and bidding Posetha check the fiery horses they rode, he again shouted-"We are friends, and American soldiers; but our enemies pursue us; and if you turn to the rear, you will find work to do." 
               He was answered by a cheer, and loud congratulations; and at the same moment the blast of a trumpet went echoing through the surrounding forest. As if the latter carried magic in its brazen voice, every horseman darted toward his leader; and scarcely a minute elapsed, ere a long line was formed, and the thundering tramp of more than a hundred steeds, as they rushed away together toward the foe, assured the fugitives that they at least were safe. 
               Little aware of the danger before them, the pursuing Indians toiled up the hill; and then, with yells of furious delight, for they believed they would soon overtake the fugitives, they burst through the copse into the opening, to the number of between fifteen and twenty. But their yells of ferocious joy were suddenly changed to shrieks of terror, dismay, and agony, when, all unexpectedly, they found themselves confronted with a body of horsemen, who, instead of flying from them, greeted them with yells as appalling to their hearts as ever theirs had been to their intended victims, at the same time pouring in upon them a murderous fire, and charging with the whole line. Down went some four or five horses, twice the number of riders fell to rise no more, while of those that turned to fly, only some three or four escaped without injury. Wild were the yells of terror of those who had so late been pursuers, but who were now in turn pursued, as they rushed down the bank of the river, and sought to avoid their foes, who, with yells as far resounding as their own, pressed close upon their heels, and slew without mercy all who were so unfortunate as to be overtaken. 
               Maddened with the desire for blood and vengeance, and smarting under the disgrace which the defeat of St. Clair had so recently brought upon them, the soldiers, once let loose upon the flying foe, could not be restrained by the trumpet blast of their commander; but giving free rein to their worst passions, as well as to their steeds, they dashed pell-mell across the ford, up the opposite slope, and down along the stream toward the town, vowing to wash out the stain of ignominy that was upon them in the life-blood of their enemies. 
               But the Indians were prepared to receive them; for a party of mounted savages, who had been following in the rear of those closest in pursuit of our friends, and who had just reached the ford as the affray began on the opposite side, had hurriedly returned to the village, and reported that a large body of whites had killed their friends, and were fast coming down upon the town. Great was the alarm and confusion this intelligence created; and amidst the universal and appalling cry of, "The Shemanoes! the Shemanoes,"
                     Big Knives, or Americans.
                   the women and children were hurried off in one direction, while the warriors, headed by the renowned Black Hoof, formed an ambuscade in another, just above the village, at a point where it was most likely the attack would be made. 
               In this ambuscade the foremost of the daring soldiers ran; and their lives paid for their temerity; but the hot valor of those behind suddenly cooling at this unlooked for reception, they were wise enough to show the enemy the tails of their horses, and make the heels of the latter save them. Fast as they had ridden toward the town, they now rode as fast away from it; and it was not until the Miami rolled between them and their half-naked foes, that they began to feel their safety regained, and their courage revived. 
               The loud blast of a trumpet now summoned them around their commander, Major Moultrie, who, with most of his officers and a prudent few, had not been rash enough to follow them; and in the presence of Colonel Danforth and his party, he gave them such a severe reprimand for their disobedience and fool-hardiness, that the most forgetful one among them remembered it to the day of his death. 
               "And now, Colonel Danforth," said the gallant Major, turning with military deference toward the veteran officer,-"with the hope that the Indians and myself together have succeeded in beating a little hard sense into heads where it so recently was sadly wanting,-I tender you my command, as my superior in ability as well as rank." 
               "I thank you kindly, Major Moultrie," replied the Colonel; "and am happy in saying, that the ability you deprecate, in my favor, more than equalizes the trifling distinction our commissions make; and therefore I shall beg leave to decline your flattering offer, assuring you, at the same time, it will afford me pleasure to join your ranks as a volunteer, at least until my wife and daughter be placed in safety." 
               "Yes, yes-the poor prisoners-we must set about their release immediately. You say they are confined in a cave near the town?" 
               "So says Posetha here, and that he alone succeeded in getting them there some two or three hours since, where, unless accidentally discovered, they will remain in safety." 
               "I do not know," returned the Major, shaking his head; "no retreat in this quarter can be long safe from the prying eyes of savages. I will just run over my men, and ascertain how many poor fellows are missing, and then the Indian here shall guide us to the rescue; but wo to him if he play us false!" 
               It may be proper to explain to the reader, in as few words as possible, before proceeding further with our narrative, how it chanced that our friends had the good fortune to be reinforced by such a body of soldiers. It will be recollected that at the time of the former being taken prisoners, Sergeant Bomb and two scouts made their escape, and, we hardly need add, made the best of their way to Fort Jefferson, which they reached on the following day, in a state of complete exhaustion. Here they found Major Moultrie, with a detachment of cavalry, on his way to the scene of St. Clair's recent disaster; and on informing him what had taken place-how Colonel Danforth and several other officers were supposed to be prisoners-he decided at once on going to their rescue. As soon as his men and horses were sufficiently rested, he set off, with one of the garrison to act as guide, the scouts and Bomb being too much fatigued with their recent exertions to think of returning. Night fell ere half his journey was accomplished; but still he determined to hold on, in the hope that by reaching the Piqua settlement before daylight, he could effect his purpose by a coup de main, without his numbers being known. Fortunately for our friends, he reached the opening where we first discovered him, just as the alarm was sounded in the village; and not knowing what it meant, be waited to see. The yells of the pursuing Indians were every moment heard more distinctly, as they drew nearer, and a few of the party conjectured that the prisoners had by some means got away, and were making their escape. This the Major could hardly believe possible; but whether true or not, he knew his best plan would be to conceal his men, and await the result. He soon heard them crossing the ford below, and rightly conjectured they would pass through the opening. The rest is known to the reader. 
               After counting his men, the Major said, in a feeling tone: 
               "Alas! there are six of my soldiers missing, and I fear the worst has befallen them. Oh! that they had heeded my orders. Men," he continued, sternly, addressing the whole company, "you see what a calamity your rashness has brought upon us! Henceforth you must obey me; the first that disobeys, I will have court-martialed and punished. Come, we must be on the move, or morning will break ere our purpose be accomplished." 
               As the cavalcade was about setting forward, under the guidance of Posetha, Colonel Danforth exclaimed: 
               "But were is Edward? where is Major Allen?" 
               Where was he, sure enough? It was now for the first time discovered, owing to the excitement and confusion which had prevailed, that he was missing; and further anxious inquiry elicited the startling truth, that he had not been seen since his friends crossed the ford. The agony of the Colonel at this revelation was terrible; and fairly wringing his hands, he exclaimed, in a voice tremulous with emotion: 
               "Oh! my poor boy! my Edward!-alas! he is lost. In the moment of triumph, I am again plunged in despair. Oh, God! be merciful, and restore me my friends!" and bowing his head in his hands, he gave vent to his grief in choking sobs. 
               A search was now instituted on both sides of the ford; but no traces of the missing one were found; and after half an hour spent in this manner, Major Moultrie recalled his men, and declared if the females were to be set at liberty before daylight, there was not a moment to loose. The cavalcade was accordingly put in motion, and moved slowly down the western bank of the river, or that opposite the Indian town, the Colonel riding along side the Major in gloomy silence. Even the hope of soon recovering his wife and daughter, was hardly sufficient to compensate him for the loss of one whom he looked upon as a son, and for whom he felt all the warm affection of a father. He thought, too, what would be poor Lucy's feelings, when she should hear the sad news, and his grief redoubled at the prospective of hers. 
               When nearly down to the town opposite, Posetha pointed across the river, and said the captives were there. He then requested the Major to keep his forces where they were, and he would go alone and return with the females. At first Moultrie seemed inclined to object to this arrangement; but on being assured by all the late captives, that he need have no fears of the fidelity of Posetha, he gave his assent, and the latter immediately plunging into the river, which here ran deep, disappeared on his important mission. 
                
               Half an hour of anxious, and, to a few, agonising suspense passed, and then the faithful Posetha made his appearance. But alas! he came alone, to report that the females were gone, and that it was his belief the Indians had discovered their retreat and retaken them. 
               "Oh God!" groaned the Colonel-"this is too much-too much' My wife! my daughter! my Edward!" and he wept, as brave soldiers sometimes weep. 
               "By the ashes of my father!" cried Moultrie, indignantly-"I will have vengeance on these red blood-hounds, and they shall restore the captives unharmed, or their town shall be a heap of smoking ruins! To horse, men-to horse! and be prepared to do your duty as soldiers!" 
               We must now return to Edward, and see what strange adventures have befallen him. 
             
             
               CHAPTER X. 
               PERILS OF OUR HERO. 
               IT was with the greatest difficulty that Edward Allen succeeded in mounting his beast at the enclosure; and when he had done so he found he had no control over him whatever. All his friends were now in advance of him; and fortunately the fiery animal took the same course as the rest-otherwise he might have been borne into the heart of the village, in spite of any efforts on his part to ride in a contrary direction. 
               On dashed the swift-footed animal, across the little stream before mentioned, up a small hill on the opposite side, down into a deep dingle, through a small patch of wood, through a dense copse, over a rough, stony opening, and still Edward maintained an erect position on his back, grasping the long mane tightly in one hand, and the single rein of the halter in the other. So far, all had gone well; and, although the hindmost of the party, he was near enough to the next in advance to occasionally catch a glimpse of rider and horse in the dim light. 
               Suddenly his fiery courser gave a loud snort, and springing to the right, threw Edward clean from his back, who, on letting go his hold from the main, had sufficient forethought to grasp the halter with both hands, and by this means, although swung to a considerable distance, alighted on his feet without injury. The impatient patient animal, once clear of his rider, now sought to be free of all incumbrance; and in his efforts to get away, he dragged Edward several yards, through bushes and over stones, which tore his clothes and skin, and bruised him not a little. But with the tenacity of a drowning man to a rope, he clung to the halter rein, and at last had the good fortune to find his beast again approachable; though it was sometime after this before he was able to remount him. But when this was finally effected, he found, to his horror, by the yells of the savages, that a party had already got between him and his friends, to follow whom now, would be to rush on certain destruction. 
               What was to be done? Set off in what direction he might, the result was almost certain to be the same, death, or, what was even more to be dreaded, captivity. Oh! it was an agonizing reflection, that just at the moment when his heart was bounding with hope and joy, at the thought of his liberation-of the liberation of her he loved-of the happiness for both there would be in another meeting-that just at such a moment, we say, an overpowering calamity should suddenly come upon him, to plunge him again in the lowest depths of despair. He shuddered as he thought, and grew sick at heart, and beads of cold perspiration, wrung forth by mental anguish, stood upon his pallid features. 
               "But while there is life, there is hope," he reasoned; and again urging his beast forward, he sought not to guide him, but offering up a short prayer for deliverance, consigned himself to the care of an ever-watchful and over-ruling Providence. 
               The horse, finding himself at liberty to choose his own course, no longer followed the one he had been pursuing, but turning more to the left, bore straight down toward the Miami, and soon gained its bank, at a point about half way between the village and the ford crossed by the friends of Edward. 
               The party of Indians closest in pursuit of the fugitives, had already passed this place; and their shouts of fury, and demoniac yells, gradually growing less and less distinct, relieved our hero of any apprehension concerning them; but unfortunately for him, there was still another party coming from the town, whose wild, discordant speeches, together with the loud clatter of horses' hoofs, and the snorting of the animals, put him in mortal fear; for although he could not see them, owing to an intervening ridge, he knew they were close upon him, and that his chances of escape were now reduced to the very smallest number-more especially as his steed, eager to join his companions, instantly wheeled, and plunged forward up the acclivity, thus bearing him directly into the hands of his foe. In vain Edward tried to check him or change his course; he was completely unmanageable-beyond all control-and reckless of what might be the consequences, since he now believed himself irrevocably doomed, he leaped from his back, and was thrown violently upon the rough ground, and rendered almost senseless by the shock. The next moment the riderless steed, still rushing forward, came in fearful collision with the foremost one of the approaching party, and both horses went down as if struck by a cannon ball, crushing in their fall the leg of the Indian leader, who uttered one loud yell of agony, and called upon his friends for help. 
               Great was the confusion this accident occasioned; and several of the savages instantly stopped their horses, and springing to the ground, ran forward to ascertain what had happened. But as soon as the truth was known, the majority remounted and rode on, so eager were they to overtake the fugitives. Some three or four, however, remained to assist their injured companion; and getting him from under one animal, they carefully placed him on the back of another. Then one of them mounting behind, to return with him to the village, rode slowly away in that direction, while the others prepared to continue their course up the river. 
               All this was witnessed by our hero, who, not more than six paces distant, still remained on the ground, exactly as he had fallen, scarcely daring to breathe, lest he should be discovered; and he was already congratulating himself upon his fortunate, but very narrow escape, when a loud ejaculation, as if the speaker had suddenly made some new and important discovery, caused a thrill of terror to run through his whole system. 
               And Edward had good reason to tremble at that ejaculation, although uttered in a tongue unknown to him; for an important discovery had been made, and one which would have transpired much sooner, had the savages been as observing as usual, or less eager to set forward. The presence of the horse ridden by Edward at such a place, did not excite suspicion-for it was well known that all had been let loose, and were running about in every direction-but when, by the merest accident, the truth was disclosed, that on this beast was a halter, the idea suddenly flashed across the mind of the savage, that the animal must have had a rider; and whether that rider was a white man or a red, was a very important matter. The discovery, in consequence, was instantly made known to his companions, by the ejaculation already referred to, and a hurried consultation was the result. Whether the savages really believed the horse had borne a white man, who was now secreted at no great distance, or whether they acted rather from that long and cautious habit which makes the most apparently trivial things of grave importance, certain it is, that no sooner had they finished their brief colloquy, than all set about beating around in the bushes, in every direction. 
               Scarcely three minutes elapsed after this search began, ere one of the party approached so close to Edward, that he felt certain exposure must follow; and resolved to make one more desperate effort for his life, he firmly grasped the haft of his knife-one of the weapons given him by Posetha, and which he still retained-and springing suddenly to his feet, buried it to the hilt in the breast of the astonished savage, who, in the very act of uttering a cry of surprise, quickly changed it to a shriek of agony, and sunk down at his feet. There was no time to be lost now; and leaping over the prostrate body, Edward made for the nearest horse. 
               He reached the animal a few feet in advance of the other savages, who, hearing the cry of their companion, at once divining the cause, bounded after him, making the woods ring with their yells of fury. Catching the halter-rein in his hand, Edward vaulted upon the back of the beast, and struck him a smart blow with the end of the rope. With a fearful plunge forward, away rushed the furious quadruped, and in less time than it takes us to tell it, some twenty or thirty yards intervened between our hero and his pursuers. 
               But short space had Edward for congratulation; for the next moment, as it were, the agile savages were themselves mounted, and thundering after him, uttering the most terrible war-whoops and appalling yells. And as if Fortune, too, had determined to see how long she could toss him about between life and death, the horse of Edward now shaped his course toward the village; and in spite of all he could do to turn him aside, the willful beast still held on, bearing him with frightful velocity right into the very hands of his enemies, who, afoot and on horse, were swarming about in every direction, like bees when their hive is improperly disturbed. On dashed Edward-lashing his horse, since he could not control him, into ungovernable fury-and on came his blood-thirsty pursuers, still yelling as wildly as ever, but unable to gain upon him a single foot. 
               "Oh!" thought Edward, as he glanced behind him, "if I could but manage my beast as the savages do theirs, I might even yet escape." 
               But for some reason he could not do this; and the horse that was ever guided by a mere word, or the shake of the halter-rein, when ridden by an Indian who understood him, and whom he understood, was now too headstrong to obey any thing but his own will. In consequence of this, Edward was borne right in among the yelling and howling crew, who had come out of their town, on the northern side, to gather early news concerning the pursuit; and suddenly their discordant and meaningless yells were changed to the universal cry of, "The Shemanoe! the Shemanoe!" while more than a hundred warriors sprang forward to intercept him. 
               Knowing his doom would be death in its most terrible form, if taken prisoner again, Edward, with not a single hope, beyond that of provoking, by his daring, a speedy terminus to his life, still lashed his horse furiously forward, reckless of the blows aimed at his person on all sides, and actually rode down several of his opposers. 
               But this triumph over numbers was necessarily of short duration; and the grasping of the halter by a tremendous savage, who instantly raised his hatchet for the purpose of hurling it at the head of our hero, seemed likely to put an end to all further strife; but here again capricious Fortune changed in favor of Edward; for the horse, mistaking the intention of the Indian, and thinking the blow meant for him, reared and wheeled so suddenly, as to loose the hold of the warrior, just as the tomahawk was sped on its bloody mission, which thereby missed its aim by a bare inch. By this sudden turn of the horse, his head was brought in the direction of the Miami, distant not more than eight or ten rods; and the thought suddenly occurred to Edward, of making his last desperate effort for speedy death, or speedy liberation, by forcing the maddened beast to leap the steep cliff, which overhung the dark waters rolling slowly and quietly along some fifty feet below. For this purpose he gave him several rapid blows with the halter-end, and the next moment the verge of the bank was reached; but the animal recoiled with a snort of terror, and at the same instant a bullet pierced his brain, and he fell dead in his tracks. As he went down, Edward gathered all his remaining strength, placed his hands upon the neck of the sinking beast, and vaulted clean over his head. For a single instant he remained suspended above the cliff, the report of a dozen rifles was heard, a dozen balls went whizzing through the air, as many tomakawk blades were seen faintly flashing in the dim light, and then down, down went our hero, and a single, sullen splash was all that was heard, as the cold, dark waters opened to receive him, and then closed over his head. 
               Rushing to the brink of the cliff, several of the savages now threw themselves flat upon the earth, and placing their ears over the precipice, listened for any sound that would indicate human life below. But no such sound was heard; all was as still as the grave, save the solemn roar of the rapids of the little stream that entered the Miami a short distance further down, over which, as we have shown in a previous chapter, our female friends passed in safety, though at the peril of their lives. 
               Springing to their feet, the Indians uttered loud yells of disappointment, at the second loss of one they had counted on so surely as a victim at the stake; and then another short silence followed, during which several prepared to descend to the water, at points both above and below the steep cliff where Edward went down, in order to make sure that he might not escape alive, not one among the bravest caring to try the venturesome leap after him. 
               But their plan of search was frustrated by an unlooked for event; for suddenly the yells of alarm and dismay, uttered by their companions, who had gone up the river in pursuit of the fugitives, came borne upon the still air with startling distinctness, causing many a heart, so late courageous, to quake with fear. Soon they could distinguish the distant clatter of horse's hoofs, and the terrible words, "The Shemanoes! the Shemanoes!" shouted in loud tones of terror, but still made faint to them by the intervening distance. 
               But faint or strong, the words themselves were appalling to the savages, who rightly conjectured that a large body of whites were approaching; and the scene of consternation and confusion, that ensued, beggars description. The escape of the captives was no longer thought of by the Indians, but their own safety now became a matter of the most momentous importance. Amid the wildest cries, in every tone-from that of the puling infant, to the cracked voice of the hoary-headed veteran-the women and children, with the moveable household articles, were hurried out of the village on the southern and eastern sides; while the chiefs and braves, grasping their weapons, prepared to make a bold defence on the two opposite extremes. 
               Nor did the arrival of the party that had sounded the alarm, in any degree lessen the general consternation, by the exaggerated report, that the party before them had all been cut off, by running into the terrible ambuscade of more than a thousand whites, who were coming down in all their force to again plunder and destroy their town. Still, with the renowned Black Hoof and other noted chiefs at their head, the savages bravely resolved on holding their village against all odds, or dying, like heroes, in the defence of their homes, their wives, their sweet-hearts, and children. 
               But, as the reader already knows, no such tremendous body of whites, as was reported, approached the town at all; and the few half-mad soldiers that did get the nearest to it, paid the penalty of their disobedience and rashness with their lives, as recorded in the chapter preceding. 
               But as we left our hero in a very precarious situation, it may be as well for us to return to him, and see whether he survived the many dangers to which he was exposed by flood and field, or whether he ignobly perished, and the cold waters that engulphed him enshrined forever his mortal remains. 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XI. 
               THE STRANGE MEETING. 
               ALTHOUGH the living target at which a dozen muskets were discharged, and as many hatchets thrown, Edward providentially escaped them all-though more than one of them rent his clothes-and he went down his long leap, feet foremost, uninjured, and suddenly found himself buried far below the placid surface of the dark rolling Miami. Being an excellent swimmer, and having great presence of mind, he soon rose to the air, and kept perfectly quiet, floating along on the slow-moving current, well knowing that any sound indicating an attempt to escape, would be heard by his enemies above, and bring down a hundred of them, all fierce and eager for his capture; while he had a faint hope, if they heard nothing, they would believe he had perished, and give over all thoughts of search. He heard their yells of disappointment at his loss, and his heart began to beat quick again with renewed hope. There was still a chance of escape, where a few minutes before he had looked for none; and from self his thoughts now reverted to his friends; and his anxiety for their safety gradually increased, as he recalled the numbers that had gone in pursuit of them, till it amounted to a degree so intense as to be really painful. And even should they escape, how was he to join them again? and how were Lucy and her companions to be found and delivered from the Haunted Cave, as Posetha termed it, but of the whereabouts of which he had no knowledge? And to return without Lucy, amounted to nothing in his view; for it was to rescue her he had perilled his life; and not to succeed, was to render that life valueless. 
               "Ah!" he sighed, mentally, as all these thoughts rapidly floated though his brain, "since I can accomplish nothing, may I not as well die where I am, and put an end to this feverish, unquiet existence, so full of vexatious disappointment, and heart-rended woe?" 
               But though Edward reasoned thus with himself, nature gave no sanction to the false logic; but still urged him to live on, and hope on, by causing a cold shudder to pass through his frame at the very thought of approaching the confines of that great and mysterious Beyond by his own act, and with all his senses in full and active play; and when, in floating down the stream, he heard the cries of the Indians suddenly changed to those of terror and dismay, as if some great calamity had befallen them, and at the same moment felt his hand touch the trunk of a drift-tree, one end of which was imbedded in the sands of the shore, it must be confessed he grasped it with a firmness, and listened with an eagerness, that ill-befitted one who, tired of life, was about to throw off its mortal coil and pass the dread portals of eternity. 
               The fact is, the feelings of our hero, by the uniting of these two events, experienced a wonderful change; and he was now as eager to live as at any moment of his eventful existence. Chilled to the very bone with his rather long immersion in the water, considering the season of the year, and in consequence hardly able to use his limbs, he now made vigorous efforts to reach the shore, by dragging himself along the trunk of the prostrate tree. He at length succeeded; but on touching land, found it almost impossible for him to stand; and when the thought flashed across his mind, that his only chance of avoiding his enemies would be by swimming the river, his heart sunk, and for a time hope again gave way to despair. But the excitement still continuing among the Indians, the idea occurred to him that he might take advantage of it, and, by keeping along under the high bank, soon reach an easy ford; but then again, it was possible that what he had taken to be an alarm, was only a universal wail for the loss of some distinguished warrior or chief, whom his friends, the fugitives, had slain in a close engagement; and if such proved to be the case, was it not likely his trail would be discovered when the morning 
                     sould
                     should
                   break, and that, weak and faint, he would fall an easy prey to his blood-thirsty foe, from whom he could never hope to make the third escape? 
               But notwithstanding all objections to the course he intended to pursue, one thing was certain, that to remain where he was would not better his condition; and so he set off up stream, keeping along the edge of the water. A few steps brought him to the base of the cliff, from which he had made his leap; but finding it too precipitous to admit of a foot-hold, he was forced to return. He now attempted to go down stream; but some twenty yards below where he first emerged from the water, he again found his progress checked, and this time by the rapids already more than once referred to. The bank here was steep, but not precipitous, down which the water dashed with foam and fury, and with a much heavier body than usual, owing to the recent rains-for the streamlet was very fluctuating, and in some seasons of the year exhibited a dry bed. 
               To think of crossing this, at the point where Edward now was, was wholly out of the question for no foot, however sure, could stand a single instant in such a current; to ascend the steep bank, to where a crossing could be made, was, for our hero, a proceeding even more rash and dangerous, as he would thus be certain to expose himself to his enemies; and to remain inactive, with the hope of freedom before him, was, in his view, little short of madness. Thus hemmed in as he was, on every side, there was no alternative; and his only means of escape, was to betake himself once more to the water, and either swim around the rapids, and come out below low them, or across the river, to the shore he was so anxious to reach. 
               For several reasons Edward decided on the latter course; and again consigning himself to the care of that watchful Providence, which had so far befriended him in his moments of greatest peril, he dropped quietly into the river, at the foot of the rapids, and was quickly borne out upon its bosom, some eight or ten yards, or until the rushing force of the smaller stream was lost in the stillness of the greater. Then nerving himself for the tedious task, Edward struck boldly out for the opposite shore; but what was his surprise, when he had gone some ten or twelve yards further, to see a bold cliff rising high above him, and almost at the same moment feel his hands touch land. As he crawled out upon the narrow beach dividing the base of the steep cliff from the water, his first impression was that his head had somehow become turned in swimming, and that he had actually swam back to the bank whence he started; but a little reflection and observation put him right in this particular, and he then came to the rightful conclusion that he had touched upon a small island. This proved a source of much gratification to him, as it would form a resting point on his short voyage, and enable him to gain the western bank with greater safety and case. But that he might be ready to set forth again ere too chilled and benumbed by the cold, he began to move along the bank, in search of the point projecting farthest westward, so as to save as much swimming as possible. 
               He had not gone many steps, keeping close under the cliff, when his foot, striking a stone, caused him to stumble toward the rock. He threw out his hands to prevent his head from striking, but to his surprise they touched nothing, and the next moment he found himself prostrated within a deep and narrow fissure. Feeling carefully around in the dark, as he attempted to rise, that he might make no fatal mistake-as, for all he knew to the contrary, there might be a yawning chasm on one side or the other-his hand encountered something smooth and soft, in what appeared to be a small recess to the right; and judge of his surprise and delight, on examining it with the sense of touch, to find it a regularly constructed canoe of the largest class. 
               "Surely," thought Edward, as he drew it forth from its hiding place; "surely, Providence favors me in all my adversity; and to God will I give thanks for this unlooked-for means of deliverance." 
               He kneeled upon the stony ground, and although his lips did not move, and no sound was heard, yet his heart sent up to the great Giver of Mercies an acceptable prayer of fervent thanks. 
               As Edward finished his silent orison, there came to his car a low, faint, almost inaudible murmur, like the sound of a distant human voice, or far-off running water. He listened, and still the faint murmur continued; and under the impression that it could be traced to the latter cause, he was about to turn away for the purpose of embarking in his canoe, when the sound ceased; and while he was still listening, began again. 
               "Surely," thought he, "if it were water, as I supposed, there would be no cessation. No! it must be made by a human tongue-ay, more than one-for it varies, and is not monotonous. Ha! it stops again, and is now again renewed." 
               A sudden idea now flashed through the brain of Edward, and springing to his feet, he mentally exclaimed: "Oh! if only my surmises prove correct!" and he disappeared into the dark opening of the rocks. 
               Slowly and cautiously he threaded his way along the narrow, winding, zig-zag passage, and at length arrived at its farther terminus, or where it entered the cavern. For the last few yards, a faint, soft, lurid light shone into the dark passage, and enabled him to pick his way with greater case; and as he turned the last sharp angle, the bright light of a blazing fire flashed full in his face, and revealed to him ten female figures seated around it, and among the rest, the only being of his heart's devotion. Fixing his eyes upon her, for a few moments Edward stood and gazed, as one who beholds a something more than earthly, while his heart beat wildly, and he feared to move, lest a single motion should dispel the enchanting vision, and prove the images before him to be but the airy creations of a floating phantasmagoria of the mind. But, he reasoned, it is impossible that the senses of seeing and hearing should both be so deceived at the same time-for loud wailings at their hard fate, from many of the females, smote upon his ear; and the words, "Oh! my poor father!-and-and-Edward!" uttered in guileless innocence, and with every feeling of anguish, by the being he loved, broke the spell which a first sight had thrown around him; and, unable to be a quiet and unobserved spectator any longer, he bounded forward, exclaiming: 
               "Edward at least is free, and God has sent him to your deliverance." 
               All started to their feet at this unexpected apparition, and screams of joy resounded through the cave. 
               As for Lucy, she was unable to speak; and as Edward, singling her out, rushed forward, caught her in his arms, and wildly strained her to his beating heart, inexpressible happiness made her senses reel, and she fainted in his embrace. 
               Great was the scene of confusion and excitement which followed, and a thousand questions were asked that never had an answer, or at least that were not answered then. Among others, Mrs. Danforth and Mrs. Wilkes were urgent to know what had become of their respective partners; and the first words of Lucy, as she revived, were. 
                
               "Oh! Edward, it is like a dream to behold you here." Then hurriedly looking around: "But my father-my dear, dear father-I do not see him-where is he?-what has befallen him?-is he free?-is he safe? Oh! speak, Edward, speak!" 
               "Alas!" sighed Edward, pressing his lips reverently and affectionately upon the noble brow of the lovely questioner, and gazing fondly but sadly upon the liquid orbs upturned to him: "Alas! my dearest Lucy, I cannot answer. You see me here, alone, by accident-after passing through a hundred perils, where hope became extinct, and life seemed forfeited;" and he hurriedly related what had transpired. 
               During his recital, Lucy clung to him with a nervous grasp; and her lustrous, dark eyes looked into his-sometimes in anguish, sometimes in terror-while her lips half apart, made her seem as if every word he uttered was about to draw forth some exclamation of pity, surprise, pain, sorrow, or fear. 
               But she spoke but once, and that when he described his wonderful escape over the cliff. Then she closed her eyes, a cold shudder passed through her delicate frame, and she cried: 
               "Oh! how fearful! how terrible!" and she clung to him still more nervously, as if she fancied he was even then making the awful descent. 
               As Edward told his tale, the scene was one worthy the pencil of a great artist. Erect in the centre he stood, with the gentle Lucy half reclining in his arms and on his breast, gazing up intently in his countenance, with the expression we have described on her own sweet features; while, completely surrounding them, were grouped the nine other females-every eye fixed upon the speaker, every face as pale as death, and varying with the feelings which the thrilling narrative of our hero excited-over which the fire, burning near, threw a lurid, flickering light, penetrating far into the gloomy recesses of the cavern, and throwing strange, fantastic, dancing shadows upon the ground, upon the walls, and upon the ceiling. 
               "Come," said Edward, as soon as he had finished, "we have no time to spare. For all I know, the savages may be even now on the search for us. Daylight may put a hundred upon our trail, and morning must be near. Come! there is a boat without, and I can take a part of you away at once, and then return for the others." 
               "We came here in three boats, lashed together, side-by-side," said Mrs. Mervale, who now took it upon herself, as before, to act as leader to the females; "and it is hardly probable, since our guide left any, that he took away more than one. Did you make any search for another, Major Allen?" 
               "I did not, but will now do so, and doubt not we shall find your surmises correct. Come, let us all hasten to the mouth of this cavern, and, if possible, take our departure before we are discovered vered. Heaven grant there may be another boat!" and taking Lucy's arm, and breathing in her ear a few words of love and hope, Edward led the way through the narrow, tortuous passage to the open air. 
               A brief search proved the correctness of Mrs. Mervale's conjectures, and another large canoe was found and drawn from its hiding place. Both being placed in the water, and the females seated in them, another unexpected difficulty now arose. There was no paddle; for Posetha had taken away with him the only one wherewith he had guided and propelled the boats hither. This threw a heavy damper on the spirits that had already began to feel comparatively buoyant; but as there was nothing to be done but to make the best of their circumstances, the boats were pushed from the shore, and allowed to float down the current, with no other guide and propelling power than the hands of the respective parties. 
               Fortunately, the bend of the river was such as to drift them towards the western shore; but the stream ran so slow, that the best part of an hour was consumed ere the canoes touched land-which they finally did at the first projecting point in the river above the fall, where Edward and Carnele had crossed only the night previous, on their way to the Indian town. What strange events had happened since then!-events of such vast importance, that none who had participated in them, would ever forget them, to the latest day of their existence; and as Edward reflected on them, he shuddered, and wondered if the next twenty-four hours would be as full of perils to himself and her he loved. 
               The Indian town, late the theatre of such wild excitement, alarm, and confusion, was now as quiet as if no human being were in it; and in this stillness, under the circumstances, was something terribly ominous, like the oppressive calm which precedes the awful tempest. 
               But though Edward trembled for the safety of the beings so singularly placed under his charge, he made not his fears known, but whispered words of comfort and hope in their cars. As the canoes touched the shore, he bade his companions not to speak nor move, while he went in search of something wherewith to guide and steady the boats over the fall in the river below. 
               But scarcely had he advanced a dozen paces on land, when the heavy tramping of a large body of horse, caused him to hurriedly retrace his steps; and drawing the canoes behind a dense cluster of bushes, he whispered: "Be still as death, or all is lost! Our foes are upon us-God send us deliverance!" 
               And every listener in her heart prayed "Amen!" 
             
             
                
               CHAPTER XII. 
               CONCLUSION. 
               IN breathless suspense the whole party awaited the coming of those whom they believed to be foes, and every tramp of the approaching steeds made their hearts quake with fear. Oh, on they came, nearer and more near, and still no word was spoken, no loud Indian yell uttered. At last they came fully abreast of where the females were concealed, in the canoes, behind the tangled brushwood that fringed the water's edge; and then it was that each of the latter nervously grasped her nearest companion, and, trembling with terror, compressed her lips, and held her breath. On went the horsemen, with a thundering tread, beating down the bushes, crushing the leaves, and snapping the dry sticks in their path; and as the last one passed the line which left the frightened females above him on the river, there was an unexpressed, inexpressible rejoicing in the hearts of the former, such as a rapid change from death to life, as it were, can only give. 
               Suddenly the most powerful emotions of joy which the human system is capable of supporting in a state of consciousness and sanity, were awakened in the breast of each of our friends, by the following colloquy in English, between a superior and an inferior. 
               "Are we not near the ford you told us about, Carnele?" 
               "Yes, Major, its right down here, just a little bit further. I knows it well: for me and Major Allen-poor fellow! God bless him!-crossed it last night, on our way to this infernal red-nigger town, which we're going to agin; but I hope now to hev a little better luck nor we had that time." 
               Edward waited to hear no more; but bounding through the bushes, too excited to be prudent, he fairly shouted- 
               "Ho! friends, ho! this way! this way-here are those that need your aid!" 
               "Ha! it is my own lost Edward that speaks!" cried a well known voice-a voice that made more than one of the poor fugitive's hearts beat wildly-and the next moment a single horseman rushed out from the main body, and drawing rein close along side of Edward, leaped from his steed and embraced him. 
               "Colonel Danforth, my more than friend-my father," sobbed the latter, "you are safe!" 
               "Yes, my poor boy, safe-safe for the present-and by God's blessing so are you, although I had long since given you up as lost to me for ever. But my wife? my daughter?" 
               "Here! here!" fairly shrieked two female voices. 
               Instantly the Colonel sprang away from Edward, there was a great rustling among the bushes, and then, with loud cries, a husband and wife, a father and daughter, fell upon each other's neck, and bedewed the ground with tears of such joyful anguish as neither had ever shed before. For a long time no words were spoken, and only choking sobs could be heard, as each strained the other to his or her heart in a fond embrace. 
               Meantime, Lieutenant Wilkes had found the dear partner of his bosom; and a scene similar to that in which Colonel Danforth, his wife, and Lucy were the actors, was taking place but a few feet distant; while the other females, who had no friends to congratulate them on their providential escape, stood by, shedding tears of sympathy and grief; and the soldiers, with the gallant Moultrie at their head, drew around in silence, and with an inward joy that made many an eye, even among them, unwontedly dim with the dew of the heart. 
               At length words began to take place of sobs and sighs, a hundred rapid questions were asked on both sides, and hurried explanations were already being made, when the warning voice of the Major put a check to all. 
               "My friends," he said, "I'm sorry to intrude my cold remarks upon you at such a time; but I fear you overlook the close proximity of the Indians, and that a surprise might even now prove fatal to our safety." 
               "Right! right!" cried Colonel Danforth, with an energetic start, "and I thank you, Major Moultrie, for reminding us of our danger and duty. We have all too sadly experienced the results of carelessness, to neglect all due precautions now. Come, come, one and all, let us be on the move, and trust that the kind Providence, which has so wonderfully preserved us through trials and perils, and brought us once more safely together, will yet permit us to say, what we now leave unsaid, in a place where no lurking savages may interrupt us with the war-cries of death." 
               Moultrie now ordered several of his men to dismount, and with a grace and gallantry becoming a well tried officer, tendered the ladies their places, which the latter were not slow to accept, with many thanks. They were placed in double file, with the Colonel and Lieutenant next to their respective partners on the right, and Edward close along side of Lucy on the left. The cavalry then formed a hollow square, covering them on every side; and the balance, who had no horses, were thrown out as scouts, among whom were Posetha, Miller, Wade, and Carnele. The gallant Major then took his station at the head of the van, and the order was given to march. Again the heavy tramp of more than a hundred steeds was heard; but save this, nothing broke the oppressive stillness. Thought with all was active, but no one gave it utterance. 
               When morning broke, our friends had the satisfaction of knowing that not less than six or eight miles lay between them and the Indian town, and that so far there had been discovered no indications of a pursuit. With a feeling of security, their spirits began to regain their wonted buoyancy; but feeling themselves still in danger, they feared to let hope have too great an ascendancy, and, therefore, remained grave and watchful, thinking much and saying little. 
               Coming to a commanding position, just above a little run, the Major ordered a half-giving, as a reason, that unless the poor beasts that bore them had rest and food, they would be unable to accomplish the fatiguing journey to Fort Jefferson. Accordingly all dismounted, fires were kindled, a strong guard set around the camp, and the horses were fed on water thickened with meal, which each one carried in small sacks strapped behind the saddle. The soldiers also had a good supply of dried venison, which was cheerfully divided among the guests, and this, with cornmeal and water, mixed in their canteens, made a very hearty and healthy, if not palatable, repast. 
               After a quiet rest of about three hours, the march was resumed in the same order as before; and ere the sun sunk behind the western hills, the whole party ascended an eminence, and, with indescribable feelings of delight, beheld below them, some quarter of a mile distant, the heavy log-roof and wooden stockade of Fort Jefferson. 
               "Halt!" cried the Major. "Attention the battalion. We will give them a military salute. Make ready-fire!" and the last word was drowned in a roar of musketry. 
               Instantly from forty to fifty heads appeared above the ramparts of 'he fortress; and then suddenly a bright flash was seen, a volume of smoke rushed forth, and the loud boom of a heavy piece of ordnance went echoing through the deep forest, startling many a wild beast from his lair. This was followed by another, and then by a round of small arms; and then the gate was thrown open, and the shrill notes of the martial life, and the sharp rolling accompaniment of the kettle drum, gave the returned captives and their escort a military welcome. 
               As Major Moultrie and his command passed within the palisades, they found the garrison drawn up in two lines to receive them; and as soon as military formalities could be dispensed with, the whole party received the warmest congratulations on their safe return. A dozen rushed forward to grasp the hands of Colonel Danforth and Major Allen; and among these were Sergeant Bomb, and the two scouts who had brought the intelligence to Major Moultrie of their captivity. While the Colonel was busy in answering the many eager inquiries put to him, a hand was laid familiarly on his shoulder; and on turning round, he beheld the veritable Dr. McAllister, standing quietly by his side. 
               "Umph!" said the eccentric disciple of the anatomical art-"I am proud to see you, Colonel Danforth-hope you're well, sir-thought you were past my aid-did, 'pon honor! Wife and daughter back, I see. Umph! you are very fortunate, Colonel-eh? very." 
               "Why, how is it I find you here, my worthy doctor," returned the Colonel, good-humoredly. "Really, now, from the last specimen I had of your bravery, I thought you would be the last man to venture into the Indian country again." 
               "Ah! Colonel, you underrate my scientific feelings. Science, sir, with me, is a passion, to which eating is nothing. I could go without my breakfast, at any time, to amputate a leg; and as the gallant Moultrie here-may he die under surgical care!" 
               "Heaven forefend!" laughed the Major, who, standing near, overheard the remark: "Heaven forefend, doctor, if you are to have anything to do in the matter!" 
               "As the Major here," pursued the doctor, unmindful of the interruption, "was, about visiting the ground of St. Clair's recent exploits, I thought I would accompany him, in the hope of finding a subject." 
               "Why then did you not follow him to Piqua, where you would have been sure of a victim?" queried the Colonel. 
               "Umph! the truth is, Colonel, I had a patient here, sir-Sergeant Bomb, sir." 
               "The truth is," interrupted Moultrie, ironically, "the renowned Doctor McAllister, great as are his scientific acquirements, has a heart in him about the size of a humming-bird's eye; and he fears to risk such a delicate morsel near the jaws of such noted cannibals as the Shawnees. The worthy doctor is prodigiously brave, but excessively prudent; and would rather amputate a limb any time, than lose his head." 
               "Indeed I would," rejoined the doctor; "and it would give me great pleasure to exhibit my scientific attainments on the persons of either of you gentlemen. Umph! as you say, Major Moultrie, I am brave." 
               "There, there," said the Major, waving his hand with an air of authority-"that will do, doctor-that will do. As you have done nothing the last twenty-four hours, but mope about a well-garrisoned fortress, we, who have been through the most trying perils, are not disposed to make you the hero of the day. You will retire to your quarters, and when wanted you will be sent for." 
               The doctor slunk away, not a little crest fallen at this public reproof; and many a titter he heard as he passed the soldiers, showing in what small estimation they held a man of science, when unaccompanied with the virtue of manly courage 
                
               At Fort Jefferson the rescued prisoners and soldiers remained over night, and on the following day the former set out for Cincinnati, accompanied by a strong escort, kindly furnished them by Major Moultrie, who, with the rest of his command, set off for St. Clair's battle-field. The parting between the old scouts and Colonel Danforth's party, was a very affecting one; and it is not too much to say, that tears were shed on both sides. As for Posetha, not content with shaking his hand warmly, and invoking Heaven's blessings on his head, for his noble conduct in rescuing them from a hopeless captivity, the females, one and all, even to Lucy, embraced him with a degree of affection he had never seen shown him before. The simple-minded white savage for a time stood this test of feeling, with a stoicism that showed how severe was the school in which he had been so long trained; but at last nature triumphed over artificial restraint, and large tears coursed their way adown his cheeks. For a while he seemed to give way to feelings, which, in his view, were unmanly; and then suddenly drawing himself up with assumed hauteur and coldness, he hastily passed his hands across his eyes, and stalked away, to give vent to his newly awakened emotions, where no human eye could behold him. 
               We may as well remark here, as we shall not touch upon the subject again, that Posetha never afterward returned to the Indians, but continued with his brother, true to his own race. A short time subsequent, he and Harry became two of that little but intrepid band of scouts and Indian spies, who, under the renowned General Wayne, made themselves so famous for their exploits, and the signal service they rendered the American army, that their names and feats of daring have been handed down in border traditions. 
               As for Carnele and the others, we have no authentic information of what became of them; but an old hunter, a great many years afterward, was found dead, sitting over what had once been an underground fire; and from the description given of his person, we are led to believe that the gallant scout perished with old age, while engaged in his favorite pursuit. 
               Notwithstanding Sergeant Bomb's protestation that he would never go against the Indians again, he continued in the army, in the same company with Lieutenant Wilkes; and both officers gallantly fought through the Indian war, under old "Mad Anthony," (as General Wayne was popularly termed,) to the treaty of peace, in 1795. 
               As for Colonel Danforth, although strongly inclined to take command of another regiment, his family prevailed upon him to relinquish the glories and dangers of the field in favor of the comforts and happiness of domestic life. And whenever Edward dared to breathe a word of war, his mouth was instantly closed by a soft, white hand; and while two bright eyes looked coquettishly into his, two pouting lips would sweetly murmur-"Now could you be so cruel as to desert the wife that fondly loves you?" and then pressing ing the fair speaker affectionately to his heart, Edward would always conclude by saying "N," most emphatically; and the decision would ever be sealed with the mutual kiss of unchangeable affection. 
               Almost sixty years have passed away since the date of our story, and great are the changes which time has wrought in that portion of the West where the events transpired, of which we have given a faithful chronicle. Cities, towns, and villages now occupy the place of the Indian's hunting-grounds; and savages and wild beasts roam there no more. What few red-men still survive, have their homes far toward the setting sun; but the greater portion of them have joined their fathers in the Spirit Land. The invincible paleface has conquered, for his star is in the ascendant; and it will doubtless be many centuries ere it reaches the zenith of its glory, and begins to decline. Ere then, reader, you and I, what mortal there is of us, shall be long resolved back to the elements from which we were formed. 
                     Happly
                     Happily
                   so-for wo to them that see the fall of this mighty nation. Their doom will be that of the red-man-utter annihilation. 
               Colonel Danforth and his wife have long since paid the debt of nature, but Edward and Lucy still survive. For many years they were residents of Cincinnati; but finally removed to a beautiful location farther west, which now bears the appropriate appellation Allenville-being laid out, and at one time owned, by the hero of our story. In this village is an elegant mansion, and in this mansion reside a venerable couple, surrounded by their children, and grand-children. Should you, as a stranger, claim hospitality there, you will be received with a cordial welcome, that would at once assure you of being among friends; and ten to one you would not be allowed to depart till you had heard, from the lips of a white-haired, noble-looking old man, the story of his remarkable adventures, in attempting to rescue, from Indian captivity, a certain beautiful young lady, whom, with a pleasant smile, and mysterious shake of the head, without once hinting she is now his wife, he ever denominates the "PIONEER'S DAUGHTER." 
             
            THE END. 
         
       
   
