
    ----CITATION----
        Bennett, Emerson, (1822-1905). Ellen Norbury, or, The Adventures of an Orphan .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5791 wright2-0272
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
            
            ELLEN NORBURY;
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF AN ORPHAN.
            BY EMERSON BENNETT.
            AUTHOR OF "CLARA NONELAND," "VIOLA," "THE FORGED WILL," "PIONEER'S
               DAUGHTER," "BRIDE OF THE WILDERNESS," "KATE CLARENDON," "HEIRESS OF BELLEFONTE,"
               "WALDE-WARREN," ETC.
            Price Fifty Cents in paper cover; or a finer edition in cloth for One
               Dollar.
            T. B. PETERSON, NO. 102 CHESTNUT STREET, PHILADELPHIA, takes pleasure in presenting
               to the public this celebrated work, the scenes of which are laid in the city of
               Philadelphia. It is the most thrilling local tale ever issued in the Quaker City. Mr.
               Bennett has a philanthropic heart, which beats for humanity, and he has performed a
               noble work. It is a work destined to achieve a reputation for its distinguished
               author, second to no living writer. It boldly portrays the vices of a great city, in
               language which must reach the heart of every lover of truth and virtue. It will live
               as long as a Christian heart can be found to beat with sympathy for suffering
               humanity. It is a fiction founded on facts, gathered from actual observation of human
               misery, by the author himself, and gleaned from the records of a distinguished
               philanthropist. It is a picture of light and shade, presenting the widest and most
               striking contrasts. Its shadows are as dark as vice and crime can make them, while
               its lights are the brilliant gleams of purity, truth, and love. It is a work to
               command the attention of all noble hearts—of every clergyman, jurist, and legislator
               in the land—and especially does it commend itself to every Christian. While it boldly
               tears the mask from the face of canting hypocrisy, it upholds, in the strongest
               language, the pure and simple religion of Jesus Christ. Mothers will read it, and
               will weep over the wrongs and sufferings of the sweet little "orphan"—the child of
               innocence and purity—who, amid all her trials and tribulations, never forgets to
               appeal, with the trusting faith of tender years, to her heavenly Father—imploring
               protection and deliverance, patience and resignation. Whether among friends or
               enemies—whether surrounded by beauty, purity, and goodness, in the bright abodes of
               luxury—or by vice, crime, misery, and pestilence, in the dark haunts of the most
               degraded—whether in the hands of pure and loving hearts, or in the grasp of thieves,
               robbers, and murderers—on the downy bed of wealth, or the filthy pallet of the gloomy
               prison—in all places and all situations, she is ever the same sweet, gentle,
               affectionate, prayerful child. The scene of this truly great work lies in the very
               heart of Philadelphia; and the characters acters, so skilfully portrayed by the pen of a master,
               are still living in our midst. And we would add that, besides the great moral
               beauties enumerated, the story is characterized by purity of style, intricacy of
               plot, and individuality of character, combined with incidents of so thrilling and
               startling a nature, as to make the heart bound and the blood leap. It should be in
               the hands of every lover of literature. Every page glows with the beauty, strength
               and power of genius; and every passion and emotion of the human heart, is depicted
               with a fidelity to life never excelled. Of all the popular works of Emerson Bennett,
               this is certainly his chef d'œuvre; and we may
               safely venture the assertion, that, through Ellen Norbury, he will secure the
               blessings of the wise and good of the present and succeeding generations.
            
               From the Waverly Magazine.
            "The author of this book has been long and favorably known as one of the best
               novelists of the day. We doubt whether there is in all the west an author whose
               writings have been so universally read, and have received so much attention and
               praise, as have those of Mr. Bennett. The frequent appearance of his thrilling
               stories in the columns of some of the first literary journals in the country, speak
               no less loudly of their worth and excellence, than do the high prices which they at
               all times command. Though he has often followed in the footsteps of the illustrious
               Cooper, in describing with a truthful pen the character and eccentricities of the Red
               Man, the success with which his books have met, proves him most decisively to have
               been no servile imitator, for he who can write a good book, locating the scenes and
               events on ground passed over by the world-renowned author of 'Leather Stocking
               Tales,' must, indeed, wield a pen of more than ordinary strength; and this we,
               without a moment's hesitation, pronounce him to have done. Whether as the delineator
               of border life and wild western scenes, or the more pleasing aspects of civilized
               life, he ever wields the same graphic pen. The drawing-room and the prairie seem
               alike familiar to him. We can award this book no higher praise than to say it is
               better than any which have preceded it from the same pen. The moral of the story
               which stands out boldly upon every page, cannot fail to produce a good effect upon
               all by whom the book is read. We are clearly shown, that though the guilty and
               vicious may for a while elude detection and exposure, virtue will eventually triumph
               and meet its just reward."
            Copies of the work will be sent to any person, to any part of the United States,
                  free of postage, on their remitting the price of the work to the
               publisher, in a letter, post-paid.
            Published and for Sale by T. B. PETERSON, No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
                  To whom all Orders should be addressed, post-paid.
         
         
            
               ELLEN NORBURY;
               OR, THE ADVENTURES OF AN ORPHAN.
            
            BY EMERSON BENNETT.
            
            AUTHOR OF "CLARA MORELAND," "VIOLA," "FORGED WILL," "PIONEER'S DAUGHTER,"
               "HEIRESS OF BELLEFONTE," "KATE CLARENDON," "WALDE-WARREN," ETC.
            
               
                  
                     "The interest of the plot commences with the first chapter, and is
                        maintained throughout. It is a native novel, in which the scene is laid in
                        the city of Philadelphia, and the incident detailed with a truthfulness of
                        description which constitutes the great charm, of Mr. Bennett's writings. In
                        his previous works, Mr. Bennett has described border life, prairie scenes,
                        and Indian warfare with a pen so graphic, as to bring the scene bodily
                        before the reader. In 'Ellen Norbury', he deals with every day occurrences
                        of domestic town life in the same minute and elaborate way—forcibly
                        rendering us of the descriptions of Bulwer in 'Eugene Aram,' and other
                        works. 'Ellen Norbury' contains throughout a moral of which the reader is
                        never permitted to lose sight—that crime sooner or later leads to
                        retribution, and that virtue, even when exposed to severe trials, eventually
                        receives its reward."
                  
                  —International Journal.
               
            
            
               PHILADELPHIA:
               T. B. PETERSON, NO. 102 CHESTNUT STREET.
            
         
         
         
            TO ISRAEL AMIES, Of Philadelphia, THIS WORK, WITH SINCERE
               FEELINGS OF FRIENDSHIP AND ESTEEM, IS INSCRIBED, BY THE AUTHOR.
         
         
            
               Entered, according to Act of Congress, in the year 1855, by T. B. PETERSON,
                  In the Clerk's Office of the District Court of the United States, in and for the
                  Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
            
         
         
         
            CONTENTS.
            
               
                  PREFACE,
                  11
               
               
                  CHAPTER I.
                  THE FRIENDLESS BEGGAR,
                  23
               
               
                  CHAPTER II.
                  NEW ADVENTURES,
                  37
               
               
                  CHAPTER III.
                  SUSPECTED QUARTERS,
                  45
               
               
                  CHAPTER IV.
                  THE INFECTED DISTRICT,
                  52
               
               
                  CHAPTER V.
                  A NOTORIOUS DEN AND CHANGE OF SCENE,
                  61
               
               
                  CHAPTER VI.
                  SOMETHING OF MYSTERY,
                  71
               
               
                  CHAPTER VII.
                  THE MYSTERY SOLVED,
                  80
               
               
                  CHAPTER VIII.
                  THE KNIGHT AND THE SURGEON,
                  88
               
               
                  CHAPTER IX.
                  THE BURGLARY AND ABDUCTION,
                  103
               
               
                  CHAPTER X.
                  THE DEACON AND THE BURGLAR,
                  117
               
               
                  CHAPTER XI.
                  THE ESCAPE,
                  126
               
               
               
                  CHAPTER XII.
                  STRANGE QUARTERS,
                  139
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIII.
                  A DEN OF INFAMY,
                  151
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIV.
                  THE RECAPTURE,
                  165
               
               
                  CHAPTER XV.
                  A MEETING OF OLD FRIENDS,
                  175
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVI.
                  SUSPICION IN THE RIGHT QUARTER,
                  184
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVII.
                  THE PRICE OF BLOOD,
                  193
               
               
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                  GUILTY CONSCIENCE,
                  205
               
               
                  CHAPTER XIX.
                  THE SUICIDE,
                  215
               
               
                  CHAPTER XX.
                  THE ARREST,
                  226
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXI.
                  THE COMMITMENT,
                  238
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                  RETRIBUTION,
                  251
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIII.
                  DEATH IN LIFE,
                  261
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXIV.
                  THE LOVERS,
                  271
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXV.
                  GLEAMS OF LIGHT,
                  282
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVI.
                  BEGINNING OF THE END,
                  293
               
               
                  CHAPTER XXVII.
                  THE CURTAIN FALLS,
                  304
               
            
         
         
            IN presenting the following story to the public, I think it proper to introduce it
               with a few remarks. I had for a long time entertained the idea, that a novel might be
               written—founded in par upon the thrilling scenes and incidents of everyday
               occurrence, amongst the poorest and most degraded class of a large city—which, while
               containing all the essentials to make it interesting to the general reader, might be
               subservient to a higher purpose—that of calling the attention of sympathetic and
               philanthropic individuals to the awful vices and miseries of beings bearing the human
               form, who are actually below the brutes in the great scale of progression, and of
               whom it may be said that they do not really live, but rather drag on a horrible
               existence, till death by famine, death by pestilence, death by drunkenness, or death
               by suicide, puts an end to their earthly career.
            I knew it was fashionable to take up collections in churches to promote the
               propagation of the gospel in our own country; I knew it was fashionable for different
               church organizations to raise large sums to send gospel missionaries among the
               heathen; I knew it was fashionable able in
               certain quarters, to talk very sympathetically about the slaves at the South; but I
               knew at the same time, that within fifteen minutes' walk of the head-quarters of some
               of these charitable associations, hundreds of human beings, both white and black,
               were annually perishing of cold, starvation, and neglect—perishing for the want of
               the most common necessaries of life; and I reasoned that these benevolent
               organizations could not know of such scenes of distress, lying so easy of access,
               else charity would begin at home; and so I thought it my duty to tell them, in my own
               humble way—hoping that a few, if not all of them, would be induced to do something
               for the starving poor of their own city.
            I am aware that there is a great difference between a sermon in a novel and a sermon
               from a pulpit; but if the writer in the one case, and the preacher in the other, each
               proclaim the same great truth, I cannot see that the truth itself is altered by its
               different modes of conveyance; and the seed thus sown, I think as likely to spring up
               and bear fruit to one sower as the other. Hence I hold, that the writer of novels and
               the minister of the gospel, may both have a mission to perform; and both be able to
               effect much good, if they will, each in his own peculiar way and field of labor.
            I know it is fashionable for what is called the religious community, to cry down
               novels as a whole—applying to them all sorts of offensive epithets—such as degrading,
               demoralizing, vicious, and licentious; and I know, too, that certain wiseacres—who
               care nothing about religion, but wish to be considered very knowing, learned, and
               scientific—take a peculiar pleasure in adding the adjectives—trifling, nonsensical,
               insipid and trashy; and although I so far agree with both classes, as to admit that,
               all these terms may be properly applied to some novels; yet I must
               record my solemn protest against the sweeping denouncement—against the indiscriminate
               application of terms that are in many cases false and slanderous.
            Two modern writers, of marked ability, have very justly observed:
            "Sometimes a good novel is found the very best medium for conveying a useful lesson
               when other means fail."
            "The disguise of fiction has been, in all ages, a far more effective way to inculcate
               lessons of life, than dry didactics."
            We all know that when our Saviour desired to impress some great truth, upon the minds
               of his hearers, he spoke in what was called a parable; and a parable, according to
               Webster, is "A table, or allegorical relation, or representation of something real in
               life or nature, from which a moral is drawn for instruction." In other words, it is a
               great truth, enclosed in a garb of fiction, for the purpose of making it more
               impressive and effective; and if it is not a species of novel, it is at least, I
               think, a happy illustration of a distinction without a difference. Then wherefore
               condemn a novel, simply because it is a novel? or because somebody has written a
               reprehensible one? Why not discriminate between the good and bad?
            With the design, as I have said, of writing a novel which might ultimately be of some benefit to my
               suffering fellow-beings, I began to look about me for facts for a
               foundation. I soon perceived that, to effect the purpose I had in view, it would be
               necessary to make my story, to a certain extent at least, local; for I considered it
               very important, if I made the statement that human beings were annually freezing and
               starving to death in our land of plenty, to tell where they were
               freezing and starving to death—so that should any kind-hearted individuals feel
               disposed to relieve their wants, they might find the sufferers without difficulty;
               and none might be able to ease the troublous qualms of conscience, by supposing the
               scenes described to exist only in the imagination of the writer. Having been for the
               last four years a resident of Philadelphia, I naturally looked about Philadelphia for
               a locality suited to my purpose; and I regret to say, I had not to look long, or go
               far, to find such scenes of degradation, destitution, and misery as made me shudder
               to contemplate.
            I had heard frequent mention of the philanthropic labors of William J. Mullen amongst
               this suffering class of our population, and I thought he might be able to furnish me
               with such facts as I required. With a letter of introduction from the Hon. Judge
               Kelley, I therefore called upon Mr. Mullen, and made known to him the object of my
               visit. He received me with that kind and gentlemanly courtesy which is so
               characteristic of one who labors for the good of his fellows, and said it would
               afford him great pleasure to show me around through the haunts of misery, and put me
               in possession of any number of thrilling startling facts which had come under his own
               observation.
            A day was appointed, and we visited the County Prison—of which, by the way, he is now
               the visiting agent—and though I had no fault to find with the prison itself, nor with
               the way in which it was managed, yet I soon learned that our statute laws, as
               construed and abused by here and there an unfeeling, unscrupulous magistrate, are
               made most terribly oppressive to the poor wretch who has neither money nor friends. I
               learned, for the first time, that a man for being merely suspected of
               crime, might be more severely punished than one actually proved guilty.
               And in this way: the man proved guilty receives his sentence, and, when his term of
               sentence expires, is set at liberty; while it sometimes happens that the suspected
               man is required to find bail for future good behaviour; but being poor, and without
               friends, he cannot give the necessary security, and is forthwith sent to prison; and
               he may remain there a long, dreary year, unless the Judge or the Lord see proper to
               set him free; and even when his year has expired, it sometimes requires the exertions
               of a friend to secure his release. I saw one poor fellow there, who had been confined
               in his cell six months. And for what? Why, simply, for being too poor to give
                  bail that he never would be a rogue! Well, heaven help us! those of us,
               especially, who have no money nor rich relations.
            There are quite a number of other pleasant things connected with our laws and those
               who administer them—though I wish it to be distinctly borne in mind, that, in speaking of the abuse of power displayed, by
               our magistrates, I refer only to individual cases, and have no design of casting
               reproach upon them as at body, for many of them are honest, honorable men. One poor
               wretch having a spite against another, or perhaps to conceal his own guilt, goes
               before a magistrate, and makes oath that such a person has stolen something, or is
               about to steal something, or has threatened his life, or something of this kind, it
               little matters what, and forthwith the victim is arrested and brought before the
               judicial functionary, who hears the case, already, prejudged, and thinking only of
               his fees, and nothing of justice, takes no pains to ascertain whether
               the accusation is false or true; but coolly informs the trembling defendant that he
               must find so much bail for future good behavior, and pay so much costs, or be sent to
               prison. If be can pawn the coat on his back to pay the costs, (and this is sometimes
               done,) and get some friend to go his security, he is to be reckoned among the
               fortunate ones; and is to be envied by hundreds who have no coats to pawn, and who
               are sent to, prison, to remain there till such time as some kind-hearted individual,
               like Mr. Mullen, takes their case in hand, and, either by setting the magistrate to
               release them of costs and bail, or by paying the one and entering the other himself,
               or by some such hook and crook, frees them from durance vile, to return to their
               starving families, persons have been known to suffer a long, dreary, health-wasting
               imprisonment, to say nothing of its other horrors, simply from being
                  forgotten—the committing magistrate having neglected to make a return
               of the case to court! Some are bound over for trial, and the trial is months in
               coming on; and then they are found to be innocent, and are allowed to go
               home and find their families starved, or starve themselves in disgrace.
               Witnesses in important cases, when unable to enter bail, are frequently confined in
               the debtor's prison, or in an adjoining cell to the accused, till after the trial,
               which may be months hence, instead of their depositions being taken, and they being
               allowed to go at large. It is therefore a dangerous thing for a poor man to
                  see a crime committed and tell of it; the gloomy prison
               is his reward; and doubtless this interesting mode of managing witnesses keeps many
               crimes concealed. All these things are true, of both sexes.
            The foregoing are only a few of the many startling facts connected with
               the Philadelphia County Prison; and had I time and space, I could narrate tales of
               individual suffering, that would make the blood of a feeling heart curdle, and bring
               the blush of shame to the cheek of a Choctaw!
            In company with Mr. Mullen, I next visited that awful locality lying between Fifth
               and Seventh, South and Fitzwater streets; and though the day was warm and pleasant,
               yet the scenes of destitution, drunkenness, and suffering, which I here witnessed,
               made a painful impression upon my mind; and I could not help thinking, if thus it was
               on a day like this, what must it be at the midnight hour of winter, with the
               thermometer at zero! As I have endeavored to draw a faint picture of the miserable
               scenes of this quarter ter in the pages
               which follow, I will refer any who may be curious to the work itself.
            And in this connections a sense of duty compels me to say a few words of Mr. Mullen's
               disinterested labors here among the poor. Some years ago, being in easy
               circumstances, and hearing much of the awful sufferings of his fellow beings in this
               vicinity, he boldly ventured among them, at the risk of his life—for here, be it
               remarked, are the head quarters of criminals of every grade, from the thief who would
               risk imprisonment to steal a penny, to the bloody wretch who would cut your throat
               for a dollar—he boldly ventured among them, I say, at the risk of his life, and
               seeing the state of horrible misery, which now enclosed him as in a vortex of
               night-mares, he nobly resolved to make an attempt to meliorate their condition. No
               sooner had he formed this resolution, than, with that energy of purpose, firmness of
               mind, and unyielding determination which characterize him, he set about his
                  Christian task. It was in the dead of winter, and hundreds were
               freezing and starving to death; and he saw it was necessary to rent some building, in
               which to establish his head-quarters, and have a place to warm, and feed, and clothe
               his perishing brothers and sisters. There was a church in the vicinity, and he
               applied for that; but the trustees refused to rent it for any such
                  degrading purpose, and he had to look elsewhere. He finally procured
               a building, and did all that one man could do to alleviate the distress around him.
               He has continued to labor in this field ever since, aided by other philanthropists,
               and is still as active among the poor as ever, having spent thousands of dollars of
               his own money to carry out his noble plans. He is the founder of the Moyamensing
               House of Industry, where the suffering poor, who have neither home nor friends, are
               fed and cared for, and has held the office of President of over fifty other
               Benevolent Societies and Institutions. May God give him his reward!
            I must here add a word or two more, for fear of being misunderstood. What I have said
               of William J. Mullen, I have said without solicitation, and I am writing this without
               his knowledge. I felt it to be my duty to speak of him as I have, simply as an act of
               justice; and I can honestly assert, that I would say the same of any other man,
               friend or enemy, if I could be assured he had done as much to relieve the wants and
               miseries of my unfortunate fellow beings. Mr. Mullen lives in Philadelphia, and keeps
               a record of all his transactions, which can be perused by any one who may desire to
               do so. But I warn you that that record of many volumes, with its details of crime and
               suffering, would make your blood run cold with horror. Without the strongest evidence
               of its being a plain, unvarnished statement of facts, no one could be made to believe
               that such things could occur in our day and generation. It is a record of human
               wrong, human frailty, and human wretchedness, over which the very angels in Heaven
               must weep.
            But let me hasten to conclude this already lengthy introduction.
            After returning front the locality I have mentioned, I found myself in possession of
               all the facts I required; but having gained
               these facts—many of them too horrible for narration, in a work making any pretensions
               to refinement—I began, for the first time, to perceive the difficulties which lay in
               the way of the accomplishment of the task I had undertaken. I wished to write a
               novel, which might please the general reader, and at the same time call attention to
               the vices and miseries which exist in every great city, and especially in that
               quarter of Philadelphia of which mention has more than once been made. But to
               describe the scenes as they really existed and do still exist there, without any
               relief, I very naturally concluded would shock and disgust the reader, and prove an
               entire failure.
            So after much pondering of the subject, I settled upon the plan which I have carried
               out, and which I hope may meet the approbation of the great public, to whose candid
               and impartial judgment I now submit the work, well knowing that if it fail of its
               design, the fault must rest with the author, and not with those who render an
               unbiassed decision. If it be thought by any that I have lingered more than I should
               among the scenes of misery, vice, and crime, I can truly assert that I have done so
               for a higher purpose than that of merely writing a thrilling tale, and that I have
               labored to relieve and lighten the dark shades of a dark picture as much as I could,
               without destroying its power of impressing the mind with the truth of a more terrible
               reality.
            In conclusion, let me add, I have aimed at no personalities, and especially at no
               religion—for true religion, the religion taught by our Saviour, I love and venerate.
               Of some glaring faults and errors, as displayed by certain classes I have spoken
               somewhat boldly—perhaps too boldly to please the pompous hypocrites who use religion
               as a cloak to cover their vices. If such prove to be the case, it may afford them
               some consolation to be told, that I had no design or expectations of pleasing them
               from the start—though I think they should rather blame themselves for the facts, than
               the writer for alluding to them.
            It may interest some to know, that I first saw the little "Hunchback" in the County
               Prison, and subsequently reeling through one of the streets, with a group of ragged
               urchins following him, hooting and laughing. Of the other characters, I need only
               say, they have their counterparts in real life.
            
               EMERSON BENNETT,
               Philadelphia, January 1855.
            
         
      
      
         
            Ellen Norbury, or, The adventures of an orphan
            
            ELLEN NORBURY;
            OR, THE ADVENTURES OF AN ORPHAN.
            
               CHAPTER I.
               THE FRIENDLESS BEGGAR.
               IT WAS Christmas eve, that happy period for the young who have parents above the
                  wants and miseries of griping poverty, and notwithstanding a heavy snow was
                  falling, the streets of the goodly city of Philadelphia were thronged with joyous
                  citizens, many of them returning to their cheerful firesides, loaded with toys,
                  which were to greet the eyes of the happy children, when they should awake on the
                  morrow, as the mysterious presents of fabled St. Nicholas. It was a gala, time to
                  all but the homeless and destitute; and, alas! there are too many such, who, with
                  fevered eyes, can only look upon the happiness of others through that deep veil of
                  hopeless gloom which shuts out every cheerful ray. To such poor wretches it was a
                  time of open mockery; for they keenly felt that but one tithe of what was now so
                  freely spent for foolish toys, would have provided them against the pangs of
                  starvation and death.
               
               It is an awful thing for one to die of cold and hunger in the midst of plenty; but
                  such, we grieve to say, is too often the case; while merchants on change count
                  their profits by thousands, and their wives and daughters roll in their carriages,
                  and flaunt their silks along our fashionable thoroughfares.
               Must it always be so? is there no remedy? Great God, forbid! We subscribe money to
                  send missionaries to the heathen, to convert them. Convert them to what? To
                  Christianity! Yet Christianity allows the heathen in her own country, within the
                  sound of the bells of her sacred churches, to die of starvation. We talk of the
                  slaves at the South, and get up meetings of sympathy and condolence; yet leave the
                  slaves at the North—white and black freemen in name, but slaves to poverty and
                  vice—to die friendless and unpitied. Is this right? Have you, sir—or you,
                  madam—who step proudly within the portals of the church, and sit luxuriously on
                  cushioned seats, and offer up musk-scented prayers to the Throne of the
                  Omnipotent—have you no feelings of humanity? have you no thought for your poor
                  brothers and sisters, who lie gasping in wretchedness? If not, then do not longer
                  insult Heaven by uttering hypocritical prayers; for He who will sit in judgment
                  upon your acts, will say to you:
               "The tree is known by its fruits. I was an hungered, and ye gave me no meat; I was
                  thirsty, and ye gave me no drink; I was a stranger, and ye took me not in; naked,
                  and ye clothed me not; sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not. Depart! I know
                  ye not; for as ye did it not to one of the least of these, (your poor brothers and
                  sisters,) ye did it not to me."
               Perhaps you will say, with a self-satisfied air:
               "My conscience is easy, for I know of no poor that I can relieve."
               Very well, then, if such be the case, follow the tracings our pen, and we will
                  show you objects worthy of charity—human beings wallowing in wretchedness—who, by
                  a little judicious assistance and counsel, may yet be snatched from the jaws of
                  mortal death, and that second death which is a thousand fold worse than the
                  first.
               We have said that the streets were thronged with happy citizens, going to and fro,
                  on that snowy Christmas eve which opens our story. But there was one abroad, in
                  one of the main thoroughfares, who, like our Master of old, knew not where to lay
                  her head. This was a mere child—a little girl, of perhaps ten years of age—who,
                  thinly clad, almost barefoot, was stealing along, with tearful eyes and pitiful
                  look, unconscious whither her steps were tending or caring, so she might find some
                  good Samaritan who would shelter her for the night and give her food. More than
                  once was she rudely jostled and put aside by purse-proud, anxious passengers; and
                  more than once was her thin dress brushed by rustling silks; yet not one paused to
                  give her a kind word, or direct one look of sympathy to her sorrowful face. Poor
                  child! May God protect you! for mankind seem to have no bowels of compassion.
               At last the poor little thing, weary and discouraged, stopped under a lamp, and
                  looked tremblingly around her. On either side of her was a row of fine dwellings,
                  and she fancied there might be hearts in some of them that would take pity upon
                  her. At this moment a man passed, well buttoned up in a warm overcoat; and
                  catching his eye, and fancying there was something benevolent in the expression,
                  the little girl impulsively made a step forward, and holding but her thin hand and
                  half-naked arm, said, falteringly:
               "Please, sir, will you give me a trifle?"
               Now this man had what is called a kind heart; and had he known how painfully a
                  little charity was needed, he would have
                  stopped, doubtless, and bestowed upon her a silver coin; but it was snowing; his
                  thickly padded over-coat was snugly buttoned; and so, making a feint to feel in
                  his pocket, he answered:
               "I have no change, my little girl."
               As he passed on, two large, hot tears—for the tears were hot if the child was
                  cold—rolled down her pale, wan, face and covering it with her hands, she drew
                  back, and leaned against the lamp-post for support.
               While standing thus, the door of a house in front of her was opened, and a
                  gentleman came out upon the steps, and deliberately spread an umbrella, while
                  another appeared just within, holding the door with one hand.
               "It is snowing finely," said the first; "and if it keeps on this way through the
                  night, we shall have fine sleighing to-morrow. By-the-by, Deacon, if there should
                  be a good fall of snow, would you like a drive with me out to the
                  Wissahiccon?"
               "Thank you," answered the other, in a smooth, oily tone; "I should like it very
                  much in the afternoon. In the morning, you know, I must attend Divine service, and
                  put in my mite to aid the poor—God help them!"
               "Ah! true!" said the first; "we should not forget the poor at this season of
                  festivity; and as I may not get down to hear the sermon, I will commission you to
                  put in my mite for me."
               As he spoke, he drew from his pocket two half-dollars, which he handed to the
                  Deacon, who thanked him in the name of the poor, and promised to deposit them, on
                  the day following, in the charity box of the church in which he worshipped.
               "Well," continued the one with the umbrella, "should the day be fine, and good
                  sleighing, I will call for you at three o'clock."
               "Very, well—that will suit—and thank you too."
               "Good night, Deacon Pinchbeck."
               "Good night, friend Parker—good night."
               The gentleman with the umbrella walked hastily away, and Deacon Pinchbeck backed
                  in and closed the door.
               The little girl, whom neither of these persons had noticed, and who had heard
                  every word of the conversation reported, thought, simple soul, that the house of
                  such a pious man would be the place to solicit charity; and so, after some
                  tremblings and misgivings, she summoned the resolution which attends despair,
                  ventured up the marble step, and gave a slight ring. The Deacon, who was still in
                  the entry, exchanging some words with his wife, who was up stairs, did not wait
                  for the servant, but answered the bell himself.
               "Well" he said, harshly, as his eye fell upon the miserable object who stood
                  trembling before him, partly with cold and partly with fear—for she was not a
                  beggar by profession, and felt very timid: "well, what do you want?"
               His voice was no longer soft and oily, but more like a file going across the teeth
                  of a saw.
               "Ple-a-a-se, sir," chattered the little girl, "I'm very hungry."
               "Hungry, are you?" returned the pious Deacon, with holy horror: "why don't you go
                  home, then, and not be out at this time of night, ringing gentlemen's door-bells?
                  Have you not been told never to put your feet on these steps, you miserable
                  creature? Eh! come, speak! have you never been told to keep away from here?"
               "N-n-no, sir," stammered the girl, bursting into tears—"I never was here
                  before."
               "Then you are a new one, eh? one of the new beggarly impostors, are you? Well,
                  come in here, till I teach you a lesson."
               
               The child, much frightened, drew back, and would have darted down the steps, but
                  the Deacon caught hold of her, and said:
               "Not so fast, my little thief—not so fast; you don't escape me this way." Then
                  seeing some one approaching along the street, he added, in a milder tone, but one
                  that could be heard at a greater distance: "Come in, my poor child! come in, and I
                  will see what I can do for you."
               Reassured by the change, of his voice, and seeing no alternative, the little girl
                  entered the house, and the Deacon closed the door. He then bade her follow him
                  into the back-parlor, which was handsomely furnished, and lighted with gas, with a
                  cheerful coal fire burning in the grate and sending out a pleasant heat. A fat
                  little boy, with rather coarse, impudent features, sat on a cricket, near the
                  fire, with his hands locked over his knees, and a sleek, tabby cat purring in his
                  lap. A large stuffed rocking-chair stood in the centre of the apartment; and
                  throwing himself into this, the Deacon, in an authoritative tone, bade his
                  trembling captive advance to his side, where she underwent a very rigid and
                  contemptuous scrutiny.
               She was one of those unfortunate beings whom we can only liken to a frost-nipped
                  flower—beautiful by nature, but withered and faded by the chilling air of
                  adversity. She was, as we have before remarked, about ten years of age—but small
                  and slender—and now, alas! thin and wasted, for want of the necessaries of life.
                  Her face was not clean—neither were her hands; but she only needed washing,
                  feeding, and dressing, with kind words and gentle smiles, to have made her a
                  beauty of which the most fastidious could have been proud. Her features were
                  pretty, but soiled and haggard. She had a straight nose, a prim little mouth, with
                  evenly, pearly teeth, and gentle, expressive blue eyes. A ragged hood partially
                  covered her head, the hair of which was light, and fell down the sides of her face
                  and neck in disorder, being uncombed and matted. A thin, ragged gown, one sleeve
                  of which was gone above the elbow, with a draggling undergarment, old slip shod
                  shoes, both too large and unmated, and a black, faded, moth-eaten shawl, of small
                  dimensions and coarse stuff, completed her attire. This apology for a shawl she
                  drew close around her person, and endeavored to keep her naked arm concealed under
                  it. She was indeed an object of striking interest to the true philanthropist.
               Marked was the contrast between this poor child of sorrow, and the rich, fat,
                  pious Deacon Pinchbeck, and his hopeful son and heir. The Deacon was a man on the
                  shady side of forty, very plump, like one who lives well, but neither tall nor
                  graceful. His face had an oily look; but the expression could be harsh and cold
                  enough when he wished. The eyes were a light gray, shrewd, and rather small; the
                  nose short, angular and turned up at the end; the mouth large and sensual, and the
                  cheeks plump and fresh. He had scarcely any eyebrows, and his forehead was what
                  some would term intellectual; but it was not so in reality; for the Deacon knew
                  very little beyond certain long prayers, certain stereotyped pious sayings, and
                  how to get money and keep it. The forehead, it is true, looked well to one who had
                  no idea of the noble science of phrenology. It looked high, because the Deacon was
                  a little bald; and it looked oily, because the Deacon fed well; but from the base
                  to the crown, it had a very unintellectual slope; and the place where the organs
                  of veneration and benevolence should have been, was so flat, that the good man
                  might have set a pail of water there and carried it with very little difficulty.
                  Of course the Deacon dressed well, in dark broadcloth; and to look more
                  sanctified, if not ministerial, he wore round his neck a white cravat, without collar. He was fawning and
                  sycophantic to the rich full of cant to the pious but a regular tyrant to those
                  whom he could oppress with impunity.
               He was of vulgar extraction—id est—what the
                  fashionable term vulgar. His father was a drunkard, and his mother took in
                  washing. His mother was still living in poverty, which speaks volumes for the
                  baseness of his heart. In his early life he had been a pedlar; and what with
                  cheating and stealing—for more than once, in buying his wares, he had pilfered
                  from an honest salesman—he had scraped together a sum of money that had enabled
                  him to purchase a grocery. In this business, for ten years, he was so prosperous,
                  owing to false weights, over charges, etcetera, that at last he sold out, at an
                  enormous profit, and turned usurer. His plan of doing business now was very
                  simple. For instance, he had the money, and you wanted it: in fact you were so
                  situated that you must have it. Very well. Mr. Absalom Pinchbeck—he was not a
                  Deacon in those days—would not charge you any more interest than the law allowed:
                  Oh! no—not he. But you could give him your note, with a good endorser, or good
                  real estate security, for a hundred dollars, with interest, payable at six months,
                  and Mr. Pinchbeck would count you down seventy-five dollars. All fair, you see;
                  and if you wanted a larger sum, it could be done at the same rate; sometimes,
                  perhaps, if you were not too much distressed, at a better rate. Well, suppose you
                  gave him a mortgage on your property, and by some misfortune could not meet his
                  demand at the proper time; why, Mr. Pinchbeck could not find it convenient to
                  renew your note; but he would do something better—for himself. He would kindly
                  sell your property for you, secure his debt, and perhaps bid it in for one-half
                  its real value.
               In this latter way Mr. Pinchbeck got to owning houses and lands, and then be
                  thought it time to marry. He found a widow who had managed to put two husbands
                  under the turf, and he paid his addresses to her. She was larger than himself, and
                  somewhat older; but she had some property, and very winning ways, and so Mr.
                  Pinchbeck proposed. She knew him to be rich, and she accepted. In private she
                  turned out to be a perfect shrew; but as she always had honeyed words for him in
                  company, this could be borne. Sometimes in a pet, she boxed his ears, or kicked
                  him out of bed; but as Mr. Pinchbeck generally succeeded in cheating somebody soon
                  after, he put this down to good luck—equivalent, to throwing an old shoe after
                  him. He really feared her more than he did his God; but he took care to keep this
                  a secret, and always spoke of her as his dear wife, dear angel, and so forth.
               Being at last married and prosperous, and blessed with a son, who inherited his
                  mother's temper and his father's meanness, Absalom Pinchbeck thought it would be
                  for his interest to join the church. His wife, who had some idea of respectability
                  and fashion, thought so too, and so they both got religion together—or said they
                  did, at least—and were made members of a church which had a high steeple, a good
                  sounding bell, carpeted aisles, and cushioned seats. Mr. Pinchbeck being very
                  devoted and rich, and his wife rather good-looking and fashionable, he was thought
                  worthy of the office, and was accordingly chosen a Deacon.
               Now the Deacon never alluded to his past life and his poor mother, and there were
                  but few of his present acquaintances who knew his history. There were, however,
                  some who did, and who, if made angry, would throw it up to him; but the Deacon
                  would piously roll up his eyes, and exclaim, With a sigh, that the Lord had been
                  very kind to His poor, humble servant—which was doubtless true, seeing ing he was yet out of that nameless place
                  which such deacons deserve.
               "Well," said the Deacon, after a long and severe scrutiny of his trembling
                  prisoner, "so you pretend to be a new impostor, do you?"
               "Please, sir, let me go, and I'll never come here, again," returned the frightened
                  child, beginning to cry.
               "Hum! you want to go, do you?" rejoined the Deacon; "you are very anxious to get
                  away, are you? that looks suspicious. Nelson, (to the little boy,) attend! Mark
                  what now takes place! I intend, my son, that you shall one day be a great lawyer;
                  and great lawyers, my son, have to cross-question witnesses. Now your father is
                  going to question, and cross-question, this little impostor; and you will be able
                  to learn something useful. We should always endeavor to pick up knowledge wherever
                  we can, my son—at least such knowledge as will make us great in—in—a—ah—the
                  world."
               "Go ahead, dad," answered the juvenile prodigy.
               "So you came here to steal, did you?" continued the Deacon to the little girl.
               "Oh! no, sir!" was the frightened answer.
               "Not exactly to steal yourself, perhaps, but to lay a plan for others. You see I
                  know all about such creatures as you. What have you got in your hand, that you
                  keep it hid under that rag of a shawl?"
               "Nothing, sir."
               "Let me see!"
               The child showed her hand, and with it her naked arm.
               "What have you done with the putty, or whatever you use, for taking impressions of
                  locks? Ha! you see I know your tricks—so own up."
               "I haven't got any putty, sir."
               "But you had."
               "No, sir, I never had any."
               "No stories now—you know you had."
               "No sir, I never had any putty, ad I don't know what you mean."
               "You see what story-tellers these things are, Nelson—they can't tell the
                  truth."
               "If I's you, dad, I'd switch her—that 'ud fetch her."
               "Perhaps I shall before I'm done, if she don't answer me better. Do you know, you
                  creature, that I could put you in prison, for coming here to steal?"
               "But I didn't come here to steal—indeed, indeed, I didn't!" cried the poor
                  child.
               "Why didn't, you come in the day-time then? or why did you come here at all?"
               "I was so hungry sir."
               "Hungry, were you? Indeed! Are you hungry now?"
               "Yes, sir—some—not much."
               "Ha! I see you can't tell a straight story. Where do you live?"
               "I haven't any home, sir."
               "Come! that's likely! if you go on in this way, I shall take Nelson's advice and
                  switch you."
               "I guess if dad switches you once, you'll be glad to tell the truth," said the
                  boy, putting down the cat, and getting up. "Let's see your face;" and coming up
                  close to her, he pinched her arm.
               The unfortunate child uttered a cry of pain, and drew back.
               "Stop!" said the father—"don't you attempt to correct her, Nelson—you are too
                  young. Come, you beggar—tell me where you live, this minute!"
               "I don't live any where, sir. I used to live with an old woman by the river—but
                  she beat me so, I had to leave her."
               
               "So! you're a runaway, eh?"
               "I ran away from her, sir."
               "I ought to take you back there, I suppose—for it's the duty of good citizens to
                  return all the runaways they find. What did she beat you for?"
               "I don't know, sir—I always minded her."
               "You were a bad girl, I suppose. What is your name?"
               "Ellen, sir."
               "Ellen what?"
               "Ellen Norbury."
               "Ellen Norbury, eh? Hum! Have you got a father?"
               "No, sir."
               "Never had one, may be;" and the witty Deacon laughed at his coarse joke, and his
                  hopeful son joined in—not because he understood the 
                     inuendo
                     innuendo
                  , but because he thought it proper to laugh when his father did. "Never
                  had a father, eh?" pursued the inquisitor.
               "Yes, sir;" and the recollection caused little Ellen to sob hysterically.
               "What became of him?"
               "He died, sir."
               "Hum! Well, have you got a mother?"
               "No, sir—she's dead, too."
               "What did your father do for a living?"
               "He was an artist, sir."
               "Where did he live?"
               "In Dublin, sir."
               "Did he never live in this country?"
               "No, sir—he died on the voyage over."
               "Did your mother live here?"
               "A little while, sir."
               "What did she do for a living?"
               "After father died, she made shirts."
               "Where did she live?"
               "Down near the river, sir."
               "How long has your father been dead?"
               "Over two years, sir."
               "How long has your mother been dead?"
               "Most two years, sir."
               "Where have you been living since?"
               "With the old woman who lived in the same house with my mother."
               "What's her name?"
               Ellen hesitated, and, the Deacon repeated the question.
               "I don't like to tell, sir."
               "Why?"
               "Because you might take me back."
               "No, I shan't trouble myself so much about you: in fact, I believe all you have
                  told me is false. When did you run away?"
               "Day before yesterday, sir."
               "Where did you sleep last night?"
               "I crawled into an old shed, and laid on some straw."
               "Where do you expect to sleep to-night?"
               "I don't know, sir."
               "Hum! a pretty pack of lies, I'll be bound."
               At this moment the door opened, and the stately Mrs. Pinchbeck sailed in, dressed
                  in silk. She was a large woman, and, in her younger days, had probably been good
                  looking; but her features now were coarse, and a near inspection showed the
                  crow's-feet around her small, keen eyes, notwithstanding a pretty free use of
                  cosmetics. Her hair and teeth were false, her eyebrows pencilled, and her large
                  flabby cheeks painted. Still, by gas-light, she was as passably comely as could be
                  expected of a woman verging on fifty, who had spent a good portion of her time in
                  fashionable dissipation.
               
               "What is it, my love? what is going on here?" she inquired, addressing her now
                  uneasy lord.
               "Why, my angel," answered the latter, with a look that showed he had some fears of
                  how the intelligence might be received, "this is a little beggar wretch who had
                  the impudence to ring our bell, my dear, and I brought her in here to give her a
                  lesson."
               "Indeed!" said the lady, her little eyes snapping with anger: "how
                     dare you bring such a creature into my parlor—into
                     my presence—with all her dirt and filth? I'll teach
                     you a lesson, Deacon Absalom Pinchbeck;" and advancing to her
                  trembling spouse, she bestowed upon his organ; of hearing a most unlady-like
                  Christmas box—a box, in fact, that caused him to leave his seat sideways, with
                  tears in his eyes.
               She then sailed up to the corner of the fire-place, and rung the kitchen bell.
               "Catharine," she said to the servant, with a disdainful air, pointing to little
                  Ellen, "show this bundle of rags into the street."
               Poor little Ellen was only too glad to escape; and when the cold pierced her thin
                  garments, and the snow fell upon her, and the door closed behind her, she drew a
                  long sigh of relief.
               Poor child!
            
            
               CHAPTER II.
               NEW ADVENTURES.
               AFTER the rude treatment she had received at the house of Deacon Pinchbeck, little
                  Ellen felt no disposition to make further application for relief in that
                  apparently inhospitable quarter. Fearful of she scarcely knew what, she hurried,
                  like a guilty thing, to the street that crossed the one that she was in, and, with
                  a frightened look behind her, turned the corner, and pursued her way with hasty
                  steps. Soon she turned into another street, not so respectable in appearance, and
                  poorly lighted. She knew not where she was, or whither she was going; but
                  believing she was now safe from pursuit—for she thought it not unlikely that the
                  pious Deacon might get some one to follow her—she slackened her pace, and gazed
                  around her with a feeling of despair. She was very weak and faint, for she had not
                  tasted food but once during the day; and then a kind-hearted baker, to whom she
                  had applied, had given her a small roll and a cake. Still she dragged herself
                  through the snow, already some inches deep, and at length turned into a darker and
                  poorer street—a street, in fact, where beings lived but little better off than
                  herself. Had she asked for charity here, doubtless she would have received it; for
                  it is a well established truth—and a crying shame it is, that it is true—that the
                  poor are kinder and more generous to the distressed, than those who live in
                  luxury.
               Little Ellen, however, had resolved to make no further application for assistance.
                  She was completely discouraged aged, and
                  thought she might as well die as live on in hopeless misery. She did not dread
                  death; otherwise than through those instincts of nature which cause all animated
                  creatures to cling to life; and so coming to an old step, which led up to the
                  decaying door of an old, rickety house, she stopped, and sat down beside it,
                  believing this night would be her last on earth. Closely drawing her shawl around
                  her, she offered up a simple prayer, imploring the protection of the Deity who is
                  omnipresent.
               An hour passed away, and the constantly falling snow had thrown a white mantle
                  over our little adventurer, and yet she sat motionless as a rock. At first she
                  felt pain in her body and limbs, from the cold; but a kind of numbness, gradually
                  succeeded; and then a quiet, easy drowsiness, each moment leading deeper into a
                  state of unconsciousness, as when one sinks gently into the arms of sleep. During
                  the time mentioned, not a soul passed her, and nothing had occurred to rouse her
                  mind from the deadening influences of the wintry air; but now, half waking and
                  half sleeping, she became conscious of approaching footsteps; and rousing herself
                  a little, she described the figure of a man hurrying along the deserted street.
                  She had no intention of speaking to him, or of attracting his notice; but the
                  slight movement she made to get a view of him, caused a sudden pang to shoot
                  through her breast, and involuntarily she uttered a sharp cry of pain. The man,
                  who was nearly abreast of her, started, stopped, looked, hurriedly around, and,
                  getting a glimpse of her person, said, somewhat gruffly:
               "Who are you? and what are you doing here?"
               To this little Ellen made no reply, hoping he would pass on and leave her to her
                  fate; but instead, he came close up to her, and repeated his question.
               "I was tired, sir," answered Ellen, in a trembling voice, "and sat down here to
                  rest."
               "But you'll freeze to death here, child—better git up and go home."
               "I have no home to go to," continued Ellen, beginning to cry.
               "No home?" said the man, in a tone of surprise; "that's not a very likely story.
                  You've got some place to go to—you don't live in the streets, do you?"
               "I don't want to go back to the old woman I lived with, sir," replied little Ellen
                  "because she would beat me—may be kill me."
               "Well, then, may be you'd like to come with me. I haven't got much of a home, but
                  it's better than sleeping in the streets."
               "I am afraid I should be a trouble to you," hesitated Ellen.
               "Oh, come along, my little gal—we'll talk about that there arterwards."
               There was something kind in his tone; and as he spoke, he stooped down and lifted
                  Ellen upon her feet. But she was so weak, from want of food, and so benumbed with
                  the cold, that it was only with great difficulty she could stand. Perceiving this,
                  the man muttered something that Ellen did not hear; and throwing an arm around her
                  slender waist, he lifted her easily from the ground and set forward. He continued
                  down this dark, narrow street till he came to one which crossed it at right
                  angles; and turning up the latter, about twenty yards, he stopped beside an old
                  house, from which issued boisterous sounds of many voices, mingled with the
                  squeaking of a fiddle, and the shuffling of feet as of persons engaged in a
                  dance.
               "They're having a high time in there," said the man; "but we'll not jine 'em.
                  Think you can walk a little now?" he
                  inquired, again placing little Ellen on her feet.
               "Oh, yes, sir—thank you!" answered the child, who felt her heart swelling with
                  gratitude at the kindness the other displayed.
               "Well, then, give us your hand, and don't be afeard," was the rejoinder of the
                  man, as he turned into a dark, narrow passage between two old houses—so dark that
                  nothing could be seen, and so narrow that two persons could not go abreast.
               From this passage, which was closed overhead by the two old houses joining, little
                  Ellen, following her guide, emerged into a sort of court, whence she could once
                  more look up to the heavens. Just before her she could barely perceive another old
                  building with here and there a ray of light streaming through a crevice, showing
                  that it was inhabited. Under this, on one side, was another narrow passage,
                  similar to the one she had just passed through; and this, like the other, emerged
                  into a small opening, with another old building just beyond. Turning short round
                  the building, Ellen's strange guide now descended a flight of old steps, and
                  rapped. on the door of an underground apartment.
               "Is that you, Jim?" inquired a female voice from within.
               "Yes, Mag, it's me, come, hurry and open the door."
               There was a sound of shoving bolts,; and the door, swinging gratingly back,
                  admitted the man and Ellen into a small, square, damp apartment. The room,
                  however, to the eyes of little Ellen, who gazed curiously around, had some
                  appearance of comfort. It was small; but in one corner stood a bed, occupying
                  about one-third of the space, and a rush mat covered a portion of the ground, and
                  served for a floor. There were two or three chairs, and a small deal table; and
                  against the wall, near the door, stood a large chest, which served both for a seat
                  and cupboard for holding dishes and victuals. In the large fire-place was an old
                  tin kettle, set up on some bricks, and used in lieu of a stove. Some scraps of
                  iron, laid across near the top, supported the coals; while some holes in the side,
                  near the bottom, admitted the air underneath for draught. A good coal fire was
                  burning in this, with a frying pan on top, containing three good-sized slices of
                  ham, the savory odor of which made the appetite of little Ellen feel very keen. On
                  the deal table, without cloth, were a few dishes, some salt in a broken bottle,
                  and a loaf of bread. Besides the fire, a lighted tallow candle, stuck in the nose
                  of a bottle, stood on the mantle-piece; and by the light of this, after glancing
                  at what we have described, Ellen surveyed the features and persons of the two
                  beings in whose company she had been thrown by a singular freak of fortune.
               The man was about thirty-five years of age, of stout build, with a face not very
                  prepossessing. His complexion was light, but weather-beaten, and he had reddish
                  hair and sandy whiskers. His eyes were of a pale, faded hue, of a rather sinister
                  expression, and rested upon every object with a kind, of suspicious glance, which
                  seemed to be as much the result of habit as nature. He was evidently one not at
                  peace with the world, whose conscience was not exactly at case, and who regarded
                  the generality of mankind as his enemies. He was coarsely but warmly dressed, and
                  on the whole had rather a rough appearance.
               The woman might have been a few years his junior, and had the look of a faded
                  beauty. Her appearance was that of one, who, early in life, had commenced a fatal
                  career of dissipation, and whose constitutional was already broken and fast
                  sinking under the effects of bad liquor and a loathsome vice. Her eyes, once dark,
                  bright and expressive, were now somewhat
                  dull and swollen, and her face was both pock-marked and bloated. Still she seemed
                  to have some pride, for her dress of faded silk was tidy, her hair was kept in
                  order, and there was a look of cleanliness about her person.
               "Well," said the man, throwing himself upon a seat, "I'm glad to see you've got
                  supper under way, Mag, for I'm as hungry as I'm tired. Anybody been here?"
               "Jake Allen was here about an hour ago, and wanted to see you—he said he'd be in
                  again in the course of the evening. But who've you brought home with you, Jim?"
                  continued the woman, taking a keen survey of little Ellen, who seemed to shrink
                  under her observation.
               "Well, that's more'n I know," answered the other; "but she's somebody the world
                  haint used very well, I reckon; for I found her planted down by an old door step,
                  as if she'd concluded to make a die on't."
               "She's got pretty features," said Margaret, "and these may make a fortune for her
                  one of these days. Come here, my little girl," she continued, in a kindly tone,
                  "and don't be afraid—nobody'll hurt you here."
               "Thank you, ma'am," returned the unfortunate child; and as she spoke, the tears,
                  which she strove to restrain, gushed out of her eyes.
               "What's your name?" questioned the woman.
               "Ellen Norbury, ma'am," replied the child, advancing to the other, who was holding
                  out her hand.
               "And a very pretty name it is," was the kind rejoinder. "Where do you live?"
               "I don't live anywhere now, ma'am; I used to live with an old woman down by the
                  river; but she beat me so every day that I couldn't stay, and so I ran away."
               "Hav'nt you got any father or mother?"
               "No, ma'am—they're both dead."
               "Poor child!" said the other, in a tone of so much real compassion, that little
                  Ellen again burst into tears.
               The woman looked at her steadily and sorrowfully for a few moments, and
                  involuntarily sighed—that sigh was given to the memory of happy days, and showed
                  that the germ of something good was still in her heart, though buried deep,
                  perhaps, under long years of vice and crime.
               "Well," she resumed, "if you've no home, you shall live with me for the
                  present—that, is if you think you'd like to."
               "Oh, yes, ma'am, and thank you too," responded Ellen, with a gleam of joy; "and
                  I'll work hard for you, and do everything you ask me to."
               "Well take off your hood and shawl, and warm yourself, for you must be cold. Are
                  you hungry?"
               "Yes, ma'am, very hungry."
               "Poor child!" sighed Margaret again; "you shall soon have some supper;" and she
                  turned away to attend to the meat.
               In a few minutes it was placed smoking hot on the table, and little Ellen was
                  kindly invited to sit up to the humble board. It is needless to say that she did
                  ample justice to what was before her; as also did the man who had conducted her
                  hither; but the woman ate sparingly, and seemed unusually thoughtful and
                  abstracted. From the time of entering the house—if the mean apartment thus
                  inhabited could be dignified with such an appellation—till he had satisfied his
                  appetite, the man made no other remarks than those we have recorded. When he had
                  finished his meal, he drew back from the table, and turned to the fire, at which
                  he gazed with a thoughtful air for some minutes. At length, without looking round
                  to Margaret, he said:
               "So, nobody but Jake's been here since I went out?"
               
               "Nobody else," was the answer.
               "Did he mention about Bill?"
               "He said nothing but that he'd be back again soon."
               "I hope Bill'll come with him."
               "Anything up for to-night?" asked Margaret.
               Mulwrack—for such was the man's rightful surname, though he had more than one
                  alias—looked quickly round to little Ellen, and perceiving she was not observing
                  him, placed his finger on his lips and nodded. Soon after he got up, and beckoned
                  Margaret aside, and the two held a conversation together in a low tone. He then
                  resumed his seat by the fire, and the woman immediately said to Ellen:
               "You look tired, child—don't you want to go to bed?"
               "I am tired, ma'am," was the reply; "but if can do anything to help you—let me do
                  it first."
               "Not to-night, Ellen," was the kind reply, "You may crawl into the bed there, and
                  to-morrow I'll talk with you. But first," she continued, "you may give yourself a
                  good washing;" and fixing up a temporary screen near the bed, she handed Ellen a
                  wash-basin, a bit of soap, and a towel, and then from a trunk under the bed, she
                  took out a clean, white, night-garment, which she gave her to put on when she
                  should have performed a thorough ablution.
               In less than half an hour, Ellen had donned a clean night robe, and crept into a
                  bed which had a straw mattress under cotton sheets—a luxury which the poor child
                  had not enjoyed for many a weary night. She now, comparatively speaking, felt
                  happy; day seemed dawning upon night; and the world seemed opening before her a
                  scene that was not all misery and hopeless gloom. Alas! how great must have been
                  the sufferings of one so young, to make her present wretched abode seem a
                  paradise!
               Praying, with a heart fall of thanks and gratitude, that God would protect her and
                  bless her benefactors, she laid her weary head upon the pillow, and almost
                  immediately sunk into a sound and peaceful slumber.
            
            
               CHAPTER III.
               SUSPECTED QUARTERS.
               WHEN Ellen awoke on the following day, she perceived a dull, leaden light coming
                  in through the only window which the apartment contained, and which barely served
                  to make the gloom of the place visible. At first she had to tax her recollection
                  to comprehend where she was, and how she came to be there, and then she looked
                  eagerly around for the occupants of the night previous. To her surprise and alarm,
                  she discovered that she was alone. The door was shut, the fire was out, and the
                  room had a deserted, cold, and dismal appearance. Crawling from the bed, she
                  hurried to the door, and found it locked on the outside; this increased her alarm,
                  and caused a shudder of undefined terror to pass through her thin frame; and not
                  knowing better what to do, she hastened back to the bed, and covered herself from
                  the cold air.
               While lying there, trembling, and wondering what could be the meaning of this
                  strange desertion of her benefactors, she heard a noise at the door outside; and
                  immediately after, it was thrown open, and the woman Margaret entered, stamping
                  the snow from her feet. Ellen recognized her with an exclamation, of joy.
               "Have you been alarmed?" asked Margaret, kindly.
               
               "Oh! very much!" answered little Ellen. "I woke up, and finding everybody gone, I
                  didn't know what to make of it."
               "I have been to the grocery," said the other, by way of explanation, as she closed
                  the door, and placed a small basket, containing some articles, on the table. "Did
                  you sleep well last night?" she continued, approaching the bed.
               "Oh! yes, ma'am—thank you—I never slept better in my life."
               "Did you hear any noise in the night?"
               "No, ma'am—none at all."
               As Ellen spoke, she noticed, for the first time, that Margaret had a black eye,
                  and she was about to make a remark concerning it; but thinking it might give
                  offence, she checked the words as they rose to her lips. Margaret, catching the
                  expression, and divining her thoughts, said:
               "You see I hurt myself last night. I accidentally stumbled over a stool, and
                  struck my head against the corner of the chest yonder."
               "Oh! ma'am, I'm so sorry!"
               "I don't care for the hurt," continued the woman; "only some people might think
                  I'd been fighting."
               "Nobody would think that of one so good and kind as you are, I'm sure," returned
                  Ellen.
               "Alas!" sighed the other—"I'm not so good and kind as you think—I sometimes wish I
                  were. But, come! you must get up and put on these clothes, which are better than
                  yours, and which I altered for you last night from some old ones of my own."
               Ellen, acting from the impulse of pure gratitude, seized and kissed the hand of
                  her benefactress, and, with tears in her eyes, exclaimed:
               "Oh! ma'am, you are good and kind—don't say you are not! How shall I
                  ever repay you?"
               Margaret turned away her face, to hide her own emotion; and going to the basket,
                  she returned with a pair of stockings and second-hand shoes, adding:
               "And these, which I purchased this morning, will keep the frost from your little
                  feet; take all as a Christmas present, from one who has little in this world to
                  love, and may you live to see many more and happier ones than I have!"
               The poor, friendless little orphan could not find words to express the swelling
                  gratitude of her heart; and so she threw her arms around Margaret, and burst into
                  tears; and the latter, in spite of herself, wept too; and, for a short time, felt
                  a happiness which she had not known for many a long year. Degraded in vice,
                  criminal in the eyes of the law, a very wretch and outcast whom the world
                  despised, Margaret now felt that she was clasped by innocent hands, and that from
                  one innocent heart, a grateful and perhaps acceptable prayer was ascending for her
                  to the Throne of Grace, and that moment became a green oasis in the desert of
                  misery. A light, as if from Heaven, for a moment shone on her darkened path, and
                  in guileless little Ellen she felt the presence of an angel. By that one good
                  deed, simple in itself, she felt that a weight of sin was lifted from her guilty
                  soul, virtue seemed to stand before her in a new light, and she wept to think it
                  had so long been a stranger to her heart. Had there been a Mentor by, to seize
                  upon that moment of repentance, and pour words of holy consolation into her
                  vice-bound soul, she might have been snatched, as a "brand from the burning," and
                  been reclaimed; but, alas! left to herself and guilty associations, she looked
                  upon escape from the course she was pursuing as a something possible, and regarded
                  herself as a being doomed beyond the merely of God and man.
               While Ellen put on her new garments, Margaret made a fire, and soon prepared a frugal repast. To this
                  they sat down by themselves—Margaret merely observing, that Mr. Mulwrack had been
                  called away on business, which might detain him for a day or two.
               Scarcely was the meal over, when there was heard the sound of feet descending the
                  steps outside, and immediately there followed a heavy knocking on the door.
                  Margaret started, and turned somewhat pale—but said, in a low tone:
               "Go, Ellen, and see who's there?"
               As Ellen opened the door, two rough-looking men, well bundled up in overcoats,
                  entered rather unceremoniously, and looked eagerly around.
               "I believe," said one, in a gruff tone, addressing Margaret, "this here's the crib
                  of Jim Mulwrack—alias Red Head Jim—alias Peter Dodge—alias what you—please!"
               "What do you want?" demanded Margaret, in a severe tone, with a look of indignant
                  scorn.
               "We wants him—you know well enough what we wants," replied the man,
                  coarsely. "I say, Spike, (to his companion,) tumble round that there bed, and
                  don't leave a hole unwestigated as you can stick your finger in—for Peter Dodge,
                  you know, is a prince of a dodger;" and he ended with a broad laugh at his own
                  joke.
               "You can search as much as you like," rejoined Margaret, sullenly; "but you'll
                  find nobody here but us."
               "Thank you—we'll take the liberty of looking round, since you gin us leave,"
                  returned the spokesman, with a grin, throwing himself in a careless attitude upon
                  the chest near. As he did so his eye encountered little Ellen, who, very pale, and
                  evidently alarmed, was standing in the middle of the apartment, looking
                  alternately at the new-comers and Margaret. "Who are you? where did
                  you turn up?" continued the spokesman, eyeing her sharply.
               "My name is Ellen Norbury, sir," replied the child, timidly.
               "Oh! 'tis, hey! Well, what is you doing, here?—taking lessons in stealing, I
                  'spect."
               "I don't know what you mean, sir, by saying that," replied Ellen. "I hadn't any
                  home, and this kind lady says I can live with her."
               "Oh! wery innocent you is—ha! ha! ha!" was the coarse rejoinder. "I say,
                  Spike—here's a innocent as don't know what stealing is."
               "Well, she don't, o' course," replied the other, with a coarse chuckle. "Hadn't we
                  better take and larn her, Grubbins?
               "No doubt you could," sneered Margaret; "for you look as if you might
                  be masters of the trade."
               "Come! none o' your imperdence!" said Grubbing, savagely; "or we'll just fetch you
                  over the coals, for interfering with ossifers as is doing their dooties."
               "Brave men! to come here to insult an unprotected female!" rejoined Margaret,
                  nothing daunted her black eyes flashing defiance.
               "I'd just like to know how to go to work for to insult the likes of you, anyhow,"
                  chuckled Grubbins. "Eh! Spike what say you?"
               "Well, I would, Grub—I would. But the—scamp ain't here, that's
                  sartain," he added, advancing to his companion.
               "May be there's some of the spile here," was the answer; "let's sarch for that.
                  I'll begin with this here chest, and you take that there bed; and look
                  sharp—that's the word."
               The two constables—for such they were by virtue of election, though more fit for
                  dog-catchers than catchers of human beings—now began a vigilant search of the
                     apartment ment, for stolen
                  property—peering into every nook and cranny, overhauling every thing they could
                  find, and strewing the clothing over the damp ground, as if they really took a
                  delight in making themselves as disagreeable as possible. When they had completed
                  this part of their business, which gave them no reward for their trouble, Grubbins
                  took Margaret, and Spike Ellen, and handled them roughly, under pretence of
                  searching their persons.
               "Well, Spike," said Grubbins, when he had finished, "we'll make nothing here."
               "Not a—thing," returned Spike.
               "Then I'll tell you what you can make," said Margaret, scornfully.
               "What, my beauty?"
               "Why, make yourselves scarce."
               "Take that for your imperdence!" said this worthy specimen of an officer; and with
                  the back of his hand, he struck Margaret across the mouth.
               Margaret uttered a cry of rage, and looked eagerly around for some weapon with
                  which to revenge the blow; but seeing nothing that she thought would serve her
                  purpose—for she meditated killing the man on the spot—she threw herself upon a
                  seat, and, covering her eyes with her hands, burst into tears.
               "Let that larn ye better than to insult us perlice!" muttered Grubbins; and with
                  his companion he deliberately walked out, ascended the steps, and disappeared.
               As soon as they were gone, Ellen ran to Margaret, threw her arms around her neck,
                  and tried, by gentle and loving words, to calm her irritated and revengeful
                  spirit.
               "You're an angel!" said Margaret, at length, returning the child's embrace; "but
                  for one angel there seem to be a thousand devils." And then she muttered to
                  herself:
               "If I wanted to be good, I couldn't, so what's the use of trying?"
               She got up, and going to the chest, took out a black bottle, put it to her lips,
                  and poured down a large quantity of the fiery poison that was killing her. She
                  then sat down and gazed sullenly at the fire, taking no further notice of Ellen,
                  who, for fear of being thought intrusive, did nothing to break her reverie. A few
                  minutes passed away thus, and then Margaret had recourse to the bottle again. The
                  third time she drained it; and then the effect of the liquor began to be apparent
                  to the eyes of little Ellen, who looked on in sorrow, not unmingled with
                  alarm.
               "Here!" said Margaret, harshly, glaring round at her protege, and holding out the bottle with an unsteady hand; "take
                  this, and get it filled with brandy!"
               "Where shall I get it, ma'am?" inquired Ellen, timidly.
               "I don't care where, so you get it," replied Margaret, crossly; "and be quick
                  about it—for I'm bound to get drunk, to get out of my misery."
               "Oh! ma'am, let me advise you," began Ellen—but the other interrupted:
               "Keep your advice for whoever wants it. Come! be off I say, and get the
                  brandy!"
               "Will any body trust me, ma'am?"
               "Trust you?" sneered Margaret; "are you a fool? Do tigers trust their prey to
                  other tigers?"
               "But I have no money."
               "Well, you little dunce, I have;" and Margaret drew out her purse, and from it
                  took a coin of the value of twelve and a half cents. "There," she continued,
                  tossing it to Ellen, "get a pint of the best brandy: mind, now, the best!"
               Ellen, without reply, hurried on her hood and shawl, and, with the bottle in one
                  hand and the money in the other, went out, with a sorrowful heart.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER IV.
               THE INFECTED DISTRICT.
               THAT portion of Philadelphia lying between South and Fitzwater, Fifth and Seventh
                  streets, is mainly composed of low, miserable, dilapidated hovels—for they
                  scarcely deserve the name of dwellings—which are filled to repletion with the
                  poorest, lowest, and most degraded class of human beings—beings, many of them, so
                  far down in the scale of society, (if we may use that term in this connection,)
                  that the very heathen of foreign lands would rise in the comparison. It is the
                  very hot-bed of vice, the most hideous in all its many forms—the very sink of
                  pollution and misery, the most loathsome in all their aspects. None live here who
                  can live elsewhere; and many there are here who cannot be said to live at all—but
                  rather who drag on a woeful existence, and die as it were by inches. White and
                  black, male and female, young and old, are here, in some instances, crowded into a
                  cold, damp, slimy, underground apartment, a dozen in a place not large enough to
                  lodge one decently, and really not fit to be used as a dog-kennel. Murderers,
                  robbers, house-breakers, thieves of every description, and convicts just released
                  from our penitentiaries, here congregate, with others scarce less vile and
                  depraved. Here flourish gambling hells of the lowest order; policy offices, which,
                  with a show of fairness, rob many a poor wretch of the pittance which might have
                  procured bread to save him and his family from immediate starvation; and last,
                  though not least, the most abominable of groggeries, where the victims of the vice
                  of drinking are lured to destruction by the maddening poison dealt out at a cent a
                  glass.
               And such is the passion for strong drinks among this class of our population—who
                  either seek to raise a false courage for some desperate deed, or become oblivious
                  to the cares and troubles which oppress them—that the master-fiends who deal out
                  the poison, flourish and wax fat upon the miseries of their fellows, even as rank
                  weeds shoot up from noxious, slimy beds and the foulest excrements.
               These groggeries are frequented by both sexes, by all shades of colour, and by all
                  ages—for the young are ever ready to follow any example of vice set them by their
                  seniors—and here the work of degradation and depravity is carried forward to its
                  most frightful extent. As the maddening poison enters the lips, oaths the most
                  blasphemous, and obscenity the most vile, issue from them; and then, in a close,
                  foul apartment, reeking with fetid breaths and rank tobacco smoke, begins a scene
                  of debauchery, which not 
                     unfrequeutly
                     unfrequently
                   ends in a frightful tragedy, the details of which would make the blood
                  curdle.
               Remember, that the stuffs sold here, under the names of brandy, gin, et cetera,
                  cannot, from their price, contain one tithe of pure liquor; but are, almost
                  entirely composed of such drugs as will give out a sharp, fiery taste; and are
                  really a compound of poisons so deadly, that the smallest quantity of one taken
                  separately would produce instant death. And this mixture is poured down the
                  callous throats of the poor wretches, till their stomachs warm and burn with the
                  corroding draughts, their blood becomes heated, and feverish, their brains begin
                  to reel with delirium, and their worst passions, excited and set in motion,
                  without reason to regulate, run wild with the most fiendish desires, A few more
                  glasses, perhaps, by stupefying all the senses, put them beyond the power of doing
                  harm; but the wretch whose inclination or
                  money stops short of absolute drunkenness, is now let loose upon the street, a
                  howling maniac, and wo to him or her who crosses his reeling path and mad
                  desires!
               Go where you will through this locality, and the very dregs of we start up and
                  stare you in the face. On the streets you behold faces pale and haggard from want,
                  with eyes wild and hollow; or faces red and bloated from liquor, with eyes
                  swollen, bleared, and bloodshot; forms thin, attenuated, and skeleton-like; or
                  forms rotund and barrel-shaped, which seem to be walking masses of living
                  corruption; and in all cases, matted hair, filthy skins, and dirty, ragged
                  coverings.
               Within the noisome hovels, so far from being better, it is even fearfully worse.
                  Here, in winter especially, are wretches without food—without fire—without rags,
                  even, in some cases, to cover their nakedness—actually starving and freezing to
                  death. Here infants are born into the world, and forced out of it for want of the
                  most common necessaries of life. Here drunken husbands beat their wives, drunken
                  mothers beat their children, while depraved and drunken children sometimes return
                  the blows and beat one another. Here cracked voices, hoarse from untimely exposure
                  and the unhealthy damps in which they live, give forth no words but those of
                  obscenity and blasphemy. Here murders are committed which never see the light, and
                  deeds are done which the chaste pen cannot record. Here disease takes hold of its
                  victims, and runs riot, and leaves its most disgusting aspects in its train.
               Appropriately has this locality been named the "Infected District;" and those who
                  wish to conquer the contagious diseases of the city, should begin by planting
                  their sanitary and medical batteries so as to rake this loathsome spot.
               What enjoyment has life in these awful dens to compensate for the pains and
                  miseries which attend it? And yet most of these beings cling to it as tenaciously
                  as if there were no other and better state of existence. Another and better state
                  of existence, do we say? Alas! they know of no other—they scarcely hope for
                  another. They have no hope beyond the present. They know nothing of the
                  consolations of the true Christian. They do not know that such a being as God
                  exists. His holy name is only used as a by-word for emphatic affirmation or
                  frightful malediction. They may have their superstitions of a something after
                  death; but they are vague, undefined, irrational, the offspring of ignorance and
                  fear. They have no books—they could not read if they had—and if they have any time
                  unemployed, they drink themselves drunk to get rid of it.
               We think we hear some honest individual exclaim:
               "This is all very shocking, but not true—it really exists only in the imagination
                  of the writer. What! Philadelphia—the City of Brotherly Love—with her broad,
                  clean, rectangular streets—her splendid mansions—her stately edifices—her lofty
                  churches—and her sober, moral, philanthropic population—to contain within her
                  limits such a plague spot as this? Impossible!"
               "Nay, sir, we tell you that what we have stated is true—but must at the same time
                  tell you, that not a hundredth part of the truth has been stated—nor will it be,
                  even when this work shall have passed from our hands.
               We do not ask you to believe us, if you will only take the trouble to ascertain
                  the truth for yourselves. We have named the locality, and we invite you to visit
                  it, and prove our assertions right or wrong. Doubtless good would result from your
                  visit; for if you have a heavy purse and a feeling heart—if you are one who
                  desires to see your fellows happy rather than miserable—if, in short, you are a
                     Christian tian, after the order of
                  Christ, you will do something to aid the few philanthropic hearts, who have, God
                  bless them! already begun the work of reformation in this vile quarter.
               It was in the very centre of the abominable locality we have been describing, that
                  little Ellen found herself when she gained the street for the purpose recorded at
                  the close of the preceding chapter. It was Christmas day—a day of general
                  rejoicing to thousands—but there was little of real joy to be found in a quarter
                  where poverty, drunkenness and crime reigned almost absolutely. A few ragged
                  children were playing in the deep snow that had fallen, and a few miserable
                  beings, of larger growth, with thin, tattered garments, and dark, dirty, bloated
                  faces, were crawling along, here and there, shivering with the cold.
               Little Ellen, a stranger in this place, looked shudderingly around her, with the
                  bottle in her hand, not knowing whither to go to obey the command of her new
                  mistress. While standing thus, undecided, a hunchback boy, a few years her senior,
                  crossed over the street, and thus accosted her, with a smile:
               "A merry Christmas to you, my charming little lady! what can I do for you?"
               Ellen looked at him, and timidly shrunk back. His stature, owing to his deformity,
                  was about the same as her own; but his person was large for his height, and he
                  appeared to be healthy and very strong for his age. His features were regular,
                  bright and animated, particularly his black eyes, which sparkled with an intellect
                  of no common order. His smile too was winning, though by it he displayed uneven,
                  dirty teeth. Neither his face nor hands were clean; and his garments, which
                  appeared to have been picked up at different places, were torn and soiled, as if
                  he had been in the habit of sleeping in them in damp, filthy lodgings. An old
                  moth-eaten cap, with the front piece torn off, surmounted a head of shaggy,
                  matted, brown hair. A kind of sack-coat, buttoned across the breast, but not so as
                  to entirely conceal the bosom of a dirty shirt, came down to his very heels; and a
                  pair of trousers, a world too large, with the legs rolled up to a suitable length,
                  were fastened around and above his waist with strings. A large old boot on one
                  foot, and a shoe on the other, completed his attire; though in picturing to
                  yourself his personal appearance, you must not forget the hump on his back, which,
                  with his short neck and bent head, rose almost to the level of his cap, and made
                  him a very unsightly object.
               But as if repenting of her first design, or to compensate him for the hideousness
                  of his form, nature had endowed him with an intellect beyond his years, and given
                  him a smooth musical voice; by which, with his comely expressive features, he
                  could, if he chose, render himself very agreeable. Shrewd, cunning, and an apt
                  scholar, though without book education, he had, in his intercourse with the better
                  classes—for he sometimes peddled small articles about the different hotels,
                  carried trunks, and ran of errands for the wealthy—picked up a language, which,
                  for its purity and grammatical construction, was so much superior to the low,
                  obscene, and profane slang of his associates, in this vile region, that they, in
                  sportive derision, had affixed to him the sobriquet of Nabob Hunchy, which had been subsequently shortened to
                  Nob Hunchy, and finally to plain Nob.
               Now the peculiarities of this poor youth—his deformity, his comely features, his
                  intellectuality, his soft, musical voice, and his superior language—had made him
                  an object of deep interest to many a kind, sympathetic heart; and many a silver
                  coin had been given him in pity, and more than one had attempted to reform him and
                  permanently better his condition. But without being a decided villain, he was a sad rascal after all. Money on
                  him was literally thrown away; for he had a passion for strong drink, which
                  consumed nearly every coin that came into his possession. To get drunk was the
                  chief aim of his existence; and no moral persuasion, no judicious correction, no
                  self-resolution, could effect a reform. Drunkenness was in his nature, a fixed
                  fact—a part, as it were, of his very being—probably inherited with the life
                  principle. As surely as the sun set upon him with money in his pocket, so surely
                  it rose upon him in a state of filthy intoxication. Twenty times already had he
                  been sent to the County Prison for inebriety—but he only got out to get back again
                  for the same offence.
               In view of all these things, it is not unreasonable to suppose that the bottle
                  carried by Ellen, with the hope of getting a taste of his favorite poison, had
                  caught his attention and attracted him to her side.
               Perceiving that Ellen, in shrinking back, regarded him with compassion, mingled
                  with aversion, he said, in a soft, gentle tone, with another winning smile:
               "Come, my little lady, you are as pretty as I am ugly—but God made us both, and
                  probably we both have kind hearts—you have, at least."
               Ellen was touched by his language, his kind manner, and gentle voice; and she
                  answered somewhat mechanically, with her eyes fixed upon his black, sparkling
                  orbs:
               "What do you want with me?"
               "Why, you seem to be a stranger here—at least I never saw you before—and perhaps I
                  can be of service to you. You are going somewhere with that bottle."
               "Oh, yes—I want to get a pint of the best brandy, for my mistress," replied Ellen,
                  quickly—"but I don't know where to go."
               On hearing this, the eyes of the Hunchback sparkled with pleasure.
               "Come with me," he said, "and I will show you a first-rate place, where you can
                  get liquor good enough for the President."
               Ellen hesitated a little at first; but not knowing better what to do, she finally
                  set off under the guidance of her strange companion.
               "Hello!" shouted a boy, from a group of three or four on the opposite side of the
                  street—"there goes Nob for a new drunk, by —!"
               "I say, little gal," called out another, "don't let him git a swig at that ther'
                  bottle, or he'll see the bottom!"
               "He'd spile a barrel, that, ther' Nob!" cried another, rounding off with an
                  oath.
               A shout of laughter, and a shower of snow-balls, one of which struck Ellen on the
                  back, followed this last remark.
               "See here!" said the Hunchback, turning round and shaking his first at the
                  juvenile party; "the next one of you that throws a snow-ball this way, will have
                  to settle the matter with me—and you know I don't forget."
               He was answered by a shout of derision; but no one bid the temerity to disregard
                  this warning—for Nabob Hunchy was strong, muscular, active, and courageous, and,
                  when his blood was up, a perfect tiger. Besides, as he said, he never forgot an
                  offence, as many a boy, bigger than himself, could testify, who had been severely
                  punished, days, and even weeks, after the provocation.
               "Don't mind those boys," he said to little Ellen, in a kindly tone, as they picked
                  their way along through the snow; "they are bad boys, never had good bringing up,
                  and don't know any better; but they shall not harm you while I'm about."
               To hear him speak, one might have thought him a pattern of morality, invested with
                  a legal power of protection.
               
               Entering Sixth street, they walked on a short distance, and then turned down
                  Small—a street more vile and wretched in its appearance than any Ellen had yet
                  seen. Here were a few drunken men and women, and several groups of noisy boys, the
                  most of the latter engaged in snow-balling each other. Ellen began to grow
                  alarmed—the more so, that she perceived her companion and herself, were objects of
                  general notice, and that their appearance together excited universal derision and
                  ridicule.
               "There goes drunken Nob!" cried one.
               "A regular rum cove!" cried another.
               "What's he got in tow?" queried a third.
               "It's an angel, by Jiminy!" said a fourth.
               "Old Nick's son towing an angel!" yelled a fifth.
               "Let's cool Old Nick's son with snow-balls!" vociferated a sixth.
               At this there was a shout of approval, mingled with loud laughter, and followed by
                  a shower of the frozen missiles, several of which struck Ellen and her companion,
                  but without doing either any injury. Ellen's alarm, however, was increased at this
                  fresh display of general dislike for her unfortunate guide, and she exclaimed,
                  hurriedly:
               "Oh! let us go back! I'm so afraid."
               "Never you fear—I'll take care of you," was the reply; "and besides, we are almost
                  to the place."
               As they hurried along, the boys hooted; and a group, with a tall youth acting as
                  leader, finally interrupted their peaceful progress.
               "I say, Nob," began the tall lad, striding up to the Hunchback, and speaking in a
                  dictatorial tone, "what is you going to do with this yere little gal?"
               "That is my business—stand out of the way!" said the deformed boy, a bright,
                  sullen light gleaming from his black eye.
               "Ho! ho! I'll hev to teach you manners to your betters!" replied the other,
                  seizing the collar of Nabob Hunchy.
               As quick as lightning, the latter sprung back, and then striking the tall youth
                  with his head in the pit of the stomach, stretched him, at full length upon his
                  back.
               "A fight! a fight! hooray!" cried several voices, in tones of delight.
               But the Hunchback knew too well his advantage to let the affair end in a fight;
                  and so, gnashing his teeth with fury, he leaped at once upon his fallen insulter,
                  and literally ground his face beneath his feet, thus putting an end to the
                  expected combat.
               "Who next?" cried the deformed champion, glaring furiously around upon the
                  youthful bystanders, all of whom shrunk back, with looks of dismay.
               Taking advantage of the momentary awe which his unexpected success had occasioned,
                  the Hunchback instantly seized the hand of the terrified Ellen, and darted
                  forward. Before she had time to recover from her surprise, alarm, and confusion of
                  ideas, she found herself pushed into a dark, gloomy apartment, crowded with human
                  beings, and rank with the fumes of tobacco.
            
            
               CHAPTER V.
               A NOTORIOUS DEN AND CHANGE OF SCENE.
               THE den into which little Ellen had been so unceremoniously thrust by the
                  Hunchback, was one of those vile resorts of the most miserable and degraded of
                  human beings. It was small, and dark, and
                  damp, and the close air was filled with the noxious smoke of rank tobacco and the
                  steam of drunken breaths. One side of the room was occupied by the bar, as it was
                  called, in which the intoxicating and deadly poison was kept, and over which
                  presided the master-fiend of the place. At the end farthest from the street, a
                  flight of old crazy stairs led to the story above, and another to the cellar
                  beneath, and along the walls were benches devoted to the comfort of the
                  customers.
               The proprietor of this establishment was a hideous dwarf, known as Jimmy Quiglan,
                  and was well fitted by nature to be the presiding genius of so foul a place. He
                  was upwards of forty years of age, and something over four feet in height. His
                  large head was covered with black, coarse, matted hair, and seemed to find a
                  comfortable lodgment between the shoulder blades, dispensing entirely with
                  anything resembling a neck. His body, of an ordinary size and length, terminated
                  on short duck-legs, with monstrous feet. He had a low forehead, and a large, broad
                  face, deeply seamed, and apparently grown old before its time. His eyes were
                  large, dark, and cold; and while they gave some evidence of intellect, they gave
                  none of the better feelings of humanity. His nose was long and hooked, and his
                  mouth large, with massive jaws, and teeth like fangs. Altogether he looked the
                  monster, and resembled in no slight degree a large spider, surrounded by his web,
                  and watching for an opportunity to pounce upon some new victim.
               Now, Jimmy, as this hideous being was familiarly termed, had a plan of doing
                  business quite original. His den was a lodging as well a drinking-house; and here
                  a customer could get drunk, at the rate of a cent a glass for the best brandy, and
                  be allowed to sleep up stairs, on the floor, for three cents per night—or below,
                  in the cellar, on the damp ground, for one; and in case of his getting drunk
                  through the day, the enterprising landlord would "run him" for nothing—that is to
                  say, he would chuck, him through a narrow hole in the wall, or side door, into a
                  dirty yard, and there leave him exposed to the weather, till such time as he might
                  sufficiently revive to imbibe afresh.
               Although it was an early hour, in the morning when little Ellen entered this foul
                  abode, it was, as we have before remarked, filled with human beings, though hardly
                  deserving a term which places them in the scale of animal progression so much
                  above their superiors, the brutes. Male and female, white and black—all filthy,
                  ragged, and the greater portion of them nearly drunk—were huddled together, to the
                  number of fifteen or twenty, in this small room; and were drinking, smoking,
                  cursing, and swearing, in a way that must have given the most profound
                  satisfaction to his Satanic Majesty. In the bar, smiling as fiends might be
                  supposed to smile, and rubbing his hands with delight, at intervals between
                  supplying one customer, and an order from another, stood Jimmy Quiglan, alive to
                  the profits of that blithe Christmas morning.
               And no one knew better what the profits of that day would be, than Jimmy himself;
                  for besides those already mentioned as being in active trade, he knew exactly how
                  many lay intoxicated above and below stairs—how long it would take them to get
                  sober—and how many glasses to make them drunk again—calculations being only made
                  on those having money—and Jimmy, by previous inspection, could name to a cent the
                  value of each lodger.
               It may be a matter of curiosity to the reader to know how such wretched beings
                  obtained money at all; but it will only be necessary to state that some were bone
                  gatherers, some rag-pickers, some professional beggars, and the rest job-workers
                  and thieves. Like the Lazaroni of Naples,
                  this class of our population, which is more numerous than many suppose, take no
                  thought for the morrow—but, with the small pittance they may have received for a
                  day's hard labor in their respective vocations, they pay for the poison that for
                  the time brings oblivion, and with returning consciousness repeat the dose so long
                  as their money holds out. It is not an uncommon thing for one of these wretches to
                  go days without food—passing, meantime, from one drunken fit to another—without
                  drawing one sober breath.
               It was into this vile place, as we have said, that little Ellen was thrust by the
                  Hunchback, who quickly followed and closed the door. As she looked hurriedly
                  around her, with an expression of terror on her pale features, the deformed boy
                  took her hand, and said, in a tone calculated to reassure her:
               "Don't be alarmed, my little lady—nobody shall hurt you here."
               "Oh! let me go out! I'm so afraid!" she answered, in a trembling whisper.
               "Well, so you shall, as soon as I can get the brandy. Give me the money and the
                  bottle, and I will have it filled at once."
               Ellen put both into his hands, and whispered:
               "Oh! be quick! I'm so afraid."
               "A pint of your best brandy, Jimmy!" cried the Hunchback, in a loud tone, and with
                  an air of vast importance, as he placed the bottle upon the counter, with a force
                  that made it ring again.
               "Down with your dough, then, Nob," replied Jimmy, with a grin. "I doesn't read
                  myself, Nob; but them as does, says as how that ther bit of pasteboard, (pointing
                  to a card on the wall above his head, which contained the words 'No Trust,') tells
                  all the larned, that nobody can't come the giraff over Jimmy Quiglan—ha! ha!
                  ha!"
               "Open your eyes then, Jimmy," returned the Hunchback, with a laugh; "for here is
                  more white money than you have seen among your ragged customers for many a day;"
                  and he placed the Spanish real, with a loud snap, upon the counter.
               Jimmy's eye fairly glistened as he seized the coin; and after a close examination,
                  to be certain it was genuine, he said:
               "Yes, that is good, Nob—the brandy's good, Nob—and so, in course, a fair exchange
                  ain't no robbery—ha! ha! ha!"
               While Jimmy was pouring out his pint of poison, the Hunchback got upon a stool,
                  leaned over the counter, and whispered something in his ear. Jimmy grinned,
                  winked, and nodded; and springing down from his stool, the Hunchback, much to
                  Ellen's surprise, disappeared through the crowd.
               For half an hour, in that close, noisome hole, surrounded and rudely jostled by
                  filthy wretches in every degree of intoxication, whose horrible blasphemy and
                  vulgar obscenity made her gentle and unpolluted spirit tremble and shrink in its
                  mortal casement, like the sensitive plant when rudely touched, little Ellen most
                  anxiously awaited the return of her ungainly companion. Finding he came not, she
                  at last, in no little trepidation, applied to the landlord for information
                  concerning him.
               "He's doing well, Nob is—ha! ha! ha!" returned Jimmy. "He told me if you axed
                  arter him, to gin you his compliments, and say he was just trying the brandy, to
                  see if it was good."
               "Well, tell him he musn't keep me waiting, as my mistress will be very angry,"
                  returned Ellen.
               
               "Oh!" said Jimmy, with a grin, that made little Ellen shudder—"if you're going to
                  wait till he comes, you'll want lodgings."
               "Won't he come, sir?" timidly inquired Ellen.
               "Not afore he gits sober, gal—ha! ha! ha! He's drunk by this time, you may bet
                  your head."
               "Then I must go without him," returned the child—not sorry, if truth must be told,
                  to be rid of one whose reappearance in the street, she believed, would be the
                  signal for fresh abuse. "Will you please give me my brandy?"
               "Your what?" grinned Jimmy.
               "The brandy that the deformed boy bought for me."
               "Why, you little fool," laughed Jimmy; "that's what he's getting drunk on; and
                  there ain't a gill left now, you can bet your head."
               "Oh! then what will become of me?" exclaimed Ellen, bursting into tears. "When I
                  get back, I shall be beat and turned out of doors."
               "Well, don't go back, then!" said the Dwarf, with a hideous grin. "Such a perty
                  creater as you is, needn't sarve no cross mistress. Jest you stay here till night,
                  and I'll taker you round to the nicest place you ever seed."
               "No! no!" said Ellen, shuddering and shrinking back—for there was something
                  peculiar in the cold light of the Dwarf's eye, which seemed to cast a wicked
                  influence upon her innocent spirit. "No! no! I must go right home, and tell my
                  mistress the truth, and take the consequences."
               Jimmy was about to say something more, when his attention was arrested by a fight
                  between two of his drunken customers—a white man and a negro.
               "Stop!" thundered the worthy landlord, seizing a billet of wood and springing upon
                  the counter; and the next moment, finding he was not heeded, he struck the nearest
                  over the head, and knocked him down.
               Now some one thought this an improper interference of the host, and immediately
                  knocked him over behind the bar among his kegs of poison. This opened the way to a
                  general fight; and in less than a minute, every one, not too drunk to stand up,
                  was battering away at his neighbor.
               From this melee little Ellen managed to escape
                  unharmed; and the moment she gained the street, she hurried away, intending to
                  return at once to Margaret, and report truly what had happened, although she
                  trembled to think what might be the result.
               But it proved to be less easy to find her way back to her last night's quarters
                  than she had supposed; for she knew not the name of the street in while she had
                  first met the Hunchback, and she had neglected to notice the turnings made
                  afterward. As a consequence of her haste to get; back, and ignorance of the
                  locality, she lost her way, and wandered through several dirty streets and alleys,
                  looking in vain for a spot she could recognize.
               At length, by keeping on a certain course, she found herself entering a better
                  quarter of the city; and although she knew she was now going in a direction that
                  would not lead to the abode of Margaret, she felt it such a relief to escape from
                  the disgusting scenes behind her, that she could not prevail upon herself to turn
                  back; but, quickening her pace, walked on, determined to trust herself once more
                  to the guidance of Providence. She now passed habitations that had an appearance
                  of comfort, if not of wealth; while the passengers on the street were warmly
                  clothed, and had generally a cheerful and happy look.
               Still Ellen walked on, with something of that spirit of adventure which takes one
                  forward, one neither knows nor cares whither, so that each passing moment is
                  gratified by change; and at length, by
                  mere accident, she found herself one of the crowd thronging the rich and
                  fashionable thoroughfare of the city.
               It was a strange sight to the poor girl; and as she stared around her at the high
                  and splendid buildings, the glittering shop-windows, the richly attired and
                  jewel-bedecked passers—upon all of which the bright sun of that Christmas morning
                  was shining as though it might never be dimmed by a cloud—amid the hum of voices
                  and the jingling of the merry bells—she felt bewildered and confused by the
                  contrast to that loathsome and wretched quarter she had so recently left, and like
                  the novice transplanted by the magic of Aladdin's lamp to a gorgeous scene in the
                  Orient. Was this the same city of which she had been an inhabitant for more than
                  two years? and was this mart of fashion within a few minutes' walk of the filthy
                  dens where human beings famished and starved to death almost daily? It seemed
                  impossible; and yet it was either a dream or a reality. Was it a dream? She rubbed
                  her eyes and stared again; and at the same moment, as if to set the matter forever
                  at rest in her wondering mind, some hasty pedestrian ran against her, and nearly
                  knocked her down; and stumbling against the velvets and furs of a soi-disant lady, she was put rudely aside, with the
                  cold, sharp words:
               "Stand out of the way, you beggar!"
               Ay! stand out of the way, you beggars! what business have you to be in the same
                  street, or even in the same world, with your purse-proud brothers and sisters?
                  breathing the same air, and enjoying the same sunlight, which God has given them?
                  Do ye not know that these things were not made for you? that ye are the weeds
                  among flowers, the thorns among roses, the scum of the earth, that must be
                  removed? Back to your dens! back to your holes in the earth! back to your damps
                  and filth! and there pine, and starve, and die, and rot, and be damned for your
                  iniquities; while your rich and pious brothers and sisters, clothed in broadcloths
                  and silks, from golden-clasped prayer-books, surrounded by the gorgeous trappings
                  of a splendid church, return thanks, that God, who made all things, has made them
                  better than you—and, from the foundation of Creation, has elected them to
                  monopolize all the good things of this world and the next! By their golden creeds
                  you should learn, that it is necessary, for the glory of God, that a certain
                  portion of mankind should be damned; and what portion is so well suited to eternal
                  torments as you who have never known luxury—never known aught but misery in your
                  weary pilgrimage through life? Therefore repine not at this decree; but console
                  yourselves with the reflection, that, miserable as you may be here, it is
                  necessary, to secure the happiness of certain wealthy saints, that you be more
                  miserable hereafter! What if that old-fashioned book, the Bible, does say that God
                  is no respecter of persons? Cannot the learned and aristocratic Rev. Dr. Allgrace
                  give such an explanation as shall prove the contrary? What if that meek and lowly
                  man, who consorted with publicans and sinners—who was followed and surrounded by
                  such poor wretches as yourselves, collected from the highways and byways—what if
                  he, the humble teacher, the founder of the Gospel, did give a parable of the rich
                  and poor man—Dives and Lazarus? Cannot the Rev. Dr. Allgrace prove that the
                  scribes, who recorded the words of Christ, made a mistake? or, if not, that Christ
                  made a mistake himself? and, that it was in fact the rich man who
                  went to Abraham's bosom, and the poor man who lifted up his eyes in
                  hell? Undoubtedly he can, or else he would not be fit to preach an aristocratic
                  Gospel, and would be compelled to vacate his velvet-stuffed pulpit.
               
               No! stand out of the way, ye beggars! groan on, ye starving millions! the wealth
                  that would save you from the horrors of your doom, is locked up in churches
                  devoted to the worship of God. Ye should rather rejoice than repine at this! that
                  the God who made you has such aristocratic worshippers! and that ye are fit to be
                  damned for His glory! Christians talk of a Millennium—of a "good time coming;" but
                  it has not come yet—and so, groan on!
               The female—we were about to say lady, but the term is inapplicable to one so
                  devoid of Christian feeling and the graces of humanity—the female who so rudely
                  put aside little Ellen, was a zealous member of the church over which the Rev. Dr.
                  Allgrace presided; and by her side walked her daughter, about the same age as
                  Ellen—no purer in heart, no fairer in feature—but so differently clothed, so
                  differently housed, so differently circumstanced, that there seemed a bottomless
                  gulf between them, without even the hair-bridge of connection which allows the
                  faithful of Mohammed to pass to the Houri's Paradise.
               On they went—the rich Mrs. Markham and her daughter—while little Ellen, forgetting
                  the rude treatment she had received, (it was too much a matter of course, poor
                  child!) gazed after the younger, with a sigh, that she had not, like her, a
                  mother, on whose breast she could recline and pour forth the grief of her heavily
                  burdened soul. With a sorrowful heart, and a tear-dimmed eye, she turned away,
                  with the feeling that she was never more alone and friendless than among that
                  jostling crowd of richly attired persons and happy-looking faces.
               For half an hour she wandered up and down Chestnut street, wondering at all she
                  saw, and lost in a whirl of thought both new and strange. At length, seeing
                  numbers crossing the street, she mechanically attempted to follow. We say
                  mechanically—for she was abstracted in thought, and had no settled purpose in
                  view, and this caused a heedlessness that came nigh being fatal. With that desire
                  of making the most of the fallen snow, which the citizens of those cities have who
                  see the ground covered but a few days in the year, Chestnut street, on that bright
                  Christmas morning, might be described as a brushing whirling stream of horses,
                  sleighs, and human beings; and scarcely had little Ellen put her foot off the side
                  pavement, ere she was struck by the breast of a fiery beast going at great speed.
                  In an instant she was knocked down, trampled on, and lay senseless and bleeding on
                  the frozen snow; while the vehicle which passed over her—containing a man in a
                  fashionable dress, and a female well muffled up in furs—dashed on at a still more
                  furious rate, as if the occupants were anxious to escape the censure and penalty
                  of fast and careless driving. Besides, one glance at the dress of little Ellen,
                  was sufficient to tell them that she belonged to that despised class of society
                  who have no influential friends—and so, what mattered it whether she were living
                  or dead!
            
            
               CHAPTER VI.
               SOMETHING OF MYSTERY.
               IT is with joy—sincere, heart-felt joy—that, like the artist with his pencil, we
                  are permitted to dip our pen in the brightest colors, and give some pleasing
                  relief to a sombre picture. The great city—with its collected thousands, of all
                  grades, from the millionaire to the beggar—has its bright as well as dark spots;
                  and if the fallen wayfarer farer is
                  passed by on one side by the Priest, and on the other by the Levite, the good
                  Samaritan is almost certain to make his appearance, with oil for the wounded body
                  and consolation for the wounded heart. Let us, whatever may be our affliction,
                  ever keep this truth in view: that God, who sees the sparrow fall, will not always
                  permit us to suffer; and that the promise of salvation is to him who shall endure
                  to the end.
               When consciousness returned to little Ellen, she found herself lying upon a soft
                  bed, surrounded by silken curtains; and her first feeling was one of extreme
                  surprise and wonder. Where was she? and how came she there? She thought it must be
                  a dream; and she attempted to rouse herself to learn the truth. In doing this she
                  discovered that she was as weak as an infant; and that the slight, movement she
                  made, caused her much pain in her limbs and several parts of her body. With this
                  came a dim recollection of a whirling crowd of human beings, horses, and vehicles,
                  all mixed up in wild confusion, with a strange kind of noise, like the tinkling of
                  many bells heard amid the roar of a waterfall. This was all she could remember;
                  and this seemed rather to perplex and confuse, than give her any clue to the
                  unravelling of the mystery.
               "Ah! where am I?" murmured Ellen, at length, beginning to grow alarmed.
               Scarcely had she spoken, when a small, white hand gently parted the silken
                  curtains, and a beautiful face—which, to the excited mind of little Ellen,
                  appeared to be that of an angel—looked in upon her; and a voice, as sweetly
                  melodious and touchingly plaintive as the tones of an Eolian harp, said:
               "Did you speak, dear child?"
               Poor little Ellen was more astonished than ever, and more than ever convinced that
                  what she saw was a vision and not a reality. What! such words of sweetness and
                  kindness, from a being so beautiful, to be addressed to her! Impossible. And yet,
                  if a delusion of the senses, it seemed likely to be prolonged, with a wonderful
                  semblance of the real—for soft eyes were compassionately beaming upon her; and the
                  lips of that lovely face again parting, the silver-toned words again came
                  forth:
               "Did you speak, dear child?"
               "Where am I?" murmured Ellen, with her eyes fixed upon the apparition; and what
                  beautiful being are you, that seem to speak to me?"
               "Ah! I was certain I heard your voice!" cried the beautiful stranger; while a
                  gleam of joy, like a ray of sunlight upon a lily, rested upon her pale, lovely
                  countenance. "I have waited long, and prayed often, to have words of conscious
                  intelligence pass your lips and at last my prayer is answered."
               "Are you one of the angels my dear mother used to tell me about?" inquired Ellen,
                  simply—for as yet she knew not whether to regard the being she saw as celestial or
                  terrestrial.
               "No, child," answered the other, with a sweet but melancholy smile, "I am no
                  angel, but a poor mortal like yourself."
               "Then tell me how I came here, and what it means! for it all seems to me like a
                  dream," said Ellen, wonderingly.
               "Have you no recollection of being in Chestnut street on Christmas morning?"
                  inquired the other.
               "No, lady—since you say 
                     you'er
                     you're
                   not an angel—I don't remember of ever having heard of Chestnut street
                  before," answered the wounded child.
               "Perhaps you never did hear the name; but have you no recollection, of being in a gay street, crowded
                  with people, horses, and vehicles?"
               "Oh, yes, lady—I do remember that, since you mention it—and I was so astonished at
                  all I saw! But wasn't that a dream?"
               "No dear child, that was a reality—an almost fatal reality to you, as it proved.
                  You were knocked down, run over, and picked up for dead. But you are alive now,
                  you see; and so you must offer up thanks to God for having preserved your
                  life."
               For a few moments Ellen did not reply, but looked very serious and thoughtful.
                  Then, to the surprise of her fair friend, she said:
               "Dear lady, for all your kindness to me, who haven't any friends, I want you to
                  think me very grateful; but (and the tears came into her eyes) may be I should
                  have been better off if I had died. It is wrong, may be, for me to say so, but I
                  can't help my thoughts;" and as she concluded, her tears flowed freely.
               "Indeed! it is wrong for you to say so, dear child," replied the other, tenderly;"
                  for God sent you a preserver, and He does all things for the best. Come! come! you
                  must not weep—brighter days are in store for you—and in me you shall henceforth
                  have one friend at least. I know something of your history, I
                  think—for at times, for several days, you have been delirious; and from what has
                  fallen from your lips, I judge you are a friendless orphan, whom mankind has
                  treated all too roughly."
               "But where am I now, dear lady? how came I here? and who are you?" inquired Ellen,
                  much astonished, and perplexed.
               "A few word will explain all, dear child. But perhaps we had better defer our
                  conversation till you have gained strength; you are weak now, and, should rather
                  sleep than talk, or even think."
               "But, dear lady, unless you tell me all now, I shall not be able to sleep for
                  thinking."
               "I will let you judge your town case then. Do you think it will injure you if we
                  converse on the subject that most interests you?"
               "No, lady, I'm sure it will not."
               "Well, keep your mind calm, and let nothing excite you. You must know, then, that
                  on Christmas morning, as I was passing along Chestnut street, in company with a
                  friend, I saw, among the crowd of human beings swaying to and fro, a little face,
                  so beautiful, and yet so thin, pale, and sorrowful, that I found my gaze riveted
                  there as by some magic spell. A strange, unaccountable feeling at the same time
                  took possession of me; and I seemed to know—though by what means, and for what
                  purpose, I cannot tell—that my destiny, and that of the sweet, lovely, but
                  seemingly heart-broken, little wayfarer, were intimately connected."
               She paused a moment, apparently abstracted from her narration by some curious
                  reflections; and then, rather thinking aloud than addressing her little companion,
                  she continued:
               It is certainly very strange that I should arrive at so singular a conclusion,
                  without the aid of a single reasoning faculty—nay, with all the powers of reason
                  arrayed against it! By what wonderful process was that knowledge of a something in
                  the future conveyed to my soul with the startling rapidity of a flash of
                  lightning? Is it possible that when two strange spirits meet, which are destined
                  to act materially on each other for good or evil, there is an electric or magnetic
                  emanation which telegraphs to one or both the important truth? Or may it not
                  rather be that we catch up a fancy of our
                  own, and believing that a certain event is foreordained, so govern our actions
                  afterward, that we of ourselves bring to pass that which we had thought fated? Ah!
                  who knows? Life is a mystery!"
               Again addressing the wondering Ellen, she continued:
               "Well, as I have said, my attention was arrested and riveted by a sweet, sad face
                  among the moving crowd; and I felt a strong inclination to spring forward and
                  clasp the poor and friendless little creature in my arms for that she was poor and
                  friendless, could be seen at a single glance. I restrained my desire, however, and
                  passed the little wayfarer, so closely that my garments brushed hers. I turned to
                  look after her; but a crowd had already filled up the space between us, and I
                  barely caught a glimpse of her thin form edging its way amid the throng. I walked
                  on a few steps further, when something seemed to tell me that I must turn back;
                  and with a half intention of doing so, I had already halted, much to my friend's
                  surprise, when I heard cries of alarm, and saw numbers hurrying to a certain spot
                  at no great distance. Why was it then my heart assured me that something awful had
                  happened to the little being in whom I had just taken so deep an interest? I
                  cannot tell; but so it was; and like a mother flying to the rescue of her child, I
                  hurried to the excited group, already gathered around the bloody and senseless
                  form of the little stranger. Not to prolong my story, dear child, I had you
                  conveyed hither—"
               "Me?" interrupted Ellen, with a look of astonishment.
               "Yes, my child, you. Why do you not know that it is of you I have been all this
                  time speaking?"
               "No, lady—I thought you meant some other little girl. I didn't know as there was
                  anything about me to interest anybody, and particularly such a kind and beautiful
                  lady as you are."
               "God bless you, poor child!" exclaimed the other, fervently; "you shall not always
                  think so;" and bending over, she kissed the little sufferer, with such
                  affectionate tenderness, that the latter was forced to give vent to her feelings
                  in a flood of tears. "Come! come!" she continued, as if chiding herself—"I am
                  acting a very imprudent part, and against the orders of the Surgeon, who told me,
                  if your senses returned, I must be so careful not to agitate you!"
               "Don't go away yet!" said Ellen: "I want to talk more: I know I'll not be any
                  worse for it. How long have I been here?"
               "This is the ninth day."
               "The ninth day?" repeated Ellen, all amazement, "Why, isn't this Christmas
                  morning?"
               "No, my dear, it is the eighth day from Christmas."
               "And have I been asleep all this time?"
               "You have been all this time unconscious, or delirious, But you must not think of
                  it now; when you get better I will tell you all about it."
               "Am I badly hurt?"
               "So seriously, that we feared you would not recover. There! I must stop talking
                  with you; try and compose yourself to sleep. How do you feel now?"
               "I feel as if it wouldn't do me any harm to talk more—but I'll do just as you
                  say."
               "Yes, do—that is a good little girl. By-the-by, you may tell me your name, if you
                  please, so that I shall know what to call you."
               "My name is Ellen Norbury."
               "How? Norbury?" exclaimed the other, starting and changing color: "Norbury, did
                  you say?"
               "Yes, lady, that is my name—I hope it don't offend you."
               
               "And what was your father's Christian name?"
               "William."
               "Was he an Englishman by birth?"
               "Yes, lady, I think he was—-but he lived in Dublin when I was born."
               "Indeed! What was his occupation?"
               "He was an artist."
               "It must be the same!" mused the other. "Strange!"
               "Did you know him?" inquired Ellen, not a little surprised at the impression which
                  the name of her father seemed to produce on the other.
               "I never saw him, my child; but you must ask me no questions now; when you get
                  stronger I will tell you more. Meantime, I must enjoin upon you, to let no one
                  else in this house—neither my father nor the servants—hear you mention the name of
                  Norbury! Should my father, who is a strange kind of man, chance to inquire your
                  name, you must on no account let him know it is Norbury! From what you said while
                  delirious, I judge that both your parents are dead?"
               "Yes!" sighed Ellen.
               "Did they die in this country?"
               "My mother did—but my father died on the passage over," sobbed the other. "Oh!
                  lady, if you please, don't ask me any more questions about them now—it makes me so
                  sad to talk about them."
               "Only one more, Ellen," returned the other, with a kind of eager earnestness. "Did
                  you ever hear either of your parents mention the name of Clendennan?"
               Ellen shuddered as she replied:
               "Yes—I heard my father—once."
               "What did he say?" and the fair questioner fairly held her breath for the
                  answer.
               "He said he hoped the curse of God would light upon him!"
               Instantly the features of the young lady grew deadly pale; and stepping back, the
                  curtains came together, shutting her from the view of Ellen, who was thus left to
                  ponder upon a new mystery. After waiting some minutes, in the vain expectation of
                  being again addressed by her fair protectress, she ventured to inquire if she were
                  still present. Immediately the curtains were gently parted again, and, to the
                  surprise of Ellen, another strange face appeared. It was that of a woman turned
                  the prime of life, who wore a cap, and had a neat, tidy appearance, and whose
                  countenance had a sedate, though somewhat stern, expression.
               "I am glad to find you rational, my child," she said, in a slow, dignified tone;
                  "but it is not proper that you should talk more at present. Is there any thing I
                  can do for you?"
               "No, ma'am, I thank you," answered Ellen. "I was asking if the lady, who was just
                  now with me, were still here."
               "No, child, Miss Rosalind has just left the apartment, and I have come to take her
                  place."
               "It is very kind of you, ma'am," said Ellen. "Are you her mother?"
               "No, child—her mother has been dead some years. I am her Governess."
               "Will you please to tell me her last name?"
               "It is Clendennan."
               "Indeed!" exclaimed little Ellen, in a tone of so much surprise, that Mrs. Wyndham
                  inquired if she were previously acquainted with the name.
               "I have heard it mentioned before," said Ellen, with as much indifference as she
                  could assume—for the recollection of her conversation with Miss Rosalind, caused
                  her no little agitation, which she
                  effectually strove to conceal from the Governess.
               "Very likely," was the rejoinder, "for it is a noble name, and ranks among the
                  proudest of the chivalrous sons of Ireland."
               "Has Mr. Clendennan been long in this country?" inquired Ellen.
               "Some five years, my child," answered Mrs. Wyndham. "But you must ask no more
                  questions now—it will do you harm to talk. Here," she continued, retiring for a
                  minute, and returning with some liquid in a tea-spoon—"here, take this, and
                  compose yourself to sleep."
               Ellen did as directed; and in a few minutes, notwithstanding her recent nervous
                  agitation, she felt a soothing, drowsy influence begin to steal over her; and
                  presently her troubled spirit began to glide away from the cares of mortality, and
                  rejoice in the gorgeous scenes of the fairy realm of dreams.
            
            
               CHAPTER VII.
               THE MYSTERY SOLVED.
               THE injuries which little Ellen received on that eventful Christmas morning, were
                  of a very severe nature; and even after it was tendered certain that she would
                  recover, there were serious apprehensions that she would be maimed for life. But
                  thanks to careful attendance, and a skilful surgeon, she gradually recovered the
                  use of all her limbs; and, at the expiration of three long months, was restored to
                  health and her original soundness of body.
               Yet were these months of close confinement—and, much of the time, of physical
                  suffering—the happiest the poor child of sorrow had known for a long period.
                  Rosalind was her almost constant attendant; and had she indeed been her mother,
                  she could scarcely have been more tender and devoted. She talked to her, read to
                  her, and sung to her; and, at intervals, made the variety greater and more useful,
                  by instructing her in the common English branches. The education of Ellen had not
                  been entirely neglected by her parents; and though only eight years of age when
                  her father died, she was then able to read a little in the Simple Lessons; but
                  sorrow, poverty, and brutal treatment had subsequently made sad inroads upon the
                  little book-learning she had acquired—however much it might have enlarged her
                  knowledge of the baseness to be found in human nature—so that it was necessary for
                  her teacher to begin with her in much, the same manner as with one who had never
                  been taught.
               Aside from all this, however, there were some explanations, narrations, and
                  occurrences, during the period of Ellen's convalescence, which the plan of our
                  story requires us to give somewhat in detail, though not altogether in the order
                  in which the different matters were brought to the knowledge of the different
                  parties.
               The fact of two daughters meeting in so singular a manner, in a strange land,
                  whose fathers, once friends, had been many years estranged by an unfortunate
                  occurrence which had ruined the peace of both families, was certainly very
                  curious, not to say mysterious; and of this estrangement, and the causes which led
                  to it, we will now speak, without recording the conversation which Rosalind and
                  Ellen held together on this subject.
               Walter Clendennan was an only son of a wealthy Irish Baronet, at whose death he
                  came into possession of a title and a
                  large estate. Soon after this event, at the age of twenty-five, he married a
                  lovely and amiable lady, of good family but small fortune, by the name of Lucy
                  Norbury, a cousin of William Norbury, the father of Ellen, who was in consequence
                  a second cousin of Rosalind. Like that of Clendennan, the name of Norbury was
                  ancient, and belonged to a house of wealth and distinction; but some of the
                  descendants, among whom was the father of Ellen, had become reduced to comparative
                  poverty, though still retaining the pride of descent, and being very tenacious of
                  the family honor.
               At the death of Ellen's grandfather, he left two sons—William and James, her
                  father and uncle—with little or no inheritance—the family means having been
                  exhausted in giving them a good education. William, having a natural taste for
                  painting, with some considerable talent as an artist, adopted that profession; and
                  on his marriage with a Miss Montague, another poor descendant of a once wealthy
                  house, he removed to Dublin, where for a time he succeeded in making a comfortable
                  living. James, the younger—having, like his brother for painting, a natural turn
                  for military tactics—was assisted by Sir Walter Clendennan; who, hearing of his
                  desire, generously purchased and presented him with a Captain's commission in an
                  Irish regiment of infantry. Not to show partiality, Sir Walter at the same time
                  tendered a present of like amount to William; but the latter declined to receive
                  it, on the ground that he was doing well, and did not like his brother, stand in
                  need of assistance.
               Between these two brothers, who loved each other as brothers should love, and
                  their wealthy and titled cousin, Sir Walter, there was such a bond of friendship
                  as is seldom seen to exist between parties where the disparity of worldly
                  circumstances is so great; and though they seldom met, yet a correspondence, begun
                  and carried 
                     on on
                     on
                   all sides, expressed the warmth of attachment which each felt for each
                  other, and exhibited a rare triple congeniality of soul.
               The 
                     mariage
                     marriage
                   of Sir Walter with the mother of Rosalind, was for many years a happy
                  one; and the Knight and his good lady, in course of time, found themselves blessed
                  with a daughter and two sons—the daughter being the eldest,—and the one already
                  presented in the person of Rosalind.
               It was about this period, that Sir Walter and his family—with the exception of
                  Rosalind, who had gone to spend a few months with an aunt, in a distant part of
                  the Kingdom—paid a visit to some relatives in Dublin.
               Now it so chanced, that Captain Norbury and his company were at this time
                  quartered in Dublin; and the brothers met Sir Walter, after a separation of years,
                  with all the warmth of feeling which two grateful natures could express toward one
                  who had acted so noble and generous a part. William Norbury, the Artist, had risen
                  to some distinction in his profession; and was now in what was called good
                  circumstances, and doing well. He was at this period the father of two children—a
                  bright little boy of four years, and the subject of our story, then in her
                  infancy.
               The brothers were at once presented to Lady Clendennan, their cousin whom neither
                  had seen since her marriage. She was at this time in the full bloom of maturity—of
                  handsome person, fine mind, rare accomplishments, and affable manners—and both the
                  brothers were delighted at the renewal of their acquaintance. Being cousins of
                  blood, and descendants of a house of which it was the pride of each to boast—and
                  the brothers also being among the warmest friends of Sir Walter—all formality was
                  laid aside, and the parties met like members of one and the same family—or, in other words, like two brothers
                  meeting with a dear sister. From this time, Captain Norbury, who chanced to be
                  unmarried—and who had a fine, commanding person, and, notwithstanding his
                  profession, a poetical temperament, inclined to the romantic—became a daily
                  visitor at the house of his titled friend; and seemed to delight more in the
                  conversation of his cousin, who had a turn of mind similar to his own, than in
                  that of Sir Walter, who, with all his sterling qualities, was always eccentric and
                  sometimes morose.
               The fact was, the Baronet was a man of many noble traits, whose friendship could
                  be better maintained at a distance, and through an occasional correspondence, than
                  by intimate personal association. Being, as before remarked, of an eccentric turn
                  of mind, and of an irritable, peevish temperament, it was much easier for him to
                  write a smooth, generous sentence, at such times as his mind was calm, than speak
                  one when something, even though foreign to the subject, had ruffled his temper.
                  Therefore it was, that Captain Norbury—prizing him for his real worth no less
                  highly now than at any previous time—preferred the society and conversation of his
                  lady to his own; and thus, unconsciously, was laid a train, whose final explosion
                  was attended and followed by terrible consequences.
               To be brief, the Baronet at length began to grow jealous of the attention of
                  Captain Norbury to his fair lady; and though in reality he had no cause for
                  jealousy, yet the "green-eyed monster," having sprung into birth, "grew daily by
                  what it fed upon," till at last it assumed a hideous and formidable shape. Sir
                  Walter, meantime, kept his own counsel, and an eye upon the parties; but when at
                  last an unpleasant rumor reached his ear, in which their names were coupled, he
                  decided it was time to act. He procured a brace of pistols, loaded them himself,
                  and concealed them about his person; and meeting Captain Norbury shortly after, in
                  a retired street, he approached him, as if in friendship; and then, to the
                  Captain's utter amazement, whispered in his ear:
               "Sir! you are an ungrateful, treacherous villain!"
               "Sir Walter, what means this language?" inquired the Captain.
               "You know, and I know," answered the enraged Baronet, between his shut teeth. "We
                  will neither of us mention the cause, if you please. If you are not a coward,
                  follow me!"
               "But I solemnly protest," said the Captain, "that I know of nothing I have either
                  said or done, that can give offence to one I have ever held to be my dearest
                  friend."
               "Captain Norbury, are you a disgrace to the commission which my money purchased
                  for you? are you a coward?" demanded the Knight.
               "No, Sir Walter."
               "Then follow me!"
               The Knight led the way; and the two, without speaking, soon found themselves in a
                  retired spot, beyond the busy hum of the town. Sir Walter here abruptly presented
                  his pistols, and merely said:
               "Quick! take your choice and your ground!"
               "But I protest—" began the astonished Captain.
               "Coward!" interrupted the other, with a sneer.
               The Captain said no more; but, compressing his lips, took the proffered pistol,
                  and retired about ten paces.
               "You shall give the word," said the Baronet.
               "Fire!" returned the Captain, with the muzzle of his pistol pointed to the
                  ground.
               Sir Walter took a deliberate aim, and fired. The Captain tain staggered; and then tossing his undischarged
                  weapon toward his antagonist, exclaimed:
               "Heaven bear witness, that I die without attempting the life of my once friend and
                  benefactor."
               With this he sunk upon the earth. Sir Walter was appalled. Had he indeed
                     murdered an innocent friend? He ran to him, caught him up in his
                  arms, and exclaimed:
               "I have murdered you, James—for you did not fire at me."
               "Why should I fire at you? or you at me, Sir Walter?" inquired the other, feebly.
                  "Are we not friends?"
               "We were—we were, James—but—"
               "But what?"
               "My wife."
               "What of her?"
               "I—I—believed—I heard,—in short, was there nothing wrong between you?" gasped the
                  Knight.
               "Sir Walter," returned the other, endeavoring to rise, struggling for breath, and
                  fixing his eye, already glazing in death, upon the Knight—"I see it all. I am
                  dying—I feel it—I know it—but she must not be wronged. Will you credit my last
                  words?"
               "Yes! yes! speak!"
               Then, as God is my Judge, and as I hope for mercy in the other world, I solemnly
                  swear, I never wronged her, or you, even in thought."
               These were the last words the unfortunate man ever spoke; and a few minutes after,
                  he breathed his last, in the arms of the distracted Baronet, who now felt that the
                  brand of Cain was on him. Like a madman, Sir Walter hurried back to the city,
                  sought his wife, and told her all. Her emotions overcame her, and she swooned; and
                  in that swoon he left her, to seek safety in flight. It chanced that a vessel,
                  bound for the coast of France, was just weighing anchor; and getting on board of
                  her, the Knight was soon beyond the reach of justice.
               It is not our purpose to follow him on that journey of torture, but to sum up the
                  consequences of his awful crime in as few words as possible. Ere the first
                  anniversary of the direful deed, Lady Clendennan was no more. Some said she died
                  of a broken heart. Within three years, her two sons followed her; and the
                  grief-bowed, conscience-stricken Knight—pardoned by Government, but not by
                  Heaven—returned to his once happy home, only to feel it was a home for him no
                  longer. As soon as he could, he now sold off his property, settled up his affairs,
                  and sailed for the United States—taking with him his only remaining child,
                  Rosalind, her governess, and two servants, who preferred following the fortunes of
                  their old master to seeking a new one. After visiting various cities, he finally
                  selected Philadelphia for his future home, purchased a handsome property, and
                  settled down to a life of terrible gloom and remorse. As we shall soon have
                  occasion to bring him before the reader in propria
                     personæ, we will say nothing further of him in this connection.
               Serious, if not fatal, were also the consequences of that tragedy to the surviving
                  brother. Half demented by the shock, William Norbury never recovered to be himself
                  again. A settled melancholy took possession of him; he neglected his business;
                  took to drinking; and finally, on the death of his son, determined to leave the
                  country for ever. He, too, as chance would have it—or, perhaps, more correctly
                  speaking, as Providence willed it—sailed for the very city in which the cause of
                  much of his misery was then living. But he died on the passage; his wife did not
                  long survive him—and the fate of poor little Ellen is so far known to the
                  reader.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER VIII.
               THE KNIGHT AND THE SURGEON.
               IT was this sad tale, so deeply interwoven with the history of her own family, and
                  in which therefore might be found the primary cause of all the sufferings which
                  she had endured, that Ellen Norbury for the first time heard from the lips of
                  Rosalind Clendennan—not as we have told it, however, in a connected form—but with
                  an interchange and comparison of facts, by which the two were enabled to arrive at
                  the same conclusion. Rosalind knew her own family history and the history of her
                  mother's cousins, the father and uncle of Ellen, up to the period of the tragedy
                  narrated; she knew, too, that subsequently to this, there was a sad change in the
                  surviving brother; and Ellen, by giving her early recollections of her parents,
                  with the loss of her brother, and the sad end of all but herself, was thus able to
                  supply the remaining links in the chain of fatal events. Previous to her meeting
                  with Rosalind, Ellen had never heard the name of Clendennan but once; and then it
                  had passed the lips of her father, in a state of partial intoxication, coupled
                  with a curse that had made her shudder, and which had produced an impression on
                  her mind that had never been erased. The name of her uncle had never been
                  mentioned in her hearing; and from this fact the inference was now drawn, that the
                  subject of the tragedy was one to which her parents rarely if ever made an
                  allusion. The history of Ellen's mother, up to the period already mentioned, was
                  also known to Rosalind; and as Ellen knew nothing, save that her mother's maiden
                  name was Montague, this subject also became one of the deepest interest to
                  her.
               By these conversations, which occurred at different times, and when the parties
                  were only in each other's company, Ellen learned wherefore it was so essential
                  that her own name should be concealed from the father of Rosalind and the servants
                  of the family. Of her father Rosalind said but little; but from that little it was
                  to be inferred, that he was a miserable man—a prey to remorse and grief—at times
                  cold, morose and misanthropic—at times peevish and wayward—always eccentric and
                  ascetic—and striving to compound with his conscience, by secret acts of charity,
                  for a crime he could not forgive himself. He generally kept himself closeted in
                  his library, rarely went abroad, received no visitors, and seemed to take little
                  or no interest, beyond the aforesaid deeds of charity, in the world without. There
                  were times too when he locked himself against intrusion, and permitted not even
                  his daughter to see him for days together. He wholly abjured his title,
                  constituted Rosalind sole mistress of his mansion, allowed her to do as she
                  pleased in everything, and seldom took the least interest in her affairs. Such was
                  the establishment, in a country foreign to his birth, of a once happy Baronet, in
                  which poor little Ellen found herself so singularly placed, by one of those freaks
                  of fortune for which there is no accounting, except by the overruling power of
                  Providence.
               From the little she gleaned from Rosalind concerning her unhappy father, taken in
                  connection with the eventful history we have related, Ellen readily perceived why
                  it was that the sweet, lovely face of her kind protectress, at all times wore such
                  an expression of deep-seated melancholy; and notwithstanding her own sorrows, she
                     had abundance of sympathy to spare to
                  her gentle friend and cousin. Cousin! How sweet that word to the ear of one who
                  had been so vilely abused, and so long destitute of a single relative or friend!
                  It came like the warm sunshine and soft south wind to the freezing flower, and
                  restored life and animation to her trouble-chilled heart. And Rosalind was one to
                  return her sympathy with interest; and as Ellen told her sad tale of wretchedness
                  and suffering, the tears of both were unconsciously mingled, and both felt happier
                  without knowing why.
               Rosalind was one of those gentle beings that seem expressly formed to love and be
                  beloved. She was about twenty years of age, of the medium size, with a form
                  symmetrical, airy, and graceful. Her fair features had a delicate refinement in
                  detail as, well as outline, and the natural expression was one of great sweetness
                  and amiability, which lost nothing of loveliness, but increased in interest, by
                  the pervading cast of melancholy. Her sunny hair hung down in clustering ringlets,
                  and gave in some degree the same pleasant shade to her countenance, that her long,
                  fringy lashes did to her soft, blue eyes. Her voice was a melody; and to hear her
                  speak, and note the gently parted lips, with the even, pearly teeth just
                  displayed, and mark the beaming glance of her soft, expressive eye, was to feel at
                  the same moment the combined fascination of music and beauty. And to this
                  fascination, her sad, sweet smile, with every feature radiant, seemed to add a
                  charm irresistible; and the enrapt beholder could readily fancy he saw the light
                  of Heaven upon a mortal countenance, after passing through the chambers of a soul
                  made pure by holy thoughts and aspirations.
               The painful events which had occurred during, the last ten years of Rosalind's
                  life, together with a change of country, and the peculiar condition of her father,
                  had prevented vented her taking that position in society to which her birth and
                  wealth entitled her. In truth, being of a modest, retiring disposition, she did
                  not care to mingle with the world; and since her arrival in America, she had
                  striven to live in that seclusion which she considered most consistent with her
                  circumstances; and in consequence, her circle of acquaintances, at the period we
                  introduce her into our narrative, was rather limited. But it would have been
                  almost impossible for her to live wholly retired, had she been so resolved; for
                  common courtesy required her to see those who called upon her, and to return the
                  visits of those whom she discovered to be congenial spirits.
               In this way she became acquainted with a few families; and among these, with one
                  by the name of Stanhope. At the time this acquaintance was formed, the
                  Stanhopes—consisting of father, mother, son, and daughter—were living near
                  neighbors, and were in easy circumstances; but had subsequently met with reverses,
                  and had been obliged to part with their elegant mansion, and take up their
                  residence in a small, unfashionable street. At the precise period this change
                  occurred, Newton Stanhope, the son referred to, had just received his diploma as a
                  Doctor of Medicine; and though it had not been his intention to enter upon
                  practice for some years at least, yet he immediately put out his sign, with the
                  praiseworthy design of doing what he could toward the maintenance of his parents
                  and sister. We are pleased to add, that, owing to the influence of Rosalind and a
                  few other friends of the family—who, unlike the generality of
                  so-called friends, did not desert them in the hour of need—he had been successful
                  beyond his most sanguine expectations; and had found, with a degree of pride and
                  pleasure known only to high-spirited, noble minds, that his income would be
                  sufficient to maintain tain himself and
                  those he loved in what might be termed respectable style.
               While the Stanhopes were in affluent circumstances, Newton, and his sister Linda,
                  had been frequent visitors at the mansion of Rosalind; and she had experienced a
                  degree of pleasure in their society which she had found in no other; and though
                  their misfortunes had only tended to strengthen her attachment to them, yet she
                  now saw, with pain, that one at least no longer met her as formerly. She still
                  continued to visit the family, and to receive a cordial welcome from all but the
                  young physician; who, from some cause, which she, in her simplicity of heart, had
                  been unable to divine, had suddenly become reserved, cold, distant, and formal.
                  But even this, though it pained her, and rendered her visits to the Stanhopes less
                  frequent than they might otherwise have been, did not lessen her friendship for
                  Linda, who was about her own age; and the young maidens became more deeply
                  attached to each other, as time and circumstances more clearly revealed the noble
                  qualities of both.
               But to return to our little heroine.
               Ellen had been more than six weeks in the house of the Baronet, and was able to
                  sit up an hour or two at a time; but though curious to behold the person who had
                  had such remarkable influence upon the fortunes of her family, she had not yet
                  been favored with a glimpse of Sir Walter. One day, Rosalind having gone out with
                  her friend, Linda, for a walk, the Knight sent a courteous word to Ellen, by Mrs.
                  Wyndham, that, if agreeable to her, he would pay her a visit. At this unexpected
                  communication, Ellen was not a little agitated; but promptly replied, to the
                  effect that the proposed visit would give her pleasure. Shortly after, Sir Walter
                  entered the apartment of the young invalid, walking with a cane, and seeming in a
                  feeble state of health. Ellen was seated in a large rocking-chair, propped up with
                  pillows; and as the Knight slowly approached her, she fixed upon him a glance of
                  curiosity, mingled with emotions akin to awe or fear.
               The personal appearance of the Baronet was not very prepossessing. He was small in
                  stature, and his body and limbs had an appearance of being withered or shrunken;
                  and the skin, of a sallow, hue, was dry and wrinkled. He stooped, considerably,
                  and there was a painful nervousness in all his motions—the nervousness of one
                  continually startled by the least discordant sound. His hair, what little he
                  had—for the front of his head was bald—was as white as the driven snow, and had
                  thus changed from a jet black in a single night. His face, by no means large, had
                  now a cadaverous, ghastly look; and his once clear, keen, gray eye, was now
                  wandering and unsettled, with a restless, unhappy expression. In short, the whole
                  man was an embodiment of the wretchedness of mental torture. Talk of capital
                  punishment for the murderer! of giving him the extreme penalty of the law! It is
                  no more in comparison with the penalty inflicted by the law of God for the same
                  offence than mortal structure is with the universe! Remorse—deep-seated, eternal,
                  corroding remorse—"the worm that dieth not—the fire that is not quenched"—this it
                  is that punishes beyond all human invention, and gives the doer of iniquity his
                  just reward.
               As Sir Walter approached Ellen, he fixed his eyes searchingly upon her sweet
                  little face; and then stopping suddenly, he threw up both hands, and in a sharp,
                  startled voice, exclaimed:
               "In the name of Heaven! who are you?"
               "My name, sir, is Ellen," replied the child, in a timid, trembling voice, for she
                  was much startled at the question, look, and manner of the Knight.
               
               For nearly a minute, the Baronet, with his hands raised, in an attitude of
                  surprise and astonishment, kept his eyes riveted upon the niece of his victim; and
                  then turning, away, he sunk upon a seat, covered his face with his hands and
                  fairly groaned aloud—occasionally uttering:
               "God be merciful to me, a sinner! God be merciful to me, a sinner! for Christ's
                  sake! for Christ's sake!"
               After a time he seemed to grow more composed; but now and then a long-drawn sigh,
                  or a half-stifled sob, attested how great was, the struggle with himself, and how
                  much he suffered.
               All this while, little Ellen sat and watched him, with feelings of pity. Yes,
                  strange as it may seem, to such as make gold their god, the poor, despised orphan
                  could find pity in her heart for the rich Baronet; for though deep may be the
                  distress of innocent poverty, it is the enjoyment of Paradise compared to the
                  sufferings of guilty wealth.
               At last Sir Walter withdrew his hands from his ashy face, and, turning to Ellen,
                  said:
               "Doubtless you think, child, that my conduct is very strange; but there, is such a
                  remarkable resemblance between you and one I once called friend, that the sight of
                  you revived painful emotions. Did you ever do wrong, my child?"
               "Yes, sir—many times."
               "Yet your sweet face shows that you are innocent of any great wrong: God keep you
                  so! What say you is your name?"
               "Ellen, sir."
               "But you have another name?"
               "Yes, sir!" returned Ellen, somewhat confused.
               "Well, no matter—you need not mention it—mea nihil
                     refert. Ah! forgetful me! I have not asked concerning your
                  wounds!"
               "I am getting better, sir—thank you."
               "Do you suffer much pain?"
               "Only a little, sir, now."
               "But the pain of the mind does not mingle with that of the body—eh! child?"
               "I don't think I understand you, sir?"
               "No! how should you? how should you? Well, I am pleased to know you are getting
                  better. Do you want for any thing?
               "No, sir—thank you—I have everything to make me happy."
               "Heaven grant you ever have! Yet Rosalind tells me, when she found you, senseless
                  and bleeding in the street, you were friendless."
               "That was true, Sir, then; but it isn't true now; for dear Rosalind tells me she
                  is my friend."
               "Believe her, Ellen—for her pure soul was never soiled by an untruth."
               "I do believe her, Sir; and I want to live, to show her how grateful I feel, and
                  how much I love her."
               "Good child! good child!" returned Sir Walter, in a state of partial abstraction,
                  looking down upon the ground. A pause of more than a minute ensued. "It is
                  strange!" he now muttered to, himself; "it is very strange! such a likeness! Alas!
                  every body and every thing seem to conspire to remind me of him! as
                  if his image were not stamped upon my heart, in colors of blood!—Well, well—God be
                  thanked! I have not to bear the earthly burden much longer. This old frame must
                  soon perish now, and then that at least will be at rest. Oh! that I could
                     know, while here, what lies beyond this gloomy sphere
                  of existence! Does the mind, tortured here, continue in torture there? God forbid!
                  God in mercy forbid! O Christ, and all holy saints, forbid! else must I suffer the
                     conscience fires of eternal damnation!
                  Death! thou seemest awful; and yet I look to thee for relief; would to Heaven it
                  could be the relief of annihilation! Yet ho—no—for then I should never again
                  behold the beings I most dearly loved on earth! Death! Ah! there is coldness in
                  the very sound! the very thought of it sends an icy chill over my unhappy spirit.
                  Yet none can escape it! In all the ages of the past—whether surrounded by pomp or
                  poverty—whether happy or miserable—none have lived to see the present—none of the
                  present will live to behold the future; and they of the future will go down,
                  generation after generation, million upon millions, to the same cold, silent
                  grave, and earth will be as if they had not been! Hei
                     mihi! Semel omnibus calcanda est via leti!"
               While thus speaking to himself, he seemed to have forgotten that another was
                  present; and after another short pause, he resumed:
               "In the beginning of the race of man, if we are to believe the Bible, the first
                  human being born upon this earth became jealous of the second, his own brother,
                  and murdered him; and God set a mark upon his forehead, and drove him forth, a
                  miserable exile. Ah me! what need of branding and banishing? If he had a
                  conscience, hell was with him, be he where he might!"
               Saying this, he clasped his temple with both hands, started up, and, with an
                  eager, trembling step, began to pace the room, to and fro. At length, his eye
                  falling upon Ellen, he stopped suddenly; and glaring upon her, with the look of a
                  maniac, he exclaimed:
               "Great God! do the murdered dead live in the next generation?"
               Ellen was terribly alarmed; and had she consulted merely her own feelings, would
                  have called for help; but she restrained her inclination; and, trembling like an
                  aspen, with cold perspiration streaming from every pore, kept her eyes riveted on
                  the Baronet's. Presently she perceived his wild, sharp, penetrating eye grow
                  glazed and stony, as if the sight were turned inward, and the mind saw without the
                  aid of its material surroundings. This unearthly appearance continued for perhaps
                  a minute, during which sir Walter moved not a muscle; and then one gleam of
                  intellect after another began to light up his countenance, till its natural
                  expression was entirely restored.
               "Ha! Ellen," he said, "you look frightened! Have I done any thing to alarm
                  you?"
               "I was afraid, sir, you were not well," answered Ellen, much embarrassed.
               "Yes, I see—I had one of my spells. My health is bad—very bad. Good health is a
                  great blessing, my child—a great blessing." He again seated himself, gave way to a
                  moment's reflection, and then resumed: "I am told that when these spells are on
                  me, I sometimes speak in a rambling manner: what did I say just now?"
               "You were saying something, sir, about God driving away the first murderer,"
                  answered the other, with some hesitation.
               "Ah! very likely—yes very likely. Væ mihi!"
               The unhappy Knight now entered into conversation with Ellen, amid carried it on in
                  a manner so gentle and rational, as to remove, in a great degree, the
                  disagreeable, not to say alarming, impression which his previous language and
                  conduct had produced. His command of language was great—his faculty of pleasing,
                  when he chose to exert it, was wonderful—and long ere he had ceased entertaining
                  his fair little guest, the heart of Ellen had warmed toward him to such a degree,
                  that she felt as if she could throw her arms about his neck, and love rather than
                  fear him, as a child should love a father.
               
               The conversation was interrupted by a servant, who came to say that Dr. Markham
                  was below, and desired to see his patient. This was the Surgeon who attended upon
                  Ellen, and the husband—although Ellen did not know it—of the Mrs. Markham who so
                  rudely put her aside in Chestnut street, and the father of the little girl after
                  whom she had gazed so sadly, envying her more happy lot.
               "Stand out of the way, you beggar!" was the exclamation of the purse-proud female,
                  as she swept on, in her velvet robes; and yet, within two hours, from the time
                  those words were spoken, the lord of that same soi
                     disant lady, felt a degree of pride, that he, of all others, should
                  be selected to approach, as a paid attendant, the bedside of that same beggar, now
                  the honored guest of the high-born and wealthy.
               Well, this is a curious world! curious, at least, in its multiform variety of
                  circumstances—curious in the miserable conceits of human beings, who fancy that
                  they are better than their fellows, because they have more money! What a
                  contemptible thing is the mere aristocracy of wealth! men without brains assuming
                  a superiority over intellect—making the pocket superior to the head—the dross of
                  the earth superior to the fires of God-sent genius! It is a puny farce, too
                  despicable to excite laughter, in which the biggest fools play the leading
                  parts!
               "Show him up!" said Sir Walter, in reply to the servant.
               The meeting between the Baronet and Dr. Markham was polite, but formal. The Doctor
                  was a plain, blunt, practical man, rather eccentric withal, and therefore,
                  figuratively speaking, the antipode of his wife. His head, covered by dark, curly
                  hair, was extremely large, with a broad, high, projecting forehead, and a
                  coarse-featured, dull-looking face. A glance at his sober, unspeculative gray eye,
                  would at once convince you that he dealt in nothing but facts—facts proved to be
                  such by actual demonstration; that, in short, he was a man of lines, curves,
                  angles and figures, with little or no imagination. He believed in this world,
                  because he saw it, felt it, knew it to exist; he gave no thought to the other,
                  because there was no evidence to satisfy his mind of there being another. The
                  Bible he termed a theological romance; and as for man's having a soul—he would
                  believe it, he said, when he saw it, and not before. He had dissected man
                  carefully—had laid bare every vein, nerve, muscle, and fibre—had examined the
                  brain, the heart, and lungs; and yet had seen nothing of a soul, or even a place
                  to put one. He had seen a dead body dance by the force of a powerful battery, and
                  therefore argued that life was merely galvanism perfected. As to who created the
                  different worlds, the Doctor said it was enough for him to know they were created;
                  and if any body knew more, they were welcome to make what use they could of their
                  knowledge, provided they would leave him in peace to make what use he could of
                  what he did know.
               As soon as the Surgeon had finished his examination of his little patient, whom he
                  pronounced to be doing remarkably well, Sir Walter, who happened to be in a mood
                  for conversation, and who knew something of the Doctor's skeptical opinions, thus
                  addressed him:
               "I would I knew, Doctor, whether man has an existence after the death of the
                  body!"
               "Umph!" returned the Surgeon, drily—"there are a great many in a like
                  predicament."
               "But you have some opinion on the matter, Doctor!"
               "So have you—or ought to have!" was the blunt rejoinder.
               "I have heard that you do not believe in the immortality tality of the soul—or rather, that you do not
                  believe man has a soul!"
               "Why should I? I never saw it. Do you believe a dog has a soul?"
               "But a dog has no mind—no reason."
               "How do you know? you were never a dog."
               "But if a dog had mind, he would give evidence of it."
               "What do you call mind?"
               "Why, that power which thinks, reasons, conceives, weighs, measures, and
                  judges—which from cause calculates effect, and from effect finds out cause."
               "And do you tell me a dog, a horse, or a monkey, has not this power?"
               "Certainly not in the same degree that man has."
               "What do you mean by man, sir? Do you allude to the mental giants of civilization?
                  or the animal dwarfs of barbarism? The term man is generic, and comprehends all
                  human bipeds; and boast of his intellect as much as you may, I will name you
                  thousands—nay, millions—of the genus homo, who
                  do not exhibit the sense and sagacity of a New Foundland dog! Sir, I once put a
                  muzzle on a favorite dog of mine; and what think you the animal did first? He
                  sneaked off and hid himself for four-and-twenty hours. He was evidently ashamed of
                  being, as he reasoned, disgraced. Afterward, sir, he got the muzzle off, but
                  carried it about with him, in his mouth, wherever he went, and would let no one
                  touch it.*
                   Now he had reasoned again, that that muzzle was put on for a special
                  purpose, and that it was necessary he should have it with him, but at the same
                  time preferred carrying it to wearing it. Now prove to me, sir, that that canine
                  quadruped did not think, reason, conceive, and judge, and I will give up the
                  point."
               
                  
                  *A fact which came under the author's own observation.
               
               "There does indeed seem to be a continuous chain, from the lowest order of the
                  vegetable world, up through the animal kingdom, to the highest grade of intellect;
                  and it is hard to say where this begins and that leaves off—where instinct stops
                  and reason starts!" said the Knight, reflectively. "Ah! true it is, as some author
                  has observed—'Qualis sit animus, ipse animus
                     nescit.'"
               "Yes, sir!" rejoined the Doctor; "true it is, that mind is ignorant of what mind
                  is; and therefore what authority has mind for saying that mind can exist without
                  the body?"
               "I have sometimes wished for annihilation," sighed the unhappy Baronet; "and yet
                  it is an awful thing to think our existence ends here!"
               "Umph! very awful!" said the Doctor, sneeringly. "The world has existed millions
                  on millions of years—a fact that can be demonstrated by the process of formation,
                  which is still in operation—and yet I'll wager my gray mare against your front
                  teeth, that it never occurred to you to regret you were not born sooner!
                  Annihilation awful! Poh! you will know nothing about it. We often lose hours in
                  sleep that we have no recollection of; and millions and millions of centuries,
                  without consciousness, would be the same to us as one lost second."
               "It is not the state itself, so much as the thought of it, that is so awful," said
                  the Knight, in the way of explanation. "But since you speak of sleep, Doctor—what
                  do you think of dreams?"
               "What should I think of them, but as a species of diseased fancies?"
               "And yet they are often rational!"
               "So is a maniac."
               "Have you then no faith in dreams?"
               "Yes, I believe dreams are dreams; but if you mean as prognosticators—why, stulti
                     confidunt somniis—you to judge what claim I may have to be considered
                  a fool."
               "Because fools confide in dreams, is no reason why a wise man, for doing the same,
                  should be considered a fool, returned the Baronet, in a tone that indicated a
                  slight degree of irritation; "and as I hold you to be much wiser than a fool,
                  Doctor, I want you to tell me what authority you have for asserting that a
                  diseased imagination, or fancy, can array before the mind's eye a healthy and
                  perfect picture?"
               "But I never said it could, sir."
               "No! but you term dreams diseased fancies; and yet in dreams I have frequently
                  seen the faces and forms of my departed friends, exactly as they appeared in
                  life—while, awake, I have often labored in vain to call up a true likeness. Now
                  may we not base the immortality of the soul upon the fact that man has a twofold
                  existence—one visible, the other invisible?"
               "I do not catch your drift, sir!" replied the Surgeon.
               "Why, this it is," rejoined the Knight: "I suppose you are prepared to admit that
                  all my senses pertain to my animal body? Nay, more—from the fact that you deny a
                  spiritual body, I presume you are ready to defend the idea that they belong to the
                  animal body only. Well, then, how is it that, with my eyes closed in
                  sleep, I can see objects I do not look upon? hear sounds that do not enter through
                  the material ear? smell what does not come to the olfactory nerve? taste what
                  reaches not my tongue? and feel what I do not touch?"
               "Why, sir, I shall answer you, by denying that you see, hear, smell, taste, or
                  feel, in the manner you allege. That you, at the moment think you do, I will
                  admit,; but it is all mere fancy—a deception of the brain—which, like the heart
                  and the lungs, is often active when the rest of the body is still in sleep."
               "You speak with assurance, Doctor," returned the Baronet; "but my interior
                  perception tells me you are wrong."
               "Well," rejoined the Surgeon, looking at his watch; "as I have not time to hold an
                  argument with your interior perception, I will take this occasion to say, good
                  day, sir!"
               For some time after the Surgeon had departed, Sir Walter sat and mused. At length,
                  turning abruptly to Ellen, he inquired:
               "My child, do you believe we live after the death of the body?"
               "I do, sir—for my mother often told me so."
               "Your mother was a good woman, my child; and she was right; yes, she was right; I
                  somehow feel it—I know it!"
               With this the Baronet arose, and quitted the apartment, without saying a word.
            
            
               CHAPTER IX.
               THE BURGLARY AND ABDUCTION.
               AS we have previously remarked, the three or four months of Ellen's confinement in
                  the mansion of the Knight, with the lovely and gentle Rosalind for a companion,
                  was the happiest period she had known since the death of her father; and it came
                  like a gleam of sunshine through the broken clouds of a fearful storm; but, to
                     continue tinue the simile, it was
                  the sunshine through parted clouds which were about to reunite and make the
                  succeeding gloom more awful, while the storm should again rage with increased
                  fury. We know little of astrology, and are not prepared to say whether it may
                  properly be considered a science or not; but this we do know—that there is a
                  certain influence bearing upon every individual, which at times completely
                  controls him for good or evil; and if the evil aspect rule, no human ingenuity, no
                  human foresight, can avert the fated calamity. Often, without premonition, in the
                  very height of prosperity and happiness, the awful blow is struck, and the doomed
                  one is crushed—perchance for ever—perchance to rise again, all unexpectedly, by
                  the same mysterious power. It was his knowledge of this mysterious something,
                  perhaps, which caused the great bard so truthfully to say: 
                     
                        "There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
                        Rough-hew them how we will."
                     
                  
               
               To little Ellen was still attached an adverse fate; and notwithstanding her
                  present bright prospects, the opening future, into whose mystic depths she could
                  not penetrate, held in store for her misfortunes of a painfully trying nature.
               The residence of Sir Walter was a stately mansion, situated on the corner of two
                  elegant thoroughfares—the out-buildings and high walls forming a 
                     paralellogram
                     parallelogram
                  , and enclosing a court, garden, and conservatory. The main entrance was
                  reached by marble steps, under a fine portico; over which, along the second story,
                  extended an iron balcony, which became a favorite sitting-place during the warm
                  pleasant evenings of spring and summer.
               It was here that little Ellen found herself one delightful evening in April, with
                  only Mrs. Wyndham for a companion panion. The Knight and his daughter had gone for
                  a drive to a neighboring town, taking with them two of the four servants which
                  they kept in employ; and it was uncertain whether they would return that night or
                  not; for Rosalind had expressed an intention of persuading her father to sleep
                  away from home, in the hope that such a change, from his dreary, monotonous course
                  of life, would prove beneficial to his health and spirits.
               From some cause, which she could not explain, little Ellen, on that eventful
                  night, felt greatly depressed; and when, at a rather late hour, she retired to her
                  sleeping apartment, without her sweet companion, Rosalind, a weight of portending
                  evil bore so heavily upon her gentle spirit, that, as she threw herself upon her
                  downy couch, her slender frame trembled like the leaves of the aspen. She made no
                  mention of her peculiar feelings to any one, however; and, soon after touching her
                  pillow, fell asleep.
               For an hour or two her sleep was deep and untroubled and then she began to dream.
                  She thought she was in a little boat, which had just passed over a dark, troubled
                  tempestuous sea, and entered the haven of a beautiful, fairy lake; and she was
                  looking around with rapture upon the silvery waters, and the gorgeous scenery
                  which enclosed them, when a bright being suddenly appeared, whose shining raiment
                  almost dazzled her eyes. In a moment she knew this angel visitant to be her
                  beloved mother; and with a cry of joy, she clasped her in her arms, and shed
                  beatific tears. Suddenly the bright, joyful face of her dear mother became
                  overcast with a portentous sadness; and her voice sounded like the wail of the
                  Eolian harp, as she said:
               "My child—my dear, sweet child—I constantly watch over you.—I am ever near you;
                  but there are dangers around you, from which even a mother's love has not power to guard. Over a sea, of tempests
                  dire, you have passed to this bright haven of momentary rest; but your abiding
                  place is not for the present here, and an ocean of misery lies beyond. Put your
                  trust in God, and call upon Him in your hours of sorrow—for he alone can safely
                  guide your frail bark to the haven of eternal happiness. My poor, dear child, you
                  will soon be alone, on a world of tempestuous waters, it the mercy of the wild
                  waves, drifting, you know not whither, your gentle soul filled with doubts, fears
                  and despair. This I know, who cannot see the end—for it is not given unto mortal
                  or spirit to know the secret designs of God. Put your trust in Him, and pray ever!
                  Farewell!"
               With this the bright being kissed the sweet dreamer, and vanished. Then the scene
                  began to change. The gorgeous landscape resolved itself into a seemingly boundless
                  ocean of murky waters, and the golden sky became overcast with dark, lowering
                  clouds, which sent forth angry winds to raise mountainous waves. Through the
                  deepening shades began to play the forked lightnings, and peal on peal of crashing
                  thunder made the gloom more awful.
               At this moment, with a stifled cry, of horror, Ellen awoke—but only to find the
                  reality of her situation as terrible as that of her sleeping fancy. A bright
                  light, streaming full upon her eyes, almost blinded her; and ere she could utter a
                  waking cry of terror, a heavy hand covered her lips, and a deep voice, in a
                  suppressed tone, said:
               "Make the least noise, and you wont live to say your prayers."
               Terrified beyond the power of speech, even had the hand of the intruder not been
                  pressed upon her mouth, Ellen remained motionless, wondering whether she were yet
                  awake, or whether what she saw and felt were a part of some horrible vision. The
                  light, which shone upon her face, came from a dark-lantern; and its rays, being
                  thus concentrated into one focus, left the face and figure of him that held it, as
                  well as all other parts of the room, in deep shadow. Setting the lantern down on
                  the bed, but keeping the light streaming upon Ellen, the Burglar—for such he
                  was—took from his pocket an old handkerchief, which he twisted and trust into the
                  mouth of the trembling child, where he secured it by passing a cord around her
                  head. Having thus gagged, he proceeded to bind her, hand and foot. This done, he
                  took up the lantern; and as he turned away, he said, in a fierce whisper:
               "If you make the least noise while I'm away, I'll come back and slit your
                  weasand."
               Glancing hastily around the apartment, he now went out leaving Ellen in darkness,
                  a prey to all the horrors of a fearful reality and an excited imagination. She now
                  discovered, poor child, that her dream was not all a dream—for though the sky was
                  fair when she retired to rest a storm had since come up, and the rain was now
                  descending in torrents, accompanied with a fierce wind and occasional lightning
                  and thunder. For some time she heard, or fancied she heard, the Burglar moving
                  about in the adjoining apartment; and breathless with terror, she listened to
                  every sound, while a cold, clammy perspiration pressed through every pore.
               In something like half an hour, the man returned to the apartment of Ellen,
                  accompanied by another, who held in his arms quite a load of silver plate. Placing
                  his burden on the bed generally occupied by Rosalind, he and his companion in
                  crime, by the light of the dark-lantern, contemplated the glittering heap with a
                  high degree of satisfaction.
               "I say, Jim," said the one who had brought the valuables into the apartment in
                  question, speaking in a low tone, "this
                  here's a rare go, and we'll be able to set up among the swell nobs, arter starving
                  to death all winter."
               "Well, we will, pal," returned the other; "and see if we don't come the blind over
                  the fancy. This here pile's enough to set a feller up in business—to say nothing
                  of the ready, and that there gal, who'll fetch a few."
               "I say, Jim—how many shiners—eh?"
               "Never you mind about that now, Jake—we'll count 'em when we git cribbed."
               "Honor bright, now, Jim?"
               "In course—d'ye think I'm mean enough to cheat in the swagger?"*
                  
               
               
                  
                  *Spoil.
               
               "We must be sure and clear the beaks."†
                  
               
               
                  
                  †Police officers.
               
               "You must do that, Jake—for the big spile will have to go with you. I'll take the
                  gal, and come out right side up, you can bet your life."
               "But what about the gal, Jim? I don't exactly understand that part."
               "I do, though—and that's enough. What comes of the gal, is my affair, Jake—but
                  I'll tell you all about it some other time."
               "Hark!" exclaimed the other; "didn't you hear a noise?"
               The burglars listened for some minutes, making their lantern dark, by shutting a
                  metal door over the convex glass through which the light streamed.
               "Nothing but the storm, I reckon," at length said the one called Jim. "It howls
                  beautiful—just the night for us. But, come—let's be off—this; here's no place for
                  confabulation, or whatever the — gentry call the — thing. Here," he continued,
                  gathering up the silk counterpane; "this here rag'll do to bag the swagger in;
                  and, so do you be off by the back way, while I stay and fasten it arter you."
               "But what do you stay behind for, Jim?"
               "Haint I got the gal to tend to?"
               "But what do you mean about fastening the back way? Aint you coming out through
                  there?"
               "No, I goes front."
               "What for, Jim?"
               "Never you mind about that—I've got a reason, and it's a good one. Come, travel;
                  for this here storm'll soon blow over, and then the Charlies'll be sneaking about,
                  with dry feathers, ready to pounce upon the first miserable wretch they find. As
                  long as it rains, we're all right—for they'll take — good care not to git wet, let
                  happen what will. Is your barkers*
                     all right, Jake?"
               
                  
                  *Pistols.
               
               "Yes."
               "And your rib-digger?"†
                  
               
               
                  
                  †Knife.
               
               "Ay."
               "Well, then, put out—and don't let nothing run afoul, of you and live to tell
                  on't."
               The burglars now left the room together; and after an absence of some five or ten
                  minutes, the one called Jim returned. Hastening to the trembling Ellen, he unbound
                  her limbs without removing the gag, and said:
               "Now, gal, hunt out all your fine toggery, right sudden."
               The poor child, supposing his design was merely to rob her of her clothing, and
                  that he would then leave her and depart, hastily complied with his command; and
                  soon had all that belonged to her—presents from Rosalind—collected together.
                  Meantime the Burglar, though keeping an eye on his victim, was not idle. With a
                  false key he opened the dressing bureau
                  of Rosalind; where, to his great delight, he found a costly necklace and several
                  jewels of value, which he immediately secured about his person. He then bade his
                  trembling captive dress herself in a new silk frock, and put on her best bonnet,
                  while he made as small a bundle as he could of the rest of her apparel. This done,
                  he threw a costly shawl, belonging to Rosalind, over her shoulders, seized upon a
                  silk umbrella that chanced to be standing in one corner, and said:
               "Now, then, my little gal, we're ready for a start. We'll go softly down, and
                  leave by the front way, and that'll be respectable, to say the least on't."
               Ellen would have remonstrated—but she was still gagged and could not speak. What
                  could the Burglar want of her, after securing all that was valuable? Perhaps he
                  only intended that she should show him the way to the front door; and in the hope
                  that this was his main design, and that he would then leave her and effect his own
                  escape alone, she obeyed his orders with some appearance of alacrity. But when the
                  front door was opened, he took hold of her arm, and said, gruffly:
               "Come, you've got to go with me—I want you. This here's no time for foolery!" he
                  added, as Ellen, trembling with terror, drew back. "You've got to come, and that's
                  the long and short on't! Now will you come peaceable? or shall I drag you along,
                  stir you up with my dagger?—Mark this, gal—for it's as true as that you've now got
                  your breath in your body! If you come peaceable and quiet, you wont be hurt—but if
                  you manage so as to git any of the watch down on us, I'll run this here steel into
                  your heart!"
               What could the poor child do? There was no alternative. She was completely in the
                  man's power, without even so much as the use of her voice to call for assistance.
                  So she made a virtue of necessity, and yielded to a fate she could not control or
                  change.
               The Burglar, with a view of presenting a quiet, respectable appearance to the eye
                  of anyone they might chance to meet, took hold of her hand, and spread the
                  umbrella over their heads. The course he took was through streets dimly lighted
                  and but little frequented; and in something less than half an hour, Ellen found
                  herself entering that dismal quarter from which she hoped she had forever escaped,
                  and which in a former chapter we termed the Infected District. After passing
                  several dens of misery, the Burglar at last entered an alley more dark and noxious
                  than any; and cautiously approaching an old, dilapidated door, he rapped softly on
                  it with his knuckles.
               "Who's there?" inquired a female voice, which Ellen fancied she recognized.
               "It's all right," was the answer, in a low, guarded tone. "It's me, Mag—open
                  quick!"
               The next moment Ellen found herself dragged forward through the partly opened
                  door, into a place of total darkness. Immediately the door was closed again, and
                  the man inquired:
               "Has Jake come, Mag?"
               "No."
               "The fends take him, if he's trying any dodge or has blundered into limbo!"
               "How have you made out, Jim?" inquired the woman. "It's been a rare go, and we've
                  bagged the swagger without a bark. Hark!" he whispered—"there's a footstep;
                  and—yes—there's a knock. Speak, Mag!"
               "Who's there?" again demanded the woman.
               "Jake," was the answer, in a low tone.
               The door was again partly opened, and the second burglar glided in, and deposited his burden on the
                  ground, the apartment being still in total darkness.
               "It's all right, pal," whispered Jim, as he busied himself with the fastenings of
                  the door. "I's afeard you'd run afoul of a beak."
               "I did come near one, and had to go a — long ways round," answered the other.
                  "Come, let's have a glim."
               "Here it is," answered the woman, as she drew a match across the jamb of the
                  fire-place, and lighted a tallow candle.
               As the feeble rays fell upon the bloated countenance, Ellen perceived that she had
                  not mistaken the voice of the woman, and that she was again, in the presence of
                  the degraded being called Margaret. She instantly turned to the master burglar,
                  and saw, what she had before merely suspected—for till now his face had been
                  constantly in deep shadow—that she was indebted for her present captivity to the
                  very man who had once probably saved her life, by picking her up in the street
                  when in a most destitute condition. At that time, the home of this man of crime
                  seemed to her a little paradise: now, by contrast with her late abode, a very
                  hell.
               "Why, who have we here?" said Margaret, now for the first time aware of the
                  presence of Ellen.
               "There's a surprise for ye, Mag!" answered Mulwrack, with a kind of chuckle.
               "Why, as I'm a living sinner," continued Margaret, bringing the light close to
                  Ellen's face, "if it isn't the ungrateful little thief that stole my money, and
                  ran off! How's this, Jim?"
               "You may well ax how it is, Mag," replied the other; "for the whole thing gits
                     me all of a heap. You see, as me and Jake was rummaging the big
                  crib, hunting for the swagger, I happened into one of the sleeping-rooms, and then
                  thought it best to know if any body'd spied me. Well, on coming up to the bed,
                  that had somebody in it, you can fancy how the thing got me, when I seed the face
                  of her that we'd been looking for so long. Here's luck, thinks I; and I'll bag
                  you, if I don't nothing else. Well, I gagged and tied her; and when we'd got
                  through with our tother business, I took her along. And what's more," he added,
                  with a chuckle, "I made her git her toggery, and we came out the front way, arter
                  letting Jake out the back way, and fastening all up tight. D'ye understand that
                  dodge, Mag?"
               "I think I do," answered the woman; "you mean the big-bugs shall suspicion she
                  robbed them?"
               "You've hit the nail there, Mag—though Jake couldn't guess," returned
                  Mulwrack.
               On hearing this, poor Ellen uttered a groan of mental agony, and reeled against
                  the wall.
               "Well, hang me, if I smelt the rat, Jim!" said Jake, in a tone of admiration. "It
                  takes you! So this was what you wanted of the gal, arter all? But what'll you do
                  with her now?"
               Mulwrack and Margaret exchanged glances, and the former replied:
               "Oh, leave that to me! I'll take care she'll fetch us more spile than
                  trouble."
               The last sentence he muttered to himself.
               Margaret now removed the shawl which had been thrown over Ellen; and as she
                  glanced at her rich and fashionable apparel, she uttered an exclamation of
                  surprise.
               "Why, how's this?" she said; "silks, as I live! Why, she must have been something
                  more than a servant in the family!"
               "Take that there rag out of her mouth, and let her explain plain!" rejoined the master burglar. "I'd like to
                  know something about it too."
               As soon as she could speak, Ellen fell upon her knees, and besought her captors,
                  in the most piteous tones, interrupted with tears and sobs, to take all she had of
                  value, and allow her to return to her kind friends, before they should suspect her
                  of being so base and ungrateful as to rob them—a crime which seemed to her pure
                  soul as black as the shades of hell itself.
               "Stop your blubbering noise!" said Mulwrack, savagely—"or I'll stop it for you. It
                  aint much of a quarter for the beaks, this here—but there's no use in letting our
                  neighbors into our secrets. The long and short on't is, you can't go back at
                  present—and so shut up your whining!"
               "Imph!" sneered Margaret; "you make a monstrous fuss about robbing them big-bugs;
                  as if they cared for a trifle; and as if you wasn't used to stealing! You didn't
                  feel so virtuous, probably, when you stole my clothes and money! and from me, too,
                  who'd tried to do you a kindness, because you was poor and friendless like myself.
                  Oh, no—it didn't matter what you took from me—a poor, miserable, degraded wretch.
                  Come, I like that!"
               "Oh! dear! dear!" cried Ellen; "don't think I stole your money—don't! Oh! indeed,
                  indeed, I didn't! I'll tell you how it was."
               "Oh, yes—I'll be bound you have a lie ready made!" replied Margaret.
               "No, ma'am—I'll tell you the truth, and nothing else, as I hope for heaven!"
               There was something so convincing in the earnest, agonizing tone in which little
                  Ellen spoke, that, after looking her steadily in the eye for a few moments,
                  Margaret said, in a milder voice:
               "Well, go on, and let's hear what you have to say for yourself!"
               Hurriedly Ellen narrated the manner of her meeting with the Hunchback, on that
                  eventful Christmas morning—how she was induced to put herself under his
                  guidance—what took place at Jimmy Quiglan's—and how she subsequently lost her way,
                  wandered off to Chestnut street, got run over, and so forth and so on.
               "If I could only believe you!" said Margaret, on whom Ellen's story seemed to make
                  a favorable impression.
               "Oh! ma'am—you must—you must believe me!" cried Ellen. "Oh! don't think I would do
                  wrong to anybody; and particularly to one so good and kind to me as you were!"
               Hardened as she was in sin and crime, a tear—forced up from some little cavern in
                  her soul, not yet eternally closed against the emotions which soften and
                  save—glistened in Margaret's eye, as Ellen spoke.
               "Come, come," joined in Mulwrack, gruffly—who noticed that Ellen's language was
                  awakening the sympathetic feelings of his companion in vice—and which, if fully
                  aroused, might seriously interfere with his design—"Come come, Mag—what is't to
                  you whether the gal's story's true or not?"
               "It's a good deal to me, Jim," replied the other, with some spirit; "for I hate to
                  think every body's as wicked as us—I mean as me."
               "Hush, now, with such — nonsense!" growled Jim. "I'll git mad soon, Mag."
               "Oh! I can show you the scars, to prove that I was run over!" said Ellen, eagerly,
                  who saw that her only hope of escape lay in the better feelings of Margaret, which
                  she could the more readily excite by convincing her that she had spoken the
                  truth.
               
               "Oh! can you do that?" exclaimed Margaret.
               "If she can, she shan't!" rejoined Mulwrack, almost fiercely. "See here!" he
                  continued, addressing Ellen; "if you know when you're well off, you'd better keep
                  your mouth shut! Will you do it?"
               "Yes, sir!" replied the terrified child; "if you don't want me to speak, I
                  wont."
               "That's sensible; and mind you keep to your word, or I'll break your head! If you
                  think you can keep your mouth shut now, and make no noise, you may go up that
                  ladder there"—pointing to one in the further corner of the room, which led through
                  a trap-door to the second story; "but if I hear from you agin, I'll gag you, and
                  chuck you down cellar, among the rats! You know what's wanted now—so start!"
               Poor little Ellen, afraid of her life, hastened to the ladder, without a word, and
                  ascended to the floor above. Mulwrack followed her, closed the trap-door, and
                  fastened it, on the lower side. Ellen was now in an unfurnished apartment, close
                  under the roof, and in total darkness—for the only window the room contained, was
                  boarded up, so that scarcely a ray of light could enter. Sinking upon the floor,
                  she buried her face in her hands, and struggled to keep down the up-heavings of
                  her seemingly breaking heart, and stifle the sound of convulsive sighs and sobs.
                  After the storm there comes a calm, and vented grief gives the troubled mind
                  repose. Ellen at length became tranquil, if, not resigned; and hope, which seldom
                  leaves youth, sprung up in her breast. Till the dawn of day, she heard them moving
                  about in the room below, and conversing in low tones—and once or twice she fancied
                  her own name was mentioned. At last all grew still; and about the same time,
                  strange as it may seem, she fell into a sound sleep, from which she did not awake
                  for several hours. When she did awake, she knew, by a small ray of sunlight, which
                  found its way into her chamber, through a crevice in the roof, that it could not
                  be far from the mid-day hour. She looked around her prison, by a light resembling
                  twilight, and saw that bread and water had been placed within her reach; but all
                  was still below, and not a living soul did she see throughout that day of
                  wretchedness almost beyond the strength of reason to endure.
               Let us now turn to another scene, and see if we can ascertain the mysterious cause
                  which led to the abduction and imprisonment of this poor child of sorrow.
            
            
               CHAPTER X.
               THE DEACON AND THE BURGLAR.
               IT was on the evening of the day following the burglary, that a dark figure stole
                  out of the gloomy region known as the Infected District, and, gliding warily along
                  some of the more respectable thoroughfares, at length entered Eighth street, and
                  halted before a fine dwelling, which bore upon a silver mounted plate, on the
                  front door, the name of Absalom Pinchbeck. After one or two cautious glances up
                  and down the street, he hastened up the steps, and rung the bell.
               "Is Mr. Pinchbeck in?" he inquired of the domestic who answered his summons.
               "He is, sure. Will ye walk in?" was the answer.
               "First tell him a gentleman is here, who'd like to speak With him."
               
               The domestic turned away, with a smile of contempt, at the idea of the stranger,
                  whose dress she had scanned by the light of the street-lamp, calling himself a
                  gentleman; and the next minute the Deacon himself appeared.
               "Can we have a bit of private chat?" said the stranger to the Deacon.
               "Oh! I see—it's you, Mr. Mulwrack," replied the Deacon. "Yes—walk in here!" and he
                  threw open the door into the front parlor, and called for a light. The moment the
                  gas was lit, and the doors were closed, he added, in a low tone: "What news?"
               "The best," answered Mulwrack.
               "Ah! indeed! glad to hear it!" and the oily Deacon rubbed his hands, keeping his
                  eye the while inquiringly upon his guest. "Yes—take a seat; there—so—well?"
               "You know what we've talked of afore?" said Mulwrack.
               "Yes, indeed—I've a good memory."
               "You know the gal was wanted to make you all right."
               "Yes—if she could be found—and—and—"
               "Put out of the way," chimed in the Burglar, finishing the sentence in a
                  business-like tone.
               "Hush! don't speak so loud! walls have ears, you know. Yes! I believe that was
                  something like what we talked of."
               "Well, she's found."
               "Ah! indeed! How? where? when?"
               "Never you mind all that—that's my business—and I don't blow my business to
                  everybody. The gal's safe—I knows where—and that's enough."
               "Yes—exactly—excuse me! So she's found, eh?"
               "Ay! and she can stay found, or be lost—you understand?"
               "Yes, yes,—I see!" returned the Deacon, in a nervous tone, glancing hastily
                  around. "There! don't speak quite so loud,—this is a very serious thing, you
                  know—very serious!"
               "You needn't be skeered," said Mulwrack; "you've got nothing to be
                  afeared of; it's me, and not you, that'll do the business."
               "Yes, yes—I know; but then, you see—you see—if it should ever leak out, I would be
                  in law accessory before the fact; and that wouldn't be at all agreeable, you see.
                  Ah! law is a great thing; and I intend to make a great lawyer of my son
                  Nelson."
               "Curse the law!" grumbled Mulwrack; "I've had enough on't; and if I does this job,
                  I intend to show this here town a clean pair of heels, and let them as wants law,
                  have it, and be —! But to business—for I can't stay all night. Now you needn't be
                  afeard of the thing's leaking out; for if I does the business, I'll do it alone;
                  and I'm not the chap to peach on any man as pays me well."
               "You say you have the girl safe?"
               "I said the gal was safe—I didn't say who had her."
               "But how am I to know she is the right one?"
               "Can't you believe what I tell you?"
               "Doubtless you speak the truth, and it may not seem right for me to doubt your
                  word; but in a matter like this, you know, where so much is at stake, I should
                  like the assurance of my own eyes."
               "Well, would you know the gal, if you'd see her agin?"
               "I think I would—yes, I think I would. She stopped here, begging, one night—at
                  least I suppose she is the same; and I have a pretty good recollection of her
                  features. Confound the thing! if I had known then what I do now—"
               "You'd have did the business yourself, I s'pose," rejoined Mulwrack, as the other
                  paused.
               
               "Oh! no! no! not I!" hastily replied the Deacon.
               "Well, the long and short on't is if you're in 'arnest, you shall see the gal
                  afore I pocket the rhino."
               "Of course you don't expect your pay before you do yor work?" said the Deacon,
                  inquiringly.
               "Don't I?" sneered Mulwrack, looking the other straight in the eye. "I hope you
                  don't take me for a — fool!"
               "Oh! no—by no means, Mr. Mulwrack—you must not take it in that light; but it is
                  not customary, among us business men, to pay for a job before it's done."
               "Well, I expect it's not customary, among you business men, to bargain for such
                  jobs, neither," rejoined the Burglar. "Now the long and short on't is this
                  here—that when the job's murder, (at this word he sunk his voice to a
                  whisper, and the other shuddered,) and that job's to benefit another man, the chap
                  that don't git his pay for't afore it's done, is a — sight bigger fool than
                  me—that's all I've got to say about that."
               "Well, well—we'll talk of that by-and-by," said the Deacon, uneasily. "For the
                  present, it may be as well to consider how much I should be benefited by
                  her—her—being—ah—lost."
               The cowardly scoundrel could not bring himself to utter the word murdered.
               "Why, you know a'ready how much you'll git," said Mulwrack, impatiently; "we've
                  talked this here all over afore."
               "Yes! but I've kind of forgotten, you see. Business is business, Mr. Mulwrack;
                  yes, business is business; and one ought never to transact it hastily. After all,
                  the thing seems to rest with that paper you found; and that really may be nothing
                  but—but—a—(the was going to say forgery, but checked himself and substituted)—but
                  the idle work of some idle man."
               "Well, I don't know—you'll have to be your own judge about that there," returned
                  the Burglar, indifferently. "All I know is, how and where I got it; and that when
                  I showed it to you, you thought it was genewine."
               "True—true—so I did; yes, so I did; and I think so still; but thinking and knowing
                  are two things, you see—my—my—ah! Mr. Mulwrack," rejoined the Deacon, turning and
                  twisting himself about in a manner indicative of considerable uneasiness of
                  mind.
               "Well, what's up?" gruffly demanded the Burglar, who began to feel not a little
                  contempt for his hypocritical and cowardly companion.
               "Eh! what did you say?"
               "I say what's up?"
               "Up?"
               "I mean what are you going to do? what do you decide on?"
               "Oh! ah! yes—ahem—I see! Well, first, I think I would like to look at that paper
                  again. Have you got it about you?"
               "Yes!" answered Mulwrack, looking the Deacon steadily in the face for some time,
                  as if to read his very thoughts. "Now I expect there'll be no trick about this
                  matter!" he continued; "but if you do try to come any game over me,
                  I'll let daylight through you, if it costs me a knot under the ear! D'ye
                  understand?"
               "Oh! no—Heaven forbid! I had no such idea—upon my honor, as a gentleman, I
                  hadn't!" stammered the worthy church-officer. "And besides, how could I trick you?
                  what could I do? If that paper is correct, the information is worthless to me
                  while the girl lives; and, of course,
                  (lowering his voice and shuddering,) her living depends on you!"
               "Well, here's the paper then," said Mulwrack, talking it from his pocket and
                  handing it to the other. "Just read it out loud—I'd like to hear it agin
                  myself."
               The Deacon drew near the light, opened the soiled and crumpled document—which was
                  written in a bold, free, business-like hand—and read as follows:
               "THE WELDEN ESTATE.
               "Archibald Welden, the younger son of the original Baronet of the same name, by
                  the death of a rich kinsman on his mother's side, fell heir by will to a large
                  estate and great wealth. He married, and had for issue a son and a daughter. The
                  daughter died without issue. Charles, the son of Archibald, wedded early in life.
                  Issue, two sons and a daughter. The brothers, Henry and John, sons of Charles,
                  died unmarried. Mary, the daughter of Charles, inherited the estate of her father
                  Charles, and grandfather Archibald, which she brought as dowry to her wedded
                  husband, Edward Montague, youngest son of Richard Marquis of Landfelt. This union
                  was productive of three sons and two daughters—but the estate was now entailed
                  upon the eldest son, Henry Montague, and the eldest son of his body direct, legal
                  issue, and so to continue in male descent forever. But failing male heir direct,
                  within five generations, the estate was to revert to Willard, second son of Edward
                  Montague, and his first-born male, as before provided; and failing heir in this
                  line, to revert to Frederick, third son of Edward Montague, and his heir male, as
                  before provided; and failing heir in this line, to revert to Alice, eldest
                  daughter of Edward Montague, and her heir male, as before provided; and failing
                  heir in this line, to revert to Jane, second daughter of Edward Montague, and her
                  heir male, as before provided; and failing male heirs altogether, to take descent
                  in the female line, reverting to the eldest daughter of Henry, first-born of
                  Edward Montague, and her eldest male issue, provided the heir should take the name
                  of Montague; or failing heir in this line, to revert in the order of birth to the
                  eldest daughter of the second son of Edward Montague; or failing heir in this
                  line, to revert to the next in the same order; and so continue until an heir
                  should be found.
               "Now in the third generation, as before mentioned, John de Carp, third son of
                  Jane, second daughter of Edward Montague, fell heir to the Welden Estate, and took
                  upon him the surname of his grandfather. John de Carp Montague still lives, an old
                  man, in feeble health. The issue of his body was two daughters and one son—all
                  deceased. The daughters died without issue. The son, James, married twice. By his
                  first wife he had two daughters. His second wife was a Montague, a distant
                  relation, and next heir to the estate, after James her husband, failing mail
                  issue. She died, leaving two daughters. The younger died without issue. The elder
                  married William Norbury, Artist, and for some years resided in Dublin. She had a
                  son and a daughter—the son is deceased. The mother, if living, is the heir
                  presumptive—the daughter, Ellen, next in succession. They set out for America, and
                  nothing more is known of them. Supposing both mother and daughter dead, the next
                  heir presumptive is the granddaughter of James Montague by his first daughter. She
                  married a Ferguson, and came to America, where he died. She next married a
                  Williams, who is also dead; and she is now the wife of Absalom Pinchbeck, and
                  resides in Philadelphia. Failing the daughter who married a Norbury, and her
                  issue—and the granddaughter, the present wife of Absalom Pinchbeck—the Weldon
                  Estate, now in the possession of John
                  de Carp Montague, descends direct to Lucy Stanhope, the wife of Casmir Stanhope,
                  and only daughter of Flora, second daughter of James Montague, and great
                  granddaughter of John de Carp Montague."
               Such was this singular document—to which was added, in a different hand:
               "It is possible I have made strict inquiries concerning the Norburys, and think
                  all are dead. There only stands, then, between my wife and the possession of this
                  estate, the wife of Pinchbeck. The estate is worth ¥10,000 per annum."
               There was no signature to this paper; but the inference was, that it had been
                  taken from the possession of Casmir Stanhope. Such indeed was the fact. Mulwrack,
                  in one of his burglarious expeditions during the winter, in rummaging a secret
                  drawer, had chanced upon this paper, and secured it about his person. Margaret,
                  who could read, had afterwards informed him of the contents; and Pinchbeck being
                  known to him as the owner of some property in the Infected District, he had
                  ventured to call upon him and let him peruse it. After sounding him a little, to
                  see how much further he might venture, Mulwrack had then informed him that he knew
                  a little girl named Ellen Norbury, whom he doubted not was the one referred to;
                  and that if she were out of the way, he, Pinchbeck, might come into possession of
                  this property. The Deacon had also recognized the name as the same the little
                  beggar-girl had given him; and remembering her statement, that her father was an
                  artist, and that both her parents were dead, it had readily occurred to him, that
                  one so, friendless and unknown could be silenced for ever, without eliciting any
                  inquiry concerning her. On perceiving that the Deacon was ripe for his horrible
                  scheme, Mulwrack had informed him that the child had stolen money from his wife,
                  (so he termed Margaret,) and run away—but that he doubted not he should soon be
                  able to find her, when he would again confer with him on the subject. Ellen had
                  been unexpectedly found, in the manner detailed, and the Burglar was now present
                  with the Deacon, to close the compact which should consign her to a violent
                  death.
               "Well," said Mulwrack, when the Deacon had finished reading, "now that you're
                  through with the paper agin, and I tell you that the gal's where I can put my hand
                  on her, what d'ye say now?"
               "I hardly know what to say," returned the other, not a little agitated. "This
                     seems to be all right; but one ought to be sure before venturing
                  upon—upon—a—ah—such a thing—as—we have talked about."
               "Well, now," growled Mulwrack, with a look half-savage, half-contemptuous,
                  snatching the paper from the Deacon's hand, and folding it hastily—"I've got
                  something better to do than to loaf here all night; and so as you don't care to be
                  independent rich, for a mere trifle, I'll go and see what I can make from the gal
                  herself."
               "Stop, Mr. Mulwrack—don't be too hasty!" said the Deacon; "you should always give
                  one time to consider a proposition before withdrawing it."
               "It don't take me long to make a bargain, when t'other side's
                  willing, and the gains is all in my favor," rejoined the Burglar; "and the long
                  and short on't is, I don't like to wait a year for any body else to do the same
                  thing."
               "Well, let me see!" said the Deacon, nervously; "let me see! You are certain you
                  could put her out of the way, without leaving any clue by which I might be
                  suspected of having a hand in the matter?"
               "Yes, I told you so afore."
               "And what am I to pay you for this?"
               
               "Well, considering that you'll git ten thousand pounds a year, when the gal's
                  dead, I reckon ten thousand dollars down 'ud be the fair thing."
               "Ten thousand dollars!" cried the Deacon in astonishment. "Why, you are not
                  serious?"
               "Would you do it for less?"
               "Oh! no! no! I would not do it for any sum; but you would; and that
                  price is outrageous—especially when you consider that the old gentleman—the old
                  Montague—is not yet dead, and that he may outlive us all."
               "Well, then, what'll you give? Come! make an offer—and then I'll know you're in
                  arnest."
               "You must give me a little time to think over the matter—it is so very serious,"
                  said the Deacon.
               "How much time do you want?"
               "Say till to-morrow night."
               "Enough said then. I'll be here at nine o'clock; and if we can agree, you shall go
                  with me and see the gal yourself. Will that do?"
               The Deacon responded in the affirmative, and Mulwrack took his leave.
            
            
               CHAPTER XI.
               THE ESCAPE.
               IT is needless to say, that the long hours of her solitary confinement, after
                  awaking from the sleep into which she had fallen, were hours of torture to little
                  Ellen. And yet it was not the imprisonment itself, nor the danger that seemed to
                  menace her personally, that most troubled her— but the thought that she should be
                  suspected by her kind benefactors of having robbed them. In anguish of spirit, she
                  groaned aloud, and wrung her hands, and sobbed, and prayed to God to deliver her,
                  that she might make her innocence known. Throughout that day, as we have elsewhere
                  said, all remained silent below; and Ellen at last became impressed with the
                  belief that the house had been deserted by its late criminal occupants, and that
                  she was herself the only human being within its walls. Perhaps they had made off
                  with their plunder, and left her there to escape or perish! The thought was
                  somewhat consoling—for any fate seemed better than that of remaining in their
                  hands.
               Barely tasting the plain food which had been placed by her side—and this rather
                  for the purpose of supporting her drooping form, than because she had any
                  appetite—she passed the greater portion of the day in praying for deliverance,
                  without making any attempt to examine the security of her prison. As night
                  approached, and the house continued silent, it suddenly occurred to her, that
                  possibly she might escape. Instantly the bare hope made every nerve thrill with a
                  strange sensation; and she started to her feet, feeling strength increased in a
                  surprising degree. She now passed around the room, examining every part; and at
                  length discovered that one of the boards, which closed up the window, had been
                  nailed on in a manner so careless, as to require no great strength to wrench it
                  off. With emotions of hope, joy, and fear indescribable, she clasped her hands,
                  and murmured:
               "Oh! I may yet escape!"
               The hour was still too early to make the trial with safety; and so Ellen sat down
                  by the window, her little heart wildly throbbing, and awaited with what patience
                  and calmness the could summon to her aid, the moment when the cover of night should permit her to carry her
                  design into effect, without exposing it to others. If she could but succeed in
                  removing this board, the aperture would be sufficient to admit her body, when she
                  could drop to the ground, without much danger of being injured—the distance not
                  being over tell or twelve feet. But it would be necessary to her purpose, to await
                  the opportunity when none of the occupants of the miserable shanties around and
                  adjoining might be on the lookout, or any one passing along the miserable
                  alley—lest discovery, exciting curiosity, should lead to inquiry, and be the means
                  of restoring her to her dreaded jailors, or of placing her in a situation as
                  dreadful as her present one.
               The sun went down at last, and night gradually gathered around our anxious,
                  trembling prisoner; but for an hour or two, the certainty that there were a number
                  of persons moving about in the narrow alley in which the hovel in question was
                  situated, deterred her from making the attempt, on whose success she felt hung
                  more than life. During the period that she was occupied in listening, some person
                  came to the door, which was just under the window by which she was seated, and
                  tried to gain admittance—but failed, and went away, grumbling and cursing. This,
                  although Ellen did not know it, was Mulwrack himself, who had remained secreted in
                  another place during, the day, and was then on his way to pay that visit to Deacon
                  Pinchbeck, of which we have given an account in the preceding chapter. And we may
                  as well state here, that, notwithstanding the old hovel had the appearance of
                  being untenanted, and was so quiet as to lead Ellen to suppose the occupants had
                  all left, yet Margaret was in the room below, lying on a straw mattrass, in a
                  state of beastly intoxication.
               At last the time arrived when Ellen thought she might venture to begin her work;
                  and applying all her strength to the board, she succeeded, after a few minutes of
                  hard labor, in wrenching it off, without making sufficient noise to attract the
                  attention of any one outside. Who shall describe her feelings now, as she stood
                  within the aperture, prepared for flight, and felt the cool night-breeze upon her
                  fevered brow and cheek? Before her were life, liberty, innocence, and
                  happiness—behind her, misery, crime, imprisonment, and perhaps death! Could she
                  hesitate which to choose? Taking hold of the window-casement, she gradually
                  lowered herself, till she hung by her hands, and then dropped to the ground
                  without injury. She was now in a dark, narrow, filthy alley, and knew not which
                  way to go; but any way was better than standing still; and any place, she fancied,
                  better than the one she had left. So she started forward, groping along in a
                  darkness as black and cheerless as the dismal shades of Erebus; but had not gone
                  far, when her foot slipped on the muddy earth, and she pitched her whole weight
                  upon the body of some human being, stretched out upon the damp ground. Terrified
                  nearly out of her senses, she uttered a sharp cry, scrambled upon her feet, and
                  passed over the body, which still lay motionless—but whether dead, or drunk, she
                  had no means of knowing, and certainly did not consider herself in a proper
                  condition to stop and ascertain. A little further on, she reached the corner of
                  the alley, and turned into another, which, if there could be any comparison
                  between such vile places, was worse than the first. She now became aware that she
                  had taken the wrong direction to reach the larger street by the shortest
                  course—but still kept on, fearing to retrace her steps. Suddenly she found her
                  progress terminated by an old crazy building, which stretched across the alley,
                  and which was apparently filled with human beings of the lowest and most degraded
                  class. Here and there a crevice showed
                  that there were lights within; while wild, hollow laughter, and hoarse, cracked
                  voices, giving vent to profanity and obscenity, with an occasional demoniac yell,
                  and the stamping and shuffling of many feet, indicated that orgies were there
                  taking place, more worthy of the fiends of darkness than of beings made in the
                  image of Jehovah.
               Little Ellen shuddered as she listened, and she looked around in terror and
                  bewilderment. She could not go forward, and she trembled at the thought of going
                  back; while to remain where she was, was almost certain to lead to discovery. And
                  then, if missed from her prison, every exertion she knew would be made to
                  recapture her—and nowhere in this loathsome quarter could she feel herself safe
                  for a moment. What was to be done? She crossed the street, and discovered a board
                  fence, which ran between the larger building and a low, miserable hovel. Should
                  she climb this fence and try her fortune on the other side? It seemed preferable
                  to turning back, or remaining where she was; and so she made haste to mount, and
                  descend into a small, muddy, filthy lot, which abounded with stagnant pools, dead
                  animals, and decaying offal, whose sickening stench and malarious poison were
                  almost insupportable. In attempting to cross this open ground, to where she saw a
                  light glimmering on the other side, little Ellen soon found herself sinking in a
                  miry pool; and she was forced to retrace her steps, with wet, muddy feet. She now
                  passed around by the fence, which enclosed the lot on one side, to the rear of
                  some low, miserable shanties; and while searching for a passage-way into the
                  street, she trod upon a rotten cellar-door, which gave way under her light weight,
                  and plunged her into a dark, damp vault, where, her head striking against the
                  ground, she was deprived of consciousness.
               How long she lay in a sate of insensibility, she never knew; but when her senses
                  returned, she found herself on the damp earth, on the very spot where she had
                  fallen, and around her a darkness impenetrable to the eye; while the stench was so
                  overpowering, that it seemed as if she would faint with every foul breath she
                  drew. She looked up through the broken door, and perceived one or two stars
                  twinkling in their far-off realms; and the sight brought a ray of hope to her
                  despairing soul. She got upon her feet, feeling cold, weak, and dizzy, and made an
                  effort to get out of her second prison—but only to meet with failure. The slimy
                  wall was high above her head, and there were neither stairs nor ladder, nor aught
                  that she could stand upon, to reach the top with her hands. She was afraid to call
                  for help, lest she should be discovered by some one who would return her to her
                  late jailors—and yet to remain where she was, seemed little less terrible.
               While she thus stood trembling, uncertain what to do, she was startled by a dismal
                  groan, which seemed to proceed from some object enclosed within the same horrible
                  pit as herself. She sunk down terrified, afraid to speak or move; and again that
                  awful groan sounded in her ear, and she heard something move within a few feet of
                  her. This was an accumulation of terrors, greater than her overtasked nerves could
                  bear, and nature kindly came to her relief. She swooned, and for a long time lay
                  as one dead, on the damp ground, in that noisome, pestilential atmosphere.
               When consciousness again returned, the gray of morning was struggling to dispel
                  the darkness from the horrible vault, or cellar, in which Ellen had passed that
                  eventful night. At first her mind was too much confused, and bewildered to permit
                  her to comprehend where she was, or how she came there; but by degrees memory gave
                  forth each event, in the order of its occurrence, and she looked eagerly around for the means of
                  escape—though so weak and stiff as scarcely to be able to get upon her feet. An
                  object, at the distance of some two or three paces—which appeared to be the figure
                  of a man, stretched out upon the earth, though barely seen in the gloomy
                  light—arrested her attention, and caused a cold shudder of dread undefinable to
                  pass through her slender frame. There seemed something awful in that still form,
                  seen in that dismal abode, in that dreary, uncertain light—something that seemed
                  to tell of death in one of its most terrible forms—of death when the soul leaves
                  the body without a friend nigh, to speak a consoling word, or breathe a kind
                  farewell. Should she approach that object, and learn the truth, the horrible
                  truth? She involuntarily shrunk back, trembling at the bare thought; and yet a
                  mysterious spell seemed to fasten her eyes there, and she fancied it impossible to
                  remove her gaze. Slowly, slowly, she drew near the mysterious object; and at last,
                  shuddering with unspeakable terror, bent over it. Yes! it was a dead body—a
                  skeleton body—the body of a man who had perished of starvation and a loathsome,
                  contagious disease—a disease that gives forth its seeds long after the breath has
                  ceased.
               Horror-stricken, poor Ellen turned away, looking for some means of escape. A
                  hollow, unearthly groan again sounded in her ear; and for a moment she felt as if
                  her senses were again leaving her. She looked wildly around, and, in the
                  increasing light, saw another human form, stretched out on the damp ground, only a
                  few feet distant from the first. This second object moved—it was alive. Nerved by
                  the courage that springs from desperation, Ellen approached, and bent over it, in
                  the dim light. She saw it was a woman—a woman in the last stages of mortal
                  suffering. Partly resting on her breast, with one arm of the living mother 
                     thorwn
                     thrown
                   around it, lay a dead infant—dead and cold. Father, mother, and
                  child—the father dead—the child dead—the mother dying! Heavens! what a scene!
               And yet, kind reader, a scene that is not fictitious, and wrought up
                  for effect—a scene that is not uncommon in the loathsome quarter we have sought to
                  bring to your notice. Must such scenes continue to be of almost daily occurrence
                  in our populous and wealthy cities? Will man never learn the duty he owes to his
                  God, and assist his fellow man, by lifting him up from the miry pit of degradation
                  and misery?—and by feeding him, and clothing him, give him palpable assurance that
                  he is one of the great human family, whose kind and loving Father is in Heaven? We
                  hope so! we trust so! God in mercy forbid that it should be otherwise!
               "Can I do anything for you, poor woman?" inquired little Ellen, in a low, gentle,
                  pitying tone, as she bent over the dying mother.
               "Who speaks?" returned the sufferer, opening her eyes, and fixing them upon Ellen,
                  with a wild and somewhat vacant stare.
               "Can I do any thing for you, poor woman?" repeated Ellen.
               "Do! for me?" cried the wretched mother, striving to fix her eyes
                  upon the cold dead infant on her bosom. "Yes! take this little one away, and nurse
                  it, and take care of it, and look to God for your reward."
               "But the child is dead!" said Ellen, deeply affected.
               "Right!" rejoined the mother, speaking with difficulty; "you are right! it is
                  dead! and it is better off than the living. But my husband—my dear husband—he is
                  sick and suffering—yonder—help him if you can—I am past all human aid!"
               "Alas! he is dead too!" sighed Ellen.
               
               "Dead?" repeated the woman, making an effort to rise, and speaking in a wild,
                  startled tone. "Dead? all dead?"
               She closed her eyes, shut her teeth hard, drew in a long breath, and sent it forth
                  in a shriek of anguish.
               It was her last. With that shriek her spirit parted from the clay, and stood in a
                  better world; and poor little Ellen was alone with the dead, in that damp, dismal
                  vault.
               With a cry of horror, she turned to escape. A broken chair caught her eye. She
                  seized this, and bore it to the mouth of what was now a charnel house. Mounting
                  upon it, and stretching up her slender form, she was barely able to grasp the sill
                  of the doorway above. Weak though she was, the excitement of horror and terror
                  gave her strength; and she drew her body up into the light of breaking day, and
                  for a few moments seemed to gulp the fresh air, as one struggling against
                  suffocation.
               She was now in the same lot or open space which she had ventured into the night
                  before, and knew not where to go or what to do. Should she seek out some of the
                  miserable inhabitants of the miserable hovels before her, and tell them what she
                  knew of the horrors of the dismal vault from which she had just escaped? But for
                  what purpose? what good could result from her information? The late inmates of
                  that awful place were all dead; and why should she expose herself to questions of
                  curiosity, which might lead to her own detection and return to the quarters where
                  she had so recently been held a prisoner? more especially, since it was very
                  likely that she had been missed ere this, and a careful search been set on foot.
                  No! self-preservation required her to be silent concerning what she had witnessed,
                  and fly from this loathsome quarter as from the devouring plague. Looking
                  hurriedly around, she perceived a narrow passage-way, between two old buildings,
                  leading into a wretched street; and through this she passed with as much haste as
                  her weak but nervous and excited condition would permit.
               She breathed freer when she had gained the street, and perceived that only here
                  and there an inhabitant of this vile locality was abroad at that early hour; but
                  she was not safe even now; and she hurried on, guided more by instinct than
                  reason, looking timidly and suspiciously at every object, and shrinking from the
                  notice of any she met or passed, like one guilty of a deed of crime. Thus
                  terrified, she hurried on, her nerves braced with intense excitement, and her
                  gentle but sinking spirit buoyed up with the hope that she was about to escape,
                  and return to her friends. She had turned two corners, and was still pressing
                  eagerly forward, through a street of better appearance than the one she had lately
                  quitted, when she was startled at hearing herself addressed in a familiar manner,
                  and in a voice that she fancied she recognised.
               "Ah! my little lady! wither away so fast this fine April morning? Come! I pray you
                  stop, and have a chat with an old friend."
               Ellen looked quickly around, and perceived Nabob Hunchy hastening across the
                  street to meet her. She would gladly have avoided him—but finding she could not,
                  she stopped, and said:
               "What do you want with me?"
               "To say how do ye do, and apologize for the abrupt manner in which I parted from
                  you at Jimmy Quiglan's," returned the Hunchback, with the greatest sang froid. "Why, my little lady," he continued, in a
                  tone of surprise, glancing at Ellen's rich garments—which the reader will bear in
                  mind were the same which Mulwrack had forced her to put on when he took her away
                  from the mansion of Sir Walter—"why, you have had good pickings, somewhere, since
                     we met! Silks, I do declare! and
                  soiled with mud! Where are you living? what have you been doing? and where are you
                  going now?"
               Ellen shuddered.
               "Oh!" she said—"ask me no questions! but show me the way to some fine street."
               "Aha! bound for a promenade?" returned Nob, laughing. "But you look pale!" he
                  added, in an altered tone; "you appear to be weak and faint! Come! I'll stand
                  treat this time; and a little good brandy will set you all right. By-the-by," he
                  continued, feeling in his pockets, "I believe, upon my soul, I have left my money
                  at my lodgings; but that needn't make any difference, since you can spare that
                  apron, which I can pawn for enough to make us both jolly."
               "Leave me! leave me!" cried Ellen, nervously; "show me the way out of this awful
                  place, and leave me!"
               "But let us have a merry drink together first."
               "No! no! I never drink. Oh! I am so much alarmed! I want to get away-quick-get
                  far, far from here."
               "Well, then, I'll tell you what I'll do—I'll guard and guide you into a clean,
                  nice street, if that is what you want, and you shall leave me that pretty apron as
                  a keepsake."
               "Yes, yes—take it—take it!" rejoined Ellen, almost tearing it from her, in her
                  haste, and handing it to the other; "and now quick! quick! let us go!" and she
                  looked hurriedly around, fearful of being discovered by the Burglar.
               Nabob Hunchy coolly pocketed the apron of little Ellen, muttering to himself:
               "I'm good for one jolly drunk on that, at all events."
               He then set off with Ellen, both walking fast. As they turned the corner of a
                  street leading out of that wretched quarter, the Hunchback stopped before a low,
                  miserable structure, from which projected a sort of iron trident, suspending three
                  large, gilded balls, announcing it to be a licensed establishment for the
                  encouragement of thieves and the robbery of the poor—or, in other words, a
                  pawnbroker's shop.
               Many of these shops, which, if properly conducted, might be of some benefit to the
                  community, are in fact but little better than hells of vice. They encourage
                  thieves, because most of them receive stolen goods in pledge for a trifling loan
                  of money, and ask no questions. They rob the poor, because they loan money on
                  every article brought to them, at the rate of about one-third, or, at the most,
                  one-half of its real value, and, for the use of the money so loaned, charge the
                  enormous interest of seventy-five per cent. per annum. If the poor wretch who
                  borrows, is not able to redeem his property within a certain time, it is sold at
                  auction, the pawnbroker receives his pay in full, and there is an end of the
                  matter. They indirectly encourage drunkenness, because the habitual inebriate, out
                  of money, seizes upon some article of dress or furniture, and takes it to the
                  place where he is certain to get sufficient means to purchase enough of his
                  favorite poison to lay him out in the gutter, or make him a dangerous maniac. They
                  corrupt morals, because the principle upon which they start is a kind of legal
                  swindle; and those who swindle cannot be honest, and those who deal with swindlers
                  see no encouragement to remain honest. Vice is a muddy pool, in which none can
                  dabble and escape being soiled.
               It was before one of these establishments, of the lowest order, that the Hunchback
                  made a halt; and turning to Ellen, he said:
               "Wait here a moment—I have some business with the gentleman inside."
               
               "I will hurry on then, by myself," replied Ellen, nervously; "so, good bye!"
               "Oh, no—stay—I will only be a moment!" said Nob; "and having promised to see you
                  safe out of this quarter, I should like to keep my word." As he spoke, he tried
                  the door, but found it fast. The hour was early, and the proprietor had not yet
                  opened his nefarious business for the day. "I know how to get in," continued the
                  deformed boy; and turning into a narrow, filthy alley, which ran along one side of
                  the building, he hastened round to a back entrance, and little Ellen lost sight of
                  him.
               For a short time, Ellen awaited his return in a rather impatient mood—during which
                  she kept her eyes constantly roving around; while she trembled, lest they should
                  light upon her most dreaded enemy. Suddenly she started, and a cry of terror
                  sprung to her lips—but she succeeded in repressing it. On the other side of the
                  way, almost opposite to where she stood, was another alley; and coming down this,
                  toward the larger street, was a person whom she believed to be Mulwrack. Should he
                  discover her, she felt she would be lost; and any place of refuge, she thought,
                  would be better than remaining so exposed. So she darted into the alley nearest
                  her, intending to follow the Hunchback into the pawnbroker's; but when she reached
                  the back entrance, it was closed, and he was not to be seen; and not being certain
                  where he had entered, and fearing discovery, she sped on some distance, down the
                  filthy alley, till she came to an open gate of a small yard. Without looking back,
                  she sprung through the opening, and, hurriedly closing the gate, looked around
                  her, trembling and half bewildered.
            
            
               CHAPTER XII.
               STRANGE QUARTERS.
               THE yard which little Ellen had entered, was small; but the dwelling to which it
                  belonged, was of brick, some three stories in height, and, compared with the
                  buildings around and adjoining it, had quite a respectable and comfortable
                  appearance. A flight of stairs, a few feet distant from where she stood, descended
                  to a basement-kitchen; and hearing some one moving about in this apartment, she
                  thought it best to go down, apologize for her abrupt entrance, and implore
                  protection. Accordingly she descended to the kitchen, where she found an Irish
                  woman, in a dirty, slovenly dress, with unwashed face, and uncombed, dishevelled
                  hair, busily engaged in making a fire in a cooking-stove. As Ellen entered, the
                  woman looked around, stared hard at her for a moment, and, in a sharp, harsh tone,
                  exclaimed:
               "Well, and who is you? and what is't ye're wanting here, jist?"
               "I beg your pardon, ma'am, for intruding here—but I saw a man out here I was
                  afraid of, and I ran in here to get out of sight."
               "Och! hoity-toity!" returned the woman, getting up from the stove, approaching
                  little Ellen, setting her arms a-kimbo, and taking a searching survey of her
                  person. "And if it's a peliceman ye're running away from now, ye've made a mistak
                  in the house—for it's not Bridget M'Callan as will consale the likes of ye."
               
               "No, ma'am," returned Ellen in a timid tone, "it was not a policeman—but a man
                  that—that—"
               She stopped, and grew confused, for she knew not what to say.
               "Troth, now," rejoined Mrs. M'Callan, sharply, "ye nadn't trouble yoursilf to
                  invint a story to desave mesilf, as is an honest widder, and mother of three
                  childrer—for I knows the likes of ye, as well as I knows the grave where my poor
                  Terrence (Heaven rist his sowl!) lies buried. It's not likely, by the look of ye,
                  ye'd rin from ony man but a peliceman."
               "Indeed, indeed, ma am, what I tell you is true!" said Ellen, her eyes filling
                  with tears. "Oh!" she continued, in a pleading tone—"if you are a mother, as you
                  say, let me, a poor orphan, appeal to you for protection!"
               "Appale to me, is it? Och! but ye're a cute one now, jist. Appale to me? Troth!
                  and ye're a cunning divil, for your age; and it's like ye're making up your mind
                  now what ye can stale the wiles. It's mesilf as hasn't lived twenty year in this
                  part of the city, widout knowing the likes of ye."
               "What can I do to convince you of my honesty and innocence?" cried poor little
                  Ellen.
               "Till me where ye got the nice clothes ye has on—how ye got 'em so muddy—and how
                  ye come to be here at this time in the morning?"
               "And will you believe my story, ma'am?" asked little Ellen, nervously.
               "Is it belave it, I will? Troth! it's mesilf as 'ill hear it first, jist—and think
                  aboot it. And mind ye till me the truth now! or I'll give ye to the pelice when
                  ye're done, so I will."
               "It is a long story, ma'am," returned Ellen; "but I will try and make it as short
                  as possible."
               "Well, sit down there, and I'll be making the fire the whiles, and cooking the
                  breakfast for the boorders, I will."
               Ellen sat down as directed, and told her story, in a straightforward manner,
                  avoiding detail as much as she could. She touched upon all the principal events
                  known to the reader; and what with interruptions, and questions put by Mrs.
                  M'Callan, the best part of an hour was consumed in the narration. The story, on
                  the whole, seemed to make a favorable impression upon the widow, and breakfast
                  being ready by the time it was concluded, she bade Ellen take off her bonnet, and
                  sit quietly in a corner, till the boarders should have taken their meal and
                  departed.
               At a call from Mrs. M'Callan, the "boorders" now came lumbering down, to the
                  number of ten stalwart, hard-featured Hibernians; and with unwashed hands and
                  faces, and hair uncombed, but drawn down low on their foreheads, they gathered
                  around the table, with little regard to order, and commenced a voracious onslaught
                  on the smoking food before them—jabbering among themselves, the while, in a
                  language that was certainly Greek to little Ellen. Mrs. M'Callan
                  presided over the teapot, and took part in the conversation—but did not herself
                  touch any of the tempting viands. Several curious glances were cast upon Ellen—but
                  no one addressed her; and in something like twenty minutes, the boarders had all
                  departed to their daily occupations.
               "Now, honey," said the widow to Ellen, in a kindly tone, "ye'll tak' a wee bit of
                  breakfast wid mesilf, and we'll talk the gither, the whiles, jist."
               Ellen, who, stood greatly in need of food, did not require much urging to comply
                  with so reasonable a request; and though she knew the victuals before her were not
                  any too clean, yet hunger made them
                  very palatable; and she ate with a relish, and ate heartily.
               "It's a square story ye's been tilling me," said Mrs. M'Callan, when her own
                  appetite had become somewhat appeased; "and sure, it's mesilf as doesn't know
                  whether to belave it or not. Ye look as if ye spake the truth, I'll say that for
                  ye—but, troth! and this same is a desaving world."
               "Oh! ma'am, I do assure you, I've spoke nothing but truth!" returned Ellen,
                  eagerly.
               "And sure, and why don't ye go to a constable, or a alderman, and complain of this
                  robber villain, now?"
               "I don't know where to go, ma'am; and I'm afraid to go any where, for fear he'll
                  find me, and do something terrible to me. Oh! ma'am, I want to get back to my
                  friends, and take their advice."
               "And where d'ye say this Misther Clendennan lives?" inquired the widow.
               Ellen had not mentioned the fact of Clendennan being Knight, for the reason that
                  she knew, he was only known in the city as Mr. Clendennan, and that he did not
                  wish to be known as the possessor of a title; and though we have spoken of him as
                  the Knight, Baronet, and Sir Walter, we have done so merely for convenience, and
                  because we had exposed to the reader the secret of his real position.
               At the question of Mrs. M'Callan, Ellen blushed to the temples, and became greatly
                  embarrassed and confused.
               "I—I—did not—not say where he lived," she stammered.
               "Well, ye can, I'm thinking, if ye're not an imposter, jist," replied the other,
                  sharply, looking suspiciously at her little guest.
               "It may seem very strange to you, ma'am," returned Ellen, in a nervous, but
                  earnest tone; "but oh! I do assure you, ma'am, it is as true as I sit here
                  that—that while at Mr. Clendennan's, I never thought to ask the name of the
                  streets (it was a corner building) in which the house stood—and I never heard any
                  body mention them, as I recollect of."
               "Hoity-toity now! Sure, thin, and how did ye find your way back agin, when ye wint
                  out?"
               "I only went out a few times, and Rosalind was always with me."
               "And how, in St. Pathrick's name, thin, do ye expect to find your way back now,
                  will ye till me, jist?"
               "Alas!" cried Ellen—"I do not know, unless I can find somebody that knows Mr.
                  Clendennan."
               "Well, well," said the widow, sipping her tea; "may the fiend fly away wid ye', if
                  ye's been tilling me lies this while! and sure, it's not Bridget M'Callan as knows
                  whether ye're lying or not, now."
               Ellen repeatedly assured her that she had spoke nothing but truth, and did last
                  the other appeared to be satisfied to take her word.
               "And now, thin," she said "it's mesilf as don't know how to advise the likes of
                  ye. I don't think it's best to let that bloody robber git hold of ye agin, at all,
                  at all; and what'll ye do to git back to your frinds?"
               "Indeed, ma'am, I do not know!" replied little Ellen, beginning to cry and
                  sob.
               "There! there! hush, honey, mavournin!" rejoined the widow, who really had a kind
                  heart. "I'll see what I can do for ye. There's my boy, John—bliss his sowl!—who's
                  aslape up stairs: he's out the nights, enjoying himself, the darling, and don't
                  git up till afthernoon: I'll git him to tak' ye; he can find onywhere he likes;
                  and he'll be delighted, the young rascal!" and the widow ended with a hearty laugh at her own pleasantry, in
                  calling her darling son John a rascal—though she might in truth have substituted
                  villain, without applying a misnomer, as we will show anon.
               It was finally settled that little Ellen should remain with Mrs. M'Callan, till
                  such time as her hopeful son should see proper to rise, and, after being made
                  acquainted with the facts in the case, should be ready to set off with her in
                  search of her friends. Ellen, it must be confessed, was not altogether pleased
                  with this arrangement—for she felt extremely anxious to get out of a locality
                  where she could not consider herself safe from one moment to another—but unable to
                  devise anything better under the circumstances, she thanked Mrs. M'Callan for her
                  kindness, and resolved to await the time of her departure with what cheerful
                  patience she could summon.
               Dinner-time came, and the "boorders" came and went—but still Master John did not
                  make his appearance. A couple of hours passed away—most tedious hours to little
                  Ellen, who began to grow very nervous—and still the darling son of Widow M'Callan
                  slept on, as though determined to rise no more. At last, between the hours of
                  three and four in the afternoon, there was heard the sound of heavy feet on the
                  naked stairs; and with the delight of a fond mother, as she flew about to prepare
                  his first meal for the day, the widow announced to Ellen that the last scion of
                  the M'Callans was about to become visible to both anxious expectants.
               And almost immediately her words were verified, by the presence of John M'Callan
                  himself; who entered the kitchen with dirty face and hands, hair matted and
                  tangled, with coat and vest slung over one shoulder, and the bottom of his
                  trousers tucked inside the legs of heavy, cowhide boots. He was about sixteen
                  years of age, tall and gaunt, with an appearance not at all prepossessing. His
                  face was thin and freckled, and showed the traces of the lowest kind of
                  dissipation. He had a large, sensual mouth, a slightly turned-up nose, and small,
                  black, sinister-looking eyes, around which the red flesh seemed swollen and
                  feverish with dark lines in the hollows beneath. A sort of sullen, savage,
                  hang-dog expression pervaded the whole countenance; and little Ellen, as she gazed
                  upon him, shuddered at the thought that she was about to trust herself to his
                  guidance.
               He stared hard at Ellen for some time; and then savagely throwing his coat and
                  vest across a chair, he thrust his hands into his pockets, and, turning to his
                  mother, exclaimed, in a harsh voice, which had no touch of the Irish brogue:
               "Well, old woman, I'll thank you to stir your stumps, and let me have some
                  breakfast—for I'm as hungry as be—!"
               "Sure, and isn't it mesilf as is doing that same, my darling?" replied the widow,
                  bustling about in a great hurry.
               My-darling, without deigning a reply to this tender remark, threw himself heavily
                  upon a chair, and began to whistle—looking out, the while, from under his frowning
                  brows, at little Ellen, who began to feel very awkward and uneasy.
               "I say, little gal," he said at length, addressing Ellen, "who are you,
                  anyhow?"
               "Johnny, my dear," said his mother, stopping in front of him, "it's her I wants to
                  spake to you about, jist, to ask a favor of ye."
               "Well, old woman, just you get that ther' breakfast first, and then you can open
                  your mouth as much as you like," was the polite response of Johnny-my-dear, who
                  now got up, and put on his vest, and
                  went out into the yard, to take a wash at the hydrant.
               "Och! sure, and he's a M'Callan all over, so he is!" said the fond mother, with a
                  look of pride, as she gazed after her hopeful son; "jist for all the world like
                  his dear father, my own dead and gone Terrence, pace to his sowl! "Ah! troth, now,
                  Miss Ellen, and isn't it yoursilf as thinks him a broth of a boy?"
               "I never saw any one like him," replied little Ellen, who really knew not what to
                  say.
               "And ye may as well say that same, honey!" rejoined the widow, taking it as a fine
                  compliment. "Och! but it's a high time the leddy will have as catches my John for
                  a husband!"
               There was no doubt about this being the case, from present appearances, and Ellen
                  did not think proper to express a different opinion.
               During the next hour, Master John learned all about Ellen his mother cared to tell
                  him, finished his breakfast, and smashed a couple of dishes to show his sweet
                  temper. At first he objected to acting as a guide to Ellen, saying he had a
                  pressing engagement for the evening; but afterward consented to do so, provided
                  she would wait till dark before setting out. Poor little Ellen saw there was no
                  alternative, and yielded a reluctant assent—trembling, at the same time, at the
                  thought that she would be at the mercy of one, who, if looks and actions could be
                  taken as indexes, was at heart a villain.
               Having named the hour at which he would return for Ellen, Master John put on his
                  coat and hat; and cursing his mother for an old fool, because she happened to ask
                  if he would be sure and not forget to be back at the time he had set, he went out,
                  slamming the doors behind him.
               It was a dreary and even painful time to little Ellen, the time which elapsed
                  between the going forth and return of John M'Callan. Hour after hour went by—the
                  men returned from their labors and ate their supper—night set in—and still the
                  hopeful John remained away, and little Ellen cried for loneliness and heart
                  desolation. At last, between eight and nine o'clock in the evening, he made his
                  appearance, and growled out some excuse for not being back sooner. He said he had
                  made some inquiries concerning the Clendennans, and thought he could find their
                  residence without much difficulty. This would have been cheering news to little
                  Ellen, had it come from one in whom she could have placed confidence; but there
                  was something in the expression of John's eye, as he fixed it upon her, that made
                  her pure and gentle spirit shrink away as from a contamination. She felt, without
                  exactly knowing why, that he was a secret enemy, as much to be dreaded as Mulwrack
                  himself. She saw, too, that he had been drinking—and this had no tendency to
                  inspire confidence. She fairly shuddered at the thought of setting out with him,
                  in the night, alone, and in such a locality; but there was no alternative; she
                  could make no excuse that would avail her; and so she donned her bonnet, (her
                  shawl she had left at Mulwrack's,) and prepared to set forth.
               John, however, seemed in no hurry to start. He had first to have his dinner, as he
                  facetiously termed it—which he ate very slowly; and then he went up stairs, and
                  remained for half-an-hour; and what with one delay and another, he managed to keep
                  little Ellen waiting till half-past ten o'clock.
               "And sure," said his mother, when at last he announced himself as ready; "sure,
                  now, Johnny, my darling, ye had best wait and tak' another day for 't. The good
                  folk'll be all abed, jist—and won't
                  know ye from a tief of the night, now!"
               "Old woman," replied John, "you're a fool! and may jest as well keep that mouth of
                  yourn shut! I know my business, and I want you to mind yourn!"
               "Howly Virgin! but he's like his father, so he is!" said Mrs. M'Callan, turning to
                  Ellen. "Poor Terrence! he was a broth of a boy, that same—pace to his ashes! Well,
                  good-bye, child; and ye'll sometimes think of Bridget M'Callan, it's like, when ye
                  git amongst the big-bugs!"
               "Indeed, indeed, I shall never forget your kindness, ma'am!" returned little
                  Ellen, fairly sobbing aloud.
               "There, go! and God bless you!" rejoined the kind-hearted widow, bestowing upon
                  the little orphan a hearty kiss. "Tak' care of the wee thing, and allow no harm to
                  come anigh her, Johnny, dear!" were her last instructions to her dissipated
                  son.
               "Come along!" said John, gruffly, as he sallied forth; and little Ellen meekly and
                  timidly followed him into the darkness of the night.
               The street on which stood the residence of Widow M'Callan, was, compared with some
                  in the immediate vicinity, quite respectable—though it would have appeared dreary
                  enough to persons accustomed to living in more fashionable quarters. A gas-light,
                  here and there, at rather long intervals, threw out a dim, uncertain light—but
                  sufficient to enable one to pick his way, with a little care, without stumbling
                  over the rough, uneven pavement. A few shops fronted on this street, mostly kept
                  by negroes and people of the poorer class; but these were now, owing to the
                  lateness of the hour, nearly all closed for the day; and only here and there a ray
                  of light, save from the before-mentioned jets of gas, shone upon this gloomy
                  thoroughfare.
               For the distance of something like a square, little Ellen and her sullen guide
                  walked along, side by side, in silence; and then, as he turned into a narrower and
                  darker street, the latter said, in a more kindly tone than was usual with him:
               "Here, Sis—give me your hand—you might fall."
               He took her hand, and walked on a short distance; when Ellen, who was trembling
                  with a secret apprehension, though she strove to be calm, ventured to inquire, in
                  a timid tone:
               "Are you sure we are going right, sir?"
               "Of course I am," he answered, rather gruffly. Umph! I know the ways round here
                  like a book."
               "But do you think Mr. Clendennan lives in this direction?" she asked again.
               "Now what's the use of yer talking that ther' way to me?" he replied, half
                  angrily. "You don't take me for a — fool I hope! You know, as well as I do, that
                  that ther' yarn, about the Clendennans, and sich like, is all stuff—gammon—sheer —
                  nonsense—jest made up to come it over the old woman!"
               "Indeed, sir, it is not!" said Ellen, quickly, stopping at once, and endeavoring
                  to get a glimpse of the other's face, which the darkness of the street, where they
                  were, prevented. "All I said to your mother was true," she continued; "and if you
                  don't think so, and are not doing as if it were true, then leave me, and I will
                  try to find my way somewhere by myself."
               "And where'd you go this time of night, I should like to know?" said John.
               "I don't know, sir, where," sobbed little Ellen; but I would try and find a better
                  street than this."
               
               "Oh, well, come along!" he rejoined, in a tone less harsh; "and don't spile that
                  ther' pretty little face of yourn by crying. Come! I was only jest in fun—so come
                  along!"
               "But where are you taking me to, sir?"
               "Only jest round here, to a friend of mine, who knows all about the folks you want
                  to find."
               "But it is so dark here, on this street, sir, that I feel afraid."
               "Poh! come along! I'll take care of ye—nothing shall hurt you. Only round the
                  corner here, and we'll come to where it's light."
               "But you're really in earnest about taking me to Mr. Clendennan's?" hesitated
                  Ellen.
               "Of course I am—didn't I tell you so? So come along!" replied John.
               Thus assured by her guide, but still shuddering from a secret apprehension, little
                  Ellen ventured timidly forward. From the miserable street they were in, John soon
                  turned into a dark, dismal, narrow, filthy alley—all the while encouraging his
                  timid charge to continue on, by assuring her that the way they were taking was
                  their nearest course to a broad, clean, well-lighted thoroughfare.
               At length he stopped before a gloomy-looking, wooden structure, which seemed to
                  frown darkly upon the poor orphan. All the shutters were closed, and not a ray of
                  light streamed forth; and it might have been thought that the people were abed, or
                  that the building was untenanted, had not the ear caught the faint sound of a
                  boisterous merriment, apparently taking place in a rear apartment of one of the
                  upper stories.
               John, without saying a word, rapped quickly and heavily on the door, giving four
                  distinct knocks. Instantly the sounds of merriment were hushed, and all became
                  still as the grave.
               "Oh! sir, you are not going in there?" exclaimed Ellen, greatly terrified.
               "Hush!" said John. "I only want to speak to a friend."
               Presently the door opened slightly, as if held by a chain, and John passed a few
                  words, in a low tone, with some one within. Then turning to Ellen, he said:
               "Come! let us go."
               At the same instant, he clapped his hand over her mouth—the door flew wide
                  open—and lifting her from her feet, he bore her across the threshold, into a place
                  of utter darkness; and, with a sinking heart, she heard the door close behind her,
                  shutting her from the world without. Poor child!
            
            
               CHAPTER XIII.
               A DEN OF INFAMY.
               IT was with a sinking heart, as we have said, that poor little Ellen heard the
                  door close behind her; while the rattling of bolts and chains, assured her that it
                  was made fast against egress or ingress. But still, though much terrified, she did
                  not faint; and presently she felt her nerves strengthened, with a kind of
                  desperation, and a secret influence for which she could not account. Strange as it
                  may seem to those who have not made the human system a study under all the various
                  emotions of hope, joy, grief, fear,
                  terror, and despair, her gentle spirit seemed to rise up from beneath its weight
                  of despondency, and become comparatively light and buoyant, infusing strength and
                  vigor into her weary body and limbs. In a word, she began to feel strong and
                  resolute, at a moment when one might have reasonably expected to see her sinking
                  in dismay beneath the stroke of a new misfortune.
               As soon as the door was bolted, John M'Callan removed his hand from the mouth of
                  Ellen, and held a hurried conversation, in a low tone, with the person who had
                  admitted him. Then taking hold of Ellen's hand, he said:
               "Come, my dear—let us go up stairs, and find a pleasanter place than this here.
                  Don't be afeard—nobody's going to hurt you."
               "I'm not afraid, sir!" replied Ellen, in a tone that surprised even herself—it was
                  so severely calm, and cold, and firm.
               "Why, hello!" said John, as she placed her hand in his, and he discovered that it
                  exhibited not even the slightest tremor. "Why, if you're not one of the birds, may
                  I be —!" we will not repeat his oath. "Can't fool this child! I knowed all the
                  time you was playing possum. Come along."
               Saying this, he conducted Ellen up a steep flight of narrow stairs, in the dark,
                  the attendant following close behind. On reaching the top, they made one or two
                  turns through a narrow corridor, when a light from an open door, in which stood
                  three or four figures, peering out, enabled them to see clearly the rest of their
                  way to the apartment of revelry.
               "Fall back there!" said John, in an authoritative tone; "and make room for the
                  Queen of Beauty!"
               Instantly the figures disappeared; and the next moment little Ellen, with her hand
                  firmly clasped in the hand of John M'Callan, found herself standing in the door of
                  an apartment, which, together with its occupants, we must pause to describe.
               The room as large, but with a low ceiling, and was lighted by two very respectable
                  chandeliers, which burned candles instead of gas. The rough walls were gaudily
                  papered, and disfigured with French prints—some in frames and some without—many of
                  which were hardly fit for the modest eye of purity. The floor was without a
                  carpet, but sanded; and around all sides of the apartment, leaving a vacancy in
                  the middle, were arranged settees, chairs, benches and tables. The occupants were
                  about twenty-five in number, of both sexes, ranging from ten to five-and-twenty
                  years of age. Some were standing, some sitting, some lounging, several were
                  smoking, and all had been drinking—for on every table were tumblers, some quite
                  empty, and some partly filled with liquors of various kinds. There was nothing
                  like order or respectability in the assembled company—which, with few exceptions,
                  appeared, to be of the lowest and most depraved class. The girls were
                  characterized by a premature oldness of look and boldness of manner, and were
                  flauntingly dressed in a style that showed that excessive modesty was not one of
                  their prominent virtues; while all the youth—some with coats on and some
                  without—had the hardened looks of dissipation and vice—with eyes red and bleared,
                  and faces swollen and weather-beaten. In short, the place was a kind of juvenile
                  hell; and a fiend, in the shape of an old crone, wrinkled and toothless, with one
                  foot already in the grave, presided ever the establishment. There had been a
                  dance, interrupted by the knocking of John M'Callan; and a negro, perched upon a
                  stool in one corner, was now thrumming the strings of his violin, and waiting to
                  be called on to strike up him tune anew.
               
               Such was the scene presented to the view of little Ellen, as she found herself
                  standing on the threshold of the apartment; and as she saw so many eyes turned
                  upon her, with a rude, impudent stare, it required all the nerve which had
                  recently been given her, to keep her from sinking down in dismay.
               "This here," said John, in a loud tone, as he held little Ellen by the hand, "I
                  calls the Queen of Beauty—and I want you all to pay respect to her."
               Most of the company bowed, in a kind of mocking homage, and then gave way to a
                  hearty laugh.
               "She's a mighty little queen!" said one.
               "But a — pretty one!" said another.
               "Nothing to brag on, though!" put in one of the girls, tossing her head in
                  disdain.
               "Go along, Bess—you're jealous."
               "Not of her—the minx!"
               "Where'd she come from?"
               "Go it, John!"
               "Where'd you pick her up, Mac?"
               "Got on silks—whew!"
               "I'll put up a quarter agin her, John, and play you a game of old sledge!"
               "I'll stand treat for the first dance with her!"
               "And I another for the second!"
               "Let's drink to her any how!"
               "Bravo! here's your health, Miss Queen!"
               "Hurrah for the dance!"
               "Go it, old Ebony! come! strike up!"
               Such were some of the exclamations and remarks, from different parties, that
                  greeted the ear of little Ellen, as John M'Callan led her forward to a seat. Poor
                  child! she saw she was entrapped into a den of infamy; and she mentally called on
                  God for protection and deliverance, and strength to sustain her the while through
                  this painful and disgusting scene of trial.
               "She's a beauty, ain't she? and all beauties is welcome to my nice home!" said a
                  tremulous, cracked voice, followed by a fiendish chuckle.
               Ellen started at the sound of that voice—it had something so awful, almost
                  unearthly, in its tones; and on turning to the speaker, she was startled at the
                  appearance of the old hag already mentioned who was the person who had admitted
                  John and herself into the house, and had followed and entered behind them, and now
                  stood near her, stooped and withered, grinning, and shrinking her small, dark,
                  bleared eyes, and looking more like one of the witches of the heath, who foretold
                  Macbeth his destiny, than a human being. Ellen felt a thrill of horror run through
                  her slender frame, as she looked upon that toothless crone—such a thrill of horror
                  as one would experience on finding the cold body of a deadly serpent crawling over
                  the naked flesh; and she turned her gaze away, and strove to shut out from the
                  mind's eye the repulsive vision. But it was in vain. The image of the repulsive
                  crone was stamped upon her young and guileless heart, and it remained and haunted
                  her for years.
               "Come," said John to Ellen—"there's a-going to be a first-rate dance, and I'll
                  take you for a partner."
               "I never dance," replied Ellen, quietly.
               "Pshaw! what's the use of your talking that ther' way? Come along!"
               "I never dance," answered Ellen, more firmly, drawing back, and secretly
                  shuddering—though she managed to appear calm and collected.
               "But I say you must dance!" returned John, half angrily, taking hold
                  of her arm, as if to urge her forward.
               
               "I don't know how, sir—I never danced in my life," replied Ellen, holding
                  back.
               "Well, git up here, and I'll larn ye then—though I know you're fibbing all the
                  time," said John.
               "Oh! please excuse me, sir! I'd rather not."
               "But I say you shall!" cried John, now really angry; "and when I say
                  a thing, it's got to be—mind that!" and again he pulled her by the arm, and this
                  time so roughly, that poor little Ellen, overcome by her feelings—her lonely,
                  friendless, unprotected situation—burst into tears.
               "Oh yes—cry!" growled John—"that's always the way with you gals, when
                  us fellers wants you to do something you don't jest want to."
               "Oh! look at the poor baby!" exclaimed two or three of the girls, who sat near
                  Ellen, and who naturally felt jealous of her; and they closed with a mocking,
                  heartless laugh.
               "Shall it have some cake, the deary?" said one.
               "Or a bit of sugar candy, for its 'ittle self?" laughed another.
               "Shall it go to its dear mamma?" mocked a third.
               At the mention of the sacred name of mother, little Ellen gave vent to a fresh
                  burst of grief, and cried and sobbed as if her poor little heart would break.
               "Oh, come!" said a tall youth, about the age of John, and who seemed to be less
                  hardened in vice than his associates—or perhaps had the germ of something better
                  in his heart, not all defiled: "come! don't be too hard on her at first!"
               The words were uttered in a conciliating tone, and in a tone of sympathy; and as
                  they fell on the ear of little Ellen, she looked up through her tears, and saw a
                  kindly expression in the blue eyes of the boy, who was standing in front of her,
                  and gazing steadily at her.
               "Henry Crawford, you'll please mind your own business, and leave me attend to
                  mine!" said John M'Callan, almost fiercely.
               "Not if you make it your business to abuse that there little girl, I won't!"
                  returned the other with spirit, his eyes flashing.
               "Who's abused her?" cried John,
               "Why don't you let her alone then?"
               "Cause I don't choose to."
               At this juncture the fiddler struck up, and the dance commenced; but as only a
                  part of the company could occupy the floor at the same time, most of the others
                  began to gather around Ellen and the two excited youths, all anxious to hear and
                  see—for there was a great probability, from present appearances, that the matter
                  would end in a fight. To prevent this, the old hag came shuffling in between young
                  M'Callan and Crawford, and in a whining, cracked voice, said:
               "Come, come, young gentlemen—be easy now—be easy—no quarrelling; the chick is a
                  nice, good girl—only give her time to get acquainted like."
               "Old woman, jest mind your business! and get out the way, will ye?" cried John,
                  savagely; "and what's better, fetch me some brandy!"
               "That's right, my dear!" croaked the crone; "take a little brandy, and never mind
                  what's been said, my dear. I'll get it for ye—Mother Grimsby'll get it for ye,
                  with her own hands, this very minute, my dear;" and the stooped, and withered, and
                  toothless old hag shuffled away in haste; and soon returned with a
                  greenish-looking bottle, which she declared contained the genuine old Cognac.
               John threw down a quarter-dollar, seized the bottle, and a tumbler that stood on
                  the table by his side, poured out a third of a glass, and gulped it down; and then
                     setting the bottle down hard, he
                  invited all present, who felt friendly to him, to help themselves. Several of both
                  sexes now advanced to the table, and took a drink, uttering the while profane and
                  ribald words but Henry Crawford and two others stepped back, and held a hurried
                  conversation, in low tones.
               "Why don't you drink?" said John to Ellen; "aint you friendly to
                  me?"
               "Oh! sir, take me away to my friends!" sobbed Ellen; "remember what your mother
                  told you!"
               At this there was a loud laugh of derision from all the girls near—some five or
                  six in number—and several of both sexes made comments which we need not
                  repeat.
               "I say, young gal," pursued John, in a savage tone—"aint you going to drink with
                  me?"
               "No, I never drink."
               "Don't drink or dance?" rejoined he, scowling darkly; "that's a — likely story!
                  You think you can just do as you like here, may be—but I'll let you
                  know different, afore you're much older; and if any body wants to take it up,
                  there'll be a fight on hand;" and he looked from under his knitted brows, over to
                  where Crawford was standing. "Nance," he said to one of the girls, "jest put some
                  sugar and water in that ther' glass! There—that'll do. Now here goes in some
                  brandy," he continued, pouring out a small quantity of the vile liquor. "Look you,
                  my crying beauty—you've got to drink this here decent, or I'll pour it down your
                  throat! D'ye hear?"
               "Oh! sir—remember what your mother told you!" said Ellen, pleadingly.
               "She can jest go to thunder, for an old fool!" rejoined John, rising and placing
                  himself in front of Ellen, with the tumbler in his hand. "Come! drink, I say!"
               At this moment a loud knock was heard at the outer door; and instantly the fiddler
                  ceased playing, the dancers stopped in their places, and a deep silence
                  ensued—broken only at intervals by whispers, or the guarded footsteps of some of
                  the company, stealing to the door of the apartment to listen. John placed his
                  tumbler on the table, and quietly reseated himself—while the old hag hurried away,
                  to answer the summons for admittance.
               A few minutes of anxious suspense ensued; for it sometimes happened—though we
                  regret to say very rarely—that the police made a descent upon this house of vile
                  resort, and arrested all they could find within; and consequently the parties
                  stood prepared for flight, in case the present applicant, or applicants, for
                  admission, should prove to be the dreaded officers of law.
               At length those on the watch announced the fact that all was right; and
                  immediately after, the Hunchback made his appearance at the door, and was greeted
                  with a mixed storm of laughter and invectives—during which the fiddler again
                  struck up, and the dance was resumed.
               "Hello, Nob!" called out John, who knew something of the deformed boy's physical
                  strength and desperate fighting qualities, and was therefore anxious to secure him
                  on his side, in case there should be a fracas—for John, like most other bullies of
                  his stamp, was at heart a paltry coward, and could only be courageous when
                  supported by numbers against a few: "Hello, Nob! this way, and take a
                  drink!—here's brandy that'll make you a gentleman—some of old Grimsby's best."
               "Thank you, Mr. M'Callan!" returned the Hunchback, approaching with a smile and a
                  bow—"I never refuse a good offer. I hold brandy to be the life and soul of
                  man—victuals, drink, lodging, and washing included."
               He took up the bottle as he spoke and held it up to the light—as if to see if the
                  liquor were clear, but in reality to
                  see how much there was of it—and then poured out a tumbler half-full.
               "Ladies, and gentlemen," he said, with affected politeness, looking round upon the
                  laughing spectators, and nodding to each—"here's my—"
               He stopped suddenly with an expression of surprise, and slowly set down the glass,
                  with its contents untasted. His eye, in going round the circle, had encountered
                  the tearful eyes of little Ellen, fixed earnestly and imploringly upon him.
               "Why, how is this?" he said; "how came my little lady here?"
               At this the bystanders laughed, thinking he spoke in derision, merely to make a
                  joke; but John, who sat facing him, fancied he saw something in his eye that
                  implied serious earnest.
               "Your little lady?" John repeated; "what d'ye mean by that ther',
                  Nob?"
               "Oh! take me away from here!" cried Ellen, appealing to the deformed boy—for she,
                  too, saw that in his eye, which led her to hope he would stand her friend. "Take
                  me away from here, I beg of you. You promised to see me to a nice street, and you
                  didn't do it."
               "That was because you ran away, and I couldn't find you," returned the Hunchback;
                  while the different parties began to crowd around, and become more deeply
                  interested in the curious turn that matters were taking.
               Half-a-dozen speakers now asked half-a-dozen different questions in the same
                  breath; but the Hunchback kept his dark eyes fixed upon Ellen, and paid no
                  attention to any of the others.
               "I ran away from where you left me," said little Ellen, eagerly, "because I
                  thought I saw a man that I was afraid of; and I ran into John M'Callan's mother's;
                  and she promised mised that he should take me to my friends; and he brought me
                  here, and forced me into this house. Oh! do—do, now—take me away from here, and
                  let me go back to my friends, and God will reward you for it!"
               "I will!" said the deformed boy, resolutely, the tearful appeal of the friendless
                  little orphan touching his heart—which, though enclosed in a rough, ungainly
                  casement, unlike many others of fair exterior, ever beat sympathetically for the
                  wronged and oppressed—at least when his brain was clear of the fumes of the poison
                  which was his favorite beverage. "I will take you to your friends, if you've got
                  any—and then I'll get jolly on the strength of one good act, if I never do
                  another. I promised to see you to a nice street, my little lady—and drunken Nob
                  Hunchy always keeps his word when he's sober."
               "'Spect you'll ask my leave, afore you do that ther', Mr. Nob?" said John,
                  sullenly. "Mighty pretty airs you're putting on, 'pon my, word! to come here and
                  'spect to take away a gal that I've fetched here, without asking my consent, or
                  the consent of them that's here and paid their reckoning;" and he looked around to
                  see what effect his words would produce upon the different parties, so as to be
                  able to judge how many were likely to stand by him, in the event of his making a
                  forcible resistance to the design of the Hunchback. He appeared to receive the
                  encouragement he expected—for he immediately added, in a bolder tone, with a
                  bullying air: "If she gits out of this here house to-night, Mr. Nob, there'll be a
                  fight first, I can tell you. Aint I in the right, Mother Grimsby?" he concluded,
                  appealing to the mistress of the establishment, who had, drawn near during the
                  conversation.
               "I don't want ye to fight—I don't want ye to fight," replied the crone, shaking
                  her head. "And I don't want the pretty, sweet little beauty to go away from me,
                     who'll be a mother to her," she
                  added, looking at little Ellen with what she intended should be a winning smile,
                  but which her old, wrinkled face converted into a hideous grin.
               "Well, she aint a-going to go away!" rejoined John, looking fiercely at the
                  Hunchback, whose black eyes began to gleam with that fiery, sullen light, which
                  should always be noted as a warning that the possessor is resolved to conquer or
                  die.
               "See here, Nob," said the old hag, turning to him; "if I'd a known you was coming
                  in here to raise a fracas, you'd have staid outside."
               "And if I had," answered the deformed boy, quietly, "before this time to-morrow
                  night, the beaks would have been down on your infernal den!"
               "Hear him! hear him!" croaked the old she-fiend, turning pale with anger and
                  fear.
               "Yes, and hear this too!" pursued the Hunchback: "if this little girl is not
                  allowed to depart with me quietly, I'll break up this hell of yours, Mother
                  Grimsby, if it costs me my life!"
               "And if you dare to blow on this here place, by —! it shall cost you your life!"
                  cried John, fiercely, while several of the others began to grow much excited.
               "Look you, John M'Callan!" returned the Hunch-back, fixing his dark eye, with at
                  keen, penetrating glance, upon the cowardly ruffian, and speaking in that calm,
                  determined tone, which never fails to produce a marked impression:
               "Look you, John! I know you well, and you know me; and if you dare to
                  lift a hand against me, you shall rue it to the end of your miserable life!"
               On hearing this, John turned pale, and began to grow nervous; but he had already
                  gone too, far to retreat, without subjecting himself to the raillery of his
                  companions; and he also felt his drooping courage revive, by the exclamations
                  clamations of some two or three of his friends, who stood around him.
               "He's a traitor!" said one.
               "A — villain!" cried another.
               "Let's break his head, and pitch him into the street!" vociferated a third.
               But the deformed boy stood firm, glancing quickly from one to the other of the
                  different parties, not one of whom seemed inclined to be the first to molest
                  him.
               "If you let me take that little girl quietly," he said at length, "you'll have no
                  occasion to consider me a traitor; and I'll save you the trouble of breaking my
                  head and pitching me into the street—for I'll leave at once, and never come here
                  again."
               "She can't go with you!" said John, loudly, getting up and pushing back the cuffs
                  of his sleeves, as if preparing for a flight. "I've said it, and I'll stick to
                  it!"
               The Hunchback made no reply to this; but while he kept his eyes warily about him,
                  he said to Ellen:
               "Come, my little lady—I don't think these boys are so bad as they pretend—and I
                  can't see why they should harm you, who have never harmed them."
               As he spoke, he motioned to Ellen to approach him; and as she tremblingly arose,
                  and attempted to do so, John M'Callan pushed her rudely back upon the bench,
                  exclaiming:
               "Don't you dare to stir, without my leave!"
               Scarcely were the words spoken, when, bounding forward like a ball, the Hunchback
                  struck him in the pit of the stomach with his head, and sent him clean from the
                  floor against the wall, where he struck with a dull, heavy sound, and then fell to
                  the ground like a log. This was done almost with the quickness of thought; and as
                  the gallant boy recoiled from the blow he had himself given, he struck another, one of John's friends, in the
                  stomach, in the same manner, laying him out on the floor—while with his active
                  fists he knocked in two of the front teeth of a third.
               The dance now broke up with the cry of "A fight!" and several of John's friends
                  made a rush upon Ellen's champion. But they met with an opposition they did not
                  expect—for young Crawford, and two or three others, came to his assistance, and
                  soon the fight became general. The girls screamed and ran away, with the exception
                  of a few of the more vicious, who remained to take a part in the contest. And
                  brutal, bloody, and disgusting it was. Bottles, tumblers, and every sort of
                  missile that could be laid 
                     hold hold
                     hold
                   of, were hurled by one combatant at the head of another—and chairs and
                  tables were broken, and the fragments freely used.
               At length, to stop the melee, some two or three
                  of the oldest girls—who, along with the frightened old hag, had fled to the
                  corridor for safety—dashed boldly in and put out the lights; but still the enraged
                  combatants fought on in the darkness. At last, a heavy knock, on the outer door,
                  rebounded through the gloomy vacancies of the old building; and almost immediately
                  the uproarious tumult was succeeded by a deep silence.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIV.
               THE RECAPTURE.
               LITTLE Ellen, who was indirectly the cause of the melee, as we have shown, had fortunately managed to escape unharmed.
                  Terrified and half bewildered, she had fled from the apartment, with several
                  others of her sex, to the narrow corridor; and had taken occasion, favored by the
                  darkness here, while the attention of all the rest was occupied by the fight
                  within, to steal away to the stairs which led down to the street. Here, dropping
                  upon her knees, she folded her little hands; and turning her sweet, pretty face,
                  and tear bedimmed eyes, toward Heaven, prayed earnestly—oh! so earnestly—that God
                  would send her deliverance from this awful den of iniquity. She was still here,
                  still kneeling, and still praying, when there came four heavy knocks upon the
                  door; and her superstitious nature and excited state of mind, led her to fancy it
                  an answer to her humble petition.
               Suddenly the idea, that she might now escape, flashed upon her brain, and fairly
                  made her dizzy with hope; and springing to her feet, she darted down the steep,
                  narrow stairs, with the light step of a fairy, and concealed herself near the
                  door—so that, in the event of its being opened, she might rush out, and trust the
                  rest to Providence.
               In something like a minute from the first summons, four distinct, heavy knocks
                  were again bestowed upon the door, by what appeared to be the fist of some one
                  standing without—and then little Ellen could hear the gruff voice of a man, grumbling and cursing. Presently
                  there was a creaking of the old stairs, as of some one descending and then the
                  cracked tremulous voice of the old woman was heard asking:
               "Who's there, who's there, at this unseasonable hour of the night, disturbing
                  honest people? and what d'ye want?"
               "It's me, you old she-wolf!" growled the person outside; "and you'd best open the
                  door, afore I split it open."
               "Is that you, Jimmy Quiglan?" inquired the old crone.
               "Yes, it's me—now unbolt—quick!"
               "In a minute, Jimmy—in a minute," rejoined the old hag, as she began to fumble
                  away at the fastenings. "Oh! I'm so glad you've come—the young rascals have been
                  having such a fight up stairs—dear me!"
               "It's a — pity they didn't smash in your old head!" responded Jimmy, savagely, as
                  the door swung back as far as the chain would let it, while Mother 
                     Grimbsy
                     Grimsby
                   peered cautiously out, to be certain that all was right.
               Poor little Ellen's chance of escape was now at hand; and she stole cautiously up
                  behind the old woman, her little heart almost beating audibly, while she fairly
                  held her breath, and trembled from head to foot with the contending emotions of
                  hope and fear.
               "Come! down with the chain, you old fool! it's nobody but me," growled Jimmy.
               The chain was now unfastened, and the door swung half open, still held by Mother
                  Grimsby; and as Jimmy entered, little Ellen shot past him and found herself in the
                  open air.
               "Hello! who're you?" called out the Dwarf, turning round.
               "Who's who?" cried the old woman, nervously, who chanced not to see Ellen as she
                  escaped.
               "Some one's put out, she-wolf," replied Jimmy.
               "He's dreaming, so he is!" said the crone, playfully, as she closed the door and
                  proceeded to fasten it.
               As it is our purpose to follow the little orphan, we shall consider ourself
                  fastened out with her; and will leave the vile den, the old woman, and her hopeful
                  guests, to enjoy themselves in their own peculiar way.
               As fast as fear and her limbs could carry her, little Ellen flew down the alley,
                  not heeding whither she went, nor caring, so she might put distance between her
                  and the earthly hell from which she fled. The night was dark and cloudy, the hour
                  late, and no light gleamed forth in this miserable quarter to guide her steps.
                  Still she sped on, breathless with terror, turning from one dark alley or street
                  into another, till she at last came in sight of a feeble lamp, which led her to
                  hope she was approaching a less vile quarter than she had left behind. Suddenly,
                  in turning another dark corner, she ran against a man, with so much force as to
                  throw her down.
               "Hello!" said a gruff voice—"who're you, little one and what are you doing out
                  this time of night, running so fast?"
               A cold shudder passed through the slender frame of the little orphan, as that
                  voice fell on her ear. She looked up, and was just able to catch a faint glimpse
                  of that man's face. It was enough—enough to freeze the hot blood in her veins.
                  Yes! judge of her feelings—judge of her horror—when she once more saw herself in
                  the power of her most terrible enemy—in the power of Mulwrack the Burglar!
               "Come! git up—git up—and travel on! What d'ye keep down there fore? you aint hurt, be you?"
                  pursued the man of crime.
               Hoping to escape, poor little Ellen quickly got upon her feet; and she was
                  hastening past the robber, when he caught hold of her hand said:
               "Stop! I want to see your face."
               The awful moment had arrived—the moment of detection by the man she dreaded; and
                  poor little Ellen, during the scrutiny of the Burglar, experienced all the
                  feelings of horror of one suspended over a terrible abyss.
               "The gal I wanted, by —!" exclaimed the man of crime, as he peered into the face
                  of his trembling victim by the dim light of the distant lamp. "Here's luck!" he
                  added, with a kind of inward chuckle; "who'd a thought it? See here, little gal!
                  you got away from where I put you, and cleared out, didn't you? May be you'll do
                  it agin—we'll see."
               Ellen looked around in terror, hoping to perceive some chance passenger, upon whom
                  she could call for aid—but the hour was late, and the streets deserted. The
                  Burglar instantly comprehended her design; and drawing a knife from his bosom, the
                  blade of which Ellen could just perceive gleaming in the dim light, he said, in a
                  low, savage tone:
               "See here, gal! if you 'spect to git away this time, You've made a bad mistake.
                  The long and short on't is, if you dare to scream, or call anybody to, help you,
                  I'll drive this here through your heart—I will, by —! Come! not a word—me and you
                  is going together decent."
               He took hold of her hand as he spoke, and, half supporting her, for her little
                  limbs trembled so as to need this aid, he hurried forward, muttering:
               "Well, who'd a thought it? to stumble on to her that way, arter I'd gin up looking
                  for her high and low."'
               Avoiding the gas-light, and selecting the dark, filthy streets, lanes and alleys,
                  for his route, Mulwrack was not long in arriving, with his terrified prisoner, at
                  the door of the very hovel from which she had escaped the night before. He
                  knocked, replied to the question asked, and soon gained admittance—pushing Ellen
                  in before him, and shutting and bolting the door.
               "There, Mag," he said, gruffly—"I've got her agin; and I rather think as how she
                  won't git away agin, of her own accord."
               Margaret, who, previous to Mulwrack's return, was the only occupant of that old
                  structure, took hold of Ellen's hand, and drew her toward the fire-place, in which
                  were, a few dying embers, and then threw herself upon a seat, without saying a
                  word. Somewhat struck by her peculiar manner, Ellen looked up in her face; and
                  notwithstanding her own terror and desolation of heart, could not avoid a start of
                  surprise at the appearance of the other. That face was frightfully swollen, and
                  almost black, from the chin upward, from the effect of blows, which the brutal
                  Burglar, in the first vent to his rage, for the loss of, Ellen, whose escape he
                  attributed to her carelessness, had inflicted upon her. The eyes of the poor
                  creature were almost closed by the livid and swollen flesh around them—her hair
                  was dishevelled—her dress torn and disordered—and, altogether, she was an object
                  for pity.
               "Come! none of your sulks!" said the Burglar, with a fierce scowl, as he threw his
                  hat upon the ground, and cast himself heavily upon a seat, directly opposite his
                  partner in vice and crime, so that he could look full into her face, by the dim
                  light of the dying embers. "You know, Mag, I don't allow none of them things! You
                  see I've got the gal back agin!"
               
               "I see!" answered Margaret, speaking in a rather hoarse tone.
               "Well, you act as if you wish I hadn't."
               "What do you want me to do?" inquired the other.
               "I want you to say something, and not set there moping in that are kind of a
                  way."
               "How did you find her?"
               "Now you're talking sensible. Why, would you believe it, Mag—jest as I was coming
                  home, arter I'd gin her clean up, she bounced out of an alley, right agin me.
                  Queer, wasn't it?"
               "Very queer, Jim."
               "I 'spect Providence put her there, Mag;" and the harsh features of the robber
                  relaxed into a grin, at what he considered a very facetious rejoinder.
               "Likely enough," said Margaret, turning to the fire, and poking the embers
                  together with a pair of old tongs.
               "Any body been here to-night, Mag?"
               "Not a soul, Jim."
               "Beaks is off the scent, I reckon?"
               "I think so."
               Mulwrack indulged in a yawn and a long stretch of his muscular limbs.
               "Been to bed, Mag?"
               "I just laid down a few minutes."
               "How's the liquor?"
               "I haven't touched it."
               "Umph! that's odd—for you're generally drunk afore this time of night. Fetch it
                  here, and I'll take a swig."
               Margaret got up, and going to the same old chest, which we mentioned as serving
                  her for a closet or pantry at her former lodgings, took out a black bottle, and
                  brought it to Mulwrack. The robber took it, gave it a hearty shake, un- 
               "That's the stuff, Mag," he said, with a smack—"try a little."
               "I would rather not to-night, Jim."
               "Why?"
               "I don't feel well."
               "Ah!" said the Burglar, with a slight show of feeling. "'Taint nothing serious, is
                  it, Mag?"
               "Nothing particular."
               "Hum! got any thing to eat?"
               "There's some bread and cold meat in the chest."
               "That'll do—fetch 'em on."
               Margaret quietly brought the ruffian his food, of which he ate heartily, taking
                  now and then a drink from the bottle.
               "There!" he said, when he had finished his lunch—"I feels better now. Think
                  there's any danger in my sleeping here, Mag?"
               "You should know best, Jim."
               "Well, I'm going to risk it, any how. Jake's got off, I 'spect; and we'll follow,
                  when—"
               He stopped, and gave a slight nod toward Ellen, who had sunk upon a seat, with her
                  face buried in her hands.
               "Big haul that!" he continued, mysteriously referring to the burglary at
                  Clendennan's; "and if it wasn't for this here deacon affair," (and again he nodded
                  toward Ellen,) "me and you would put out, and travel for our healths—eh! Mag?"
               "Better let that go, Jim, and go now—something bad'll come on't," responded
                  Margaret, also nodding toward the poor orphan.
               "You're a fool!" growled Mulwrack. "Think I'd go and leave them ten thousand the
                  old rascal promised? Arter all, it was a good thing, that are running away—for old
                  skin-flint got skeared, for fear he'd lose the chance; and if I got her agin, (once more nodding toward
                  Ellen,) he swore he'd plank."
               "But you can get the tin, and not hurt any body," said Margaret, alluding in this
                  way to the contemplated murder of Ellen, which had been previously discussed
                  between the two.
               "See here, Mag!" rejoined Mulwrack, with offended dignity,—"d'ye think I'm such a
                  — knave as to git a man's shiners for a job I don't do? You ought to know me
                  better'n that by this time, old gal!"
               Such was a murderer's idea of honor! He could beat his poor female
                  partner almost to death, to gratify his savage passions; he could break into an
                  honest man's house, and rob it, without a scruple of conscience; he could kill
                  that innocent little girl for a certain sum; but the mere suggestion of taking a
                  brother villain's money for a wicked deed, with, the intention of cheating him, by
                  not fulfilling his bloody contract, was highly repugnant to his sense of right and
                  honor. Have we not others among us, moving in what are considered high circles,
                  whose ideas of honor are about as just as those of the Burglar? How many are there
                  among us, who would not scruple to cheat an honest tradesman of honest dues, to
                  pay a gambling debt? How many are there among us, who would not hesitate to stake
                  a life against a life, because of a trifling difference of opinion, and yet would
                  feel a pride in being the author of some confiding female's ruin.
               "What are you going to do with her for the present?" inquired Margaret, pursuing
                  the conversation.
               "Why, she'll go below this time—she'll keep, there, I reckon." Then addressing
                  Ellen, he continued: "See here, little gal! I'm a-going to turn in, and I want to
                  put you where you'll be safe."
               Little Ellen looked up, pale and agitated.
               "Mag, raise a glim!" continued the robber. "I'm going down to see them quarters
                  myself."
               Margaret lighted a candle, and handed it to the Burglar—who immediately got up,
                  and removing the chest from where it stood, raised a small trap-door, and
                  descended an old ladder, into a damp, disagreeable cellar, or vault, about ten
                  feet square, which was walled in on every side, without any means for ventilation
                  or the admission of light, and which could only be entered and left through the
                  trap door just mentioned. The moment the Burglar had fairly disappeared, Margaret
                  turned to Ellen, seized her hand, pressed it warmly, and looking quickly around,
                  in a startled manner, put her finger to her lips, as a sign of caution, and said,
                  in a hurried whisper:
               "Don't despair, poor child! I'll be your friend—though it may cost me my
                  life."
               She turned away, and tried to hum the air of a popular tune, in order to appear
                  indifferent, and excite no suspicion—while little Ellen labored hard to force back
                  the tears that involuntarily sprung into her eyes. The next moment the robber
                  called from below:
               "Come down here, little gal!"
               "Yes, go down," said Margaret; "and we'll see if you'll escape again!"
               Her voice was harsh and unfeeling; but she turned to Ellen, caught her hand, and
                  pressed it nervously; and in this silent manner made known to the poor little
                  orphan how deeply she sympathised with her.
               Ellen seized Margaret's arm convulsively, but clung to it only a moment; and then,
                  without saying a word, rather staggered than walked to the mouth of what seemed to
                  her a horrible pit, and nervously descended the ladder.
               "This here's not a very nice place," said Mulwrack, who stood at the bottom,
                  speaking in a less harsh tone, as he
                  held the light to her pale, agitated countenance; "but you've got nobody to blame
                  except yourself for't—for if you hadn't run away, I'd a let you staid up
                  stairs."
               "Oh! sir, don't leave me alone, in this awful place!" pleaded little Ellen, as she
                  glanced tremblingly around upon the damp, massive, mildewed walls. "Oh! sir,
                  please don't!"
               "Must do it!" said the Burglar, firmly. "I want to keep you a while—and you'll be
                  safer here than anywheres else. I'll throw you down something to lie on,—'taint
                  cold, and you'll do well enough; and besides, you won't have to stay here
                  long."
               As he said this, he began to ascend the ladder, taking the light with him, and
                  leaving the poor child at the bottom, shuddering with terror, and only sustained
                  against giving away to utter despair, by the kind and mysterious words which
                  Margaret had whispered in her ear. As soon as the Burglar had got upon the floor
                  above, he seized a piece of old carpet, and threw it down, saying:
               "There! that'll do you to lie on; and my advice to you is, to lie down and go to
                  sleep. No whining now! 'cause we can't have none of them things."
               With this he shut the trap-door, drew the heavy chest upon it, and little Ellen
                  found herself in total darkness.
               Soon after this, the man of crime threw himself upon the bed in the room, without
                  undressing, and fell asleep. But in his sleep he tossed his arms about, rolled
                  uneasily to and fro, grated his teeth, and muttered deep and savage curses. Oh!
                  the conscience of the guilty! that ever present, continual, eternal hell!
               Margaret laid down, but did not sleep: her mind was striving to pierce the vail of
                  the awful Future which lay before her!
            
            
               CHAPTER XV.
               A MEETING OF OLD FRIENDS.
               IT will be remembered, that Sir Walter Clendennan, his daughter Rosalind, and two
                  of the servants, were away on the night of the burglarious entrance and robbery of
                  their mansion. They returned at an early hour on the following day, and Were both
                  startled and pained at the news which was poured into their ears at the very steps
                  of the carriage. The house had been robbed of plate, money, and jewels; and the
                  little stranger, whom they had taken in, and saved from death, and nursed so
                  tenderly, was the thief.
               "What! that child a thief?" cried Sir Walter, much excited, while Rosalind
                  listened in dumb amazement. "'Tis false! the very accusation carries falsehood on
                  its face!"
               "I deeply regret to say it is true," replied Mrs. Wyndham, who was the
                  communicator.
               "How do you know it is true?" demanded the Knight, in a harsh, irritated tone.
               "Because, sir, she has fled, taking with her the clothes which Miss Rosalind was
                  so kind and generous as to give her."
               "Tut! tut! woman!" cried the Baronet, angrily; "you forget that a child like her
                  was not strong enough to carry off my heavy plate!"
               "Well, she might have had help, sir—and doubtless she had; but whoever helped her,
                  must have come in at the front door—and been let in, sir—for that was found
                     unfastened in the morning, and
                  every, other part of the buildings just as it was the night before. And besides,
                  sir, the girl is gone, and her own clothes gone with her; and if she is not the
                  thief, the whole matter passes my understanding."
               The Knight got slowly out of his carriage; and, supporting himself, with one hand
                  upon the door, rolled his hollow eyes, nervously and somewhat wildly, over the
                  group of startled-looking faces that were now turned toward him.
               "Mirabile dictu! Amor habendi!" he exclaimed,
                  with impressive solemnity. "Well, well—if that sweet child is guilty, Heaven knows
                  I never want to look upon another human face! Rosalind, give me your arm, and
                  conduct me to my own private apartment."
               Rosalind hastened to obey; and when she reached the door of the apartment, over
                  the threshold of which she dared not venture without permission, she said, in a
                  low, troubled tone:
               "Father, Ellen is not guilty, believe me! I would stake my life upon
                  her innocence."
               The Baronet turned and seized her hand.
               "You think she is innocent?" he said, with a quivering lip.
               "I know it, father."
               "Thank you! thank you, Rosalind!"
               With this he stepped within, closed and bolted his door; and Rosalind hastened to
                  the drawing-room, to learn the whole particulars of the affair—at least all that
                  were known or could be surmised—from Mrs. Wyndham.
               An hour later, Rosalind was pacing up and down this same elegantly furnished
                  drawing-room, in a state of mind not to be envied. She was alone, and her features
                  were very pale, and her eyes showed traces of recent tears. She was evidently
                  expecting some one—for every other minute she hurried to the window, and looked
                  out into the street. At length the bell rung; and hastening to seat herself, she
                  made an effort to appear composed. Presently the door of the drawing-room opened,
                  and the servant announced:
               "Dr. Stanhope."
               The individual thus ushered into the presence of Rosalind, and who has been
                  previously mentioned in these pages, deserves a passing notice. He was about
                  twenty-five years of age, tall, well-formed, with dark, curly hair, and dark,
                  expressive eyes. His features were finely moulded, and highly intellectual—but
                  rather thin and pale, like one much given to thought and study. His finely turned
                  chin, classic mouth, and slightly acquiline nose, gave character to the face, and
                  denoted a marked degree of firmness, energy, and decision. He was elegantly
                  dressed, without being in the least degree foppish—in every movement there was
                  grace—and his whole manner was that of a high-toned, well-bred gentleman. He bowed
                  politely to Rosalind, who rose on his entrance, and both for a moment or two
                  seemed slightly embarrassed.
               "I trust you will pardon me, Dr. Stanhope," said Rosalind with just sufficient
                  color in her lovely countenance to render her perfectly beautiful, "for sending
                  for you, to ask a favor!"
               "Any thing that I can do for one who has shown herself so true a friend in time of
                  need, believe me, Miss Clendennan, I shall perform with a degree of pleasure that
                  I may not be able to express in words," replied the young physician,
                  cordially.
               "Pray, be seated," said Rosalind, pointing to a chair, and turning away to
                  another—while the glow deepened on her lovely features, and she found it required
                  no little effort to suppress all show of agitation. "My father and myself, with
                  two of our domestics," she resumed, as she seated herself a short distance from the young
                  Doctor, "were out of town last night, and have only just returned to be startled
                  with the intelligence that our house has been robbed in our absence."
               "Robbed!" exclaimed young Stanhope, with a, start. "I sincerely hope your loss is
                  not heavy, Miss Rosalind!"
               "I do not know the full extent of our loss," replied Rosalind; "but that, however
                  much or little, can easily be repaired, and is the least which troubles me."
               "Indeed!" said the other, with increased interest; "something more serious? I pray
                  you speak as to a friend. Your father—"
               "Is as well as usual," rejoined Rosalind, hastily; "though I do not know how this
                  affair may affect him. But it is of another I wish to speak. You remember my
                  little coz—I mean the little girl who was run over in Chestnut street, on last
                  Christmas day, and whom I had conveyed hither, and succeeded, by the aid of kind
                  Providence, in restoring to life and health?"
               "I have heard my sister Linda speak of her, as a very bright, sweet, interesting
                  little child."
               "She was every thing that was good and lovely," said Rosalind, with considerable
                  emotion; "and oh! how I loved her, from the depths of my inmost soul! I can not,
                  can not, will not believe that she is guilty—it would' destroy my faith in human
                  innocence."
               "Guilty of what, Miss Rosalind?" exclaimed the other, quickly.
               "Of robbing us—of robbing her benefactors."
               "Of robbing you? Good heavens! is she suspected of so heinous a crime against law
                  and gratitude?"
               "By some she is, sir—though not by me. She is gone, however; and the clothes I
                  presented her, are gone with her."
               "You astonish me! May it not be a case of burglary, robbery, and abduction?"
               "Yes! Yes! it must be—I dare not think otherwise!" cried Rosalind, greatly
                  excited. "But it is so singular—so very strange! I am half-bewildered—I know not
                  what to think. All the servants believe her guilty, and are eager to inform the
                  police—but I have forbidden them to speak of the matter to a single soul. If she
                  is guilty—and I will not think she is—she must escape detection—at least
                     I will not be guilty, either as principal or accessory, of hunting
                  her down like a wild beast! How can she be guilty, Doctor? She is a poor
                  orphan—when I took her in, she had neither, home nor friends—how could she rob one
                  who had treated her so kindly? who loved her so dearly? Oh! speak, sir! and tell
                  me you. believe her innocent of so foul a crime! let me know there is one
                  impartial judge who thinks suspicion wrongs her!"
               Rosalind spoke under great excitement, seemingly controlled by a noble, generous
                  impulse; and in spite of herself, the tears started into her sweet blue eyes, and
                  made them dim. The look of young Stanhope betrayed deep sympathy; he unconsciously
                  moved his chair nearer to Rosalind; a slight color overspread his pale features;
                  and his voice was a little tremulous, as he replied:
               "Calm yourself, Miss Rosalind, I pray you! you are much agitated. I appreciate
                  your noble feelings—they are worthy of a pure and generous mind; but try and be
                  calm, and let me know the whole particulars, and I will advise with you to the
                  best of my humble ability."
               "Thank you!" returned Rosalind, somewhat warmly; "thank you, Dr. Stanhope! I
                  believed you would advise me for the best; and therefore, on the impulse of the
                  moment, I ventured to take the liberty of sending for you, I am so circumstanced,
                  that I have but few acquaintances, and
                  fewer friends, of whom I may ask a favor, and in whom I can confide. I would have
                  sent for your dear sister, Linda; but she, like myself, would be unable to do what
                  I would have done."
               "I assure you, Miss Rosalind, it affords me a high degree of pleasure and pride,
                  to know you think me worthy of your confidence, and that I have been selected to
                  give you any little assistance which may be in my power," replied the young
                  physician, warmly. "Believe me," he continued, with a degree of emotion which he
                  evidently strove to suppress—but which betrayed itself in his manner, look, and
                  voice: "Believe me, Miss Rosalind, when I say, that though I have not made so
                  marked a display of my feelings as some might have done, I have not forgotten, and
                  will never forget, that you are one of the few friends, who, having
                  known us in prosperity, did not desert my dear sister and family in the hour of
                  adversity—but stood nobly by them, unchanged, save in being kinder, more generous,
                  and more affectionate."
               His voice faltered so much toward the last, that he was scarcely able to
                  articulate the closing words of the sentence; and he turned his face away to
                  conceal his emotion; while Rosalind, with the hot blood mounting to her very
                  temples, experienced a degree of agitation that she would not have had the other
                  observe for the world; and, unperceived by him, she hastily brushed a tear from
                  her eye.
               "I have ever loved Linda, as a dear, sweet sister," she hastened to reply; "and
                  what little I have done, has been but a poor repayment for the
                  delightful hours I have spent in her company. But pardon me, Doctor—"
               "You once called me Newton," he interrupted, hastily; "may I not hope that the
                  friend of my sister and family can be induced to address me as formerly?"
               "Certainly," replied Rosalind, with some embarrassment; "if—if you desire it; and
                  on condition that you will use as little formality to me, as when you—"
               She hesitated, and he quickly rejoined:
               "I will, Rosalind—I will. The present shall be as of old—we will forget the long
                  interval between. I scarcely need tell you, that I am proud and sensitive; and it
                  was pride that made me seem so cold and formal. I should have acted
                  differently to one who has been so kind; I have often regretted my sullen
                  waywardness; but, somehow, nature would out, and it seemed as if I could not do
                  otherwise. I was poor, and you were rich; and the world sees such a gulf between
                  poverty and riches. But as regards you, I acted foolishly, wrongly, unjustly; and
                  I now take a pride in acknowledging my fault, and in craving your forgiveness! But
                  I interrupted you—pardon me!"
               Rosalind flushed and paled alternately, while the other was speaking—and it was
                  some little time before she could recover the composure she desired.
               "I was about to say," she resumed—"that is, I was about to request your
                  assistance, in finding this little girl. If she is guilty I would have her found
                  and reclaimed from vice; and if she is not guilty, I would have her found and
                  restored to me. I do not wish the police to know of this affair; for should she
                  fall into the iron grasp of the law, I might not be able to save her from the
                  disgrace of a prison, the doom of a criminal. I thought if you would be so kind as
                  to make a search for her, perhaps—"
               "Yes, yes—I understanding!" again interrupted the other; "I understand; and
                  believe me, all that I can do, shall be done. I will proceed in the matter at
                  once; and I will search for her as if she were my sister; and if so fortunate tunate as to find her, she shall find
                  in me a brother, whether guilty or not. Please inform me of her name, age, and
                  appearance—what dress you suppose she wore away—what you know of her history, her
                  former associates, and the particulars of the robbery."
               Rosalind hastened to put the young physician in possession of all the facts she
                  knew concerning the robbery and the unfortunate little orphan, with the exception
                  of her name, parentage, her own relationship, and the events connected with the
                  two families of Norbury and Clendennan.
               "But you have forgotten to mention her name, Rosalind!" said the other, as she
                  paused.
               "She is called Ellen."
               "But she has a surname?"
               "We never addressed her by any other name than Ellen, while with us," she
                  answered, coloring.
               "But if I knew her surname, it might assist me in my search," he replied.
               "Oh! do you think her guilty?" she inquired—thus turning the conversation from the
                  point upon which she so much dreaded inquiry, and for reasons which are already
                  known to the reader.
               "No," he replied, after some reflection, "I cannot say I think her guilty of
                  robbing you—certainly she could not have done so alone, to the extent you mention.
                  I think it more probable that she was abducted—though for what purpose, it is
                  difficult to divine. The whole affair is very singular and mysterious! Perhaps the
                  Burglar, whoever he was, knew her—she might have seen and recognized him—and thus
                  have been taken away for his own security. Or, what seems even more probable
                  still, considering that she carried off her own garments, he might have compelled
                  her to do this, in order to attract suspicion to her, and thus be the better able
                  to screen himself."
               "Oh! Newton," cried Rosalind, as a wild, terrible thought flashed upon her
                  brain—"you do not think she has been murdered?"
               "No, Rosalind, I hardly think that—because, by murdering her, he would gain
                  nothing, and would put his own life in jeopardy."
               "Oh! find her! find her!" exclaimed Rosalind, laboring under great excitement:
                  "find her, Newton, and my gratitude shall almost be boundless!"
               "I will do all that can be done, Rosalind," he replied, rising; "and I will set
                  about it at once. Calm yourself, I pray you—try and be composed. The first
                  intelligence I get concerning her, shall be forwarded to you without delay; and if
                  I am not successful, I will myself come in the evening, and make a full report of
                  the day's search."
               "Thank you! thank you!" returned Rosalind: "may Heaven aid you, and protect the
                  poor child! If you see Linda, bid her come to me—tell her I feel very low
                  spirited."
               The young physician promised to do so, and took his departure. For half an hour
                  after he had gone, Rosalind walked hastily, up and down, over the rich, yielding
                  carpet of that gorgeous apartment, her mind agitated by strange conflicting
                  emotions: then she threw herself heavily upon a crimson-plush divan, and found
                  relief to her overcharged heart in a flood of tears.
            
            
               
               CHAPTER XVI.
               SUSPICION IN THE RIGHT QUARTER.
               AS the reader already knows, the first and second day of Dr. Stanhope's search for
                  little Ellen, was without avail; for the first day she was a prisoner at
                  Mulwrack's—the second day a guest of Mrs. M'Callan—and, we may add, the third day
                  drew to a close, without the young physician obtaining any tidings of the poor
                  orphan. Each night he repaired to Sir Walter's mansion, to make his sad report to
                  Rosalind; and when he made his appearance there on the third night, his whole look
                  showed that he was quite disheartened.
               "Alas!" exclaimed Rosalind, who almost flew to meet him, so eager was she for the
                  news: "Alas! Newton, I see by your countenance you have again failed!"
               "I have," he replied, sadly. "I can glean no tidings of her whatever."
               "Oh! depend upon it, she has been murdered!" cried Rosalind.
               "I think not—at least I hope not—but it is very strange what can have become of
                  her!"
               "My poor father!" groaned Rosalind; "this will be sad news for him!"
               "Does he then take her loss so much to heart?"
               "Yes, and says it is all his doing."
               "How his doing, Rosalind?" inquired the other, in a tone of surprise.
               "Why, you know he has strange spells and fancies, and fancies to him are
                  realities. He now fancies that he has said something harsh to the poor child, in
                  one of his dejected moods, and that this has troubled her sorely, and been the
                  main cause of her leaving."
               "And does he think her guilty of the robbery?"
               "No! he says she cannot be guilty of that—that she was too good, and pure, and
                  guileless, to commit such a crime—but he thinks she may have taken her own
                  clothing away, supposing it belonged to her; and that in leaving, she may have
                  left the front door open; and that some other person, having seen it open, may
                  have entered and robbed the house."
               "That is certainly not an unreasonable supposition," replied young Stanhope,
                  reflectively. "What think you of it, Rosalind?"
               "I know not what to think," replied Rosalind, in a desponding tone. "It may be so,
                  I would sooner believe that something might have induced her to leave me without a
                  parting word, than that she could have deliberately robbed those who were her
                  truest friends. Ha!" she added, with a start of surprise—"here comes father!"
               The Baronet had entered the upper end of the drawing-room, while Rosalind was
                  speaking; and now, with a feeble, nervous, unsteady step, advanced straight to the
                  young Doctor, fixing his hollow eyes steadily upon him, with an anxious, inquiring
                  look. The physician rose to receive him, and made a graceful inclination of his
                  head. The Knight caught the hand which the other extended, and with it wild,
                  searching glance at his face, exclaimed:
               "The child? the child? what of her?"
               "I deeply regret to say, Mr. Clendennan, that—"
               "You failed!" half-shrieked the unhappy Sir Walter, throwing up his hands, with a
                  nervous jerk. Yes! yes! you need not speak. I can see—I can see. Oh, God! forgive this poor wretch! Holy
                  Redeemer! intercede for this poor wretch!" and staggering to a seat, he sunk down
                  upon it, covered his face with his thin, wasted hands, and moaned and groaned, as
                  one in deep distress of mind.
               The young Doctor was about to offer him such feeble consolation as words can
                  give—but a motion of Rosalind deterred him; and he quietly reseated himself, and
                  remained silent. At length Sir Walter withdrew his hands, and said, sharply:
               "You have not looked for her, sir! you know it."
               "Indeed I have, Mr. Clendennan: I—"
               "Tut! tut!" interrupted the Knight, almost fiercely; "don't contradict me, in my
                  own house, sir!"
               The features of Stanhope flushed, and he was about to make an injudicious
                  rejoinder, when a sign from Rosalind induced him to suppress all show of
                  resentment.
               "Where did you look for her, sirrah?" demanded the Knight, as if speaking to a
                  menial.
               "I made inquiries in every direction, Mr. Clendennan," replied the Doctor, in a
                  mild, gentlemanly tone; "and especially did I search for her through that vile
                  quarter, in which, as I learned from Rosalind, she for a short time resided,
                  previous to her being brought hither."
               "Umph!" sneered Sir Walter; "at your age I could have found her."
               "Whether living or dead, I suppose?"
               "Dead!" exclaimed the Baronet, with a start. "Dead! What do you mean by that,
                  sir?"
               "It is possible she may not be living now."
               As he said this, Sir Walter's face assumed such an expression of remorse, agony,
                  and terror combined, that Dr. Stanhope instantly regretted having made use of the
                  words he did.
               "If she is dead," almost shrieked the Knight, "then I killed her—I killed her. I
                  drove her to it. My God! My God! hoc me libera
                     metu! Oh! when shall I be at rest!"
               "Do not accuse yourself, Mr. Clendennan," began the young physician—but the
                  Baronet hastily and harshly interrupted him.
               "Tut! tut! sir!" he said: "keep your advice for your patients, and give it with
                  your physic, and put it in the bill! Youth should respect age, and not think age a
                  fool and grow meddlesome. So I was taught when I was a boy. But I forgot. Boys are
                  men now; and men are—Heaven knows what! Good night, sir!"
               With this, without saying a word to Rosalind, first or last—and, in fact, without
                  even appearing to be aware of her presence—Sir Walter arose from his seat, and
                  tottered out of the apartment, through the door by which he had entered.
               "Oh! Newton, forgive his harsh words, for my sake!" said Rosalind, with tearful
                  eyes, as her father's form disappeared.
               "I will," replied Stanhope, frankly. "Ay," he added, with considerable feeling,
                  "for your sake, Rosalind, I would forgive him even a
                     blow."
               The features of Rosalind instantly became suffused with a beautiful glow—but she
                  said quickly, as if to turn the conversation:
               "So you think there is no hope of finding the poor child?"
               "Why, the prospect of doing so, looks rather gloomy now, I am sorry to say—but
                  still we must not despair. By-the-by, while searching for her through that
                  miserable locality, of which I have spoken, I met a well-dressed,
                  benevolent-looking gentleman, who had just come out of a miserable groggery, kept
                  by a hideous Dwarf, who makes his living by dealing out poison, under the names of
                     brandy, gin, and so forth, to the
                  most degraded and filthy wretches of both sexes."
               "Why, I do believe that is the very place which Ellen told me about, with such a
                  feeling of loathing," exclaimed Rosalind, "She was decoyed in there by a
                  hunchback-boy, who told her it was the proper place to get the liquor for which
                  she had been sent by a drunken mistress. Did you inquire in there? It is possible
                  some one there may know of her present whereabouts."
               "No, I made no inquiry in there, for I did not like to venture into such a den;
                  but I accosted the gentleman who had just come out—and who, from his appearance in
                  such a vile quarter, I conjectured to be a Minister of the Gospel and put my
                  inquiries to him. He had seen no such little girl as I described; but said if she
                  were in that part of the city, he thought it not unlikely he might find her, as he
                  spent most of his time, in going about among those poor, degraded beings,
                  relieving their physical sufferings when he could, and talking to them concerning
                  the religion which saves from eternal death. He had just witnessed a scene in that
                  groggery, he said, which had made a painful, a terrible impression upon his
                  mind—an impression that time could never erase. He had, in derision, been invited
                  by the Dwarf, to pray with his wife, who was dying of a contagious fever. He had
                  accepted the invitation, and had offered up prayers for her soul's salvation; but
                  she had just died, with bitter curses and blasphemous oaths on her lips. On my
                  asking if he was a professional minister, he replied that he was not, but a
                  private citizen, who felt it his duty to do all that lay in his power to relieve
                  the sufferings of his fellow beings."
               "Heaven bless him!" exclaimed Rosalind.
               "Ay, and Heaven will, Rosalind, if he is sincere, which I believe. Would to God
                  there were more like him! for suffering humanity needs the aid of all such
                  philanthropic hearts. Had I not seen for myself, I would not have believed it
                  possible to find such awful wretchedness and degradation in the heart of this
                  great city. After some further conversation with Mr. Shelden—the gentleman in the
                  question—we exchanged cards and separated—he cheerfully promising to aid me in my
                  search. I fear our only hope of success now rests with him."
               "Oh! if he do but find her," cried Rosalind, "I will never cease to call on Heaven
                  to bless him. I will do more. Here, take this purse, and when you see him again,
                  give it to him, and say it is for the poor."
               She produced a well-filled purse as she spoke, and handed it to Dr. Stanhope, who
                  promised compliance with her request.
               "How is it," he said, reflectively, "that there can be so many starving poor in a
                  city so noted as this for the benevolence of its citizens?"
               "It is, perhaps, because those who have the means to relieve distress, do not
                  reside in a quarter where it comes under their notice," suggested Rosalind.
               "Ay, that must be it," he rejoined. "Yes, it must be so. I will think so, at all
                  events; for to think otherwise, is to lose faith in humanity. Ah!" he exclaimed,
                  suddenly—"by-the-by, you, did not tell me the surname of Ellen; and somehow I have
                  always forgotten to inquire since I first asked you—it may be of much importance
                  to Mr. Shelden."
               "As I told you before, Newton, she went by no other name than Ellen, while with
                  us," replied Rosalind, with some embarrassment.
               "But, surely, you know her name?" he rejoined, in a tone of surprise, looking her
                  full in the face.
               "I do know her name," she replied; "but it is a name that I would not dare to pronounce in the hearing
                  of my father."
               "Indeed!"
               "Nor would I have one of the servants hear it. You think this strange, Newton, and
                  I cannot explain. But I will trust you with the name; and you will promise me not
                  to mention it again in this dwelling, for fear it might reach my father's
                  ears."
               "Certainly, Rosalind," he replied, "I will withhold the name, if it be your
                  desire."
               "It is. Sometime I may be able to satisfy your curiosity—but not now." She looked
                  quickly around the splendid apartment, and added, in a low tone: "Her last name is
                  Norbury."
               "Norbury?" exclaimed the young physician, half starting from his seat. "Ellen
                  Norbury?"
               "Have you then heard of the name before?" said Rosalind, quickly, in her turn
                  greatly surprised.
               "Speak, Rosalind! was her father an artist?" he demanded flushed with
                  excitement.
               "Yes."
               "Did he ever reside in Dublin?"
               "Yes."
               "Good heavens! how strange! Ah! I fear I see it all! the worst—the worst! Oh! that
                  I had known this at first! It may now be too late."
               "You surprise, alarm me, Newton! what is it?" cried Rosalind.
               "Heavens!" exclaimed the other, springing up from his seat: "I must go at
                  once."
               "Go where! what is it? Oh! I beseech you, tell me, Newton?" cried Rosalind, also
                  rising in considerable agitation.
               "I must be quick, then;" and he looked at his watch. "You remember when our house
                  was entered by a burglar, some two or three months ago?"
               "Yes! yes!"
               "The thief carried off little, thanks to our poverty; but he broke open my
                  father's escritoir, and, among other things, took away a certain paper, that may,
                  for aught I know, have a great bearing upon the mysterious disappearance of this
                  little girl."
               "How, Newton? speak!" almost gasped Rosalind.
               "That paper, forwarded to my father from a friend in Ireland, traced out the
                  descent of the Welden Estate, through several generations, to the present holder,
                  and named three heirs presumptive—the first legally claiming on the death of the
                  holder, the second on the death of the first, and the' third on the death of the
                  first and second."
               "But what has this to do with Ellen?" cried Rosalind, anxiously.
               "I am hastening to tell you. The present holder of this estate, is John De Carp
                  Montague, a gentleman well advanced in years—the first heir presumptive, Ellen
                  Norbury—the second, the wife of Deacon Pinchbeck—he third, my mother."
               "Indeed! Well?" gasped Rosalind.
               "If Ellen Norbury were out of the way, you perceive, Pinchbeck's wife would be
                  next in succession."
               "Yes! yes! I understand, Newton—go on!"
               "Deacon Pinchbeck, from what I know of him, is not any too good to put her out of
                  the way, if he dared."
               "Well? well?"
               "This robber whoever he was, may have known the old scoundrel of a deacon—for if
                  he don't consort with thieves, it is not from being too honest—and may have shown
                  him this paper."
               
               "Yes! yes!"
               The burglar may have heard or known something of this child, from her having been
                  in those vile haunts I have mentioned, and he and the Deacon may have plotted
                  together to get her in their possession."
               "You horrify me, Newton—but go on!"
               "It is possible she may have been traced to this house, and the burglar have,
                  prowled around, watching an opportunity to kidnap her."
               "Well?"
               "That opportunity may have presented itself the night you were away."
               "Great Heaven! Well?"
               "If my surmises are correct, we must prepare ourselves for the worst."
               "Merciful God!" almost shrieked Rosalind: "you think, then, she has been
                  murdered?"
               "I fear so. But I am now going to ascertain if my suspicions are well
                  founded."
               "Where are you going?"
               "To the house of Deacon Pinchbeck. I will see him—I will mention her name. If he
                  quail, I will boldly accuse him. He is too great a coward, and too shallow a
                  villain, to conceal his crime from me, if criminal he be; and if I find him
                  guilty, I will see that he swings before a year rolls around."
               "But it may not be too late, even now!" cried Rosalind, wringing her hands in her
                  excitement. "If the crime is contemplated, and not committed, you may save her
                  yet! Oh! fly! fly! there is not a moment to be lost!"
               "So think I. Adieu! You shall soon hear from me again."
               "Oh! take care of yourself!" cried Rosalind, forgetting, in her anxiety, how much
                  she was betraying the true state of her heart.
               The young physician turned and caught the glance of her soft blue eye—saw the
                  generous blood spring upward to her very temples, as she reflected on her
                  expression—and, with his own features flushing, and his heart throbbing with
                  strange emotions, he rejoined:
               "Thank you, Rosalind! I will remember."
               The next moment he had gone; and Rosalind, pale and trembling, and agitated by
                  wild, conflicting feelings, stood gazing on the door through which he had
                  disappeared.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVII.
               THE PRICE OF BLOOD.
               DEACON Absalom Pinchbeck was seated in his back-parlor, in front of his
                  writing-desk. It was an early hour of the same evening of the tete-a-tete between Newton Stanhope and Rosalind
                  Clendennan, as described in the preceding chapter, and the night following the
                  recapture of little Ellen by the Burglar. The lighted gas, just in front of the
                  worthy Deacon, poured a bright light upon his pale face, and clearly revealed an
                  expression that would have perplexed an experienced physiognomist. It was an
                  expression that seemed to denote a pitched battle between grasping avarice and
                  paltry cowardice; and during the continuance of the strife, each combatant by
                  turns appeared to get the upper hand of his antagonist. Occasionally there would
                  be a kind of resolute twinkle of the small grey eyes, and a thin, meagre, half-starved, sardonic
                  smile, would peep out around, the sensual mouth, make a timid advance, and beat a
                  hasty retreat. Then the eyes would enlarge, and look frightened, the under jaw
                  would drop a little, and the thick, nether lip would turn ashy, hesitate, and grow
                  tremulous.
               The Deacon was alone, so far as having a human companion—but dark, guilty thoughts
                  were with him; and each thought seemed to be attended by a fearful spectre, whose
                  presence could be felt rather than seen; for every now and then the Deacon would
                  look hurriedly around, as if half-expecting some frightful apparition in a
                  tangible shape; and even his own shadow on the wall, more than once caused him to
                  start with a nervous thrill of terror.
               "O Lord!" he muttered; "be kind and gracious to Thy poor humble servant, who seeks
                  wealth only that he may do good! Help me to succeed in this, O Lord! preserve and
                  prosper me—restore my dear child to health—and bless us with Thy Divine Grade—and
                  I solemnly promise to give largely to the church in which I worship Thee, and
                  freely to the poor who may need pecuniary aid to save them from death! For the
                  Redeemer's sake! Amen."
               Having uttered this selfish prayer, and insulted Heaven with its blasphemy, the
                  Deacon comforted himself with the idea that he was really very pious, and that
                  consequently, the Lord must be on his side. He felt strengthened with this
                  reflection, and thought he could safely venture to go on with his guilty purpose.
                  There was a dirty little scrap of paper lying on the open lid of the desk before
                  him; and he picked it up, and read it for the twentieth time. There was nothing
                  very remarkable in the words it contained; but the writing itself looked like
                  crow-tracks, and the spelling was such as no orthographer has sanctioned. It
                  appeared to have a charm for the worthy Deacon, however; and so we transcribe it,
                     verbatim et literatim:
               
               
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              "sur she'z fownd i hez gott wich iz a nuf git thay dow
                              riddee see yu Ternite tin thowson git gold furm
                           
                              "YU NO HOO."
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
               "Yes, it must be that he has got the girl again," mused the Deacon; "this could
                  have come from nobody but Mulwrack. What a hardened scoundrel he is—to charge such
                  an enormous sum for such a trifle. I've a great notion not to give it—it takes
                  every cent I can raise, without selling a house or a piece of land. Confound the
                  thing! if I hadn't told him I'd do it, like a fool, I could have got him to do it,
                  for less—I know I could. I'm always just such a fool when I get anxious—always
                  getting swindled and cheated. And then, if it really should turn out nothing after
                  all, I never should sleep again, for thinking of those ten thousand. I've the
                  money here, all counted," he continued, tapping a drawer. "I thought it was just
                  as well to have it on hand, even if I shouldn't pay it out. Confound the thing!
                  suppose he should bungle, or the affair get wind!" The Deacon stopped and
                  shuddered. "No, no—I'd better not; no, I won't—for I might not get the fortune
                  after all. I have half a notion to tell my wife, and get her advice. No, I won't
                  tell her—women can't keep secrets—and Mrs. Pinchbeck might box my ears. Confound
                  the thing! I'll surprise her with the fortune, and see her stare—that is—that is,
                  I mean, if I conclude to do it. Well, I don't know—I don't know, I'll wait and
                  hear what the scoundrel says, before I decide. Oh! if the Lord would only take the
                  child, and save me the ten thousand—and—and—the other!"
               Here the Deacon tumbled over some loose papers on his desk, got his cash-book, made a few entries, looked
                  at his watch, and was about to leave the room, to go and see his little boy, who
                  had gone to bed, suffering from what was supposed to be the effects of a severe
                  cold, when his eye chanced upon an evening paper, lying on the table.
               "Ah!" he said, picking it up—"I must just glance at the foreign news."
               He again seated himself at the desk, and for a few minutes very quietly ran his
                  eye over the intelligence by the last European steamer. Suddenly he gave a violent
                  start, and uttered an exclamation of profound astonishment. Then clutching the
                  paper, as a miser would his purse, while his whole frame trembled eagerly, with
                  distended eyes, re-read the paragraph which had been the innocent cause of such a
                  heavy shock to his nervous system.
               "Well," he said, looking up at the wall, at an angle of about forty-five degrees,
                  "who would have thought it?" As the wall made no reply to this, he
                  repeated the observation, and then re-read the paragraph. Then looking up at the
                  wall again, he exclaimed:
               "Well, I never!"
               This was said so seriously, with such emphatic earnestness, that any one, to have
                  heard it, must have felt convinced that the worthy Deacon spoke the truth, and
                  that in fact he had "never."
               Just at this juncture, the door was thrown quickly open, and Mrs. Pinchbeck sailed
                  in, with the stately majesty of a queen, and with a heavy frown presiding over the
                  angles of the crow's-feet, From that clouded brow, the Deacon readily conjectured
                  that a matrimonial storm was about to burst upon his devoted head; and he hastened
                  to fortify himself against it, by jumping up and placing his chair between himself
                  and his rouge-blooming companion.
               "Yes, you may well dodge, you unfeeling brute!" cried the amiable Mrs. Pinchbeck,
                  in a towering passion. "If I get to you, I'll make your ears ring, I promise
                  you!"
               "What have I done, my dear?" whined the trembling Deacon, keeping his eyes warily
                  upon his bigger and better half, just as a pugilist would watch his opponent, in
                  order to dodge his blow.
               "Done!" half shrieked the enraged better-half; "you've done nothing! You're a
                  fool! a knave! an idiot! an unfeeling, ugly brute! There is poor Nelson up stairs,
                  a-dying—and you havn't been near him! I only hope he may live to strangle his
                  beast of a father!"
               "Thank you, my dear; but if he's dying, he won't, you
                  know." Deacon Pinchbeck was not in a mood for jesting—but, this half-jocular
                  expression was compelled out of him, as it were, by the force of circumstances.
                  "But is the child really sick, my love? he hastened to inquire, with an anxious,
                  troubled look.
               "Come and see, if you want to know—if you care to know—you brutish,
                  lazy drone!" replied Mrs. Pinchbeck, leading the way out of the apartment, in the
                  same stately manner in which she had sailed into it.
               The Deacon was agitated by so many contending emotions, that he was obliged to
                  steady himself by the railing, as he ascended the stairs behind his queenly wife.
                  On entering the sleeping apartment of his son, he found he had some fever, and
                  perceived a difficulty in his breathing; but attributing both to the effects of an
                  ordinary cold, he merely said:
               "Oh! poh! poh! my dear—there is nothing the matter—nothing serious, I mean; he
                  will be well in the morning; I have some important business to attend to; excuse
                  me—I will go and pray for him;" and Deacon Pinchbeck, with a bow and a scrape,
                  retired; and Mrs. Deacon Pinchbeck
                  threw herself upon the bed, alongside of her son, in a fit of sullen anger.
               No sooner had the Deacon reached the back-parlor again, than he hurried to the
                  light, and again feasted his eyes upon the paragraph, which he had already read
                  some three or four times. It was a little singular, certainly, that those few
                  lines should have been round there by him, at just such a time; and seemed, to say
                  the least, a peculiar coincidence. The paragraph alluded to, ran as follows:
               "John De Carp Montague, of Welden Park, the last possessor of what is known as the
                  Weldon Estate, was taken suddenly ill, on the 10th ult., and expired within
                  twenty-four hours, deeply regretted by a large circle of friends. What is a little
                  curious, no heir to this immense estate, which is said to be worth, at the very
                  least, some ten thousand pounds per annum, has as yet been found. It is supposed
                  that the fortunate inheritor is somewhere in the United States—perhaps in indigent
                  circumstances."
               It will be readily perceived, that this public announcement corroborating as it
                  did the statement set forth by the mysterious paper in the possession of the
                  Burglar, made a powerful impression upon the mind of one as grasping and
                  avaricious as Deacon Pinchbeck. The great doubt of positive inheritance, which had
                  thus far kept in check the guilty design of his soul, was now removed, and he was
                  ready to stain his hands with the innocent blood of the helpless little orphan, to
                  secure the fortune within his, grasp. He never doubted that the paper referred to
                  contained a statement of facts—for the family of Stanhope was known to him, and he
                  knew there was some kind of relationship between Mrs. Stanhope and his wife; but
                  so long as John De Carp Montague might live, he could not be benefitted by the
                  death of Ellen Norbury, and this made him hesitate. But here seemed a positive
                  certainty—remove Ellen, and his wife was the next legal claimant—and what was the
                  obstacle to be overcome, when compared with the result?
               "And even if the crime should be found out," he reasoned, "and it should be proved
                  that I was accessory before the fact—which is hardly possible—and yet admit all
                  this for the sake of argument—what could the law do with a man worth fifty
                  thousand dollars a year? Poh! poh! the idea of any thing very dangerous, is
                  absurd. Why, I could buy up the lawyers, the jury, the public press, which is
                  public opinion, and, if necessary, even the Governor himself. And even then,
                  admitting that the worst should come to the worst, would not Nelson be the heir
                  after his mother? and should I fail to make such a trifling venture for my dear
                  son? I'll do it—yes, I'll do it. It can't surely be any great crime to put that
                  little girl out of the way, if one only looks at it in the right light. She is
                  miserable here, of course; and who knows but the Lord would look upon it as an act
                  of charity, to put her out of her misery. It must be a good act; and the more I
                  think of it, the more I feel convinced that it is. She's got no family to leave
                  behind her, she's got no friends or relations to mourn her loss—she is certainly
                  unhappy in this world—and so what is to hinder its being a good act to send her to
                  the next? I can build a church with that money and who knows but she is an
                  infidel? I can give bountifully to the poor, whom she might be too proud to
                  notice; and I can—in short, I can do a world of good, of which the Lord will
                  approve. And then Mulwrack is shrewd, cunning, and, no doubt, honest in his way—so
                  that should even he be detected, which is hardly probable, I do not think he would
                  blow on me, considering I pay him his price. Confound the thing! I'll do it—yes,
                  I'll do it. Nothing venture, nothing
                  thing have, is a true maxim, in some cases, and I'll make the venture."
               Thus soliloquized Deacon Pinchbeck—relieving the compunctions of conscience, as
                  many another has done, and many another will do, by the fallacious reasoning, that
                  evil may be done that good may follow. Beware—oh! beware of that snare of Satan!
                  The victim lured into its meshes, is doomed to ruin and death. Remember engrave
                  the sacred truth upon the inner tablet of your heart, and remember—No evil can be justified! God our Father is pure and holy—and nothing that is
                  pure and holy, can sanction evil, be it great or small!
               Scarcely had Deacon Pinchbeck finished his soliloquy, when he heard the street
                  bell ring; and starting to his feet, he made an effort to appear composed and
                  indifferent, and hastened out of the room.
               "I'll answer the bell myself, Catharine," he called to the servant, whom he heard
                  ascending the kitchen stairs; and proceeding to the door, he leisurely opened
                  it.
               As he had expected, James Mulwrack, the Burglar, stood before him.
               "Walk in, Sir," said the Deacon, making a sign of caution. Quite a pleasant
                  evening—though a little cool."
               Mulwrack uttered a sort of growl in reply; and having fastened the door, the
                  Deacon led the way into the back-parlor. As soon as he had locked this door
                  against intrusion, he said:
               "You are a bold man, Mr. Mulwrack. How did you know but I would betray you to the
                  police, and bring you into a trap here?"
               "Because, in the first place, I knowed you was as big a — villain as me," returned
                  the robber, with one of his peculiar chuckles; "and wouldn't like to have the
                  beak's fingers in your dish, any more'n me. And besides," he added, slightly
                  displaying the handle of a knife, "I knowed you wasn't ready to have your throat
                  cut yit awhile; which, by —! I'll do, if you ever try to come any of your foul
                  games over this child."
               "Oh, of course, I was only jesting, my friend," returned Pinchbeck, turning pale,
                  and getting a little nervous.
               "In course—I knowed you was," rejoined the other, taking a seat, and looking
                  rather suspiciously around him. "Well," he continued, "now to business. D'ye git
                  my letter?"
               "I must caution you not to speak quite so loud," said the Deacon, picking up the
                  dirty scrap of paper lying on his writing-desk. "Is this what you mean?"
               "Well, yes, that's it," replied the Burglar, taking it from the Deacon's hand,
                  tearing it in pieces, and throwing the whole into the fire. "Mag did that," he
                  continued; "she's some'at of a scholar, Mag is—I can't write myself. And arter I'd
                  got it writ," he pursued, "it bothered me, like sin, to git it to you. You see, I
                  didn't like to leave my crib in the day-time; and Mag she'd fell down and got a
                  bad face, so that she didn't like to go; but she went and got a boy to take it,
                  and that did jest as well. Well, what have you got to say to it? I 'spect your
                  mind's made up, one way or t'other, by this time."
               "And you have really got the child back again?"
               "Didn't that there letter say so?"
               "Certainly—at least so I understood it—the hand being a little cramped."
               "Whose hand?"
               "I mean the writing."
               "Oh, yes."
               "By-the-by, where did you find the girl?"
               "Well, that, I believe, is my business, and haint got nothing to do with this here," replied Mulwrack,
                  rather gruffly. "The long and short on't is, is you going to do what you said you
                  would?"
               "Pray, don't be so hasty!" answered the Deacon; "you hardly give one time to
                  think."
               "Better take a couple of years," sneered Mulwrack. And then he added, with a
                  savage scowl: "The long, and short on't is, if you don't come to the pint, one way
                  or t'other, right quick, I'll be tempted to break your head, and put out. What I
                  does, is always in arnest—and I can't stand trifling from nobody."
               "Oh, certainly—yes—well—certainly—that's right," said the Deacon, with some
                  confusion. "Well—yes—I think, on the whole, I'll—You couldn't do it for less,
                  eh?"
               "No!" growled Mulwrack; "and I'll not do it at all if you fool round much
                  longer."
               "But if I should pay you this money—a tremendous big sum, you know—if I should pay
                  you this, in good hard gold—and you should do the—the—a—ah—a—what you agree to,
                  you know—and you should ever get found out, you wouldn't blow on me, would
                  you?
               "No, I'm not such a villain as to peach," returned the Burglar, in a tone of
                  honest indignation.
               "Well, I suppose I can see the girl, and be sure, before you—before it
                  is—ah—done?"
               "Sartin—that's fair, if you're in 'arnest; and, for that matter, you may stop and
                  see me strangle her, if you like."
               "Oh! no! no! I thank you—nothing of that kind!" cried the Deacon, much horrified.
                  "No! no! Mr. Mulwrack—I could take no pleasure in that kind of thing. I am a
                  church-going man, sir, and would not offend the Lord, (who has been very kind to
                  His poor, humble servant,) by looking upon—upon—a—ah—that kind of thing. But I
                  suppose I can ses her to-night—ust to be sure she's the one?"
               "Oh, yes—just plank, to show you're in 'arnest, and come with me, and I'll take
                  you right to her," replied the robber.
               "What do you mean, by plank, Mr. Mulwrack?"
               "Why, jest down with the tin, the shiners, the dust, the dough, or whatever you
                  choose to call it."
               "Oh! you mean the money?"
               "In course."
               "But business is business, my friend; and so I trust I shall be allowed to retain
                  the amount, till I am satisfied all is right?" said the wary Deacon.
               "Sartin, if you'll fetch it along with you—for I can't be running up here all the
                  time," answered Mulwrack.
               The Deacon wriggled about for a few minutes, uncertain what to do. He did not like
                  to part with the money, without being sure that the Burglar really had the girl in
                  his possession; he did not like to go with him, to see for himself; and he was too
                  anxious to have the foul deed perpetrated, to think of putting the affair off till
                  a other time. But at last, after some rumination, he concluded to go, and just see
                  the child; and if she were really the one he had once catechised in that same back
                  parlor, he would know that, so far, the Burglar had not deceived him in his
                  statements; and, this being the case, he thought he might safely venture to trust
                  to his honor, as a ruffian, to fulfil the rest of the
                  bloody compact.
               "Well," said the Deacon, at length, "suppose I meet you at the corner of Seventh
                  and Fitzwater streets, some ten or fifteen minutes hence? as our being seen
                  together, might possibly, should any thing occur, attach suspicion to me."
               "That'll do," replied the Burglar, rising; "I'll be where you say; but don't keep me waiting too long. You'll
                  be ready to plank, I s'pose?"
               "Pay, you mean?"
               "Yes."
               "Oh, certainly."
               "All right, Deacon—just show me out."
               Having seen the robber into the street, the Deacon hastened back into the room,
                  and locked the door. He then opened a drawer in his desk, and took out ten bags,
                  each containing a thousand dollars in gold. The combined weight of these was
                  rather heavy; and for a few minutes the good man pondered the best plan of
                  carrying the price of blood, with the least degree of exposure. At last he decided
                  to tie the ten bags in two separate handkerchiefs, and suspend these, one on each
                  side of him, by a strap across the shoulders, in the same manner that he had once
                  carried his goods, in the days when he was a mere pedlar. By putting on a cloak,
                  the strap and handkerchiefs would be completely concealed; and thus equipped, and
                  prepared for a new adventure, he sallied forth, to keep his appointment with the
                  Burglar.
               But scarcely had he turned the first corner, after leaving his house, when he met
                  an old friend, who would enter into conversation, in spite of him;
                  and this, resulted in making him half an hour too late for his appointment. At
                  Seventh and Fitzwater streets, Mulwrack was not to be found; and the Deacon had
                  the satisfaction of waiting for his partner in crime, till he himself was on the
                  point of leaving and returning home.
               The two worthies got together at last—Mulwrack cursing Pinchbeck for his
                  tardiness, and declaring that he had been again to his house, to see what had
                  become of him. The Deacon apologised, gave a true reason for his delay, and the
                  two set off together, going down into the very heart of the Infected District. But
                  when the Deacon came to the hovel, in which Mulwrack said little Ellen was
                  confined, his courage failed him, and he declared he would not go in.
               "I'll trust to you," he said, hurriedly; "I'll trust to you. Here is the money,
                  all counted—take it, and let me go home."
               He hastily transfered the gold to Mulwrack, who, as he received it, said:
               "Well, this hero feels all right; and if I find it so, depend upon it, Deacon
                  Pinchbeck, your woman will be a heir in less than an hour. Good-bye, old feller;
                  and if we shouldn't meet agin in this world, I'll look for you in Brimstone
                  Corner."
               He shook the trembling hand of Pinchbeck who turned and fled through the darkness
                  of the night, accompanied by a thousand guilty thoughts and their attendant
                  spectres, and closely watched by that All-Seeing Eye which never sleeps.
            
            
               CHAPTER XVIII.
               A GUILTY CONSCIENCE.
               WHEN Deacon Pinchbeck reached the steps of his dwelling, he felt the weight of a
                  murderer's guilt upon his soul. He looked around in terror, fearful of having been
                  seen and pursued by some officer of justice, and half expecting to find the very
                  stones rise up and cry out against him. He had done many sinful things before—but
                  none which impressed him with such nameless horror as this crowning act of wickedness. He believed in a
                  gigantic, all-powerful, omniscient, omnipresent Devil; and notwithstanding his
                  recent conviction, that, in his particular case, the Lord would sanction the
                  highest crime known to the law, he now fancied that this same Devil stood at his
                  back, grinning a horrid approval of his last damning deed. It had been the good
                  man's design, for the last ten years of his life, (and we regret to say there are
                  many like him,) to be just religious enough to escape the Devil at last; but now
                  he fancied his soul was fairly caught in Satan's snare, and might eventually find
                  its way to the Bottomless Pit, along with such common sinners as did not regularly
                  attend church on the Sabbath. The only fault we have to find with the Deacon's
                  fancy is—not that he should now think himself enrolled among Satan's victims—but
                  that he should ever have thought otherwise.
               With a cold, clammy perspiration covering his face and hands, and his nether limbs
                  trembling and bending under him like reeds, Deacon Pinchbeck tottered up the steps
                  of his dwelling, about as miserable and contemptible a piece of humanity as the
                  most morbid curiosity-seeker could wish to find. After pausing awhile, to take
                  breath and gather a little courage, and having wiped the perspiration from his
                  hands and face, the Deacon ventured to ring the bell. The door was almost
                  immediately opened; and as soon as she saw who it was, the domestic hurriedly
                  exclaimed:
               "Oh! sir, I'm so glad you've got back, sure—for there's a gintleman in the parlor
                  waiting to spake to ye, and Master Nelson is so sick."
               "A-a-gentleman—Nelson—" stammered Pinchbeck; "wha-what-who, I mean—who is it? and
                  wha-what does he want?"
               "He didn't tell his name, sir—but said he wanted to see you on very particular
                  business—and so I axed him in to wait. But the boy is very sick, sir—hadn't you
                  better see him first now?"
               "Ye-ye-yes," replied the miserable man—"I'll—I'll go right up, Catherine."
               But instead of going "right up," he blundered along to the back-parlor and opened
                  the door. To his surprise—we may add, to his horror, all things being taken into
                  consideration—his eye fell upon the person of Dr. Newton Stanhope. The parties
                  knew each other by sight, and were slightly acquainted—for the father of the young
                  man had borrowed money of the Deacon on more than one occasion and once or twice
                  Newton had taken his father's notes to him to be discounted beyond the legal
                  rate.
               "Good evening, Deacon Pinchbeck," said young Stanhope, rising and advancing, with
                  extended hand, and fixing his eyes piercingly upon the colorless face of the host.
                  "I trust I find you well, sir, in body and mind."
               "Ye-yes, sir—Dr. Stanhope, I believe," stammered Pinchbeck, taking the young man's
                  hand, and immediately dropping it in his confusion. "Ye-yes—I'm very well; but—but
                  my boy is sick, sir—Nelson—quite; and—a—ah—I hope you're well too, sir!"
               "Is your child very sick, Deacon?"
               "Oh! yes, my friend—quite—terrible, sir—indeed he is, and that is what horri—I
                  mean, agitates me so. I'm very nervous, Doctor—very nervous; and—and—what is good
                  for the nerves, eh?"
               "Well, a good conscience, for one thing," replied the young physician, keeping his
                  eyes fixed steadily upon the Deacon's pallid face, and closely watching every
                  expression.
               "Ha! ha!" laughed the Deacon, in a wild, unnatural tone, and turning away, as if
                  for the purpose of depositing his cloak
                  and hat on a distant chair. "I—I—think I've got that, my young friend."
               "I hope you have, sir!" was the pointed rejoinder. And then he added, quickly:
                  "But your child is sick, and I will not detain you but a moment. I called to see
                  you concerning a matter rather out of the ordinary line of business, and I must
                  beg you will pardon my intrusion. I believe you own some property in what is
                  called the Infected District?"
               "Some—yes, Doctor—some," replied the Deacon, seating himself, and beginning to
                  breathe a little more freely.
               "And you are occasionally down there yourself, Deacon?"
               "Occasionally, sir—yes, occasionally."
               Young Stanhope, as if without design, now managed to place his seat directly in
                  front of Pinchbeck, so that he could look full into his eye, and note the
                  slightest change in the expression of the guilty man's features.
               "Well," he resumed, "the business I came on is this: Some three nights since, the
                  house of a particular friend of mine, was robbed of considerable money, valuable
                  plate, and jewelry; and a little girl, who was living with this friend, has ever
                  since been missing; and all our search for her has, up to this time, been without
                  avail. But heavens, sir, you are ill!"
               The Deacon did appear to be ill, it is true; for his face assumed a sickly,
                  deathly hue—his very features quivered, and became distorted, as if with a
                  spasm—and he clung nervously to the arms of his chair, as if he felt himself going
                  headlong over an awful abyss.
               "I—I—do-don't feel well," he gasped.
               "Well, I will hasten my story to a conclusion," said young Stanhope, who marked
                  every effect his words produced, and who more than ever felt convinced that his
                  suspicions had fallen upon the proper person. "This little girl that I speak of—a
                  very sweet, interesting little orphan, from all I can learn of her—is suspected by
                  some of having robbed my friend's house; but others feel certain that she was not
                  strong enough to carry off so many heavy articles as were lost. However that may
                  be, she is certainly missing, and nearly all her wearing apparel is missing with
                  her. As it was known that she had for a short time been among the degraded
                  outcasts of the Infected District, our search for her has been carried through
                  that vile locality; but being, as I have said, unsuccessful, it occurred to me,
                  that you, Deacon, who own some property in that vicinity, might possibly have some
                  knowledge of her."
               "No! no! no! I haven't—I haven't—not the least, I assure you, Mr. Mul—I
                  mean—a—ah—excuse me—Dr. Stanhope!" cried the guilty man, almost wildly. "Really,"
                  he said, rising, "some other time I shall be very—happy—to tell you all about
                  her—I mean, to—to—talk to you on the subject; but—but my dear boy is very
                  sick-tremendous sick-horrible—I should say alarming—and—and—"
               "Nay," interrupted the other, somewhat sternly, "sit down for a minute—I have not
                  yet told you the name of this child."
               "I know—I know—that is, I mean, I don't want to know—or rather—a—ah—I—"
               "Deacon Pinchbeck," again interrupted the young physician, even more sternly than
                  before, "your manner is such as to lead me to suspect that you do
                  know something of this child!"
               "Who, me? I? me?" stammered the other, taking hold of the chair for support.
               "I say, your manner is such as to 
                     exite
                     excite
                   this suspicion," returned the
                  Doctor. "Pray sit down, one minute, and I will tell you her name, and something of
                  her history."
               The Deacon, though never so anxious in his life to get away from a speaker, whose
                  every word seemed to plunge a dagger into his guilty soul, seeing there was no
                  chance of escape, resumed his seat, and made a powerful effort to compose his
                  mind, and fortify it against the impending blow.
               "Go on," he said, rather feebly.
               "The name of this missing child," resumed his tormentor, speaking slowly and
                  distinctly, and watching every expression of the Deacon's chalky face—"is—Ellen
                  Norbury."
               "Ha!" exclaimed the Deacon, with a spasmodic start. "Well?"
               "You know her then?"
               "Me?" cried the other: "I? no! never heard of her before—upon my honor, as a—as
                  a—(he was going to say gentleman, but substituted)—church-member."
               "Well, then," pursued young Stanhope, "I will tell you something about her, that
                  must be very interesting for you to hear."
               "Really—I—I haven't time—Mr.—a—ah—Dr. Stanhope," replied the other, making an
                  effort to rise.
               "Nay, sit still, Deacon Pinchbeck!" rejoined the young man, speaking in a firm,
                  decisive tone. "You must hear the story—you shall hear
                  it—or else the consequences be on your own head!"
               "Wha-what consequences?" gasped the guilty man.
               "The consequences, Sir, of being brought before the bar of justice."
               "I—I—do—don't know wha-what you mean," stammered the Deacon, sinking back in his
                  chair; "but go—go—on."
               "This child, as I was saying," pursued young Stanhope—"this Ellen Norbury—was the
                  daughter of William Norbury an artist, who once resided in Dublin; and is a
                  distant relation of John De Carp Montague, a gentleman of wealth, now living in
                  Ireland; (the young Doctor had not yet seen the paper announcing his death;) and
                  her father and mother both being dead, she is the heir presumptive of the Welden
                  Estate, now held by this same John De Carp Montague."
               "Well, and what is all this to me?" the Deacon now ventured to inquire—having,
                  through sheer desperation, in some degree regained his natural assurance.
               "I will tell you what this is to you," sternly answered the young physician; "and
                  I believe I shall thus repeat what you already know. If this same Ellen Norbury
                  were dead, your wife, Deacon Pinchbeck, would be the next heir to this
                  estate."
               "Indeed! this is news to me."
               "Is it? we shall see!" was the rejoinder. "After Ellen Norbury and your wife, my
                  mother would be the next heir; and a paper, containing this statement, and much
                  more of the same nature, was in my father's possession, till within two or three
                  months, when it was stolen by a burglar, who luckily found little else to steal.
                  Now considering that fact, in connection with the mysterious disappearance of this
                  orphan, and the inference, to be drawn is, that some interested party
                  has had a hand in her abduction perhaps murder."
               The last word was pronounced so emphatically, that, in spite of himself, the
                  guilty Deacon could not avoid a kind of spasmodic start. Stanhope noticed this,
                  and quickly added:
               "Deacon Pinchbeck, a train of circumstances has fixed suspicion upon you, as the
                  author of a dark deed—a deed that may send you to the prison, perhaps the
                  gallows!"
               "Upon me? what circumstances?" gasped the other.
               
               "No matter what—you are the guilty man!"
               The Deacon sprung from his seat, and the young physician rose at the same time,
                  keeping his eye fixed steadily upon the accused.
               "Where is that child?" he almost fiercely demanded.
               "I—I—do-don't know—upon my word, I don't!" stammered the agitated
                  church-officer.
               "'Tis false! you do know! and I know you know!" was the
                  emphatic rejoinder. "Now mark me!" he continued, stepping in front of the accused,
                  and speaking in a tone that admitted of no doubt of his keeping his word: "if this
                  girl is restored to her friends, safe and sound, within four-and-twenty hours,
                  your part in the guilty transaction shall be overlooked, and the secret kept; but
                  if she be not so restored, within that time, then the law shall take the affair in
                  hand, and you shall answer for your crime at the bar of justice!"
               "But—but—how—how—" began the Deacon, when the other interrupted him.
               "Not another word!" he said, sternly. "I have said my say, and warned you of the
                  consequences. Restore that child, or woe be to you! Good-night."
               He opened the door into the entry, and the trembling Deacon followed him.
               "Wha-what—what do you know about it, any how?" gasped the latter.
               "To-morrow light, at this time, you shall learn something about what I know, if
                  that child is not restored to her friends ere then."
               Young Stanhope opened the outer door as he spoke, closed it after him, and darted
                  down the steps; while the guilty Deacon leaned against the wall for support, and
                  fairly gasped for breath.
               "O Lord! O Lord!" he muttered—"what will become of me?"
               "Oh! sir," exclaimed Catharine, at this moment appearing at the head of the
                  stairs—"isn't you coming up, sir? The boy is so sick—choking like—and mistress is
                  crying, and seems as if she'd go into a fit—and I'm so frightened! Oh! do, sir,
                  come up, and send for the Doctor!"
               "I'll be there in a minute, groaned the guilty wretch, hardly conscious of what he
                  heard, or of what he was saying.
               He staggered along into the back-parlor, and sunk upon a seat, one of the most
                  miserable beings then in existence.
               "Too late!" he groaned; "too late! I'm lost! I'm lost! He has done the bloody
                  deed, before this, and fled. O Lord! O Lord! what will become of me?"
               Suddenly he bounded to his feet, with the exclamation:
               "It may not be too late to save her yet! Something may have happened to prevent
                  the crime! If it isn't done, I'll stop it, and get the girl, and he may take the
                  money and go."
               He seized his hat as he spoke, and rushed out of the house like a madman. Down one
                  street, and up another, he fairly flew, till he reached the Infected District:
                  then he was forced to advance more cautiously in the thick darkness. But he had
                  been to the house, knew where it was situated, and he hurried toward it by the
                  nearest course—plunging on through dark, filthy lanes, alleys and courts, till the
                  dismal structure stood before him, rayless and silent as the grave. Neither
                  looking to the right nor to the left, and thinking of nothing but the bloody deed,
                  whose guilt must be upon his soul if a single moment too late, he reached the
                  door, quite out of breath, and gave a few hurried raps.
               As he did so, a figure, which seemed to start forth from the very darkness itself, tapped him on the
                  shoulder; and words, that made his blood curdle, sounded in his ear:
               "Sir! I summon you, as a juror, to hold an inquest upon a female body within this
                  house! Who are you? and what is your name?"
               "O Lord!" mentally groaned the Deacon; "then it is all over! and I am
                  lost—ruined—lost!" and he clung nervously to the casement of the door, to keep his
                  trembling frame from sinking to the earth.
               "Quick! speak! who are you, sir?" demanded the Coroner—for the person who
                  addressed the terrified and guilt-burdened Pinchbeck, was no other than that
                  officer, legally acting in the discharge of his duty.
               "My—my name—is—is—Pinchbeck," gasped the Deacon.
               "What Pinchbeck? and where do you live?"
               "Absalom, sir—Absalom Pinchbeck—and my—my residence is—a—ah—No. — South Eighth
                  Street."
               "Ah! Mr. Pinchbeck, I know you."
               Pinchbeck felt as if every thing guilty and wicked knew him now, as well as the
                  officer.
               "I am surprised to see you here, sir, at this hour," continued the Coroner; "but
                  it is no business of mine. Remain here till I summon the rest of the jurors! I
                  will not keep you long."
               "Oh! sir, please excuse me!" whined the Deacon. "I have a child at home, very
                  sick—indeed, I have!"
               "I am sorry to say that I can't excuse you, Mr. Pinchbeck—or Deacon, as I believe
                  you are usually termed. I want just such men as you—but they are very scarce round
                  here. Remain, sir, till I return! I will not keep you long."
               He hurried away as he spoke; and the Deacon, afraid to leave, sunk down,
                  terrified, upon the damp, filthy ground. It was awful enough, he thought, to be
                  guilty of a murder, without being obliged to sit as a juror on the corpse of his
                  victim and in the half hour that the officer was away, he suffered the agonies of
                  a thousand horrible deaths himself. At last the Coroner returned, with a light, in
                  company with the rest of his jury; and the old hovel was immediately taken
                  possession of by this officer of the dead.
               As the Deacon, the last of the party, stepped over this late abode of crime, he
                  fairly shook in every limb, and gasped for breath, and felt that hell itself was
                  within him.
            
            
               CHAPTER XIX.
               THE SUICIDE.
               IT will be remembered, that we left little Ellen in the dark, damp vault of that
                  miserable old structure, which we have just seen the Coroner take possession of,
                  for the purpose of holding an inquest upon a female body; and it may naturally be
                  inferred, that the Burglar kept his word with the guilty Deacon, and earned his
                  money by a bloody deed. We will therefore now return to our little heroine, and
                  see whether this inference is correct or not.
               It was a horrible night that the poor child passed in that loathsome place, with
                  only rats, and animals of a still inferior grade, for companions. She did not lie
                  down on the piece of old carpet thrown to her by Mulwrack—but crept half-way up
                  the ladder, and clung there for hours, terrified and despairing, but continually
                  praying to her Heavenly Father for deliverance. When daylight came, although it reached not her rayless prison,
                  Margaret raised the trap-door, and bade her come up; and Ellen was not slow to
                  obey this new order—or rather, avail herself of this permission.
               "If you won't try to get away again," said Margaret, 'and won't make no noise, and
                  will promise to go right down below and be silent, if anybody comes, we'll let you
                  stay up here, perhaps all day."
               "Oh! ma'am, I'll promise anything, if you'll only let me be with you!" said the
                  almost heart-broken little girl, in a piteous tone.
               Margaret gave her a peculiar look—a look which Ellen knew not how to interpret—and
                  immediately turned away, to busy herself about the chimney; but Mulwrack, who was
                  lying awake on the bed, immediately added:
               "Well, little gal, it's my opinion you'd best keep pretty quiet, and do what
                  you're told! Mag, you know I've let her come up to please you; and I tell you
                  agin, if she gits away, it'll cost you your life, may be."
               "I'll stake my life against her escape, Jim," was Margaret's reply.
               "Very well; and as I knows you for a true blue, when you set out, I'll just roll
                  over and take another nap."
               Accordingly, the robber turned himself over, with his head to the wall; and soon
                  after, a loud snore announced that he had fallen asleep.
               "Poor child!" whispered Margaret to Ellen; "don't despair! I'll save you."
               She pointed Ellen to a seat as she spoke, made a sign for her to keep silent, and
                  then busied herself with kindling a fire and preparing breakfast.
               The sun was an hour or two high, when Mulwrack awoke, got up, and devoured his
                  morning meal. Margaret handed Ellen some bread and meat; but she was suffering
                  under such a burden of sorrow, that she ate only a very small quantity. Having
                  finished his breakfast, the Burglar had recourse to the bottle again, and invited
                  Margaret to join him—but she positively refused to taste a drop of her favorite
                  beverage.
               "Mag," said Mulwrack, looking her full in the face, "either you're not well, or
                  else you've got some — plot in your head."
               "I don't feel exactly well, Jim," she replied.
               "Well, I'm sorry for that," he returned, with some show of feeling. "'Spose you
                  lay down awhile!"
               "No," she said, turning away, and hastily brushing a tear from her eye—"I'll wait
                  till night, Jim, and then may be I'll sleep well. I think I shall rest then."
               "Why, to-night, you know, we talk of going away," pursued the robber.
               "I know I'm going away, Jim," she answered; "but I'd rather not lie down now."
               "Well, please yourself," rejoined the other. Then, after a long pause, during
                  which he seemed to be deeply ruminating, he called Margaret aside, and said: "Mag,
                  we must send word to old Pinchbeck, that the gal's found, so as he can be ready
                  with the tin, when I call on him to-night. How'll we do it? I can't go out, for
                  fear of the beaks; and you aint no beauty, jest now, with that there face."
               "Do you intend to call on him yourself to-night?" inquired Margaret.
               "Yes, that's my notion."
               "What time will you go?"
               "I'll start out as soon as it gits to be dark."
               "How long will you be away?"
               "Well, an hour, may be—may be longer. Why?"
               "Nothing—only I want to know what time I'll start on my journey."
               
               "Jest arter I git back—'twont take me long to do the job."
               "Oh! Jim, don't do it!" said Margaret, earnestly. "Come, Jim—don't!"
               "Now stop this fool talk!" replied the Burglar, roughly. "I won't stand it,
                  Mag!"
               "But see here, Jim—couldn't you make as much, or more, by telling the child what's
                  coming to her, and all about the Deacon's wicked plot?"
               "Why, she haint got no money; and the old feller is living, and may live ten year;
                  and she can't git a copper till he's dead; and this, you know, will be right in
                  hand."
               "But, Jim, something bad'll come on't!" said Margaret, sorrowfully.
               "Oh! you're always gitting skeered, Mag; so don't say no more, or I'll git mad!
                  Come! tell me how I'll git word to old Pinchbeck. I want it to go to him kind of
                  mysterious like, so as nobody else won't know nothing about it."
               "Perhaps I'd better write him a note," suggested Margaret.
               "That's it—that's it—and then you can hire a boy to take it," returned Mulwrack.
                  "It takes you, Mag."
               Accordingly, the few words, on a dirty scrap of paper, which we transcribed in a
                  former chapter, were dictated by Mulwrack, written by Margaret, and dispatched to
                  Deacon Pinchbeck by a boy, who found him in his business office, not far from the
                  Exchange. The effect of that note, as has already been shown, was to induce the
                  Deacon to prepare himself to pay in gold, for the commission of an awful
                  crime.
               But little was said to Ellen during the remainder of the day, which seemed for all
                  parties to drag heavily to a close. Mulwrack occasionally walked about the room,
                  and stamped his foot with angry impatience; but Margaret mostly sat in silence,
                  seemingly brooding over something dark and terrible. As night set in, Mulwrack
                  prepared to go forth. Just before leaving, he called Margaret to him, and said,
                  with some feeling:
               "Mag, you don't seem in good spirits; but don't mind this little affair—it's
                  nothing alarming—and as soon as it's over, we'll bolt, and leave on the first
                  train. We'll git away—don't you fear."
               "Will nothing change you, Jim?" inquired the other.
               "Nothing but the Deacon's backing out; and, I aint much afeard of that—the old
                  rascal's too anxious for futur wealth."
               "Well, go!" said Margaret, in a voice slightly tremulous; and impulsively, as she
                  spoke, she threw her arms around the Burglar's neck, and burst into tears.
               "Come, come, Mag," returned the other, a little affected, in spite of
                  himself—"you're making a fool of yourself, and me too. What's come over you all at
                  once? You didn't use to mind trifles."
               "I know, Jim, I've been a bad woman," sobbed the other.
               "Poh! nonsense! you haint been no such a thing—don't think so. There! there! stop
                  now—I can't stand this — whining."
               "Jim, you've often stole money to keep me from starving," said Margaret, with
                  feeling solemnity: "May God forgive you!"
               "Why, Mag, I believe you're going mad!" said the robber, in a tone of surprise:
                  "you'd better turn preacher and done with it. Now see here!" he continued,
                  somewhat sternly—"don't go for to let your chicken heart work up your feelings for
                  this here gal—'cause it's no use. If I
                  knowed you was going to let her off, I'd take her down stairs, and strangle her at
                  once."
               "Didn't I say, Jim, I'd stake my life against her security? and did I ever break
                  my word to you, when I pledged it that way?"
               "No, that's a fact—you never did, Mag—I'll say that for you."
               "But I've many times been cross to you, Jim; and I feel so bad just now, I want
                  you to say you forgive me."
               "I reckon I'd better ax that of you," returned the Burglar, with a softened
                  expression; "seeing as how I've beat you so many times."
               "Never mind that, Jim," rejoined Margaret, quickly; "but just say you forgive
                  me!"
               "In coarse I do. Why what the — is the matter with you to-night?"
               "Nothing—nothing. There! I'm all right now."
               "Well, don't' let the, gal know nothing, Mag-II. won't be long away—and you can
                  be, all ready to travel when I git back."
               With this the Burglar unbolted the door, cast one or two quick, searching glances
                  around him, and disappeared in the darkness. His subsequent interview with Deacon
                  Pinchbeck is already known to the reader.
               Margaret stood at the door a few minutes, gazing upon the spot where the form of
                  the Burglar, had disappeared from her view. Then heaving a long, deep sigh, she
                  turned back into the room, closed the door, sunk heavily upon a seat, covered her
                  eyes with her hands, and for some time remained almost motionless, seemingly in
                  great distress of mind. Then she got up, and, going to the fireplace, struck a
                  light, placed it on the table, and turned to little Ellen, who sat watching her in
                  anxious silence.
               "Ellen," she said, in a low, solemn tone, "I promised to save you, and I'm going
                  to keep my word. You and I are goings to part now; and we'll never meet again—no!
                  never—never!"
               "What do you mean, ma'am?" inquired little Ellen, anxiously.
               "Hush! don't speak so loud—we might be overheard!" said Margaret, glancing hastily
                  around. Then drawing from her bosom a diamond ring and necklace of great value,
                  she held them to the light, and continued: "Did you ever see these before,
                  child?"
               "Oh! yes, ma'am, I think so," answered Ellen, quickly. "At least, Miss Rosalind
                  had just such pretty ornaments."
               "Was she the lady you lived with, when Mr. Mulwrack found you?"
               "Yes, ma'am."
               "And would you like to take these back to that good lady?" inquired Margaret.
               "Oh! yes, ma'am—yes!" cried Ellen, clasping her hands and looking eagerly, almost
                  wildly, at the other. "Oh! ma'am, if you let me go back, I will kneel down every
                  night, as long as I live, and call on Heaven to bless you! Oh! ma'am, I do so want
                  to tell dear Rosalind that I didn't take away her pretty things, after her being
                  so good to me!" and as she said this, she burst into tears.
               "Poor, dear, sweet, innocent little child!" cried Margaret, impulsively throwing
                  her arms around the gentle orphan, and straining her to her heart. "Oh! would to
                  God," she added, in a tone that betrayed intense emotion: "would to God, I could
                  be as innocent as you are! Oh! what a guilty wretch I've been! so wicked, that I
                  know God won't forgive me!"
               "Don't think that, ma'am!" returned Ellen, soothingly. "My dear mother used to
                  say, God would forgive anybody that repented and tried to be good."
               
               "But I can't try to be good—it's too late!" exclaimed Margaret, bursting into
                  tears.
               "Oh, no, ma'am, it's never too late to try," said little Ellen, consolingly; "so
                  don't cry, please."
               "But I've been such a bad, bad woman!" sobbed the other; "and for so many years
                  too! Ah! dear child, you don't know the wicked things I've done, since I first
                  came to this awful city! I was once pure and innocent like you are; but I was
                  persuaded to run away from my happy home in the country, and begin a new life of
                  wickedness, and let my parents break their hearts about me; and God won't surely
                  forgive such a wretch as I am! I first saw Mr. Mulwrack in the country; we were
                  both young then; and I loved him, and took his advice, and came with him to the
                  city. I thought he meant to do well by me, and marry me—but he didn't. But perhaps
                  I was more to blame than he," she continued, sobbingly; "at least I want to think
                  so now—for I love him still; but I can't see you murdered—for it was you that made
                  me think again of old times."
               "Murdered!" cried little Ellen, greatly horrified. "What do you mean, ma'am?"
               "Yes, little innocent, they want to murder you, because you will one day get a
                  great property, which somebody else wants to get hold of. Mr. Mulwrack is to have
                  ten thousand dollars for doing the wicked deed—and he's gone now to see about it.
                  But don't be afeard! you shan't be hurt. I told you I'd save you, and I'll do it;
                  and my saving you will prevent him committing murder—so that I have a double
                  reason for doing it."
               "Oh! ma'am, I'm so frightened!" said Ellen, trembling.
               "And well you may be, poor child!" returned the other. "But you must fly and
                  escape while you can. Here, take these things, and give them to the good lady, and
                  tell her to pray for my soul! They're all I could save out of the plunder; but
                  they're worth something; and I shall feel better to know I've sent something
                  back;" and she nervously placed the ring and necklace in the trembling hand of the
                  terrified Ellen. "You won't forget to pray for me, as you promised, will you?" she
                  inquired, eagerly.
               "Oh! no, ma'am—no—never!" cried the half-distracted child. "I'll pray for you
                  every night, as long as we live."
               "Well, kiss me good-bye—and go now—for there's no knowing, when Mr. Mulwrack may
                  come back."
               Ellen threw her arms around Margaret's neck, and kissed her swollen lips.
               "Here," added Margaret, thrusting a crumpled paper into the hand of Ellen;
                  "conceal this in your bosom and don't let anybody get hold of it but your
                  friends—it will tell you all about the fortune. Quick, now, my sweet child—put on
                  your bonnet, and fly! for I tremble all the while you stay here. There, now, go!
                  go! stay not another minute!"
               "Won't you come with me, ma'am?" asked Ellen.
               "No! no! I must stay here."
               "But Mr. Mulwrack might—"
               "I know what you would say," rejoined the other, as Ellen paused, for fear of
                  wounding her feelings, and looked anxiously into Margaret's face. "You think he'll
                  beat me—may be kill me; but he won't—you needn't fear;" and she drew a long, deep
                  sigh. "Come!" she cried, starting up, and half-dragging little Ellen to the door,
                  which she cautiously opened; "one kiss more; and then,
                     good-bye—forever!"
               The last word was pronounced emphatically, in a tone of deep, mournful
                  solemnity.
               The little orphan required no further urging, to induce her to hasten her
                  departure from a place, where, as she
                  had now learned, her life was not safe from one minute to another; and so,
                  imprinting a farewell kiss upon the lips of Margaret, she murmured, "God bless
                  you, ma'am!" and disappeared in the darkness.
               For some five minutes Margaret remained at the door, motionless as a statue,
                  looking out upon the night. Then, with another long, deep sigh, she turned back
                  into the house, and closed the door, but did not bolt it.
               "He'd have killed her, and that would have been murder," she muttered, walking up
                  and down the room; "he'd kill me, for letting her go, and that would be murder
                  too; but if I die before he comes, I'll save him; and I can never die less guilty
                  than I am now. O God!" she continued, clasping her hands and looking upward, in an
                  attitude of supplication; "forgive this wretched being, for the Redeemer's sake!
                  I'm about to stand in Thy awful presence, by the last wicked deed I'll ever do;
                  and, O God! receive my soul, and put it not into eternal torments, for the
                  Redeemer's sake!"
               As she ceased, she drew a small paper from her bosom, opened it with a trembling
                  hand, and glanced at the white powder it contained. A cold shudder passed through
                  her frame.
               "It is terrible!" she muttered; "but it must be done; and if not done at once, I
                  may lose the courage. I'll not think till too late to escape. Jim, I die for you.
                  O God! forgive me!"
               With a spasmodic movement, she raised the paper to her lips, and swallowed the
                  contents.
               
                  It was that deadly poison known as strychnine.
               "Now, then, let me pray, till death comes!" she said, kneeling upon the
                  ground.
               She continued kneeling and praying, for about twenty minutes. Suddenly clasping
                  her temples with both hands, she cried, "I die I die!" and fell over upon her
                  back.
               These were her last words. Life continued a few minutes longer, and then her
                  spirit took its flight to the eternal world.
               Thus died poor Margaret Cassady; died by her own hand, the death of the suicide;
                  died in the very prime and vigor of womanhood; died alone—as hundreds and
                  thousands of wretched beings have died—without one kind, consoling word, to lift
                  the desolation of her crime-burdened soul, and cheer it, with a ray of hope, in
                  its dark flight over the dread abyss which separates time front eternity; died
                  that another, whom she loved, might not stain his hands with her own blood, or the
                  blood of the innocent orphan. Who dare say, in the great summing up of the good
                  and ill of her mortal life, that the doom of eternal woe shall be pronounced upon
                  that poor, unfortunate, deeply-erring woman? Who dare step between her and her
                  God, to give human judgment?
               When, after quitting Deacon Pinchbeck, burdened with the price of blood, and ready
                  to plunge his dark soul into the awful crime of murder, James Mulwrack entered
                  that old hovel, he found the candle burning on the table, and its feeble,
                  flickering rays falling upon the upturned face of her who had long been his
                  partner in guilt. With an angry oath, supposing her intoxicated or asleep, he
                  stooped down to raise her, and found her dead. Then, like lightning, the meaning
                  of her mysterious words and actions flashed upon his dizzy brain; and with a yell
                  of' horror—a yell that resounded through that old hovel, and far out into the
                  night, like the shrieking of a demon among the damned—he started to his feet, and
                  turned, and fled; fled as one who fancied himself pursued by a ghastly
                  phantom—fled into the deep darkness
                  which covered him as a pall, and concealed him from all human eyes.
               A woman was the first, after the Burglar, to discover the corpse of Margaret; and
                  she hastened to inform the Coroner, who lived not far from the limits of the
                  Infected District; and this will account for his presence there, at that hour of
                  the night, and so soon after the commission of the fatal deed.
            
            
               CHAPTER XX.
               THE ARREST.
               IF the Burglar fled rapidly, to escape from the miserable locality we have so
                  often named, so did little Ellen; and both fled in terror—though the terrors of
                  one were as different from the terrors of the other, as night is from day, or
                  guilt is from innocence. Both avoided their own kind as much as possible, and both
                  were more than once startled, with a new thrill of fear, at the sight of a mere
                  shadow, But though little Ellen gained hope with distance, she was destined to
                  remain still longer in the meshes of the web which Fate had woven around her. She
                  had already hurried through several narrow lanes and alleys, and was on the point
                  of turning the corner of a large and lighted street, when a tall youth, who was
                  standing under a lamp which she had to pass, suddenly sprung forward and caught
                  hold of her, exclaiming, in a voice which she recognized with increased alarm:
               "So, my little runaway—I've got ye agin, have I? I thought as how I'd cast my
                  grappling irons on to ye agin afore, long—for I knowed you'd be about these here
                  quarters, for all of the — lie you told the old woman, about your big-bug friends,
                  and sich like stuff!"
               "Oh, John M'Callan, let me go—do!" cried Ellen, piteously, trying to disengage
                  herself from the grasp of the villainous youth.
               "Hush your noise, afore I break your head!" growled John; "and come with me! Yes!
                  I'll let you go, arter the trick you played me 'tother night! I'll let ye go, in a
                  horn, you little jade! Come along!"
               "I won't go with you!" cried Ellen, holding back, as John began to drag her
                  forward. "Let go of me—or I'll scream for help!"
               "If you do, and a watchman or a constable comes, I'll band you over to him, and
                  swear you're a little thief—which I aspect you is, you minx! So come along, I say,
                  right quiet now!"
               At this moment, poor little Ellen's eye fell upon a man, coming up the street, at
                  no great distance; and true to her word, she began to scream for help. John
                  closely and hurriedly examined the approaching party; and seeing he was neither a
                  watchman, constable, nor policeman—for all these functionaries, belonging to that
                  locality, were well known to him—he retained his hold of the little girl,
                  determined to brave it out.
               "What are you doing with that child? why don't you let her alone?" inquired the
                  man, a decently dressed individual, though with a face that indicated a habitual
                  indulger in strong liquors.
               "She's a runaway sister," replied John, boldly; "and I'm trying to git her
                  home—her poor mother's most crazy about her."
               "If that's it, my little girl, my advice to you is, to go along peaceably with your brother, or else you'll
                  get into trouble."
               "That's what I tell her," said John.
               "Oh! sir, it isn't true—don't believe him! I'm not his sister; and he is trying to
                  drag me away to some bad place—indeed, indeed he is, sir!" cried little Ellen,
                  greatly terrified. "Oh! sir—kind sir—please get me away from him! and I'll go
                  along with you for protection, till I get away from here."
               "Hear the little liar!" said John. "Oh you're not my sister, ain't you, eh? Well,
                  I jest wonder that ther' lie don't choke you, you bad girl!"
               "I don't know which to believe," said the man, passing on; "and so I'll leave you
                  to settle the matter between yourselves."
               Ellen continued to call for help; and her cries soon attracted several other
                  persons to her side; but as soon as they heard John's story, they all took part
                  against the unfortunate little orphan, and no one seemed to give credence to her
                  assertions—so true it is, that a falsehood is generally more readily believed than
                  the truth.
               John seemed about to have matters all his own way; and he had begun to drag off
                  poor little Ellen—in spite of her struggles, appeals, remonstrances, and
                  protestations—when some one exclaimed:
               "Well, I reckon she'll have to go now, or fare worse—for here comes a
                  constable."
               "Where?" cried John, looking eagerly around.
               "There!" replied the other—"Constable Pat Cafferty—coming across the street."
               Instantly John let go of Ellen; and, darting through the ring of by-standers, made
                  good his escape.
               "What's all the muss here, jist?" demanded the Constable, in a pompous tone, as he
                  came up to the group speaking in the broad brogue of a low-bred Hibernian. "What,
                  in the fiend's name, is ye all afther doing here, jist? disturbing the pace, wid
                  yer internal hullabaloo?"
               The speaker was a mean-looking, little man—with a red, pock-marked face, small
                  eyes, and a short, turned up nose—who appeared to be highly inflated with the idea
                  of his own importance.
               The person who had first recognized the Constable, now fastened to explain the
                  whole matter, as he understood it—adding, that the story of the youth might be all
                  false, as he had run away the moment he saw the officer approaching.
               "Rin away, did he, the spalpeen?" rejoined the great little man; why didn't ye
                  stop him? And it's yersilf, is it, that's the tief of the night now?" he
                  continued, seizing hold of the trembling little orphan, in a very rough manner.
                  "It's yersilf, is it, ye tief ye, as is disturbing honest paples, wid yer
                  hullabaloo? Agh! it's mesilf as will put the likes of ye now, where ye'll be safe
                  till the morning, jist—and for some time afther, I'm thinking!"
               "Oh! sir, don't take me away—please don't!" cried little Ellen. "Oh! sir, please
                  let me go! I haven't done any thing wrong—indeed, indeed I haven't!"
               "Whist! ye tief ye! And ye hasn't done ony thing wrong? Hear that now! Whoop! hear
                  that now! Wid yer hullabaloo, and the disturbance of the pace! And it's not wrong
                  is it, jist? Och! ye're a dape one! ye're a cunning vagabond, now! Nothing wrong
                  is't? Whoop! but ye're dangerous in society, wid yer contaminations and lies, now!
                  Troth! it's mesilf as will tak' care o' the likes, of ye, and kape ye from doing
                  wrong! Raising a mob is nothing wrong, is it? Och! we'll see! we'll let you cipher
                  that out down below,*
                     jist, ye tief!"
               
                  
                  *The phrase, "sending down below," is often used in Philadelphia, for
                     confining in the County Prison.
               
               
               Then, as this mighty Constable began to drag away his trembling little captive, he
                  deigned to honor the crowd, whose numbers were rapidly augmenting, with some very
                  sage advice.
               "Disperse wid ye! disperse wid ye! every one of ye! and go to your homes now! and
                  kape the pace! and beware of the law!" And then to Ellen: "Come, ye tief! and trot
                  your trotters jist! and whist your crying now! It's a beauthiful buzness ye's been
                  afther doing, ye vagabond! to raise this mob, to disturb the pace! Och! ye'll land
                  in the watch-house the night—and the prison the morrow—and be hanged the next day,
                  it's like—and there's an ind for ye to tink aboot, ye little vagabond!"
               Little Ellen, seeing it was in vain to protest against her arrest, to such a brute
                  of an officer, now gave up the idea in despair; and suppressing her agonized
                  emotions as much as possible, she trotted along by his side, wondering what new
                  troubles were in store for her, and when they would have an end.
               Having got fairly clear of the Infected District and the crowd, which had followed
                  him some distance, Pat Cafferty suddenly entered a drinking house, taking his
                  little prisoner into the bar-room with him, where she beheld some half-a-dozen
                  rough-looking fellows, lounging about, with tumblers in their hands, alternately
                  drinking, and swearing, and boisterously talking politics. In the bar stood a
                  dirty, bloated, red-faced Irishman, who seemed to be every way fitted to serve as
                  a sign that he sold bad liquors and extensively patronized himself.
               "And who've ye got this time, Pat?" inquired the host of the Constable, as the
                  later advanced to the bar, and deposited three cents, as a new investment in his
                  favorite beverage.
               "The fiend's own tief, it's like, Mickey!" answered Cafferty ferty, with a
                  mysterious shake of the head. "Och! but she's a dangerous cratur in society now!
                  and it's a time I had to arrest her, sure, as little as she looks, the spalpeen!
                  Ah! Mickey, (emptying his glass,) it's a sorry world this same—and a sorry life is
                  a constabble's, as gits no credit for his devotion to the public weal!"
               "That's thrue for ye, Pat," replied the other; "and if ye had yer deserts, ye'd be
                  Alderman, or Mayor, for yer vigilance. But what did she do, Pat?"
               "I'll tell ye private, as a frind, now, so I will," replied the Constable,
                  mysteriously, leaning over the bar, and speaking in a tone scarcely above a
                  whisper. "Government secrets must be kept, d'ye mind, Mickey?"
               "Thrue for ye, Pat; and on the honor of the ancient family of O'Rourke—"
               "Troth! and don't I know ye for a frind, Mickey?" interrupted the other; "and when
                  I knows a man for a frind, by St. Pathrick's bones! it's mesilf as can trust him,
                  d'ye see? I'd tak' a drop more, Mickey, my friend—but divil of a dirthy copper now
                  have I got aboot me."
               "Niver mind, Pat—ye'll drink wid me now!" said the worthy landlord, pouring his
                  villainous compound into two glasses, which were speedily emptied. "And now let's
                  have the sacret!"
               "And sure for ye, and what d'ye say to inciting to riot, Mickey?"
               "Howly mother! and so young, too!"
               "Yes, Mickey; and, it's like, mesilf'll git more kicks than thanks for venturing
                  my life to tak' her from her supporters. Och! but it's a sorry life, this same
                  constabbling!"
               "By me sowl! ye desarve well of yer adopted counthry!" said Mickey O'Rourke,
                  enthusiastically; "and I'll do my indivors, at the next ward-mating, to git ye
                  nominated Mayor, so I will."
               
               "And if I'm elicted, ye shall have ony office ye want, my frind, besides yer
                  license for nothing, and my patronage!" returned Pat Cafferty, proudly. "But, by
                  St. Pathrick! it's mesilf as must go now, and deposit this vagabond in the
                  watch-house, before the spalpeens come down for a rescue, jist."
               "And can you venture with the likes of her alone, Pat, now? and she so great a
                  vagabond?"
               "I must, Mickey—it's my duthy, as the dread constabble of the law, d'ye mind?"
               "Are ye armed thorough now?"
               "A shillalah's all."
               "Better tak' a pistol!"
               "Divil a bit—it's mesilf as isn't afeard, at all, at all. She'll go quiet
                  now."
               "Och! but ye're courageous, Pat Cafferty."
               "The same to yersilf, Mickey O'Rourke—and a good e'en to ye."
               "Ye'll come back and report now?"
               "I will that same, 'pon me sowl!"
               "Well, good-bye to ye—and tak' care of yersilf, jist!" With this, Patrick Cafferty
                  and Michael O'Rourke shook hands, with all the solemnity worthy of such a parting,
                  and the mighty Constable immediately set off alone with his dangerous
                  prisoner.
               "Och! but ye're fearful in society, so ye is!" said the Constable to poor little
                  Ellen, as he hurried her along through the streets. "'Inciting to riot, now, and
                  the like! Tare and ouns! but ye'll be hanged, d'ye mind!"
               "I didn't do any thing, sir! indeed I didn't!" sobbed little Ellen, in reply. "I
                  was going alone, very quietly, sir, when John M'Callan caught hold of me, and
                  tried to drag me away to some bad place."
               "John M'Callan, d'ye say? Agh! thin ye was in bad company. I'll say that for him,
                  if I am liking the owld woman, his mother. Faith! it's a clane case aginst ye! as
                  plain as the nose on me face; and if the paples had ony gratithude, for services
                  rindered for their security, sure it's Pat Cafferty as 'ud be the next Mayor,
                  jist."
               "Oh! sir, please do let me go!" pleaded Ellen, sobbingly, "I wasn't doing any
                  thing bad, sir—indeed, indeed I wasn't! John M'Callan stopped me, and wanted to
                  drag me away, I don't know where; and I was calling for help, and that drew the
                  crowd around. Oh! sir, I've done nothing. Please let me go to my kind friends—and
                  I will bless you, sir, and pray Heaven to bless you too!"
               The great man of the law was overwhelmed at the audacity of his dangerous
                  prisoner, in repeating her request, and he almost fancied that his ears had
                  deceived him. What! could she for a moment suppose that any earthly
                  consideration—or, for that matter, heavenly either—would induce him to so far
                  forget his duty, as to set at liberty a prisoner under his charge? and, more
                  especially, a prisoner guilty of inciting to riot? as she really was, according to
                  the muddled ideas that crowded his muddled brain. But most probably his ears had
                  deceived him. He stopped by a street lamp, where he could get a distinct view of
                  little Ellen's face and said:
               "What's that? what's that? Will ye be afther repating it to me, now? Did me
                  seventeen sinses desave, me, jist? or did ye say something aboot my litting ye
                  go!"
               "Oh! yes, sir!" replied Ellen: "I said if you would only let me go to my friends,
                  I would bless you as long as I lived, and would pray Heaven to bless you too,
                  sir."
               "Tare and ouns!" cried the Constable, holding up both hands in astonishment; that
                  me mother's son should iver live to hear the likes, wid me own ears! To tink of
                  coaxing mesilf, Pat Cafferty, into a compound felony! Whoop! but ye're dangerous! ye'd contaminate a
                  saint, so ye would! Let ye go now? Whoop! let ye go now? And to me too, ye said
                  it! to me, ye spalpeen! to me, the dread constabble of the law! Och! but this
                  same's a dangerous world we live in!"
               "And won't you let me go, sir?"
               "Agin!" gasped the Constable. "Come along wid yer contaminations! Ye'll be hanged
                  the morrow, jist, and sarve ye right! Ay! by me sowl! it's trying to vartue, this
                  same constabbling! and the man that's under Mayor, can niver be above temptations!
                  So come along wid ye! and howld yer whist now! It's like to be hanged, ye is!"
               With these consoling words, the incorruptible man of office hurried little Ellen
                  forward; and as she trotted along by his side, he preached her a regular sermon,
                  upon the heinousness of the offence of attempting to corrupt one possessed of such
                  immaculate principles as himself. During this discourse, which was seasoned with
                  all the peculiar idioms in Pat Cafferty's vocabulary, little Ellen was taken past
                  the door of Deacon Absalom Pinchbeck. She recognized the house with a shudder—for
                  she remembered the scene in which she had figured within those walls some months
                  before—and instinct, if not reason, told her that there resided an enemy of all
                  who might chance to be unfortunate. Little did she dream, though, how great an
                  enemy to herself, individually, was the master of that dwelling; and that to his
                  wicked plots was she indebted for all the troubles which had recently come upon
                  her.
               Passing down Eighth street to Christian, the officer, with his little charge,
                  turned westward; and pursuing this latter thoroughfare across Ninth street, at
                  length made a halt before a large, fine-looking building, which was surmounted
                  with a cupola, had a lighted clock on its front, and was entered by a long flight
                  of stone steps, under an imposing posing colonnade. Bright jets of gas, from two
                  street lamps, threw the building into strong relief against the dark back-ground
                  of night, and revealed, to the wondering gaze of the little orphan, the stately,
                  massive structure, on the opposite side of the way, known as the church of St.
                  Paul.
               To little Ellen, coming from the gloomy locality we have described into the bright
                  light, the building nearest her looked more like a palace than a loathsome prison;
                  but if she for a moment fancied it was a place for happy hearts and bright
                  thoughts, she was doomed to be speedily undeceived; for the officer, after a brief
                  halt, during which he exchanged a few words, in a low tone, with a rough-looking
                  individual, again hurried her forward—not up the street, nor up the stone
                  steps—but to a side door in the rear, through which she was conducted down into a
                  dark, gloomy, dismal passage, extending along past damp, filthy, malarious cells,
                  which, so far from being fit to contain human beings, were actually not worthy of
                  the very swine that run at large in the streets. Opening the door of one of the
                  filthiest of these cells, the Constable rudely thrust little Ellen into it,
                  saying:
               "There ye'll be safe, ye tief! and in the morning, it's mesilf as will appear
                  against ye, jist. Whist, now, wid yer blubbering noise!"
               He closed the door, and locked it, leaving the poor little orphan a prey to new
                  fears and horrors.
               The cell in which she was now confined, was small and close, damp and filthy, and
                  the stench was sickening. There was nothing to sit upon, and only the moist, slimy
                  ground, under her feet, upon which to lie; and in this awful hole, whose last
                  occupant was a ragged, drunken wretch, she was destined to pass another night of
                  misery—misery beyond the power of the pen to portray, if not the imagination to conceive. While standing here,
                  sobbing, and leaning against one of the walls, to support her tottering frame, and
                  wishing she were dead and at rest, the key turned in the lock, the door opened,
                  and, the Constable, with a glass lantern in his hand, entered, and coolly surveyed
                  her, frown head to foot.
               "And, sure," he said, "it's like, now, ye'd best be tilling me where ye stole the
                  fine clothes from, that ye've got on?"
               "Oh! sir, I didn't steal them!" sobbed little Ellen; "indeed, indeed I didn't,
                  sir! I'll tell you, sir, where I got them. I—"
               "Whist, now, wid yer lies!" interrupted Constable Cafferty—it's mesilf as'll not
                  hear 'em now! And troth, now, and what else did ye stale? it's that I wants to
                  know. Out wid it now, ye little tief! what else did ye stale?"
               "Nothing, sir—I never stole any thing in my life—I wouldn't do such a wicked
                  thing, sir—oh! indeed, indeed I wouldn't!"
               "I'll see for mesilf. What's that ye've got in yer fist there, that ye're howlding
                  so tight, jist? Open, till I see, ye tief!"
               Ellen opened her trembling hand, and displayed, to the astonished and avaricious
                  gaze of the officer, the splendid necklace and diamond ring which she had received
                  from the ill-fated Margaret, to return to her sweet cousin Rosalind. Pat Cafferty
                  snatched the jewels from her hand, and hurriedly examined them by the light of the
                  lantern. It needed no very long scrutiny, to convince him that they were genuine;
                  and looking quickly around to the partly opened door, to be certain that no other
                  human being witnessed the act, he thrust them into his pocket, and said in a low,
                  guarded tone:
               "Whist, now, wid ye! Don't spake of the likes to ony one—it might hang ye, jist!
                  Och! but it's grateful ye should be, now, that ye fell into the hands of sich an
                  officer as mesilf! But don't spake of the trinkets to his honor, the Alderman,
                  when ye come before him in the morning—it might be a hanging matter, so it might.
                  It's mesilf as'll be asy wid ye now, and not bring 'em aginst ye, at all, at
                  all."
               "But please, sir, give them back to me!" said Ellen, "They're not mine, sir—they
                  belong to my dear friend Rosalind—and were stolen from her by a man, that came in
                  the night, and took me away with him, and locked me up in his house. I had just
                  got away from him and was trying to find my way back—"
               "Ye're lying now, so ye is!" interrupted the Constable; "and, sure, ye knows it!
                  It's mesilf as knows they was stolen—and ye're the tief; but don't mintion 'em to
                  his honor, and I'll not bring 'em aginst ye."
               "If you'll give them back to me, sir," sobbed little Ellen "I'll do as you say,
                  and say nothing about them, till I see dear Rosalind again."
               "Give 'em, back, is't? give 'em back, now? Troth! but ye're a dape one! wid the
                  cunning of the Owld Sarpint in ye! See here now—ye'll not git 'em, no ye won't;
                  and if ye spake, of 'em, it's mesilf as'll swear ye stole 'em; and then it's like
                  ye'll be hanged for your wicked doings. Give 'em back! Whoop! whist wid yer
                  nonsense! And have ye ony more, jist?"
               "No, sir."
               "In yer bosom, it's like, ye have!"
               "No sir, I haven't any more," sobbed Ellen.
               "Well, thin, go to slape till morning—and say nothing aboot 'em to his honor—and
                  it's like I'll git ye off from being hanged."
               With this the officer hurried out, and locked the door, and little Ellen was again in darkness, and alone,
                  and felt as if Heaven itself had given her over to the powers of evil. She wept,
                  till the fountain of her tears became dry; she stood, till her weak and trembling
                  limbs refused to support her; and then she sunk down in despair, on the damp, 
                     filthyg round
                     filthy ground
                  , and moaned in her anguish—in concert with many other wretched beings,
                  in other cells around her—till a kind of obliviousness, akin to sleep, sealed up
                  her senses.
               And so past that awful night.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXI.
               THE COMMITMENT.
               THE gray of morning was just beginning to dispel the deep shadows of night, when
                  little Ellen, partially aroused from her torpor—it could scarcely be called
                  sleep—strove to pierce the black gloom which still enveloped her. It was some time
                  before she could collect her scattered and half-shattered faculties, so as to
                  comprehend her real condition; and then she fairly groaned at the thought that she
                  was still alive.
               Oh! how deep must be the anguish, in the heart of one so young, to make life seem
                  a burden! But there are thousands, and tens of thousands, in our own broad, Heaven
                  favored land, to say nothing of other countries, whose sands have not yet numbered
                  ten solar revolutions of the earth, who have so bitterly felt the heavy hand of
                  oppression, that Death, painted as it is in a form the most terrible, only seems
                  to them a kind of gloomy gateway, through which they may pass to a place of
                  eternal rest, and through which their crushed and weary spirits long to pass. Ah!
                  deeply do we regret to say, that it is as true to-day, in the face of
                  Christianity, as when the pen of the poor peasant-poet Burns recorded it, that 
                     
                        "Man's inhumanity to man,
                        Makes countless thousands mourn."
                     
                  
               
               Do you, kind reader—sympathetic reader, shall we say—whose eye is now lingering
                  upon this page—do you not know of some poor, neglected, friendless little being,
                  whose distress you might assuage—whose sorrows you might alleviate—whose path, now
                  strewed with thorns, a little exertion on your part might strew with flowers? Do
                  you know of none so circumstanced? If a dweller in a great city, they are all
                  around you—every wretched street, alley, and court will send them forth by scores,
                  if not by hundreds. Do you know of none? Then do your duty, and seek them out, and
                  labor for their relief and reformation! They are young—not yet hardened in
                  vice—more unfortunate than vicious—and you can, if you will, make them good and
                  useful citizens—and the next generation will be one step higher in the great scale
                  of progression. Are you a Christian—a member of church—a professed follower of
                  Christ? Then go, and do as your Great Master commanded! and look for your reward,
                  when He shall say, "Even as ye did it unto one of the least of these, ye did it
                  unto me." Perhaps you are not a member of church—yet God and humanity do none the
                  less require this duty of you, as one of the great human family, who have one
                  common Father in Heaven, and who must be more or less a partaker of the joys and
                  sorrows around you on earth. For what do you live? Is this life all? Is there no
                  hereafter? If this life is all, it is very short at the longest, and you should strive to enjoy it, by making it
                  a happy life to such as now feel it a burden. And you will be amply repaid, even
                  here—for one good, noble, disinterested deed, will give you more real enjoyment,
                  than you have ever found in all the fleeting pleasures you have ever sought. But
                  this life is not all; it is but the beginning of a life that will never end; and
                  remember! in the next state of existence, where all the distinctions of earth will
                  be cast aside as so much worthless chaff, you will be called upon to render an
                  account of your stewardship! Happy you, if your conscience can say: "I did my duty
                  to my God, to myself, and to my fellow beings!"
               Poor little Ellen, as we have said, awakened to a consciousness of her own
                  desolate condition, now groaned at the thought that she had yet to live and bear
                  her sorrows—sorrows which seemed every moment gathering around her and thickening
                  into a gloom as black and cheerless as the rayless atmosphere she breathed. And
                  her groan of anguish seemed to find more than one response in the breasts of other
                  miserable beings, in other miserable cells, adjoining. And with the moans and
                  groans that came to her ear, came blasphemous oaths from hoarse-voices, mingled
                  with curses loud and bitter; and she shuddered at the sounds, and felt as if she
                  were one among the damned. She got up from the damp, filthy-ground, her little
                  limbs so cold, and stiff, and benumbed, that she could scarcely stand. And even
                  then, forlorn and hopeless as she was, she remembered the sweet words of her
                  mother in her dream, and besought the protection of her Heavenly Father; and
                  prayed for patience and resignation to endure, uncomplainingly, all the evils
                  which might beset her, till the end of life, or the end of affliction should come.
                  Though no human eye beheld her, it was a beautiful sight to angels, to see that
                  poor, friendless, almost heartbroken little orphan, standing in the place of the
                  criminal, alone, enveloped in the darkest gloom of earth, appealing, with the
                  trusting faith of an innocent child, to Him who notes even the fall of a sparrow.
                  It was a beautiful sight to angels, because it told them that she was one of the
                  children of earth, who had secured a glorious, place among their own bright,
                  glorious homes on high!
               It was not long, ere the increasing daylight began to penetrate even the wretched
                  cell in which little Ellen was confined; and then she began to hear sounds, as of
                  the unlocking of the different cells around her, and of the dragging forth of the
                  wretched inmates, mingled with curses and blasphemies, and many other harsh and
                  brutal words, passed back and forth between the officers and those who might with
                  some propriety be termed their victims. Ellen trembled more than ever; for she
                  knew, from what the Constable had told her, that it would soon be her turn to be
                  brought before the mighty Magistrate, whose mere word, she in her simplicity and
                  ignorance of law believed, would be sufficient to free her, or consign her to
                  death.
               And true to her expectations, the key was soon heard turning in the lock; of her
                  own wretched cell, the door was jerked open, and the mean-looking face of little
                  Pat Cafferty, the great Constable, appeared to the view of the trembling
                  orphan.
               "Come!" he said, seizing her roughly by the arm—"out of this, ye little tief! and
                  lit his honor sittle yer buzness, along wid the rest of yer ragamuffin tribe,
                  now!" Then he whispered in her ear: "If ye spake of the trinkets ye stole, ye
                  tief, it's mesilf as'll be the death of ye, so I will!"
               Poor little Ellen, too much terrified to speak, made no reply; and the officer
                  hurried her along the passage, to a
                  little room, partitioned off near the entrance, into which she was thrust without
                  ceremony. The room was small, and, was well filled with police officers, and
                  wretched beings of the lowest grade, ragged and filthy in the extreme. Two of the
                  party were black; while the others might, by way of distinction; be termed
                  white—though the complexion of more than one, was the color of dirty tan.
               Inside of a railing, and perched on a seat, with a kind of desk in front of him,
                  on which lay waiting materials, was the great Mogul of the occasion. He was a
                  human biped, who, in his general appearance, had a meaner look than Pat Cafferty
                  himself—and this is saying a great deal. He was about forty-five years of age,
                  with a long, thin, sharp, half-starved face—a sinister-looking mouth—a snub-nose—a
                  cold, heartless gray eye—beetling brows—a low, retreating forehead—and dark,
                  matted, uncombed hair.
               He wore an old hat—which, instead of being put on respectably, seemed rather
                  smashed down on one side of his head—and between his teeth he held the short stem
                  of a smoke-black pipe, from which he was very industriously drawing in, to be as
                  industriously puffed out, the sickening fumes of the rankest kind of pig-tail
                  tobacco. On this great man of office, who owed his position to the free suffrage
                  of drunken beggars, thieves, cut-throats, and all sorts of scoundrels and
                  villains—for we have too good an opinion of human nature generally, to believe one
                  honest man ever voted for him—on this great man of office, we say—who rejoiced in
                  the euphonious distinction of His Honor, Alderman Felix McGrabby—little Ellen at
                  once fixed her eyes, knowing, as it were intuitively, that he was the individual
                  who had the power to decide her fate. And what that decision would be, she knew by
                  an instinct—not unlike that which tells the innocent little dove that the soaring
                  hawk is its worst enemy. So intent was her scrutiny of that villainous face, that
                  she had scarcely noticed any of the other occupants of this vile place, when she
                  felt some one squeeze her arm; and looking around, she was surprised to see Nabob
                  Hunchy standing by her side. His features were swollen and dirty, his cheeks paler
                  than usual, and his eyes slightly red and bleared—all denoting that he had very
                  recently been indulging in his favorite pastime of getting beastly drunk.
               "I'm going down below for the twenty-seventh time, for being found elevated in the
                  gutter," he whispered, with a grin. "But what brought you here, my little
                  lady?"
               Before Ellen had time to reply, an officer, to show his importance, rudely jerked
                  the poor Hunchback from her side, and commanded silence.
               "Who's that? who's that? as hasn't the fear of contimpt of Coort before his eyes?"
                  cried His Honor, Felix McGrabby, with a proud look of indignation, as he surveyed
                  the wretched group before him.
               "It's Nob Hunchy, so it is, your Honor," replied the officer, another bad specimen
                  of Hibernian extraction.
               "Agh! I know the rascal—it's the like of him I've saan here mony times, so I have.
                  What's he up for now, Pater?"
               "Gitting drunk, your Honor."
               "Agh! the baste! down below wid him agin, for a vagabond vagrant, jist!" He
                  hurriedly scrawled a few words on a piece of paper, and added: "Here, Pater, tak'
                  him away—tak' him away—out of me sight, now!"
               As the Hunchback was hurried from the august presence, His Honor inquired:
               "Who next now? Come! hurry, ye divils! for it's mesilf as wants a warm breakfast,
                  jist."
               
               "Well, your Honor,"—began a stout, broad, red-faced Irish woman, who stood near
                  the desk.
               "Whist now!" cried Felix McGrabby. "What's your name, jist?"
               "Biddy O'Shaughnessy, your Honor."
               His Honor wrote it down.
               "Well, Biddy," he said, "what ye got agin yoursilf?" and he winked his eye to
                  little Pat Cafferty, as much as to say, "You see how facetious mesilf is."
               Pat Cafferty felt proud, and Biddy O'Shaughnessy hastened to reply:
               "It's not agin mesilf, your Honor—but that wretch there, Mary Mulholland."
               Mary Mulholland, the wretch alluded to, was a pale, delicate-looking woman, whose
                  appearance, comparatively speaking, was tidy, and whose interesting face was the
                  picture of distress.
               "Tak' your oath—tak' your oath, Biddy," said the Magistrate. And the oath being
                  administered, he added: "Now git on wid ye—and be quick boot it!"
               "Well, your Honor," pursued Biddy; "it's afeard of me life I is. Mary lives in the
                  same house wid mesilf, in Baker street; and last night she got out wid me, and
                  struck me, and said she'd be the death of me.
               "Your Honor," replied the poor woman, who spoke correctly, and had evidently seen
                  better days—"it is not true that I struck her—but she struck me; and then for fear
                  I would complain of her, she hurried off and had me arrested."
               "Ye lie! and ye knows it!" cried Biddy.
               "Whist, you owld fool!" exclaimed his Honor. "I'll make short work here. Mary,
                  ye'll have to find five hundred dollars bail, to appear before the Coort, to
                  answer for an aggravated case of assault and battery, wid intent to kill, and pay
                  the costs now, or go below wid ye!"
               "Oh! don't send me to prison, your Honor! I am a poor woman, with a sick husband,
                  and three little children depending on me for support!" cried the wretched mother,
                  in a piteous tone.
               "Fiends tak' your husband and your brats!" returned Felix McGrabby, savagely.
                  "It's mesilf as has nought to do wid them same—but wid yoursilf now. Have ye got
                  ony money now?"
               "No, your Honor."
               "And ony one to go bail for ye?"
               "No, your Honor."
               "Thin stop your noise, till I make out your commitment!"
               "Oh! don't, your Honor!"
               "Whilst! or I'll put ye down below for contimpt of Coort, so I will."
               In a few minutes, the order for her incarceration in a gloomy prison was made out,
                  and handed to an officer; and Mary Mulholland was hurried off to her dreary
                  abode—leaving her sick husband and children to starve—while her vile accuser went
                  away rejoicing.*
                  
                     *
                     If any one thinks this scene exaggerated, we refer him to the Prison Records
                        of WM. J. MULLEN, ESQ., of Philadelphia.
                  
               
               "Well, you black rascal," pursued the great Felix, as his eye chanced to fall upon
                  one of the two negroes—"it's to be hoped your vartues is whiter than your face,
                  jist." This bit of pleasantry of his Honor, was hugely enjoyed by all but the
                  subject of the joke, who showed the whites of his eyes, and looked indignant.
                  What's your name?"
               "Robert Carter."
               "What is't agin Robert Carter?"
               
               "Your Honor," replied the negro, "I jest come to 'cuse dat odder nigger."
               "Guess I isn't more nigger nor you'seff," was the response of the accused.
               "Whist, ye blaggards, in his Honor's prisence!" cried Constable Cafferty.
               "Tak' the oath!" said Felix; and hurry wid ye! There now—there now—what is't,
                  jist?"
               "Dat dar nigger—" began Robert.
               "Stop!" interrupted the Magistrate—"what's his name?"
               "Sam Johnson."
               "Where d'ye live now?"
               "In Small street, your Honor."
               "Well, go on—go on wid ye."
               "He stole my coat, dat dar Sam."
               "Who else knows aboot it?" inquired McGrabby.
               "I do, your Honor, said a Constable—"I found the coat on him."
               "That's enough—whist, now! Five hundred dollars bail now, Sam. Who'll give
                  security? Nobody, in coorse. Ye'll come up to Coort, ye will. Here," (writing the
                  commitment,) "tak' him down below, jist!"
               Thus one after another the cages were summarily disposed of, by Alderman McGrabby,
                  who kept pulling away at his old dirty pipe, as if he expected to get that warm
                  breakfast from it, for which his aldermanic stomach so ardently longed.
               At last it came little Ellen's turn to have her fate decided; and the thought that
                  the time had come for her to know the worst, causes her to tremble very much, and
                  her very teeth to chatter in her head.
               "Well, Pat, my frind," said the great Alderman—"what brat have you in tow, this
                  fine morning?"
               "Och! sure, your Honor," replied Pat, scratching his head, and smoothing down the
                  hair on his forehead—"it's mesilf as is always doing me duthy to me
                  counthry—though it's not; mesilf as should say the likes, now."
               "Well, git on wid ye—git on wid ye! ye're always having too much blarney for your
                  worst fault—and me breakfast as'll be gitting cowld the whiles, jist!" rejoined
                  the mighty Felix, impatiently.
               "Well, your Honor, ye see, as mesilf was coming up Shippen street, last night, I
                  saan a big crowd aboot to git into a riot, it's like; and stepping over to 'em, I
                  found this little vagabond, stirring 'em, up to sedition, it's like; and at the
                  risk of me life, I arrested her, and put her in the lock-up, for your Honor's wise
                  judgment this morning, so I did."
               "What's your name?" cried McGrabby, scowling savagely at the poor little
                  orphan.
               "E-E-El-len Nor-bu-bury, sir!" she stammered.
               "Whist, ye spalpeen! where's yer manners?" exclaimed the Constable, giving her a
                  rough shake, and looking very important and indignant. "Ye're spaking to his Honor
                  now, as if he was a common gentleman, jist. Whoop! where's yer manners, ye little
                  tief, now?"
               "Wha-wha-what shall I—I—say?" gasped Ellen, more terrified than ever.
               "What'll ye say, ye bother? Och! who iver heerd the likes! What'll ye say, now?
                  Troth! ye're an ignoramus, so ye is! What'll ye say, is it? Say 'his Honor,' when
                  ye spakes to the likes of himsilf. Isn't his Honor, Felix McGrabby, a Alderman?
                  answer me that same!"
               "Howld up your blarney, Pat!" cried the great Felix. "Ye've no feeling now, so ye
                  haven't! Don't I till ye as it's me breakfast as'll be gitting cowld, if ye kape
                  me here the day, wid your blather?"
               
               "Well, your Honor, it's mesilf as'll be dacent the whiles, now, so I will,"
                  replied the Constable: "only don't hang her, your Honor!" and he winked familiarly
                  at the great Felix, who seemed to swell with importance.
               "What's your name?" demanded the Magistrate again.
               "Ellen Norbury, sir—that is, I mean—"
               She paused, and looked appealingly at the Constable, who gave her a shove, and
                  whispered:
               "His Honor, ye spalpeen!"
               Ellen did not exactly understand the phrase—but fearing further reproof, hastened
                  to stammer out:
               "His Honor, the spalpeen."
               Great men seldom like to have unpleasant names attached to them—their greatness
                  being about as much as they can carry; and such was the case in the present
                  instance, with His Honor, Alderman Felix McGrabby—who got very red in the face,
                  very suddenly, and jerked the dirty pipe from between his teeth, which fortunately
                  fell to the ground and flew into fragments.
               "What's that? what's that? you impertinent scapegallows!" cried Felix, forgetting
                  for the moment all about the warm breakfast he was so likely to lose.
               "He told me to say it, sir—his Honor, I mean," said Ellen, bursting into
                  tears.
               "Me? I towld you to call mesilf a spalpeen?" almost yelled McGrabby.
               "No, his Honor, this gentleman," sobbed Ellen, pointing to the astounded and
                  indignant Cafferty.
               "But I'm his Honor—not the likes of him!" cried McGrabby.
               "She's a dape liar, so she is!" rejoined the Constable.
               "Well, I'll fix the likes of her! calling mesilf names, and tilling me I towld her
                  to do it, jist!" roared the infuriated Magistrate. "Where d'ye live, now?"
               "I don't know where I live, sir," sobbed the poor child, not daring to venture
                  again upon the use of the phrase, "his Honor," for fear of making another faux pas.
               "Tare and ouns! she don't know where she lives!" exclaimed Pat, holding up both
                  hands in astonishment. "Och! sure, but your Honor'll be after giving her a place
                  that she'll know where she slapes o' nights, now!"
               "Whist! howld your tongue!" cried his Honor. "I'll tind to her! I'll fix her, the
                  baste! Ye'll be fined for contimpt of Coort, now, so ye will!" he continued,
                  addressing the trembling Ellen, and plying his pen rapidly at the same time; "and
                  ye'll have big costs to pay; and ye'll go below for a vagabond; and it's like
                  ye'll come before another Coort, for a tief—for disturbing the pace—or some sich
                  unhowly thing, jist!" He finished writing, and dashed the paper over the desk to
                  Pat Cafferty—adding, in great wrath: "There! there! tak' her away now—tak' her
                  away, out of me sight, jist! and may she niver show her face in me prisence
                  agin!"
               To the closing remarks, little Ellen's heart said, "Amen."
               The sun was up, and shining bright and clear upon the busy town, as poor little
                  Ellen, in charge of the vile Constable who had arrested her, took her way through
                  the streets to the dreary prison—which rears its massive, solemn walls, and lofty
                  turrets, looking like some grand old castle of ancient days, upon the southern
                  limits of the thickly-settled portion of Philadelphia. Pat Cafferty lectured her
                  for some time, upon the heinous crime of insulting so great a Magistrate as Felix
                  McGrabby; but Ellen had deeper sorrows in her heart, with which to occupy her
                  thoughts; and Pat Cafferty's sage remarks, and wise counsel, made no impression
                  upon her plastic mind, because, fortunately, she did not comprehend a word he said. She met and passed persons who
                  stared hard at her—some with looks of mere curiosity, and many with looks of
                  sympathy—but she took little notice of any, and no one addressed her.
               "It's in there, ye'll tak' lodgings, ye little vagabond!" exclaimed the Constable
                  as they came in sight of the massive prison.
               Ellen looked up, and shuddered and then she turned her eyes upon the warm, bright
                  sun, and wondered if she would ever behold it again; and then she thought of dear
                  Rosalind, and how happy she had been with her in her splendid home, and wondered
                  if she would ever see her sweet face again; and then she burst into tears, and
                  wept, and sobbed, till she reached the wicket-gate of the castellated prison, in
                  which she was to be immured as in a living tomb.
               She was now transferred to one of the keepers, and hurried forward, through gloomy
                  passages, and across a very pretty garden, into the female department, where she
                  was consigned to a matron, who asked a few brief questions, and conducted her
                  again through long, stately, well-ventilated corridors, to an empty cell, which
                  she entered with a sinking heart, and saw the door close, and heard the lock turn,
                  and felt every ray of hope shut out from her innocent heart.
               There was a straw mattress upon the floor; and as poor little Ellen discovered
                  this, by the dull light which came in through a high, narrow window, she threw
                  herself heavily upon it, and uttered one long groan of despair.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXII.
               RETRIBUTION.
               WE left Deacon Pinchbeck entering the house of death, to sit as one of the
                  Coroner's jury upon the body of poor Margaret Cassady. Had there been any
                  suspicion in the mind of the 
                     Coronor
                     Coroner
                   of the Deacon's guilty doings, it would doubtless have received
                  confirmation from the singular manner in which he at first conducted himself; but
                  attributing his agitation to some less criminal cause, the officer merely noticed
                  it, without making any remark. Nor was the Deacon's apparent agitation of long
                  duration; for when he saw the corpse was that of a woman, and not of the child he
                  expected to find, he so far recovered himself, as to appear outwardly
                  composed—though the conscience-lighted fires of guilt were burning within, and
                  every moment threatening an eruption, like the smothered flames of a charged
                  volcano.
               After due deliberation, the verdict was rendered as verdicts generally are, in the
                  absence of any material facts—that the deceased came to her death by some cause,
                  or causes, unknown to the jury; and being a poor, drunken wretch, without friends,
                  and the letter of the law being thus carried out, the Coroner was satisfied, the
                  jurors were dismissed, and orders were issued to some hungry undertaker, to have
                  her body decently deposited in the burying ground appropriated to poor and
                  friendless strangers.
               The Deacon breathed freer when he found himself relieved of the unpleasant business in which he had
                  been compelled to take an active part—but he was still very far from being a happy
                  man. He had, it seemed to him, only cleverly got clear of one serious predicament,
                  to find himself plunged into another. What had become of Ellen Norbury? Was she
                  living or dead? After all the painful excitement he had just undergone, he was no
                  wiser now concerning her fate than he was before. Had the Burglar really played a
                  trick upon him, and got his money for nothing? It was a great sum—ten thousand
                  dollars—a tremendous sum—a sum that, in his usual course of management, would have
                  made him the fortunate possessor of several more valuable houses; and as the
                  Deacon reflected upon it, he groaned at the thought of his loss. Yes, it was
                  certainly gone, and he would never be benefitted by it; for if
                     honestly earned, by the commission of the horrible deed for which
                  he had bargained, then he himself stood in danger of the gallows; and if not so
                  earned, then had he been fairly duped by a villain, who would laugh at him, for an
                  old fool, behind his back, and spend the money upon himself and his equally
                  villainous associates. It was a very unpleasant, a very disagreeable, matter, view
                  it in what light he might; and had the Deacon been a profane man, he would have
                  indulged in a few choice oaths at his own foolish, blundering, criminal
                  management; but being a worthy church-member, and not licensed to swear, he merely
                  conned over a few oaths which he would undoubtedly pronounce, were he only free to
                  speak his mind like common sinners.
               And then that impertinent Dr. Stanhope—that troublesome meddler in other people's
                  affairs, who should have been strangled at his birth—he had somehow got the right
                  clue to his guilty transaction; and he would be round, punctual to the time,
                  (unwelcome expected visiters are always punctual,) to know what had become of the
                  girl! What should he say to him? how manage to put him off? and, in short, what
                  would be the end of the whole matter? Something very disagreeable, to say the
                  least—perhaps something very terrible; and the Deacon shuddered, and groaned, and
                  wished he were, for the present, beyond the laws of civilization and the reach of
                  justice. In fact, law and justice were not so pleasant to contemplate just now, as
                  they had been whilom, when compelling some poor, starving wretch, and his starving
                  family, to vacate some one of his premises, in the dead of winter, at his lordly
                  bidding. No! law and justice were decidedly not as honest in their dealings as
                  they used to be; and he began to entertain some serious misgivings about the
                  profession of law being exactly suited to the precocious talents of his wonderful
                  son Nelson.
               This last train of reflection brought up a fact, which the worthy Deacon, owing to
                  recent matters of weighty consideration, had for a short time quite overlooked;
                  and his heart fairly leaped to his throat, as the truth suddenly flashed across
                  his plotting brain. Poor Nelson was at home, sick—the domestic had said very sick.
                  Goodness! what if something should happen to him? what if he should die? The
                  anxious father now felt his hair rise with a new horror, and his very skin grew
                  moist and clammy. Such a thing might be! Yes, it was possible! Children had been
                  known to die, whose parents were as pious as those of dear Nelson; and therefore
                  there was a possibility that Nelson might die; and as the Deacon very suddenly
                  quickened his steps, which had been all this time tending homeward, he very
                  earnestly and sincerely invoked the Lord, with whom he still considered himself on
                  rather good terms, to avert such a dire calamity from the house of His poor,
                  humble servant.
               
               Somewhat consoled with the idea that the Lord would hear and answer his prayer,
                  the Deacon's thoughts now very naturally reverted to his amiable wife; and he saw
                  her in imagination, as he had often seen her in reality, her face swollen and red
                  with a feeling passion—that would cling till death, unless tooth or
                  nail should give out and calling him to a strict account for disobedience of
                  orders, or a neglect of duty; while a mean-looking shadow, whose only redeeming
                  quality was its wonderful resemblance to himself, could be seen sneaking about
                  behind a chair, table, or sofa, prepared to dodge the quivering bolts just shot
                  from Cupid's bow, and which, to one not in love, had very much the appearance of
                  an outraged woman's hand or fist. This picture, which very naturally and rapidly
                  formed itself on the sensorium of the Deacon's cranium, was but little less
                  pleasant to contemplate, than that of the gloomy prison, with a criminal in the
                  cell—or that of the bar of justice, with a felon in the dock—or that of the
                  gallows, with a murderer hanging by a rope—or that of the dying boy, with a
                  heart-broken father bending over him; and, in the absence of all these, it was
                  really a fearful picture, and sufficient, of itself to make a man of very weak
                  nerves very nervous.
               It was therefore in no very enviable state of mind, that Deacon Absalom Pinchbeck,
                  for the second time that night, reached the steps of his dwelling, on his second
                  return from the Infected District, and this time at a rather late hour. Though
                  prepared for something of a rather serious nature, as we have shown, even
                  supposing all matters to appear in their most favorable aspect, the Deacon was
                  certainly not prepared for the awful reality which awaited him. On reaching the
                  steps of his dwelling, as already mentioned, his first surprise was to find the
                  outside door standing wide open; and his second, to hear several voices Within,
                  all speaking in excited tones several feet moving and shuffling about, and the
                  sounds as of persons running up and down stairs at the same time.
               "Goodness! mercy!" thought the Deacon; "what can be the matter here? what can have
                  happened?"
               Pale and agitated by the wildest fears, he stumbled up the steps, his knees fairly
                  knocking together in terror. At the door he was met by a neighbor, who was
                  hurrying out.
               "Why, is this you, Deacon?" cried the neighbor, in an excited tone.
               "Ye-ye-yes!" gasped Pinchbeck; "wha-what's the matter?"
               "Where is the doctor? is he coming?"
               "Wha-what doctor?" exclaimed the Deacon, thinking the other might have reference
                  to young Stanhope.
               "Any doctor, my dear sir! Why, have you not been for a physician? your girl told
                  me so."
               "Wha-what is it? who's sick Mr. Bentley?"
               "Why, your little boy, Heavens! I thought you knew it!"
               "Me! yes—so I did—knew he was ailing; but—but—I didn't know as it was any thing
                  very serious. I had some business—I was called away—I—ah—good Lord support me! is
                  he very sick?"
               "He is, Deacon—dangerously—we fear the worst—and I am hastening to get another
                  physician. Who will you have?"
               "Oh! anybody—anybody!" groaned the Deacon. "Oh! good Lord! what terrible news! Why
                  didn't some one go for a doctor sooner?"
               "There is one up stairs, a young man, one of our neighbors chanced to see passing,
                  and called in; and we should have hastened for your family physician, only it was
                  supposed you had gone for him yourself, and we have been expecting your return every moment; but the
                  case being so bad, the young man advised us not to wait any longer, but get one of
                  more experience than himself, as quick as we could. Shall I call Dr.
                  Jennings?"
               "Oh! yes—yes—anybody!" cried the Deacon, leaning against the wall for support.
               As Mr. Bentley hurried away, a female voice, from the top of the stairs, called
                  out:
               "Have you arrived, Deacon?"
               "Ye-yes, ma'am—I—I—I'm here," was the reply.
               "Please come up, quick, if you wish to see your child alive!"
               The Deacon nerved himself for something awful, and rushed up stairs like a madman.
                  In the front room of the second story, he found his wife seated in the middle of
                  the apartment, with her boy in her arms; and, standing around her, some
                  half-a-dozen persons, all females except the physician. The Deacon, taking no
                  notice of any one, sprung forward to the side of his boy, and gazed upon him, for
                  a moment, in speechless horror; then staggering back, he sunk down on a seat,
                  buried his face in his hands, and groaned out the agony he could not speak.
               It was certainly a sight to rend the soul of a parent. The face of the boy was
                  livid, his features distorted, his eyes rolled upward, and he was gasping for
                  breath, grasping at the air and choking and groaning alternately. His mother held
                  him in her arms, and gazed down upon him with a tearless, marble face—for so
                  intense was her anguish, that the fountain of tears was choked, and could not flow
                  to give her relief. She persisted in holding him, and no entreaty could induce her
                  to resign him to another. Every thing had been done for the boy, that any one
                  present had ever heard of being efficacious in such cases; and as an experiment,
                  with the consent of the young 
                     physican
                     physician
                  , one of the party was now applying a linen cloth, dipped in turpentine,
                  to his breast and neck—while the others stood looking on, some of them weeping
                  from pure sympathy.
               "O Lord! O Lord!" cried the Deacon, springing up suddenly—"must he die? must he
                  die?"
               He turned a wild, agonized look upon the young physician, whom he had not before
                  noticed, and felt an electric shock through his system, as his eyes encountered
                  the steady gaze of Dr. Newton Stanhope.
               "You are surprised to see me here, Deacon Pinchbeck!" the young man hastened to
                  say; "but I chanced to be passing your door, on my way to visit a patient, when I
                  was hailed, and so urgently entreated to enter, that I felt I must outrage all
                  feelings of humanity not to comply. I have done what I could for your son; but I
                  fear it will be of no avail; and as another physician will soon be here, I trust I
                  may now be permitted to take my leave!"
               "No! no! no!" cried the Deacon, wildly; "you must not go, Doctor! you must stay!
                  you must save him and you shall have gold—gold, sir—any amount you may name—only
                  save him!"
               "If I could save him, Deacon Pinchbeck," replied the other, somewhat sternly, "I
                  would do so, for humanity's sake—not for your, gold—which I do not want, and would
                  not touch. But, sir; so far as my skill is concerned, my stay here is
                  needless."
               "Oh! no! no! say not so! say not so! Give me some hope, Doctor—do! oh! give me
                  some hope! He is my only son—my only child—do not say he must die!"
               "You plead Deacon, as if his life were in my hands," answered the other; "but you
                  should look to God, not to man, for hope."
               "O Lord, save him! O Lord, save him!" cried the Deacon, clasping his hands.
                  "Nelson! Nelson! my dear, sweet child!"
                  he continued, addressing the sufferer; don't you know me, son? don't you know your
                  father?"
               The child took no notice of him; but continued to gasp, and choke, and clutch, and
                  groan, with his eyes rolled upward, so that little more than the whites were
                  visible; while the mother sat holding his, and looking down upon him, her eyes
                  glaring, her features rigid, her lips bloodless, and her very limbs motionless,
                  save when the boy moved them in his struggles for breath.
               "Ladies," said Stanhope, addressing the company, "you will, excuse me, if I leave
                  now! I have done all I can here, and I have a patient I must visit
                  immediately."
               Saying this, he bowed himself out—but the Deacon sprung after him.
               "Doctor," he said, "in Heaven's name! can't you save my child?"
               "I can not—I have already told you so," was the reply.
               "Must he die?"
               "I see no hope for him."
               "Oh! this is more than I can bear!"
               "The hand of God falls heavy on, the worker of iniquity, because he wants the
                  faith and hope of the Christian to sustain him!" replied Stanhope,
                  sternly. "Good-night, Deacon Pinchbeck."
               "Stay! one moment!" exclaimed Pinchbeck. "Do—do you—you still—still—a—ah—think me
                  guilty, Doctor?"
               "Do you dare deny your guilt, with your child lying at the point of death?
                  Speak!"
               "Yes! yes! I'll deny any thing—if the Lord will only save my poor, dear child!"
                  replied the wretched father, scarcely conscious of what he was saying. "You say
                  you are coming to-morrow night," he continued, "to give me fresh trouble; but, on
                  my soul! I don't know what has become of that child, any more than you do."
               Truth, earnestly spoken, seldom fails to carry conviction; and the Deacon now
                  spoke the truth; and his words began to create a doubt in the mind of the young
                  man, that his suspicions had been properly founded. At all events, he had the
                  noble feelings of humanity too well developed, to wish to press home, too heavily
                  his mere suspicions, upon a father so deeply afflicted; and so, after a moment of
                  thoughtful silence, he replied:
               "Well, God knows whether you have had any hand in this dark matter or not! If you
                  are innocent, I would recall my words, and crave your pardon; but if you are
                  guilty, beware! for you are as much in the presence of your God now, as you will
                  be at the Great Day of Judgment, and can not escape the doom which will be
                  pronounced upon the workers of iniquity!"
               "O Lord! O Lord!" groaned the wretched and guilty man—"what will become of me? Oh
                  I do—do try and save that child—my only son—my only hope!"
               "I will go back, if you insist upon it; but I tell you, most seriously, I can do
                  nothing for him—nor do I believe it is in the power of mortal man to help him!"
                  rejoined Stanhope, who could not help feeling pity for one so deeply distressed.
                  At this moment, quick steps were heard in the entry; and looking down the stairs,
                  the young man hastened to add: "But here comes a physician of more experience than
                  myself, and therefore my services will not be required. Good night!"
               He turned away as he spoke, and passed the second physician and Mr. Bentley on the
                  stairs.
               "Quick! quick! Doctor!" called the Deacon to the new-comer, speaking in a wild,
                  excited tone. "Oh! I'm so glad you've come! You can save him—you can save him—yes,
                  you can save him!"
               
               "Where is he?" asked Dr. Jennings, hurriedly, a man of venerable appearance.
               "This way—this way, Doctor!" and the Deacon darted before him into the apartment
                  Of the dying boy. "There he is, Doctor—there he is, poor child!"
               The moment the glance of the physician fell upon the strangling boy, he gravely
                  shook his head.
               "Well, Doctor?—well? well? well?" cried the nearly distracted father.
               "It is too late!" replied the physician, feeling his pulse.
               "No! no! no! don't say so! don't say it's too late!" almost shrieked the Deacon.
                  "He lives—he breathes yet—he will, he must, recover!"
               The mother still held the child—still kept her eyes riveted upon him—but spoke
                  not, stirred not, seemed not to hear what was said.
               "You are a man," said the Doctor to the Deacon, "and it would be worse than folly
                  for me to hold out any false hopes to you. Your child is in the last agonies of
                  death—he can not live an hour."
               "Oh! my God! what will become of me?" groaned the Deacon, sinking heavily upon a
                  seat.
               At this moment, the child gave a loud, piercing shriek, and became terribly
                  convulsed. In his awful struggles, he would have fallen to the floor, if one of
                  the females present had not afforded timely aid. The mother seemed paralyzed. All
                  gathered around the little sufferer, the father among the rest. A few more
                  struggles—another shriek, but not so loud—a quick, shivering spasm—and the poor
                  boy lay perfectly still.
               "He is dead!" said the Doctor, solemnly.
               And "He is dead," like a blast from the trump of woe, went echoing
                  through all the recesses of Deacon Pinchbeck's guilty soul; and he sunk down on
                  the ground, and moaned.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIII.
               DEATH IN LIFE.
               IT was long past the hour of midnight, and the form of the little boy, upon whom
                  two parents had built such fond, and dazzling, but worldly hopes, lay stretched
                  upon the bed, white and cold—as white, as cold, as motionless, and as inanimate as
                  a human figure cut in marble. Beside the bed, and so disposed that her eyes could
                  rest upon the face of her lifeless son, sat the mother. She had not spoken,
                  scarcely moved, since an hour before his spirit's departure. She had displayed no
                  other emotion than she now displayed—a fixed, piercing look of utter, blank
                  despair—a despair which saw no future—no hope in time—no hope in eternity! They
                  had taken the child from her, and she had made no resistance, and had followed the
                  form only with her eyes. They had closed his eyes, wiped the death-damps from his
                  face, straightened out his limbs, robed him in a clean night-garment, and thus
                  prepared him for the hands of the dresser of the dead. The mother had marked the
                  whole proceedings, and had only moved to make signs, that she wished him deposited
                  on the bed, with his face uncovered, and herself so disposed that her eyes could
                  rest upon it. This had been done—the gas turned down to a dim, solemn light—and
                  all had stealthily retired but two female watchers, who still remained with the
                  living mother and dead boy, one on either side of the bed, and both silent. They
                  would have tried to console the mother—but they knew that was beyond human power;
                  and they were strictly following the
                  Doctor's advice—which was, not to mock her grief with any such vain attempt.
               "Her case is very critical," he had told them; "and there may be two coffins at
                  one funeral. She may recover from this shock with a flood of tears, and tears will
                  be a favorable sign; she may be struck down with apoplexy; or she may lose her
                  senses altogether, and become a raving maniac. I can do nothing for her now. Watch
                  her carefully, and constantly; and if you see any unfavorable sign, call me at
                  once."
               This was the physician's departing advice; and with this knowledge of her critical
                  situation, it will readily be perceived, the hopeless mother was constantly
                  watched, with feelings of painful anxiety, by those whose unpleasant duty it was
                  to remain with her and the dead.
               Mrs. Pinchbeck, as we have shown, was a woman of violent passions, very selfish,
                  and, possessing but few of the gentler qualities which render her sex so
                  attractive. She had as we have also stated before, been married three times; and,
                  in every instance, had married from purely selfish motives. Her first husband soon
                  left her a widow, with one child, which died young. Two children were the fruits
                  of her second marriage, both of whom died under five years of age. Her marriage
                  with Pinchbeck had resulted in one son—the cold corpse which now lay before
                  her.
               Selfish people, of violent passions, have generally very few objects to love; but
                  those few objects they love with a concentrated intensity of feeling, of which
                  none but such as thoroughly understand all the various operations of the human
                  heart, have any adequate, conception. It is in the- nature of every human being,
                  to love something; it is a law of nature which can not be set aside and just in
                  the ratio of the decrease in the ordinary number of heart-attractions attractions,
                  all things being equal, is the increased intensity of affection for the favored
                  one or few.
               Now Mrs. Pinchbeck really loved but two beings on earth—her child and herself; and
                  hence the voiceless woe which she experienced at the loss of her heart's idol. She
                  had married Pinchbeck for his fortune—detested him at heart—but loved his child,
                  which was also her own.
               And now, while that child lay dead, before her, and she thus sat buried in
                  speechless grief, she felt her bosom swell with the bitterest hate toward the
                  author of his being, to whose neglect she laid the charge of his untimely death.
                  With this little insight into the mysterious workings of one dark heart, the
                  reader will be the better prepared for what follows.
               For nearly an hour from the time with which this chapter opens, Mrs. Pinchbeck
                  remained motionless, in the self-same attitude we presented her to the reader.
                  Then, with a sudden start, she burst into tears, bowed her head upon the bed, and
                  wept for half an hour. This was the favorable sign mentioned by the physician; and
                  the matchers were rejoiced, that at last she had found a proper vent to her grief.
                  Until she began to grow calm and composed, they said nothing to her; but on
                  perceiving this happy termination to their fears, they began to offer expressions
                  of sympathy. She listened to them quietly—but for some time made no reply. At
                  length, she said:
               "This is indeed a heavy stroke of affliction, and Heaven only knows what agonies I
                  have already suffered!"
               "Indeed you have!" replied one; "and we have been deeply pained to witness your
                  sufferings. But bear up, Mrs. Pinchbeck, and strive not to let your grief again
                  get the mastery! You are a professing Christian; and in this stroke, heavy as it
                  is, you should see only the hand of Him
                  who chasteneth, and endeavour to be resigned, to His holy will!"
               "He was my only son!" sobbed the mother; "and I have nothing left to love!"
               "Say not so—think not so—you still have a kind, affectionate, and worthy husband!"
                  returned the other.
               "Yes, I have a husband," rejoined Mrs. Pinchbeck, getting up and glancing quickly
                  about the apartment—"a dear, devoted husband—where is he?"
               There was a singularly wild, unnatural light in her eye, as she spoke, which was
                  not noticed by the others, or they might have had some suspicion that all was not
                  as it should be.
               "He left the room, soon after the child breathed its last, in great distress of
                  mind, and I think he is now below, in the back-parlor," was the reply of one of
                  the ladies. "If you desire it, I will call him—it will be a great relief to his
                  mind to, see you so much better—for we all have feared the worst."
               "No! no! do not call him!" said Mrs. Pinchbeck, quickly. "I will go down to him; I
                  would rather see him alone; there should be no third party present on an occasion
                  like this."
               She turned to the bed, and, bending over the corpse of her son, wept violently,
                  for some minutes. Then she dried her eyes; and going to a bureau, and unlocking
                  one of the drawers, she took out something, which she hastily concealed in her
                  bosom.
               "Be kind enough to remain here," she said to the watchers; "I would be alone with
                  my dear husband;" and as she spoke, she quitted the apartment, and descended the
                  stairs.
               But we must precede her to the room below.
               The grief of Deacon Pinchbeck, immediately succeeding the death of his child,
                  displayed itself, for some time, in a very violent way. He moaned, and groaned,
                  and wrung his hands, and occasionally ejaculated:
               "O Lord, have mercy on me! O Lord, have mercy on my soul! Oh! good Lord, restore
                  my son to life again, as Thou didst to them of old! Oh! how wretched! I am! Oh!
                  how miserable I am! No child to love—no son to succeed me! Oh! oh! oh!"
               At last, he became in some degree composed; but the presence of strangers was not
                  pleasant to his sight; and he retired to the apartment below, as already
                  mentioned, that he might be alone. Perhaps he had some feelings of sympathy for
                  his then speechless wife, whom he certainly did not wish to lose; but, under the
                  circumstances, he felt it a wonderful relief, to be free from the taunts and
                  upbraidings—to say nothing of the more forcible demonstrations of her sweet
                  disposition—which he knew he would have to encounter, were she only possessed of
                  her usual freedom of tongue and limbs; and so that she might be finally restored
                  to life and health, he thought it rather Providential, that he was not to be
                  called on, at this particular time, by the only being he really feared, to give an
                  account of himself, during the period occupied in his dark and guilty
                  transactions.
               So he retired to his back-parlor, and, throwing himself upon a sofa, gave way to
                  some very bitter reflections, and began to have some very serious doubts whether
                  he was on quite as good terms with the Lord as he had thought. The death of his
                  child was certainly no evidence that his prayers were more efficacious than the
                  prayers of others; and though a Deacon of high standing, in a very high standing
                  church, he was not quite so sure now, as he once was, that the recording angel had
                  not made a few suspicious looking
                  entries on the debit side of his spiritual account.
               It was perfectly natural that he should have some very serious
                  reflections-reflections which could not but harrow up his guilty soul. His child,
                  on whom he had so fondly doted, with all the selfish feelings of a selfish
                  nature—with all the worldly hopes of a worldly ambition—his child was dead; and
                  might not his death in some degree be laid to his own neglect? Had he gone for a
                  physician, when first informed of his illness, instead of plotting against the
                  life of another; might not the life of his child have been saved? He groaned aloud
                  at the very thought, and felt how terrible is the recoil of a guilty deed, when it
                  comes back upon the guilty doer in all its native blackness, enveloping him in a
                  thick cloud of horrors, and shutting out every heavenly ray of hope and joy.
                  Heaven and hell are only conditions; and it is not essential that the thread of
                  mortal life should be clipped, for the overreached man of crime to feel all the
                  torments of the damned.
               For hours the Deacon had rolled to and fro on his now thorny couch, striving in
                  vain to lose some of his misery in the forgetfulness of sleep. At last, almost
                  stupefied by the violence of his grief, a dim, half-conscious, drowsy feeling
                  began to steal over him—his eyelids drooped and closed—and his mind began to
                  wander and become filled with unnatural, hideous images, as in a nightmare-dream.
                  Suddenly the figure of the little orphan came floating along on a sea of blood,
                  and, stopping in front of him, seemed to shoot rays of fire from her eyes, which,
                  by some unaccountable process, began to burn into his very soul. With a cry of
                  horror, he started up from his recumbent posture, stared wildly around, and, to
                  his utter astonishment, beheld Mrs. Pinchbeck standing before him, and glaring
                  upon him, with a fiendish expression of concentrated, malignant hate and
                  scorn.
               "Why, my—my dear—ha-ha-have you recovered?" he stammered, not yet fully satisfied
                  in his own mind, whether he was addressing an airy phantom, or a being of flesh
                  and blood—and in either case, feeling he had sufficient cause for alarm.
               To this question, Mrs. Pinchbeck did not deign to reply; and the trembling Deacon,
                  not knowing better what to do, repeated it.
               "Murderer!" she now rather hissed than said, without removing her glaring eyes
                  from his.
               "Wha-wha-what do you mean?" he gasped, sinking back upon the sofa.
               "Murderer!" she repeated, in the same hissing tone.
               "I—I—don't know what—you mean—my—my—a—ah—love!" he whined out in tremulous,
                  doleful accents.
               "Shall I explain?" she demanded, in the same low, hissing voice of passion.
               "If you please—that is—that is—confound the thing I mean if you think best, my
                  dear."
               "Who let poor Nelson die? answer me that!" she said fairly foaming with suppressed
                  rage.
               "He—he—died himself, poor child—Nelson did!" answered Pinchbeck, cowering beneath
                  the piercing glance of his conjugal partner, and groaning at the recollection of
                  the awful death of his son.
               "Do you not feel his death weighing down your guilty soul, Absalom Pinchbeck?" she
                  demanded, advancing a single step toward her frightened husband.
               "What did I do, my love?" he whined again, glancing quickly about him, and
                  evidently preparing himself to beat a hasty retreat in case the enemy should
                  endeavor to come to close quarters.
               
               "Do? you brute!" rejoined Mrs. Pinchbeck; "you did nothing—you let him die! Why
                  did you not come when I sent for you?"
               "Why, my angel—I—I had some business—"
               "What business?" she interrupted.
               "I can't—ex-ex-act-ly—say what!" stammered the Deacon; "but it was some money
                  business—with a—gentleman—that I—that I—ah—wanted to get through with and did get
                  through with, my love."
               "And you could let Nelson die for a mere money transaction, you sordid wretch!"
                  she cried, choking with anger. "Oh! how I hate you—despise you—loathe you, from my
                  very soul!"
               "I—I didn't think he was going to—die—or I should have attended to him at once!"
                  groaned Pinchbeck. "Don't go on so, my love—don't!" he said, pleadingly. "Oh! if
                  you only knew how miserable I am!"
               "Miserable!" she repeated, with a withering sneer: "you miserable! I only wish you
                  were—but you haven't soul enough to be miserable! Why did you go away, and remain
                  away, till too late? Was that to complete a business transaction?"
               "Why, my love, I just stepped out, for a minute or two, to see a gentleman; and it
                  so happened that I was summoned to make up a Coroner's jury, and couldn't get
                  back," replied the Deacon.
               "I wish the jury had held an inquest on your loathsome body!" rejoined the other,
                  biting her lips, to keep her rage within bounds—"and that you never had come back
                  alive!"
               "It costs me an effort to thank you, for your kindness," said the Deacon, a little
                  more boldly.
               "I wish you were dead!" cried the other, fairly gnashing her teeth. "So long as
                  Nelson lived, I managed to endure your hateful presence; but now I
                  wish you were dead!"
               "So that you could swell out on my money, and wheedle somebody else into the
                  matrimonial noose, as you wheedled me, I suppose!" retorted the Deacon, who began
                  to feel his courage rise with his indignation. "I thought you were going to die,"
                  he continued; "and I knew if you did, I'd be rid of your tongue, to say nothing
                  worse; but disagreeable people, it seems, have as many lives as a cat; and the
                  Lord permitted patient Job to be very severely tried."
               On hearing this, Mrs. Pinchbeck could hardly credit her senses; for the Deacon,
                  though a regular tyrant to those he could with impunity oppress, had almost
                  invariably been meekly submissive to his termagant wife, even when kicks and cuffs
                  had spiced her arguments; and it was not on record, that, before the present
                  moment, his voice had been heard in open rebellion but three times, since the
                  commencement of their honey-moon. It will therefore be a matter of no surprise to
                  the reader, that Mrs. Pinchbeck, being previously excited to a degree but little
                  short of frenzy, should, on hearing this insulting rejoinder of her usually
                  submissive lord, find herself actually choking with a rage that could not get vent
                  through the ordinary channels. She clutched her throat with one hand, and her
                  forehead and temples with the other; while the blood rushed up into her face, till
                  it seemed to swell and grow, black, and her small eyes shot fiery gleams of
                  fiendish malice and implacable hate.
               The Deacon, seeing the awful storm of passion he had raised, began to grow alarmed
                  for the consequences to himself. And there was really more cause for his alarm,
                  than he even now supposed; for Mrs. Pinchbeck, on going to the bureau up stairs,
                  as already mentioned, had actually
                  provided herself with a dagger; and had come down with the intention of taking his
                  life; and her now excessively violent and overpowering rage, was the only thing
                  that prevented her design being carried into instant execution.
               The Deacon, after looking at her for a moment, thought it best for him to beat a
                  hasty retreat; and springing from his seat, he darted past her, and had just
                  gained the door, when a strange, unearthly sound fell upon his ear, and caused him
                  to look around. To his surprise—and we may add, alarm—he beheld his wife in the
                  act of falling. Impulsively he sprung, forward to catch her—but he was too late.
                  She fell, with a dull, heavy shock, that jarred the whole building; and then lay
                  perfectly still and senseless, apparently dead, her face almost black, and her
                  features horribly distorted.
               One glance was enough to convince the now really terrified Deacon, that he could
                  render her no assistance; and springing to the door, he tore it open, and shrieked
                  for help.
               The watchers came down in haste; and the moment their eyes rested on the senseless
                  form of Mrs. Pinchbeck, one turned to the Deacon, and said:
               "This is what we have been told to fear. "Oh! sir, if you would save her life, fly
                  for Dr. Jennings! there is not a moment to be lost!"
               The Deacon, to his credit be it spoken, made all haste to summon the physician;
                  but, what with-one delay and another, it was nearly half an hour before the latter
                  reached the side of Mrs. Pinchbeck. He found her stretched upon the bed, in the
                  apartment above stairs, along side of the corpse of her son, whither she had been
                  carried by the watchers. Hastening to her side, he seized her hand, and placed his
                  fingers upon her pulse.
               "Well, Doctor?" exclaimed the excited Deacon.
               The physician shook his head gravely; and turning to the questioner, said
                  solemnly:
               "My friend, may He who 'tempers the wind to the shorn lamb, enable you to bear
                  your heavy affliction with Christian fortitude! You are wifeless and
                  childless."
               "Surely, you do not mean, Doctor—
               The Deacon paused, and looked the question he could not utter.
               "Yes," replied the other—"it is true—your wife is dead. As I feared, a sudden
                  stroke of apoplexy has terminated her earthly existence."
               And the light of morning streamed in through the darkened windows and seemed to
                  rest mournfully upon the mortal remains of mother and son.
               The guilty doer may escape the justice of human laws; but none ever did, and none
                  ever will, escape the retributive justice of the eternal, unchangeable laws of
                  God!
            
            
               CHAPTER XXIV.
               THE LOVERS.
               IT was a clear, mild, delightful day in the month of May; and earth had donned her
                  green robe; and bright leaves waved in the soft, south breeze; and brighter
                  flowers, exhaled their perfume on the genial air. Among the flowers of her own
                  little garden, herself the fairest flower among them, stood Rosalind Clendennan,
                  motionless as a statue, her features pale and pensive, and her eyes resting upon
                  the ground. It scarcely needed the long drawn sigh, which seemed to rise from the depths of her gentle
                  spirit, to prove that her heart was not wholly at ease. While standing thus, she
                  heard steps behind her; and starting from her reverie, she turned, and perceived
                  her favorite domestic hastening toward her.
               "Well, Kitty?" she exclaimed, quickly.
               "Don't be alarmed, Miss Rosa—I'm not the bearer of bad news," said the
                  serving-girl, who remarked the expression of uneasiness on the countenance of her
                  beloved mistress.
               "I am glad to hear that, Kitty," replied Rosalind; "but I see you have something
                  to communicate. Have you seen my father this morning?"
               "Yes, Miss Rosa, and I bring you a message from him."
               "Well, speak!"
               "I was passing his door, a few minutes ago, when he called to me," and said, 'Tell
                  Rosalind to hold herself in readiness to pay me a visit in exactly two
                  hours.'"
               "Did you inquire how he felt?"
               "I did but he shut the door, and wouldn't answer me."
               "Alas!" sighed Rosalind—"I fear he is failing fast; for he appears every day to
                  grow more strange and eccentric. I know his health is feeble; I know he needs kind
                  care—such care as an affectionate daughter might bestow; but even me, his only
                  child, he treats almost as a stranger. In his usual health, I could bear this,
                  Kitty, as I have borne; but now—believing, as I do, that he is gradually
                  failing—gradually wasting away—and going down, step by step, to the dark grave—it
                  makes my heart very, very heavy!" and as she spoke, her soft blue eves grew dim
                  with tears, that she strove in vain to repress.
               "Don't cry, Miss Rosa!" said Kitty, affectionately: I can't bear to see you cry.
                  Perhaps it is not as bad as you think. Master was always strange—at least ever
                  since I knew him—and I don't see any thing very unusual in his present
                  conduct."
               "He was always strange, Kitty, I know," said Rosalind; "that is, he was always
                  different from other persons; but never, at any period of his life, has he seemed
                  toward me so very cold as now—now, when I think he most needs a companion in his
                  sorrow. Oh! if he would only let me approach him, as an affectionate child should
                  approach an afflicted parent—instead of shutting off all my sympathy, and making
                  my own sad heart more desolate,—oh! if he would only let me nurse him, talk to
                  him, and sing to him, as I have sometimes done—let me feel as if I were doing
                  something, to render his burden of sorrow less heavy to bear—methinks I should be
                  comparatively happy!"
               "He has never seemed just the same since the loss of little Ellen," said
                  Kitty.
               "That is true, and I know that loss preys heavily upon his mind. Poor child! would
                  to Heaven we could get some tidings of her! But I fear we never may. He took a
                  deep interest in her; and I think, toward the latter part of her stay with us, I
                  could discover a change in him for the better; and even now, her restoration might
                  bring about a favorable result."
               And then she added, mentally:
               "Strange, how mind will operate on mind! He knew not that she was one who had in
                  her veins the blood of those he once called friends; and whom (may God forgive
                  him!) his own hand doomed to sorrow, and himself to unceasing remorse; and yet he
                  was drawn to her by a sympathy which to him must have appeared mysterious indeed.
                  Ah! mind! mind! mind! the most wonderful attribute of the Almighty! who can
                  comprehend it? Measuring, weighing, sounding, seeing, and knowing—yet itself immeasurable, imponderable,
                  unfathomable, invisible, incomprehensible, and eternal!"
               "I wish little Ellen could be found, for dear master's sake!" said Kitty."
               "Ay!" sighed Rosalind—"for his sake, her sake, and my own—but I fear it will never
                  be!"
               "Have you tried the police, Miss Rosa?"
               "No," replied Rosalind; "but perhaps I had better."
               "I thought so in the first place," said Kitty, with the air of one
                  who fancied her own opinion of considerable importance.
               "I will first consult—"
               Rosalind paused, and Kitty rejoined, with a sly look:
               "If you mean Dr. Stanhope, you can do so at once, for he is now in the
                  drawing-room."
               Instantly a warm glow suffused the lovely features of Rosalind; and stooping down,
                  apparently to pluck a flower, she said, rather hastily:
               "Kitty, why did you not tell me this at first?"
               "Why, thinking of poor master, put it out of my mind."
               "Did he inquire for me, Kitty?"
               "Why, who else could he want to see?" returned Kitty, very innocently, trying to
                  get a glimpse of the face of Rosalind, who, just at that moment, was very intently
                  occupied with a modest little flower at her feet.
               "Perhaps he has some intelligence of Ellen!" said Rosalind, keeping her face
                  averted. "Run in, and say I will be with him, presently."
               Kitty hastened away, and Rosalind lingered not long in her little garden. She met
                  the young physician with a pleasant "Good morning," and without any perceptible
                  embarrassment; but her features were tinged with a glow that heightened their
                  beauty.
               "And how is your father this morning?" was the first kind inquiry of young
                  Stanhope.
               "Alas!" sighed Rosalind—"I do not know;" and a shade of sorrow swept over her
                  lovely countenance, and left it pale as marble. "It is hard for an only child to
                  be obliged to answer thus concerning a beloved farther," she continued, sadly;
                  "but I have not been permitted to see and speak to him for several days. I have
                  just received a message, that I must visit him in a couple of hours; but I know
                  not whether I shall be received with affection, or formality—as a child, or as a
                  stranger."
               "His strange moods must be very trying to you, Rosalind!" said Stanhope, with much
                  feeling,
               "No one knows how trying!" returned Rosalind, a tear glistening in her eye. "I
                  feel sometimes as if I could not have it so. Oh! Newton, if we could only find
                  little Ellen! You got no news of her, I suppose?"
               "None, Rosalind—none—and I fear it is vain to hope I would that the mystery might
                  be solved—though I no longer believe that the child herself is among the
                  living."
               "Oh! Newton, do not say thus!" cried Rosalind.
               "I do not say it, Rosalind, to add to your sorrows," rejoined Stanhope, in a voice
                  of deep emotion; "for, Heaven knows, I would joyfully relieve you of every
                  depressing thought, by taking them upon myself; but a painful certainty can not
                  wear down the mind like hope long deferred."
               "But notwithstanding what we may believe," replied Rosalind, "it is, you perceive,
                  a painful uncertainty still, and therefore still hope deferred. If I knew her
                  fate, even though the worst, I grant you it would be better for the mind than its
                  present wearying suspense."
               "There is one who, notwithstanding his protestations of innocent ignorance, I
                  still believe could tell something
                  about her, if he would," rejoined Newton, compressing his lips; "for never, in my
                  life, did I see a man exhibit so much seeming guilt, as he did at the time of my
                  making the bold accusation."
               "You refer to Deacon Pinchbeck"
               "I do; and were it not that he has already undergone a punishment greater than man
                  could inflict, I think, with your permission, I would, even now, venture to enter
                  a complaint against him."
               "But you are not certain that he is guilty, Newton."
               "We are often not certain of the murderer, till after his trial, Rosalind. But as
                  I have no proof, perhaps I had better let the matter rest; nor could I find it in
                  my nature, without positive proof, to proceed against a man so crushed with grief
                  and misfortune as he is at the present time. There was a rumor current yesterday,
                  that, by a sudden fall in stocks, he would lose, at the very least, fifty thousand
                  dollars; and I learn, this morning, that he has taken to his bed, and is
                  threatened with a brain fever."
               "Poor man!" said Rosalind.
               "Miserable wretch!" ejaculated Stanhope, bitterly. "He does not deserve pity,
                  Rosalind; for he has wronged, when he could, every man that has ever been so
                  unfortunate as to have dealings with him. Besides, he has more than once turned a
                  poor, starving family into the street, in the dead of winter, because they could
                  not pay rent; and a man whose heart is black enough to do that, would murder for
                  money, were he certain that he could escape detection. A base, paltry, cowardly
                  scoundrel, without filial affection, or one noble trait in his character—who uses
                  religion as a cloak to hide his spiritual deformity! Faugh! the very mention of
                  such a wretch excites indignant loathing! Rosalind, what punishment is too great
                  for the villain who rolls in wealth, and leaves the mother that bore him to die in
                  the almshouse?"
               "Good heavens! Newton, you do not mean to say—"
               "Ay!" interrupted the other, with a flush of honest indignation—"I do mean to say,
                  that the mother of Deacon Pinchbeck died in the almshouse, not ten days ago,
                  whither she had been taken by Mr. Shelden, who found her sick and destitute, and
                  thus displayed more Christian charity toward her than her own son."
               "And is it possible that he let her die there among strangers?"
               "It is true she died there among strangers; but it is said that the
                     good Deacon did not know of her being there, till after her death.
                  Yet what matters that? he left her to suffer in poverty, or she would never have
                  been taken her there."
               "Of all wicked, things," said Rosalind, "I know of none more wicked, than that of
                  a prosperous child neglecting an aged parent. Oh! would to Heaven, I had a mother
                  to care for! or that my afflicted father would permit me to care for him!" She
                  hastily brushed a tear from her eye, and continued: "But this Mr. Shelden,
                  Newton—you know he promised to make every effort to find Ellen!"
               "He says he has done so, but without getting the faintest clue to the mystery of
                  her disappearance."
               "Ah! poor child! poor child!" sighed Rosalind: "I shall never see her again, I
                  fear. I almost regret that I did not apply to the police at first. What think you,
                  Newton—had we not better do so now?"
               "It may be as well; we may be better satisfied that we have done right; though, I
                  am sorry to say, I have not the least hope that she will be found. Ah! poor little
                  thing! After passing through so much sorrow, what a pity that she should have been
                  snatched away, just at the moment when
                  a fortune had fallen, as it were, into her very grasp!"
               "You, think, then, this immense fortune would really have come into her
                  possession?"
               "I do, most assuredly. As I told you the other day, John De Carp Montague is dead;
                  and I certainly believe your little friend, if living, to be the next rightful
                  inheritress; for, from all you have told me, I am satisfied that she is the Ellen
                  Norbury alluded to in the paper which was stolen from my father."
               "And how many stand between her and your mother, Newton?" inquired Rosalind.
               "None, now, Rosalind—Mrs. Pinchbeck did—but she is in her grave."
               "Then, if Ellen be dead, this estate falls to your mother, Newton?"
               "So I now believe; and to myself next, should I outlive her."
               "It is certainly very noble on your part, Newton," said Rosalind, with a kind of
                  proud animation, "to be so anxious for the discovery of this child, when you know
                  that she will step between you and a princely fortune!"
               "I trust," returned the other, with a manly glow, "that I let no sordid feelings
                  sway me in this matter. That I should like to come into possession of this estate,
                  it were false in me to deny; but I have looked into my heart, and I can honestly
                  say, that it would bound with pleasure to know Ellen Norbury lives. The fortune
                  belongs to her, and it is but right that she should have it—so much for mere
                  justice: but as your dear friend, Rosalind—as one who would bring happiness to you
                  and to your afflicted father—it would afford me more joy than I can now express,
                  could I be the means of placing her in your arms."
               "Thanks! my noble friend—thanks!" said Rosalind, warmly, with a bright glow
                  suffusing her beautiful features, and an expression of generous admiration beaming
                  from her soft blue eyes.
               For a moment, the young physician looked at the fair being before him; and then
                  his eyes slowly sunk to the ground, a deep crimson hue overspread his own manly
                  features, and for a short time he seemed greatly embarrassed, like one who wished
                  to make a communication, but was fearful it might be considered mal a propos. Rosalind seemed intuitively to know his
                  thoughts; for the warm glow instantly deepened into a conscious blush; and she
                  turned her head away, as if attracted by some object which she did not see. For a
                  brief time, there was a kind of embarrassing silence; and then the young man, with
                  a glance at his lovely companion, ventured to speak.
               "Rosalind," he said; and his voice was low and tremulous, and the name pronounced
                  was followed by a short pause, during which he evidently sought to gather courage:
                  "Rosalind—should I not be so fortunate as to restore this little girl to
                  you—should it, in fact, be discovered that she is no longer among the living—in
                  short, should I become possessed of this immense estate—may I, can I, dare I
                  hope—that—that one who has so long been my friend—the friend of my family; one
                  whom I have so long esteemed—nay, loved—for the heart speaks now, and
                  the truth must be told; may I hope, I say, that one fair being, whom I have long
                  secretly, but ardently, loved,—loved with a love that is true and holy, because
                  untainted with a single feeling that an angel might not harbor in his sinless
                  breast; may I venture to hope, that this one lovely being, without whom earth
                  would seem a desert, will share the fortune with me?"
               Gradually, while Stanhope was speaking, the color forsook the face of the lovely
                  listener, till it became as pale as
                  marble; the soft eyes drooped the lips quivered; the heart seemed to cease its
                  motion; and when his voice died away to silence, that silence remained unbroken by
                  one who seemed rather an exquisite statue, from the hand of a master sculptor,
                  than a living, sentient being.
               "Speak, dear Rosalind!" at length murmured Stanhope, gently taking her hand, and
                  fairly trembling with emotions that each moment grew more rapturous with hope:
                  "Speak, dear Rosalind! but oh! let not your tongue syllable words that will chill
                  my heart with despair! Remember! I have only asked you to share my fortune; for
                  though nothing may increase or lessen my love, yet I know too well the difference
                  between my present circumstances and yours, to ask you to share my poverty."
               As he said this, Rosalind started, the warm blood rushed upward to her very
                  temples, and turning quickly toward her companion, her gentle eyes beaming a kind
                  of sorrowful reproach, she said:
               "Newton, why so cruel a remark?"
               "Forgive me!" he said, quickly; "I meant not to wound your feelings; but I speak
                  as one who has seen Something of the world, and learned some bitter lessons."
               "What care I for wealth?" pursued Rosalind. It is not happiness—it brings not
                  happiness; and though, considered by itself, it may not, strictly speaking, lessen
                  happiness—yet I am sometimes led to think, that where much wealth is given, other
                  blessings are taken away, to make all equal. How many pass this dwelling, and
                  think of its owner with feelings of envy! and yet, how very few, of all, would not
                  lose by the exchange of circumstances! They might gain in wealth, it is true; but
                  if they lost in happiness—as I believe they would—it would surely be a loss,
                  instead, of a gain, to them,"
               "It is pleasant to hear one noble heart utter sentiments so much at variance with
                  the sordid opinions of the greater number, as regards mere wealth, Rosalind,"
                  replied the other; "but it grieves me, at the same time, to know that she who
                  speaks, has been made so bitterly to feel the aching void which no earthly
                  treasures can fill! Do not misjudge my heartfelt sentiments, dear Rosalind, in
                  asking you to share with me a fortune; it was not because I fancied that mere
                  wealth would give me favor in your sight; but because my proud nature revolted at
                  the idea, that you should, even for one brief moment, suppose a sordid motive
                  influenced me in asking your hand!"
               Here he paused, and seemed deeply embarrassed; and Rosalind looked down, and
                  perceptibly trembled. At length in a voice scarcely above a whisper, he
                  continued:
               "Rosalind—dear Rosalind—you have not, so far, said aught, or done aught, to cast a
                  shadow over my brightest earthly hope; and oh! may I still venture to hope on?—to
                  hope that you will one day be mine—come weal—come woe?"
               Rosalind trembled more than ever, and her lovely features flushed and paled
                  alternately. She struggled to speak; but the words died upon her quivering lips;
                  and at length her emotions found vent in a flood of tears; and she wept freely,
                  and long.
               "Speak, dearest!" whispered Stanhope, when she had become somewhat composed, again
                  taking her hand, and seating himself by her side. "Speak, dear Rosalind—one word!
                  I have acknowledged my love—and oh! let me hear, from your own sweet lips, that I
                  have not loved in vain!"
               "My father"—murmured Rosalind—"I cannot leave him!"
               "Nor would I have you, dearest—for filial love and duty I hold to be sacred. But
                  your lather, dear Rosalind lind—do not
                  let me alarm you—your father cannot long remain with you; and then—"
               He paused and sighed.
               "And then?" murmured Rosalind.
               "You will be alone!" he concluded, in a low, tremulous, solemn tone.
               She raised her soft blue eyes to his—all swimming in tears, but beaming with
                  love—and the next moment her head reclined against his manly breast, and she wept
                  anew.
               "Thank God!" fervently exclaimed Stanhope, as he stole an arm around her gentle
                  form, and drew her closer to his noble heart, and imprinted upon her sweet lips
                  the seal of true and holy love: "thank God! my sweet flower, I am happy once
                  more!"
               And a single bright sunbeam, like the brilliant star of truth, found its way
                  through the open window and parted curtains, and, resting upon her golden tresses,
                  seemed to cast around her a halo of purity, peace, and love.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXV.
               GLEAMS OF LIGHT.
               FEEBLE, careworn, dejected, and miserable, Sir Walter Clendennan, with a tottering
                  step, walked up and down his spacious library, his lips muttering prayers, and his
                  heart full of the deepest remorse. He was surrounded with the productions of giant
                  intellects, in every department of science and literature, and the walls of his
                  apartment were adorned with paintings from the hands of old masters, and busts and
                  statuettes were so disposed as to relieve the eye and add a picturesque charm to
                  the whole. A tiny jet of water fell, in silvery beads, with a soft, musical sound,
                  into a marble vase, and several bright gold-fish disported themselves in the cool, 
                     pelucid
                     pellucid
                   element. On a marble table, in the centre of the apartment, lay books,
                  drawings, music and manuscripts, overtopped by a pearl-mounted guitar, as if this
                  were the last thing used to relieve the mind of the unhappy occupant. A velvet
                  covered lounge was drawn up by the table, and a hundred other things of taste and
                  luxury met the eye. To the innocent lover of letters, the apartment would have
                  seemed a kind of intellectual paradise; but the unfortunate owner seldom saw aught
                  around him but the deepest shadows of gloom. Alas! what are the gorgeous externals
                  of earth, when a dark cloud of sorrow, remorse, or despair, closes over the heart,
                  and shuts out the bright sunlight of peace and joy?
               "It will soon be over now, sweet spirit!" muttered Sir Walter, as he stopped to
                  gaze upon the miniature of his departed wife, which he ever carried next to his
                  heart; "yes, deeply wronged angel, it will soon be over now; and then, I trust to
                  see thee in reality, as I last night saw thee in my dream. Oh! why did I doubt thy
                  loyalty, sweet angel? and by my own rash act bring down upon my head the
                  retributive justice of Heaven! and fill with woe so many other kind and noble
                  hearts! and sent them, throbbing with anguish, down the rapid stream of time?
                  Great God, forgive me! I am a repentant man. I have suffered the torments of hell
                  for many long, long, weary, burdensome years—and now, O God! in thy holy mercy,
                  forgive me and let me die in the hope of a bright resurrection beyond the grave!
                  Oh! sweet angel!" he pursued, his eyes growing dim with tears, as he gazed upon
                  the painted ivory, set round with
                  costly gems—"shall I meet thee where there will be no more parting—no more
                  sorrow—no more anguish—no more pain? Dare I hope to see thee in the glorious
                  realms of the blessed ones, clothed in a garb of such dazzling whiteness and
                  brightness, that our brilliant noon-day sun would pale beside it? Didst thou
                  breathe such sounds of holy hope into my spiritual ear, as I last night lay in my
                  dream?"
               He sighed, and pressed his lips to the likeness, and returned it to its place
                  beside his heart, and resumed his walk to and fro.
               "Ah! little wanderer!" he said at length—"sweet little pilgrim! from whose pure,
                  innocent face, my sad heart caught a ray of sunlight—art thou in Heaven, too? and
                  shall I ever behold thee again! Strange! strange! how like was she to
                  him who fell by my hand! And Rosalind—good, sweet Rosalind!" he continued—"thou
                  wilt soon have no unhappy father to vex and weary thee! How have I abused thy
                  gentle affection! my heart bleeds to think of it! Oh! I am a wretch—a very
                  wretch—and deserve not mercy. Thou wilt grieve when I am gone, sweet Rosalind!
                  notwithstanding I have been so cold and harsh to thee. But it is thy pure,
                  unselfish, loving nature that will cause thee to grieve—not my remembered
                  kindness—for I have been cold and harsh to thee, sweet daughter! And what will
                  become of thee when I am gone? For my sake, thou hast buried thyself in
                  seclusion—and hast made few friends and among those friends, how few are friends
                  indeed! There is one," he mused, "who, if I have read his noble heart
                  aright, feels more than friendship for thee; and if, as I believe, thou art
                  blessed with the love of one such heart as his, thou needst not mourn the loss of
                  thy unhappy father!"
               As he ended his soliloquy, his long thin fingers nervously closed upon a
                  silver-tasselled bell-cord, and he rung for a servant. In a few moments the door
                  of the library was softly opened, and the face of Kitty timidly appeared to his
                  view.
               "Where is Rosalind?" inquired the Knight.
               "In the drawing-room, sir."
               "Is she alone?"
               "No, sir," hesitated Kitty; "at least, I think not, sir."
               "Who is with her?"
               "Why, sir, if anybody, I think, perhaps, it is—it is—"
               Kitty paused, afraid to mention the name that was already upon her lips—for
                  knowing the peculiarities of the unhappy Baronet, she was fearful of encountering
                  a sudden storm of passion.
               "Well, speak out," said Sir Walter, gently; "I will not be angry, Kitty."
               "Thank you, sir!" returned Kitty, brightening. "I think it is young Dr. Stanhope,
                  sir."
               "Ha!" returned the Knight, with a slight start, while a bright gleam of joy passed
                  over his pale, haggard features. "Bid them both come here at once—both,
                  Kitty—mind! both."
               "I will, sir!" said Kitty, bounding lightly away, and wondering to herself what
                  could have caused so favorable a change in one, who, if kind at heart, was
                  generally harsh in speech.
               The dream of the lovers was broken by the somewhat abrupt entrance of the
                  domestic, who hurriedly delivered her master's message.
               "Both, Kitty?" exclaimed Rosalind, starting up and changing colors "Are you sure
                  he said both?"
               "Yes, Miss Rosa: he asked who was here and I was obliged to tell him, you know; and then he charged
                  me to tell you both to come to him at once."
               Rosalind looked at the young Doctor, and said, with some embarrassment:
               "I fear we shall meet with censure; but oh! Newton, should he be here in speech, I
                  pray you be kind in your answers, and remember not his words against him!"
               "When the heart is full of joy, as mine is now, dear Rosalind," returned the
                  other, in a low tone, "the lips can not speak unkindly. I will bear with him, and
                  strive to be as gentle in my replies as your own sweet self."
               Kitty smiled to herself, as she withdrew, but said nothing; and the lovers, with
                  anxious hearts, immediately repaired to the library. Sir Walter was seated on
                  their entrance; but feebly rose, extended his arms, and said, in a voice tremulous
                  with emotion:
               "Rosalind, my sweet child, come here!"
               With a cry of joy, Rosalind threw herself into the arms of her father, clasped her
                  own around his neck, and burst into tears; and amid choking sighs and sobs, she
                  faintly murmured:
               "Oh! father—dear, dear father—you make me so happy!"
               "Heaven bless you, my sweet child!" returned the Knight, hastily brushing the
                  gathering mist from his eyes, and struggling to keep down his rising emotions:
                  "when so little can make you happy, I cannot but think what a selfish wretch I
                  have been, to let you be miserable for so long a time!"
               "Do not say thus, dear father!" cried Rosalind, starting back, and looking fondly
                  and anxiously upon his pale, care-worn features: "do not reflect upon yourself,
                  dear father, or I shall be more unhappy than ever!"
               "Well, well," rejoined Sir Walter, "I will say nothing to make you unhappy now,
                  dear child! I have been an erring man all my life; but if repentance—deep,
                  sincere, heart-felt repentance—can atone for the wrong done, I hope, to be
                  forgiven at last. Dr. Stanhope," he continued, turning to the young physician, and
                  extending his hand, which was cordially taken—"I owe you an apology, sir, for many
                  harsh words, spoken in moments of severe bodily pain and mental anguish! Have I
                  your forgiveness?"
               "As I hope to be forgiven myself, kind sir, you have!" returned Stanhope, deeply
                  affected by the whole scene.
               "Thank you! thank you, my young friend! you have a noble heart. Come! I pray you
                  both be seated—I have a few words to say to you. Here, sit here—there—so;" and Sir
                  Walter himself sunk down on the lounge, by the table, with his anxious listeners
                  facing him, and rested his forehead on his hand.
               He paused for a few moments, with his eyes cast down, seemingly in deep
                  reflection; and then raising his head, and turning to the young physician, he
                  said:
               "Dr. Stanhope, do I count too much upon you, in supposing you the sincere friend
                  of Rosalind?"
               "No, Mr. Clendennan," replied the young man, coloring deeply, glancing at
                  Rosalind, and seeming not a little agitated; "and with your kind permission, dear
                  sir, I trust I may one day be something more to her than a mere friend."
               "Ha! is it so?" returned Sir Walter, looking from one to the other, "It is then as
                  I would have it; and having no longer need of mortal life, I may go quietly to
                  rest."
               "Father!" exclaimed Rosalind.
               "Start not, sweet child! and look not so grieved!" pursued the Baronet. "Remember,
                  I have long wished to die, to escape my mortal wretchedness; and now I desire it
                  more than ever—for a bright hope has sprung up in my breast, that I shall meet your angel mother in a
                  better world. Rosalind, I saw her last night!"
               "Saw her, father?" cried Rosalind, with a start.
               "Yes, dear child—in a dream; but still a dream so like reality, that it seemed not
                  a dream; She talked to me long, and bade me rejoice; told me my prayers had been
                  heard; that my trials would soon be over; and that my weary spirit would soon be
                  free to roam with her the celestial regions of Paradise, where day is eternal and
                  sorrow unknown. Oh! she looked so bright, and beautiful, and happy—and spoke so
                  rapturously of her immortal home—of its golden lights—its balmy airs—its silver
                  streams—its deep green shades—its clustering flowers—its thousand scenes of music,
                  beauty, love, that my imprisoned spirit strove to burst its bars of clay and
                  follow her to Heaven! Was this a mere dream? Once I might have thought so—but now,
                  by the fond bright hope I have within me, I can not think it all a dream."
               "I fear it was not all a dream, dear father!" said Rosalind, solemnly. "It seems
                  rather like one of those visions which the spirit sometimes has on the verge of
                  the eternal world!"
               "So let me hope—God grant it true!" rejoined the Knight, with deep feeling. "And I
                  have begun to set my house in order for my last journey!" he continued; "and ere I
                  go forth, never to return, I would know how I leave you, my daughter! Speak
                  freely, both, and frankly! Is it settled that you are to be united?"
               "Such is my brightest hope, dear sir!" responded Stanhope.
               "'Tis frankly said; and pardon a father for adding, you will never regret your
                  choice. Yet there is one thing!" he pursued, after a brief pause, looking steadily
                  at Rosalind, while a deep shade of gloom gradually settled on his features. "Does
                  he know all, my child?"
               Rosalind blanched and trembled and gasped for breath.
               "No, dear father," she made out to articulate: "I had forgotten—I did not
                  think—I—"
               "She is falling!" cried the knight.
               Stanhope sprung from his seat, and caught her in his arms; and it was several
                  minutes before she sufficiently recovered to dispense with his assistance; and
                  then, upon her pale, sad, lovely features, rested an expression of painful,
                  hopeless anguish.
               "Oh!
                  omnibus modis miser sum!" groaned Sir Walter,
                  ringing his hands. "See, my friend, what it is to be guilty of a crime! see how
                  retribution reaches us, even through those we love!"
               "What do you mean, Mr. Clendennan?" inquired the young Doctor, with a look of
                  startled surprise.
               "It is painful to tell you!" answered the Baronet, with a gloomy brow and
                  quivering lip; "but, under the circumstances, I feel you have a right to know.
                  Rosalind, my dear child—had you not better retire, while I communicate this
                  terrible secret?"
               "No, dear father—no—I would remain!" she feebly replied, burying her face in her
                  handkerchief, while Stanhope looked from one to the other in amazement.
               "Be it so, then!" said the Knight, averting his face from the inquiring glance of
                  his wondering guest.
               A few moments of breathless silence ensued, during which Sir Walter seemed
                  struggling to fortify his mind for the painful disclosure. Then, in an unsteady
                  voice, he resumed:
               "Dr. Stanhope, I am about to tell you a tale that has not passed my lips for
                  years; I am about to mention names that have long been forbidden to my ears; in
                     short, I am about to make a
                  confession, that may cause you to shrink from me with abhorrence; but in mercy, I
                  pray you, bring not my own guilty acts to bear upon that gentle being by your
                  side! who is as pure as truth, and as innocent of the wrong as the angels in
                  Heaven."
               "Be your deeds what they may, Mr. Clendennan, no wrong that you have done, shall
                  weigh against the love I bear your noble daughter!" said Stanhope, with a kind of
                  proud enthusiasm.
               "God bless you, for those words!" exclaimed Sir Walter.
               "Look up, sweet Rosalind! be not cast down!" whispered the lover, throwing an arm
                  around her slender and graceful form. "Remember, dearest," he continued, "we are
                  pledged to each other, for weal or for woe!"
               She trembled, and wept, but did not reply, and the Knight continued:
               "In the first place, it is proper I should inform you, of what probably you are
                  ignorant, that I am of noble birth, and still hold the title of Baronet."
               Stanhope gave a start of surprise.
               "But I am no better for that," pursued the wretched man, "and have long since cast
                  aside the hollow honor. In this glorious land of freedom, you may thank your God,
                  every honest man is noble, and needs no long descent from a blood-stained favorite
                  of some grasping, semi-barbarous monarch, to give him equal rank among the
                  proudest of those who rule the state and govern one of the mightiest nations of
                  earth! No man, sir, is the better for a title; and since I came to this country, I
                  have disused mine. By his heart and his intellect should every man be known and
                  judged, and not by that which comes from an ancestor, however worthy that ancestor
                  may have been. It was wise in the framers of your constitution, aiming as they did
                  at liberty and equal rights, to sweep away the worthless less, though gilded
                  fabric, which supports monarchy—namely: hollow titles and hereditary possessions.
                  It belongs to the march of progress, for every man to regard every man as his
                  equal, and no man as his superior; and it is this true principle, installed into
                  the youth of this country, which makes each generation a generation of free men,
                  and worthy successors of those who have passed away; and it is this proud feeling
                  of independence and equal rights, united with a general education of the masses,
                  which will perpetuate the liberties of this mighty country, till thrones,
                  monarchs, and titles, shall be known as thing which were, and as belonging to an
                  age of comparative barbarism and physical rule. Sir! America has the proud
                  distinction of giving to the world the first true liberty which
                  mankind has ever enjoyed; and the time is coming—I may not live to see it, nor
                  you—but the time is surely coming, when she will give benign laws to the
                  down-trodden of the old world, as she now gives hope; and when to say, 'I am an
                  American,' will be a greater honour, than to say, 'I am an Emperor!'"
               The Knight paused, and for a moment a kind of enthusiastic glow rested on his,
                  care-worn, haggard features; but this was quickly succeeded by a shade of gloom;
                  and he added, in an altered tone:
               "Ah me! I have digressed, and must return to a painful subject."
               He then went on to detail to the young physician those terrible events, already
                  known to the reader, which had so embittered the closing years of his life, and
                  which were now, through deep, unceasing remorse, dragging him down, step by step,
                  to the cold and silent tomb. Stanhope listened, with painful interest, without
                  interruptions or reply, till Sir Walter had concluded his sad tale. Once, when the
                  Knight first mentioned the name of Norbury, he gave a start of surprise and his lips parted as
                  if about to speak; but he bethought himself in the same instant, and made no
                  remark.
               "And now, Sir, that you know my secret," said the Baronet, in conclusion; "now
                  that you know, from my own lips, what a wretch I have been and am; now that you
                  know the source of my misery, and the unhappiness of my sweet daughter—who has,
                  may Heaven bless her! ever clung to me with the most unselfish affection, and
                  striven to lift the desolation from my guilt-burdened soul; now that you know
                  all—what say you now? Are your feelings still unchanged toward my gentle
                  Rosalind!"
               "No, dear sir!" replied Newton, with a manly glow, as he turned to the trembling
                  Rosalind, and gently took her hand—"my feelings are not unchanged—for now do I
                  love her more than ever; and it shall be the study of my life, not only to make
                  her happy, but, if possible, to cause her to forget she has ever known
                  sorrow!"
               "God bless you!" returned the Knight, with a moist eye and quivering lip; and he
                  turned aside his face, to conceal his emotion.
               At this moment, pale with excitement, Mrs. Wyndham burst into the room.
               "At last," she cried, "we have a clue to the robbery!" and to the utter
                  astonishment of all, she displayed the missing necklace of Rosalind.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVI.
               BEGINNING OF THE END.
               WITH an exclamation of surprise, both Newton and Rosalind instantly started to
                  their feet; while Sir Walter, convulsively clutching the jewels which Mrs. Wyndham
                  extended to him, exclaimed:
               "Speak! explain!"
               "I found this in the box of a Jew pedlar, who was showing his wares to the
                  servants," replied the Governess.
               "Bring him here! bring him here!" cried the Knight, fairly breathless with
                  excitement.
               "Quick! quick! show him to me!" exclaimed Stanhope.
               "This way, then!" rejoined the Governess; and she darted from the room, followed
                  by the excited lover.
               In a few minutes, Dr. Stanhope returned, fairly dragging into the library the
                  terrified pedlar. He was a small man, about thirty years of age, with black eyes,
                  hair, and beard, and a very dark complexion. He hastily glanced at the Knight,
                  Rosalind, Mrs. Wyndham, and Stanhope, and then at the servants, who now filled the
                  doorway, and an expression of cowardly despair settled upon his features, as one
                  who felt convinced that his last hour had come.
               "Speak, Jew!" said the Baronet, holding up the necklace—"where got you this?"
               "I puyed it—so helps me Fader Abr'ams!" answered the pedlar.
               "Who sold it to you?" demanded the Knight.
               
               "Well, it vash a mans—so helps me Moses!"
               "Are you sure you did not steal it?" cried Stanhope.
               "Yaas—I knows I paid monish for it."
               "Let me explain!" said Sir Walter, who saw how frightened the pedlar really was,
                  and thought he might the sooner arrive at the truth, by letting the Jew know what
                  had occurred, and what was really required of him. "A few weeks ago," he went on,
                  "my house was robbed in the night, of many valuable articles, of which this is
                  one; and a little girl, living with us at the time, was taken away, and has never
                  since been heard of. We fear she has been murdered, and we are anxious to trace
                  out the burglar and homicide. If you bought this, as you say, you must tell of
                  whom you purchased it, or we shall be compelled to hand you over to the police.
                  Now make a clean breast of all you know; and if you are innocent, you shall not be
                  harmed."
               "I ish innocents ash de pabes as vash never porns!" replied the Jew.
               "Well, speak!" cried Stanhope, impatiently; "and to the point! Do you know where
                  you got that necklace?"
               "Yaas—I knows de mans himshelf—he ish a constaples."
               "Who is he? where is he? can you show him to me?" demanded Stanhope.
               "Yaas—you comes mit me, and I shows him."
               "Quick, then—let us, begone!" rejoined the young physician.
               "Take the carriage, Doctor," cried the Knight—and let not the Jew escape! Quick,
                  John, (to the coachman, who was standing at the door,) put to the horses! And,
                  Stanhope, drive first to a Magistrate's, and get out a warrant, and take along an
                  officer, for the apprehension of the guilty party. Oh!" he continued, rising in
                  great excitement citement—"at last we may unravel this awful mystery! I would
                  willingly give half my fortune to see that child returned!"
               "If in human power, and Ellen Norbury lives, you shall see her restored to you!"
                  cried Stanhope,
               "Who? who did you say?" fairly shrieked Sir Walter.
               In the excitement of the moment, the surname of the little orphan had passed the
                  unguarded lips of Newton, and he now trembled for the consequences.
               "I mean little Ellen," he hastened to reply, first turning pale, with alarm, and
                  then flushing with confusion.
               "But you said Ellen Norbury, sir!" cried the Baronet, catching hold of his
                  daughter, to support his tottering frame, and looking wildly from one to another
                  of those present. "Did he not? did he not? did he not?" he hastily demanded,
                  appealing to each in turn.
               "Pray, dear father, be calm!" said Rosalind, gently.
               "I was thinking of Norbury, sir!" rejoined Stanhope—"for you had yourself so
                  recently mentioned the name."
               "Don't try to deceive me sir!" cried the Baronet, almost wild with excitement.
                  "And you are trying to do so now, sir I can see it in your tell-tale face. Speak!
                  is her last name Norbury?"
               Newton glanced despairingly at Rosalind, who hastened to answer:
               "Dear, dear father, be calm; try and be composed, and I will answer."
               "Well then—well then—speak!"
               "Her last name is Norbury."
               "The daughter of William?"
               "Yes, dear father."
               "The niece of the murdered James!" shrieked the Knight. "Oh! great God! how
                  wonderful are thy mysterious workings! Ah! I saw it, but did not know it—I felt it, but did not know it;" and
                  staggering back sunk down on the lounge, and groaned. "Why did you not tell me
                  this when she was with us?" he asked, after a short but painful silence.
               "Because I was afraid it would be too great a shock for you, dear father!"
                  answered Rosalind; "and you know you had forbidden the mention of the name of
                  Norbury in your hearing."
               "I am to blame for all this!" said Stanhope, with deep self-reproach.
               "No, sir!" returned the Baronet, quickly; "the blame is not with you, but with
                  me—the crime was not with you, but with me. Rosalind, do you think I did any thing
                  to drive her away from me?"
               "No, dear father—no—I know you did not."
               "Oh, God! restore her to me!" he ejaculated "and let me make some atonement to the
                  living for the wrongs done to the dead! Go, Newton Stanhope; and spare neither
                  time nor money, to clear up this terrible mystery! Here, take this necklace—it may
                  be of service. If she be among the living, and you bring her not, then never hope
                  to look upon my face again."
               And as Stanhope hurried from the library, with the pedlar, the Knight added, in a
                  feeble tone:
               "This is a strange secret I have learned, and it affects me much, Rosalind. I feel
                  weak—very weak. Help me to bed."
               Rosalind, with a sad heart—for she trembled at the probable result of so severe a
                  shock to her father's nervous system—assisted him into an adjoining room; and the
                  moment he touched the bed, he said:
               "Now go, my daughter—I would be alone, till Dr. Stanhope returns."
               "But, dear father, you are far from well," replied Rosalind lind; "will you not
                  permit me to visit you, every hour, to learn how you feel?"
               "Yes, Rosalind, to please you, I will."
               "Thank you, dear, dear father!" returned the noble daughter; and throwing her arms
                  around his neck, she kissed him, and retired.
               "Heaven bless her!" murmured the Knight, as she disappeared.
               Dr. Stanhope paced the court impatiently, till the carriage was ready; when he
                  hurried the pedlar into it, and sprung in after him. The driver now received his
                  instructions, and drove with all speed to the office of a magistrate, where Newton
                  lodged his complaint, and, on the affidavit of the Jew, got a warrant issued for
                  the apprehension of Patrick Cafferty. An officer to serve it was readily procured,
                  and the parties were rapidly driven to the residence of the guilty Constable. It
                  was not far from the hour of noon; and it so chanced that Pat, having nothing
                  better to do, had just come home to get his dinner. The officer, leaving Stanhope
                  and the Jew in the carriage, knocked at the door, and Pat himself opened it,
                  looking as innocent as it was in the nature of things for so mean a little man to
                  look. He recognised the officer with a smile; for the presence of one of his
                  profession, so far from giving him the least alarm, excited some brilliant
                  anticipations of a clever undertaking, in which he himself might probably figure
                  as the "dread constabble of the law."
               "The top of the morning to ye, Misther Barlow, if it's not too late for that
                  same!" he said. "And, sure, it's tak'ng a ride ye is, in style, jist!" he added,
                  glancing at the carriage.
               "Yes, and a fine day for a ride it is, Mr. Cafferty," replied Barlow. "I would
                  like you to come with me."
               "Arrah, now! and it's mesilf as was t'inking that same, so I was. It's wanting me sarvices, ye is, Misther
                  Barlow?" and he winked knowingly.
               "Exactly so."
               "It's me dinner time, so it is; but it's mesilf as'll not mind that now. I'll git
                  me hat, jist; and lave the owld woman and childers to spile the praties, so I
                  will."
               He hastened for his hat; and the next minute entered the carriage, followed by
                  Officer Barlow.
               "Agh!" said Pat, as his eye fell on the Jew pedlar; "so it's yersilf, is it,
                  that's the tief now? Och! sure, and wasn't it knowing, I was, ye'd come to this at
                  last, ye vagabond!"
               "You ish more tiefs ash me!" replied the pedlar, indignantly.
               "Shut up now, ye spalpeen!" cried Pat, savagely. "Sure, and it's down below ye'll
                  be afther going, for yer insults to mesilf, the dread constabble of the law,
                  whilst doing me duthy to me country, so ye will!"
               "Stop!" said Barlow: "I will have no quarrelling here. We shall soon see who is
                  the thief."
               Pat Cafferty leaned proudly back on his seat, and looked triumphantly at the
                  pedlar, as much as to say:
               "D'ye hear that now, ye spalpeen?"
               Arrived at the Magistrate's office, the whole party entered the little room
                  together, Pat Cafferty evidently swelling with importance.
               "Good day to your Honor!" he said, making what he considered a very dignified
                  bow.
               "Good day, Patrick!" replied the Alderman. And then immediately added: "This is a
                  very serious charge against you, sir!"
               "Aginst me, your Honor?" exclaimed the Constable, in astonishment. "It's aginst
                  the Jew, it's like, your Honor manes, now?"
               "No, sir, against yourself!" rejoined the Alderman, sternly. "And the more shame
                  to you, if the charge be true; for it always makes me blush for human depravity,
                  when I see a man, authorized to execute the laws, breaking them himself! The poor,
                  starving wretch, who steals bread to appease the hunger of himself and family, I
                  can excuse in my heart, even when obliged, by the law, to commit him to prison;
                  but I can find no excuse, and no sympathy, for a man in your position, who commits
                  a felony."
               Pat turned pale, and looked inquiringly at Barlow.
               "You are under arrest," said that officer, "and here is the warrant for your
                  apprehension."
               "You are accused," pursued the Magistrate, "of feloniously taking these jewels
                  from the house of Walter Clendennan;" and he displayed to the astonished gaze of
                  Pat Cafferty, the necklace of Rosalind.
               "And sure, your Honor, who accuses mesilf of that same?" faltered Pat, beginning
                  to grow much alarmed.
               "This gentleman—Dr. Stanhope—has made oath, that this necklace, with much other
                  valuable property, was feloniously taken in the night, from the house of the
                  person named; and Mr. Isaacs, here, a pedlar, has also made oath, that he
                  purchased it from you, some three weeks ago."
               "He's a Jew, your Honor, and a dape liar, so he is!" rejoined Pat, with a half
                  resolve to brave it out.
               "That may be," said the Alderman; "but his testimony is good for the present; and
                  in the meantime I must hold you to answer to the charge."
               "Will your Honor permit me to say a few words to Mr. Cafferty?" now inquired
                  Stanhope.
               "Certainly, sir—certainly."
               "Mr. Cafferty," said the physician, addressing the Constable, "I do not know
                  whether you are guilty or not; but one
                  thing is certain—these valuable jewels were feloniously taken from the house of
                  Mr. Clendennan, as his Honor has informed you; and I will add, what his Honor has
                  not told you, that a little girl, some ten or eleven years of age, who was living
                  with the family at the time, has ever since been missing, and it is supposed she
                  has been murdered; and as these jewels may lead to the detection of a burglar, if
                  not a homicide, and also to the clearing up of a terrible mystery, you see how
                  important it is that we should trace them to the hand which took them. Now, if
                  you, which is not unreasonable to suppose, received them from some person, not
                  knowing them to be stolen property, you will probably clear yourself, and further
                  the ends of justice, by stating from whom you got them. Do not think," he added,
                  as he saw the Constable hesitate, "that this affair will blow over lightly; for it
                  involves the fate of a child who has wealthy friends; and now that we are on the
                  right track, no time nor money will be spared, in the investigation of the
                  mystery, until her fate shall be known."
               "And sure, and what's her name, jist?" inquired Pat, scratching his head, and
                  looking a good deal perplexed.
               "Ellen Norbury," answered Stanhope.
               "Och! sure, and she's the tief hersilf, jist!" cried Pat, thrown off his
                  guard.
               "Impossible!" said Stanhope.
               "Troth! and it's thrue, now, so it is!"
               "How do you know?"
               "Agh! and wasn't it mesilf as arristed the likes of her, I'm axing? and didn't I
                  tak her down below, now?"
               "Is she alive, and in prison?" cried Stanhope, breathless with excitement.
               "Sure, and she is that same."
               "Thank God!" ejaculated the other, fervently; "at last the poor child is
                  found."
               "Then I suppose you received the necklace from the child in question?" said the
                  Alderman, addressing the Constable.
               Pat, seeing himself caught on his own confession, turned all sorts of colors—or
                  rather, all shades of one color—and after looking as much meaner than Pat Cafferty
                  in general, as Pat Cafferty in general looked meaner than an honest man, he
                  stammered:
               "Sure, your Honor—she—she gave it to—to mesilf—to lit let her go, jist."
               "Which you were too conscientious to do?"
               "Yis, your Honor—that's it, your Honor."
               "But you were not too conscientious to receive the property, believing it to be
                  stolen, and dispose of it for your own benefit!" pursued the Magistrate, sternly.
                  "Patrick Cafferty, this is a shameful business, and you are a disgrace to your
                  office! I shall hold you in two thousand dollars bail, to answer at court."
               "Is it possible, your Honor, for me to get this child out of prison at once?"
                  inquired the young physician, anxiously.
               "What was the charge against her, Patrick?" demanded the Alderman of the
                  Constable.
               "She was put down for a vagrant, jist, I'm t'inking," answered Pat, dolefully.
               "It will be an easy; matter, then, to get her released," said the magistrate to
                  Stanhope; and he was about to give him instructions how to proceed, when Mr.
                  Shelden entered the office.
               "Ah! Mr. Shelden," cried the Doctor, joyfully—"you are the very man I want to
                  see."
               
               "Allow me to return the compliment," said Shelden, with a quiet smile.
               "At last I have news of Ellen Norbury."
               "Indeed!"
               "She is in the Moyamensing Prison."
               "I know it."
               "You have heard, then?"
               "I saw her yesterday."
               "You did not tell me!"
               "I have not seen you since, and I intended an agreeable surprise for you."
               "How shall we get her out?"
               "I have her discharge in my hand."
               "Explain!"
               "In visiting the prison yesterday, I came across a sweet little creature; and you
                  may judge of my surprise, on learning that she was the very one for whom we have
                  been so anxiously searching! This morning, I waited upon the villainous
                  Alderman—who committed her for no other crime than poverty—and by paying him his
                  extortions, have obtained her discharge. I am now on my way to set her free."
               "Quick, then—let us go—I have a carriage at the door."
               "In a moment."
               Mr. Shelden now addressed a few words to the Alderman; who answered, "Certainly,
                  certainly, sir!" and immediately placed his signature to a paper which the other
                  handed him.
               "Now then, Dr. Stanhope, I am at your service," said Shelden; and both hurried
                  from the office.
               The Jew was required to find five hundred dollars bail, to appear against
                  Cafferty; which he very readily procured, and went about his business. But the
                  miserable Constable stable was not so fortunate. He wrote to his best friend,
                  Alderman McGrabby, telling him how he was situated, and imploring him to come to
                  his release. The Alderman came, but not to his release; for on learning the whole
                  particulars, he not only refused to enter the required security, but gave vent to
                  his outraged feelings in a long strain of the most virtuous indignation—enough, in
                  fact, to have lasted any ordinarily moral individual a life-time.
               The truth was, Pat Cafferty, in the opinion of Felix McGrabby, had been guilty of
                  a most enormous crime—not in stealing the necklace from little Ellen—for that, in
                  his view, was all right and proper for a Constable to do—but in stealing, and
                  keeping, and selling it, without making a fair division of the spoil. For this
                  crime of ingratitude, Pat soon found himself snugly confined in a snug little cell
                  of the County Prison; where, for several days, he was left to ruminate upon his
                  chances of ultimately becoming one of the chief functionaries of the District of
                     Moyamensing.*
                  
                     *
                     At the date of our story, the County of Philadelphia was divided into
                        numerous districts and towns, each having its own municipal regulations,
                        while the city proper itself occupied a very limited space. The uniting of
                        all these now constitutes what is termed the Consolidated City—which is
                        probably, in its area of ground, the largest city in the world.
                  
               
               But unfortunately for the public good, the vile Constable was bailed out all too
                  soon, by McGrabby himself—who, being guilty of some nefarious transactions,
                  thought it the better policy to be friends with one who might possibly take it
                  into his head to turn state's evidence. We may add in this connection, that, what
                  between scoundrels in office and out, colinked in the common cause of party,
                  Patrick Cafferty was never brought to trial for the larceny of the necklace; but
                  being one night detected in a daring burglary, of his own planning, he was
                  arrested, committed, tried, and
                  convicted, and is now, we are happy to state, serving out his time in the Eastern
                  Penitentiary, where there is still room for a few more of the same stamp. He
                  narrowly escaped being pardoned by a notorious Governor, whose term of office
                  fortunately expired the day before his conviction. Felix McGrabby still lives
                  outside the walls of a prison; but eagle eyes are upon him, and the voice of an
                  outraged public has startled him into a show of propriety. Let him beware! for
                  another misstep may plunge him down a dark abyss.
            
            
               CHAPTER XXVII.
               THE CURTAIN FALLS.
               SWIFTLY round turned the wheels of the carriage, that bore the benevolent Marcus
                  Shelden, and the eager Newton Stanhope, to the rescue of the bitterly wronged and
                  innocent little orphan.
               "There is one thing that grieves me," said the Doctor to his companion, as they
                  rode along. "If this child is innocent, how came she to be arrested, with the
                  stolen necklace in her possession?"
               Shelden smiled, as he replied:
               "If you knew, my friend, how many drones of officers are prowling about, seeking
                  for victims to fleece, you would hardly be surprised, to find as many innocent as
                  guilty persons in their clutches. But rest easy concerning your little friend! I
                  have heard her story; and it is enough for me to say, I would stake my life on her
                  truth, purity, and innocence."
               Arrived at the prison, the great gates were thrown open, and the carriage slowly
                  entered within the high, massive walls.
               "Here are discharges for Ellen Norbury, Nabob Hunchy, and two others," said Mr.
                  Shelden to one of the prison officers, as he descended from the carriage, and
                  handed several papers to a gentleman standing near. "This way, Doctor," he
                  continued: "I know you are anxious to behold the little prisoner."
               They hurried from the building they were in, across an open garden of beautiful
                  flowers, and entering the female department, soon stood beside the little orphan.
                  She was seated outside her cell, on one of the long corridors, with some
                  needle-work in her hand, upon which, at her own request, she was employing her
                  time, for the benefit of the kind Matron who had charge of her. So busily was she
                  engaged, and so abstracted in thought, that Shelden, Stanhope, and the Matron drew
                  close to her side, before she received them. She looked up with a start; and the
                  moment her eyes rested upon the pleasant features of Shelden, she dropped her
                  work, and sprung to her feet, with an exclamation of joy. She looked pale and
                  care-worn; but her face and hands were clean, her hair neatly arranged, and her
                  dress was tidy.
               "Ellen," said Mr. Shelden, in a kind, gentle tone, taking her hand in his, "I have
                  succeeded in doing what I said I would. You are now free; and this gentleman has
                  come to take you to your friends, who are very anxious to see you."
               "Oh! sir," faltered the little orphan, trembling all over with newly awakened hope
                  and joy—"am I to go and see dear Rosalind?"
               "Yes, my dear child!" replied Stanhope, quickly; "and you will find her eager to clasp you in her arms,
                  and to her heart."
               Overcome with joy, little Ellen sunk down on her seat, and burst into tears; and
                  it was several minutes before she could recover sufficient composure to prepare
                  for her departure.
               "Good bye, and God bless you!" said the Matron, with tears in her eyes, as she
                  bestowed an affectionate parting kiss. "If you win all hearts, as you have won
                  mine, a happy future awaits you."
               "Heaven bless you!" said Stanhope to Shelden, as they separated at the
                  carriage.
               "I feel it does, sir, in every good act I perform!" was the characteristic reply
                  of one who still lives and still labors for the good of his fellow-beings.
               Ellen leaned back in the carriage, as it whirled through the streets, and rolled
                  over the pavements, bearing her from a prison to a palace—from the dark abodes of
                  crime and misery, to the bright abodes of innocence and happiness. She sat as one
                  in a trance—speechless, motionless, and pale as a lily. Was she in a dream? Would
                  she awake to new sufferings—new horrors?
               We pray, nevermore!
               The carriage stopped in the court of Sir Walter's mansion. The door opened, and
                  the beautiful face of Rosalind, like the beautiful face of some angel in a vision,
                  appeared to the view of the sweet little orphan. There was a cry of joy—perhaps
                  more than one—and little Ellen was in the arms of Rosalind—sweet Rosalind—Cousin
                  Rosalind—and she was sobbing on her breast—and their tears were mingling.
               And the dream went on.
               Hours passed—hours which seemed but minutes—and somehow the once poor, friendless,
                  and persecuted little orphan, found herself seated upon Sir Walter's knee, and
                  relating her own sad tale; and the Knight was weeping; and Rosalind was weeping;
                  and there were others around weeping; and little Ellen was weeping—though, she
                  scarcely knew why, for she felt very, very happy. And all the tears were tears
                  which brought more joy than sorrow to the sympathizing hearts who wept; and there
                  was sunlight in the room.
               And still the dream went on.
               Days passed—days which seemed but different scenes in the same bright, beautiful
                  dream—days which seemed but links in the same bright chain of happiness; and soft
                  southern breezes kissed the brows of some who had known sorrows; and the bright
                  sun shed beams of joy; and the bright leaves waved; and the bright flowers
                  bloomed; and the sweet birds sung.
               And still the dream went on.
               Weeks passed—weeks which seemed but days.
               And still the dream went on.
               Months passed—but months brought a change. The breezes blew cold from the north;
                  and the sun hid his face behind clouds; and the leaves withered; and the flowers
                  died; and the birds departed; and Sir Walter Clendennan "slept with his fathers."
                  Rosalind was now an orphan; but not a lonely orphan—not a friendless orphan. The
                  death-bed of a father was the bridal altar of a daughter; and the Knight died
                  happy, blessing his children.
               And still the dream went on.
               Months passed—and months brought still another change. There was a voyage across
                  mighty waters; and view of great cities; and strange sights and strange
                  faces—strange manners and strange customs—strange countries and strange
                  languages—gorgeous scenes and gloomy—and a gladsome return.
               And still the dream went on.
               
               Months passed—and months brought still another change. And now the poor, despised
                  little orphan was the acknowledged heiress of a princely fortune; and proud
                  mothers bent to kiss her; and proud daughters sought her company; and the
                  fastidious praised her beauty; and the good loved her; and the poor of two
                  countries remembered her in their prayers; for now she held a golden talisman, and
                  could find her way to all hearts.
               And still the dream went on—bright and beautiful in the main—darkening a little at
                  times—but with brilliant lights rising over shadows.
               Years passed—and years bring us to the present. Ellen Norbury still lives, in the
                  bloom of girlhood—a bright, lovely and angelic being. Her home is
                  still with her beloved Cousin Rosalind; and Dr. Stanhope, now eminent in his
                  profession, calls her sister; and little Ellen Stanhope—a bright little girl, with
                  blue eyes and sunny curls—always smiles at her coming, and looks sad at her going
                  forth. Neither time, nor fortune, nor circumstances, have made any change in her
                  gentle disposition; and night and morning sweet orisons arise, from her grateful
                  and happy heart, to the Throne of Grace. Sunlight falls around her steps—God keep
                  her from shadows!
               And so the dream goes on.
               And now, what shall we say of those who have played dark parts in our drama of
                  life? It was but the other day, in company with Mr. Shelden and a distinguished
                  friend from a distant city, we paid a visit to the Infected District, and saw the
                  vile groggery of Jimmy Quiglan closed. We traced the Dwarf to an awful den, and
                  entered, and found the monster still living. If the inner man is no better than
                  the outer man appears, then Heaven have mercy on his soul! He was surrounded by
                  the most cut-throat-looking gang we ever beheld; and we left with a shudder, and
                  breathed freer when we reached the open air. We entered a Mission-House—a rough,
                  dark, and gloomy place, with low ceiling and many benches—and learned that the
                  Gospel was here preached to the poor, without distinction of dress or color, age
                  or sex; and we thanked God, that we had found Christian hearts laboring in so dark
                  a field, and obeying the commands of their Great Master. We learned, on inquiry,
                  that the Hunchback had recently left the city, on a vessel bound for a southern
                  clime. What the fate of the poor boy will be, Heaven only knows. Of Mulwrack, we
                  know nothing beyond what we have stated. John M'Callan is in prison, accused of a
                  dark crime; and his mother sits in sorrow, and most bitterly deplores her too free
                  indulgence to his youthful passions, The old hag, Mother Grimsby, is dead; and her
                  vile den is now occupied by three poor families, who try to earn an honest living.
                  And last, though not least, Deacon Pinchbeck is now struggling with poverty—a
                  poor, forlorn, miserable old wretch—wifeless and childless—accursed of
                  Heaven—despised of man.
               Surely, the way of the transgressor is hard!
               And now, kind reader, adieu. Our picture has been one of light and shade; but the
                  light falls brightly on those who have done well—on those who are worthy of
                  love—and there may it linger forever!
            
            THE END.
         
      
      
         
            
            T. B. PETERSON,
            No. 102 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia,
            HAS JUST PUBLISHED AND FOR SALE, STEREOTYPE EDITIONS OF THE FOLLOWING WORKS, Which
               will be found to be the Best and Latest Publications, by the Most Popular Writers in
               the World. THE TRADE SUPPLIED AT THE LOWEST RATES, AND ALL ORDERS PROMPTLY ATTENDED
               TO. Every work published in this Country for Sale here, either at Wholesale or
               Retail.
            
               ELLEN PICKERING'S NOVELS.
               Either of which can be had separately. Price 25 cents each, or any five of them
                  for One Dollar. They are printed on the finest white paper, and each forms one
                  large octavo volume, complete in itself, neatly bound in a strong paper
                  cover.
               
                  THE ORPHAN NIECE.
               
               
                  KATE WALSHINGHAM.
               
               
                  THE POOR COUSIN.
               
               
                  ELLEN WAREHAM.
               
               
                  THE GRUMBLER.
               
               
                  THE QUIET HUSBAND.
               
               
                  WHO SHALL BE HEIR.
               
               
                  THE SECRET FOE.
               
               
                  AGNES SERLE.
               
               
                  THE PRINCE AND THE PEDLER.
               
               
                  THE MERCHANT'S DAUGHTER.
               
               
                  THE HEIRESS.
               
               
                  THE FRIGHT.
               
               
                  NAN DARRELL.
               
               
                  THE SQUIRE.
               
               
                  THE EXPECTANT.
               
            
            
               CAPTAIN MARRYATT'S WORKS.
               Either of which can be had separately. Price of all exempt the two last are 25
                  cents each, or any five of them for One Dollar. They are printed on the finest
                  white paper, and each forms one large octavo volume, complete in itself.
               
                  PETER SIMPLE.
               
               
                  NEWTON FORSTER.
               
               
                  JAPHET IN SEARCH OF A FATHER.
               
               
                  THE PHANTOM SHIP.
               
               
                  MIDSHIPMAN EASY.
               
               
                  THE PACHA OF MANY TALES.
               
               
                  THE KING'S OWN.
               
               
                  THE PIRATE AND THREE CUTTERS.
               
               
                  THE NAVAL OFFICER.
               
               
                  SNARLEYYOW, or the Dog Fiend.
               
               
                  PERCIVAL KEENE. 200 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  POOR JACK. 200 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  SEA KING. 203 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  VALERIE. His last Novel. Price Fifty cents.
            
            
               T. S. ARTHUR'S WORKS.
               Either of which can be had separately. Price 25 cents each, or any five of them
                  for One Dollar. They are the most moral, popular, and entertaining in the world.
                  There are no better books to place in the hands of the young. All will profit by
                  them.
               
                  THE DIVORCED WIFE.
               
               
                  THE BANKER'S WIFE.
               
               
                  PRIDE AND PRUDENCE.
               
               
                  CECILIA HOWARD.
               
               
                  THE BROKEN PROMISE.
               
               
                  LOVE IN A COTTAGE.
               
               
                  LOVE IN HIGH LIFE.
               
               
                  THE TWO MERCHANTS.
               
               
                  THE ORPHAN CHILDREN.
               
               
                  THE DEBTOR'S DAUGHTER.
               
               
                  INSUBORDINATIONS.
               
               
                  LUCY SANDFORD.
               
               
                  AGNES, or the Possessed.
               
               
                  THE TWO BRIDES.
               
               
                  THE IRON RULE.
               
               
                  LADY AT HOME.
               
            
            
               MRS. GREY'S NOVELS.
               Either of which can be had separately. Price 25 cents each, or any five of them
                  for One Dollar. They are printed on the finest white paper, and each forms one
                  large octavo volume, complete in itself, neatly bound in a strong paper
                  cover.
               
                  THE GIPSY'S DAUGHTER.
               
               
                  THE BELLE OF THE FAMILY.
               
               
                  SYBIL LENNARD. A Record of Woman's Life.
               
               
                  THE DUKE AND THE COUSIN.
               
               
                  THE LITTLE WIFE.
               
               
                  THE MANŒUVERING MOTHER.
               
               
                  LENA CAMERON, or the Four Sisters.
               
               
                  THE BARONET'S DAUGHTERS.
               
               
                  THE YOUNG PRIMA DONNA.
               
               
                  THE OLD DOWER HOUSE.
               
               
                  HYACINTHE, OR THE CONTRAST.
               
               
                  ALICE SEYMOUR.
               
               
                  HARRY MONK.
               
               
                  MARY SEAHAM. 250 Pages. Price Fifty cents.
            
            
               ALEXANDER DUMAS' WORKS.
               
                  The Iron Mask, or the Feats and Adventures of Raoul de Bragelonne.
                  Being the conclusion of "The Three Guardsmen," "Twenty Years After," and
                  "Bratrelonne." By Alexandre Dumas. Complete in two large volumes of 420 octave
                  pages, with beautifully Illustrated Covers, Portraits, and Engravings. Price One
                  Dollar.
               
                  Louise La Valliere; or the Second Series and Final End of the "Iron
                     Mask." By Alexandre Dumas. This work is the final end of "The Three
                  Guardsmen," "Twenty Years After," "Bragelonne," and "The Iron Mask," and is of far
                  more interesting and absorbing interest, than any of its predecessors. Complete in
                  two large octavo volumes of over 400 pages, printed on the best of paper,
                  beautifully illustrated. It also contains correct Portraits of "Louise La
                  Valliere," and "The Hero of the Iron Mask." Price for the entire work, One
                  Dollar.
               
                  The Memoirs of a Physician; or the Secret History of Louis the
                     Fifteenth. By Alexandre Dumas. It is beautifully embellished with
                  thirty engravings, which illustrates the principal scenes and characters of the
                  different heroines throughout the work. Complete in two large octavo volumes.
                  Price Fifty cents a volume.
               
                  The Queen's Necklace; or the Secret History of the Court of Louis the
                     Sixteenth. A Sequel to the Memoirs of a Physician. By Alexandre Dumas.
                  It is beautifully Illustrated with portraits of the heroines of the work. Complete
                  in two large octavo volumes of over 400 pages. Price Fifty cents a volume.
               
                  Six Years Later; or the Taking of the Bastille. By Alexandre Dumas.
                  Being the continuation and final conclusion of "The Queen's Necklace; or the
                  Secret History of the Court of Louis the Sixteenth," and "Memoirs of a Physician."
                  Complete in two large octavo volumes. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Sketches in France. By Alexandre Dumas. "It is as good a book as
                  Thackeray's Sketches in Ireland." Dumas never wrote a better book. It is the most
                  delightful book of the season. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  Diana of Meridor; The Lady of Monsoreau; or France in the Sixteenth
                  Century. By Alexandre Dumas. An Historical Romance. Complete in two large octavo
                  volumes of 538 pages, printed on the finest white paper, with numerous
                  illustrative engravings. Price One Dollar.
               
                  The Reign of Terror; Genevieve, or the Chevalier of the Maison
                  Rouge. By Alexandre Dumas. An Historical Romance of the French Revolution.
                  Complete in one large octavo volume of over 200 pages, printed on the finest white
                  paper, with numerous illustrative engravings. Price for the entire work, Fifty
                  cents.
               
                  Isabel of Bavaria; or the Chronicles of France for the reign of
                  Charles the Sixth. Complete in one fine octavo volume of 211 pages, printed on the
                  finest white paper. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  Edmond Dantes. Being the Sequel to Dumas' celebrated novel of the
                  Count of Monte Cristo. With elegant illustrations. Complete in one large octavo
                  volume of over 200 pages. Price Fifty cents.
            
            
            
               CHARLES LEVER'S NOVELS.
               
                  Charles O'Malley, the Irish Dragoon. By Charles Lever. Complete in
                  one large octavo volume of 324 pages. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in
                  one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar.
               
                  The Knight of Gwynne. A tale of the time of the Union. By Charles
                  Lever. Complete in one fine octavo volume of 226 pages, beautifully illustrated,
                  and printed on the finest white paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in
                  one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Jack Hinton, the Guardsman. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large
                  octavo volume of 400 pages, painted on fine white paper. Price Fifty cents; or
                  handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Tom Burke of Ours. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo
                  volume of 300 pages, printed from new type and on the finest paper. Price Fifty
                  cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Arthur O'Leary. By Charles Lever. Complete in one large octavo
                  volume of 220 pages, full of beautiful illustrations, and printed in the best
                  style. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume, illustrated. Price
                  One Dollar.
               
                  Kate O'Donoghue. A Tale of Ireland. By Charles Lever. Complete in
                  one large octavo volume of 140 pages, beautifully illustrated, and printed on the
                  finest white paper. Price 50 cents; or handsomely bound in one volume,
                  illustrated. Price Seventy-five cents.
               
                  Horace Templeton. By Charles Lever. This is Lever's New Book, and
                  equal to his best. Complete in one large octavo volume of 212 paces, and printed
                  on the best of white paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume,
                  illustrated. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Harry Lorrequer. By Charles Lever, author of the above seven works.
                  Complete in one octavo volume of 402 pages, printed from large new type, and on
                  the finest paper. Price Fifty cents; or handsomely bound in one volume,
                  illustrated Price One Dollar.
            
            
               W. HARRISON AINSWORTH'S WORKS.
               
                  The Illustrated Tower of London. By William Harrison Ainsworth.
                  With 100 splendid engravings. It is beyond all doubt one of the most interesting
                  works ever published in the known world, and can be read and re-read with pleasure
                  and satisfaction by every body. We advise all persons to get it and read it, for
                  there is much to learn and valuable information to be gained from its pages, which
                  cannot be obtained in any other work published in the known world. Two volumes,
                  octavo. Price for the complete work, One Dollar; or handsomely bound, for
                  $1.50.
               
                  Pictorial Life and Adventures of Jack Sheppard, the most noted
                  burglar, robber, and jail breaker, that ever lived. By William Harrison Ainsworth.
                  Embellished with Thirty-nine, full page, spirited Illustrations. Designed and
                  engraved in the finest style of art by George Cruikshank, Esq., of London. Price
                  60 cts.
               
                  Pictorial Life and Adventures of Guy Fawkes, The Chief of the
                  Gunpowder Treason. By William Harrison Ainsworth. The Bloody Tower, etc.
                  Illustrated. 200 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  The Pictorial Old St. Paul's. By William Harrison Ainsworth. Full
                  of Illustrations. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  Mysteries of the Court of Queen Anne. By William Harrison
                  Ainsworth. 142 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Illustrated Life of Dick Turpin, the Highwayman, Burglar, Murderer,
                  etc. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Life of Harry Thomas, the Western Burglar and Murderer. Full of
                  Engravings. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Illustrated Life and Adventures of the Desperadoes of the New
                     World. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Life and Adventures of Ninon De L'Enclos, with her Letters on Love,
                  Courtship and Marriage. Price 25 cents.
               
                  The Pictorial Newgate Calendar; or the Chronicles of Crime.
                  Beautifully illustrated with Fifteen Engravings. 262 pages. Price Fifty
                  cents.
            
            
               GEORGE LIPPARD'S WORKS.
               
                  Washington and His Generals; or, Legends of the American
                  Revolution. Complete in two large octavo volumes of 538 pages, printed on the
                  finest white paper. Price for the entire work, One Dollar.
               
                  The Quaker City; or the Monks of Monk Hall. A Romance of
                  Philadelphia Life, Mystery and Crime. Illustrated with numerous Engravings.
                  Complete in two large octavo volumes of 500 pages. Price for the entire work, One
                  Dollar.
               
                  The Lady of Albarone; or the Poison Goblet. A Romance of the Dark
                  Ages. Lippard's Last Work. Complete in one large octavo volume of 268 pages. Price
                  75 cents.
               
                  Paul Ardenheim; the Monk of Wissahikon. A Romance of the
                  Revolution. Illustrated with numerous engravings. Complete in two large octavo
                  volumes, of nearly 600 pages. Price One Dollar.
               
                  Blanche of Brandywine; or September the Eleventh, 1777. A Romance
                  of the Poetry, Legends, and History of the Battle of Brandywine. It makes a large
                  octavo volume of 350 pages, printed from new type, and on the finest white paper.
                  Price for the complete work, 75 cents.
               
                  Legends of Mexico: or Battles of General Zachary Taylor, late
                  President of the United States. Complete in one octavo volume of 128 pages. Price
                  25 cents.
               
                  The Nazarene; or the Last of the Washingtons. A Revelation of
                  Philadelphia, New York, and Washington, in the year 1844. Complete in one volume.
                  Price 50 cents.
               
                  Bel of Prairie Eden. A Romance of Mexico. Price 25 cents.
            
            
               Professor LIEBIG'S Works on Chemistry.
               
                  Agricultural Chemistry. Chemistry in its application to Agriculture
                  and Physiology. 135 pages. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Animal Chemistry. Chemistry in its application to Physiology and
                  Pathology. 111 pages. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Familiar letters on Chemistry, and its relations to Commerce,
                  Physiology and Agriculture.
               
                  The Potato Disease. Researches into the motion of the Juices in the
                  Animal Body.
               
                  Chemistry and Physics In Relation to Physiology and Pathology.
               
               T. B. PETERSON also publishes a complete edition of Professor Liebig's works on
                  Chemistry, comprising the whole of the above. They are bound in one large royal
                  octavo volume, in Muslin gilt. Price for the complete works bound in one volume
                  One Dollar and Fifty cents.
            
            
               FRENCH, GERMAN, SPANISH, LATIN & ITALIAN LANGUAGES.
               Any person unacquainted with either of these languages, can, with the aid of
                  these works, be enabled to read, write and
                     speak the language of either, without the aid of a teacher, or any
                  oral instruction whatever, provided they pay strict attention to the instructions
                  laid down in each book, and that nothing shall be passed over, without a thorough
                  investigation of the subject it involves; by doing which, they will be able to
                     speak, read or write either language, at
                  their will and pleasure.
               
                  Spanish Without a Master. In Four Easy Lessons.
               
                  French Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons.
               
                  Italian Without a Master. In Five Easy Lessons.
               
                  German Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons.
               
                  Latin Without a Master. In Six Easy Lessons.
               Price of either of the above Works, separate, 25 cents—or the whole five may be
                  had for One Dollar. They can be sent by mail to any part of the United States for
                  about four cents each.
            
            
            
               B. D'ISRAELI'S NOVELS.
               
                  Vivian Grey. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. Complete in one large octavo
                  volume of 225 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  The Young Duke; or the Younger Days of George the Fourth. By B.
                  D'Israeli, M. P. One octavo volume, 154 pages. Price 37½ cents.
               
                  Venetia: or Lord Byron and his Daughter. By B. D'Israeli, M. P.
                  Complete in one octavo volume of 154 pages. Price Fifty cents.
               
                  Henrietta Temple. A Love Story. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. One volume,
                  octavo, Price 50 cents.
               
                  Contarini Fleming. An Autobiography. By B. D'Israeli, M. P. One
                  volume, octavo. Price 37½ cents.
               
                  Miriam Alroy. A Romance of the Twelfth Century. By B. D'Israeli, M.
                  P. One volume octavo. Price 37½ cents.
            
            
               EUGENE SUE'S NOVELS.
               
                  The Mysteries of Paris; and Gerolstein, the Sequel to It. By Eugene
                  Sue, author of the "Wandering Jew," and the greatest work ever written. Complete
                  in two volumes, octavo, each 50 cents.
               
                  The Illustrated Wandering Jew. By Eugene Sue. With 87 large
                  illustrations. Two volumes, each 60 cents.
               
                  The Female Bluebeard; or, the Woman with many Husbands. By Eugene
                  Sue. 115 pages. Price 25 cents.
               
                  First Love. A Story of the Heart. By Eugene Sue. 114 pages. Price
                  25 cents.
               
                  Woman's Love. A Novel. By Eugene Sue. Illustrated. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Man-of-War's Man. A Tale of the Sea. By Eugene Sue. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Raoul de Surville; or, the Times of Napoleon Bonaparte in 1810. 25
                  cents.
            
            
               Works by the Best and Most Popular Authors.
               
                  The Cabin and Parlor; or, Slaves and Masters. A true history of
                  "NORTH AND SOUTH." By J. Thornton Randolph. This book is fully equal in point of
                  interest to "Uncle Tom's Cabin." 336 pages. Beautifully illustrated from original
                  designs drawn by Stephens. Price Fifty cents in paper covers; or a finer edition,
                  printed on thicker and better paper, and handsomely bound in muslin, is published
                  for One Dollar.
               
                  Life in the South. A companion to "Uncle Tom's Cabin." By C. H.
                  Wiley. Beautifully illustrated from original designs by Darley. Price Fifty
                  cents.
               
                  Valentine Vox, the Ventriloquist. By Henry Cockton. 317 pages.
                  Price 50 cts.
               
                  Sketches in Ireland. By William M. Thackeray, author of "Vanity
                  Fair," "History of Pendennis," etc. It is equal in every respect to "Vanity Fair."
                  Price 50 cts.
               
                  The Parricide; or the Youth's Career in Crime. By G. W. M.
                  Reynolds. Illustrated. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Ten Thousand a Year. By the author of a "Diary of a London
                  Physician." 432 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  First and True Love. A True Love Story. By George Sand, author of
                  "Consuelo," "Indiana," etc. It is one of the most charming and interesting works
                  ever published. Full of Engravings. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Cruising in the Last War. A Naval Story of the War of 1812. First
                  and Second Series. Being the complete work, unabridged. By Charles J. Peterson.
                  228 octavo pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Mob Cap: and Other Tales. By Mrs. 
                     Carolne
                     Caroline
                   Lee Hentz, author of "Linda," "Rena," etc. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Life in Paris. By G. W. M. Reynolds, author of "Life in London,"
                  etc. Full of Engravings. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Mysteries of a Convent. By one of the most celebrated Methodist
                  Preachers now living. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Bell Brandon, and the Withered Fig Tree. By P. Hamilton Myers,
                  author of "Miser's Heir." A Three Hundred Dollar prize novel. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Knowlson's Complete Cattle, or Cow Doctor. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Knowlson's Complete Farrier, or Horse Doctor. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  The Roman Traitor; or, The Days of Cataline and Cicero. By Henry
                  William Herbert, author of "Cromwell," "The Brothers," etc. This is one of the
                  most powerful Roman stories in the English language, and is of itself sufficient
                  to stamp the writer as a powerful man. The dark intrigues of the days which Cæsar,
                  Sallust, and Cicero made illustrious, when Cataline defied and almost defeated the
                  Senate; when the plots which ultimately overthrew the Roman Republic were being
                  formed, are described in a masterly manner. The book deserves a prominent position
                  by the side of the great Bellum Catalinarium of
                  Sallust, and if we mistake not, will not fail to occupy a prominent place among
                  those produced in America. This splendid work is published complete in two large
                  volumes, of over 250 pages each, paper cover, price 50 cents a volume, or the
                  whole work is handsomely bound in one volume, cloth, price One Dollar and
                  Twenty-five cents.
               
                  Countess de Charny; or, The Fall of the French Monarchy. By
                  Alexander Dumas. This work is the final conclusion of the "Memoirs of a
                  Physician," "The Queen's Necklace," and "Six Years Later, or Taking of the
                  Bastile." All persons who have not read Dumas in this, his greatest and most
                  instructive production, should begin at once, and no pleasure will be found so
                  agreeable, and nothing in novel form so useful and absorbing. Complete in two
                  volumes, beautifully illustrated. Price $1 00.
               
                  Wild Oats sown Abroad; or, On and Off Soundings. By a gentleman of
                  leisure. It is the Private Journal of a Gentleman of Leisure and Education, and of
                  a highly cultivated mind, in making the tour of Europe. Whoever buys the book and
                  reads the opening chapter, we venture to say, would not part with it for ten times
                  its cost, if he could not procure another. It is having a sale unprecedented, in
                  the annals of literature, for nothing equal to it in spiciness, vivacity, and real
                  scenes and observations in daily travel, has ever appeared from the press.
                  Complete in one volume, price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth,
                  gilt.
               
                  Percy Ellingham. By Henry Cockton, author of "Valentine Vox, the
                  Ventriloquist," complete in one large octave volume, price 50 cents.
               
                  American Pocket Library of Useful Knowledge. New and enlarged
                  edition, with numerous engravings. Twenty thousands copies sold. Price 50 cents a
                  copy only. We have never seen a volume embracing anything like the same quantity
                  of useful matter. The work is really a treasure, and should speedily find its way
                  into every family. It also contains a large and entirely new Map of the United
                  States, with full page Portraits of The Presidents of the United States, from
                  Washington until the present time, executed in the finest style of the art.
               
                  Life and Adventures of Arthur Spring, the murderer of Mrs. Ellen
                  Lynch and Mrs. Honora Shaw, with a complete history of his life and misdeeds from
                  the time of his birth until he was hung, illustrated with portraits. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Cadet of Temperance; being a complete collection of Dialogues,
                  Scenes, Recitations, Songs, Odes, etc., designed for the use of Sections in their
                  public and private exhibitions. By James Knorr. Every child in the country should
                  have it. Price 25 cents a copy in paper cover, or 37½ cents in cloth, gilt.
               
                  Henry Clay. Nagle's Correct, full-length, Mezzotinto Portrait and
                  only true likeness ever published of the distinguished Statesman. Engraved by
                  Sartain. Price $1 00 a copy only. Size, 22 by 30 inches. Originally sold at $5 00
                  a copy.
               
                  The Miser's Heir; or The Young Millionaire. A story of a Guardian
                  and his Ward. A Prize Novel. By P. H. Myers, author of the "Emigrant Squire."
                  Price 50 cents in paper cover, or 75 cents in cloth, gilt.
               
                  Siege of Londonderry. A History of the Siege of Londonderry, and
                  defence of Enniskillen, in 1688 and 1689, by the Rev. John Graham. Price 37
                  cents.
               
                  Rev. Albert Barnes on the Maine Liquor Law. The Throne of Iniquity;
                  or sustaining Evil by Law. A discourse in behalf of a law prohibiting the traffic
                  in intoxicating drinks. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  Woman. Discourse on Woman. Her sphere, duties, etc. By Lucretia
                  Mott. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  Victims of Amusements. by Martha Clark, and dedicated by the author
                  to the Sabbath Schools of the land. One volume, cloth, gilt. Price 37½
                  cents.
               
                  Euchre. The Game of Euchre and Its Laws. By a member of a Euchre
                  Club of Philadelphia of Thirty Years standing. Price 12½ cents.
               
               
                  Salathiel; or the Wandering Jew. By Rev. George Croly. Price 50
                  cts.
               
                  
                     lorente's History of the Inquisition in Spain. Only edition
                  published in this Country. Price Fifty cents: or handsomely bound in muslin, gilt,
                  Seventy-five cents.
               
                  Dr. Hollick's Anatomy and Physiology, with a large dissected plate
                  of the Human Figure, colored to Life. By the celebrated Dr. Hollick, author of
                  "The True Art of Healing the Sick," "Origin of Life," etc. Price One
                  Dollar.
               
                  Mysteries of Three Cities. Boston, New York, and Philadelphia. By
                  A. J. H. Duganne. 200 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Red Indians of Newfoundland. A beautifully illustrated Indian
                  Story, by the author of "Prairie Bird." Price 50 cents.
               
                  Harris's Adventures in Africa. This book is a rich treat. Two
                  volumes. Price $1 00, or handsomely bound, $1 50.
               
                  Indiana. By George Sand, author of "First and True Love," etc. A
                  very bewitching and interesting work. 258 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Petrel; or Love on the Ocean. A sea novel equal to the best, by
                  Admiral Fisher. 200 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Aristocracy, or Life among the Upper Ten. A true novel of
                  fashionable life. By J. A. Nunes, Esq. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Mormonism Exposed. Full of Engravings, and Portraits of the Twelve
                  Apostles. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  Genevra; or the History of a Portrait. By Miss Fairfield, one of
                  the best Writers in America. 200 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Philip in Search of a Wife. By the author of "Kate in Search of a
                  Husband." Price 25 cents.
               
                  Wild Sports in the West. By W. H. Maxwell, author of "Dark Lady of
                  Doons." Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Romish Confessional. By M. Michelet. 300 pages. Price 50
                  cents.
               
                  Dr. Berg's Answer to Archbishop Hughes. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  Dr. Berg's Lecture on the Jesuits. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  Flirtations in America; or High Life In New York. A capital book.
                  285 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Lady's Work Table Book. Illustrated. A work every Lady should
                  possess. Price 50 cents, in paper; or beautifully bound in crimson gilt, for 75
                  cents.
               
                  The Coquette. One of the best books ever written. One volume,
                  octavo, over 200 pages. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Odd Fellowship Exposed. With all the Signs, Grips, Pass-words, etc.
                  Illustrated. Price 12½ cents.
               
                  The Life and Death of the Rev. John N. Maffit; with his Portrait.
                  Price 12½ cents.
               
                  The Necromancer. A Romance of the times of Henry the Eighth. By G.
                  W. M. Reynolds. Two volumes. Price Seventy-five cents.
               
                  Pictorial Life and Adventures of Davy Crockett. Written by himself.
                  Embellished with spirited and beautiful illustrations. Price 50 cents.
               
                  Ugly Effie; or, the Neglected One, and Pet Beauty and other Tales.
                  By Mrs. Caroline Lee Hentz, author of "Mob Cap," etc. Price 50 cents.
               
                  The Emigrant Squire. By the author of "Bell Brandon." This has just
                  been completed in the Dollar Newspaper, where it has been very popular. Price 25
                  cents.
               
                  Jenny Ambrose; or, Life In the Eastern States. By the author of
                  "Lights and Shadows of Factory Life." An excellent Book. Price 25 cents.
               
                  A Year After Marriage. By T. S. Arthur. Price 25 cents.
               
                  Trials of a Needlewoman. By T. S. Arthur. Price 50 cents.
            
         
      
   
