
    ----CITATION----
        Blunt, Ellen Key (1821-1884). The Xmas Star for the Poor .
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University.
        http://purl.dlib.indiana.edu/iudl/wright/VAC5839
    ----FULL TEXT----
         
       
          
             
             
               The + mas Star FOR THE POOR. 
             
            BY THE AUTHOR OF "BREAD" 
            
               WASHINGTON: 
               G. S. GIDEON, PRINTER.
             
            1856. 
          
       
      
         
            The mas star for the poor 
             
                
               THE CHRISTMAS STAR. 
               Christmas over the world!-And calm and holy the Christmas Star shineth still as first it shone, when, with newborn lustre and heralded by Angels, "it came and stood over where a young child was." 
               Shineth still as first it shone when leading in triumphant pilgrimage the Wise Men from the East, with their kingly homage of gold, frankincense, and myrrh, they opened their treasures and worshipped at the feet of "a baby lying in a manger." 
               Shineth still as first it shone when glittering on the crown of Herod, and dazzling and deluding the search of the Chief Priests and Scribes, it gilded the swaddling-clothes which wrapped a Virgin's first-born son-and resting there, its never-to-be-extinguished light has watched and counted like a watchman in the sky, while eighteen centuries have folded away the garments of error, and wrapped the world in Christianity! 
                
                
                  "Thou art the Christ!" 
                  "He that should come!" 
                  "We look not for another!" 
                  Divine-thou art "our Lord and God!" 
                  Human-our friend and brother! 
                  Mortal-in Cross and cries, and sacrifice! 
                  Immortal-in thy crown beyond the skies! 
                
                
                  "Thou art the Christ!" 
                  Emmanuel! 
                  Oh! close to thee we rest, 
                  Because like us, but without sin, 
                  Thine was a mother's breast. 
                  Mortal-with feeling touched of our infirmity; 
                  Immortal-crushing time to make eternity! 
                
                
                  "Thou art the Christ!" 
                  Oh, King! 
                  Our Christmas jubilee 
                  Opening her treasures at thy feet, 
                  With angels, worships thee! 
                  Mortal-thy name of Jesus first begins; 
                  Immortal-it "shall save thy people from their sins." 
                
                
               Christmas over the world! Yes, over the world-wide as it spreads in its beauty and its blight-its good and its evil-its rest and its unrest-its peace and its war-its wealth and its want-its protection and its oppression-its hope and its fear-its love and its hate-its weal and its woe-its smile and its tear-covering all, comes Christmas! 
               Yes! over the world-wide as it spreads-its land and its sea-its mountain and valley-its deserts and cities-its desolate places and its homes-its nature and art. 
               Over its pride and its humility-its applause and its desertion-its myriad hands with uplifted banners of honor-and its myriad trampling feet of disgrace and degradation-its fire of incense and its smoke of scorn-its monuments and its dust and ashes. 
               Over its thrones and its prisons-its churches and cathedrals, with their domes and towers-and its temples not made by mortal hand, where the worship is not seen, but where the heart prays. 
               Over its true and its false faiths-over its heathen crescent, whose horns of plenty are filled by human glory-and over its Christian cross, at whose magic touch the martyr from his death of torture thrills to a life eternal. 
               Oh! over its births and its deaths-its cradles and its graves-covering all, comes Christmas! 
               Blessed Christmas! Ever sounds the angel anthem. 
               "Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will towards men." 
               Over the high and the low-the rich and the poor-the prince and the beggar-comes alike the common blessing of this common Christmas. 
               Start not, rich brother! whose Christmas is gay and green with garlands and gifts;-and doubt not, poor brother! who can hardly afford the holiday which stops the work's pay;-it is true! 
               Christmas comes alike to all, and there is no difference, for the blessing that it comes with is spiritual, and in such there is no respect of persons; and as over the whole world comes the same light, so over the whole world comes the same Christmas-so for the whole world came the same Christ! 
             
             
                
               I. 
                
                  
                     "Glory to God in the highest, and on Earth peace, good will towards men."
                   
                
               It is long since the angels sang this song and went away into heaven-but yet, whenever the Christmas day is breaking in the sky, and the Christmas bells are ringing in the air, around and around from every Christian heart comes back the echo of this anthem, and it can never, like the angels, go away. 
               In a Christian city-it does not matter which, perhaps the one we live in-in one of its many homes of ease and plenty, entered the Christmas day. Cheerily it came through the richly curtained windows, and, sure of its welcome, it wakened as many happy ones to as many happy greetings as ever one roof might cover. 
                
               It wakened the master of the wealthy mansion from his restless merchant's dream of "occupying his business in the great waters"-where the tide seemed turning-to the certainty of well-secured wealth and plenty, which in all human calculation he could never lose. 
               It wakened the lady sleeping on his breast, from light dreams to a lighter life-a life full-blown, whose only burthens were the flowers of its own bloom! 
               Ah! the flowers-yes, it wakened the children in their comfortable nursery, and then began the Christmas mirth. 
               Kriss Kringle had filled the stockings, as little children know how well, and sprinkled toys and sugar-plums around each little couch; and as each claimed and appropriated their own, they were all satisfied with the merry scramble-and Merry Christmas! Merry Christmas! resounded through the house. 
                
               Thus merrily came the Christmas day, and merrily passed along-gift followed gift, for servants and all; for the whole household had a share in the Christmas day. 
               The Christmas alms had been cast into the treasury, where the "abundance" of the "many that were rich" mingled with the "all that she had" of the poor widow; and just as faithfully as the merchants' books could account to their credit and debit, on that Christmas day, so faithfully was written on high the angel record, wherein the Lord of the treasury acknowledges that "he who giveth to the poor lendeth to the Lord." 
               Friend after friend assembled-the Christmas dinner overflowed the generous board; the Christmas joy, like the Christmas wine, poured full and free. 
               The children's flying feet had left the dance for the dazzling branches of the Christmas tree which was just revealed, and eagerly each little hand was grasping its expected treasure, when, in the midst of all the noise and merriment, the sound of a hand-organ was heard under the windows. 
               There was nothing in its street-music to attract the refined ear of any of that opera-loving throng, and it might have played its Christmas strain unheard and unheeded, but for one child's heart of open sympathy, where the blessed chord of charity had never been touched in her young life, in vain! 
               The little hand which was raised to receive her present from the glittering tree, was stayed and changed into the attitude of attention to what was without. The sweet face of delight and self enjoyment grew sweeter still as the expression came and went of pity and generosity; and never had the little Mary-the pet, the darling, the most tenderly cherished, because the most delicate and frail-the only daughter among many sons-never had she appeared half so lovely, half so loving, half so loved-as now, when with childish impatience and the earnest eloquence which is unused to denial, she turned away to beg admittance for the little wanderer without. 
               Oh, mama! papa! it is my little organ-girl; please let her come in-she is so pretty, and so tired in the cold street, and she has had no Christmas gifts, I know, and she sings so sweetly you will love to hear her-just let her come in-she used to come every day-and then she was sick for a long time, and the man came without her; and now she is well again-pray let her come in! 
               Little Mary was not denied, and the troupe entered. 
               The organ-grinder, one of those in our streets to-day-and the child such as often accompany such attractions, except that a remarkable degree of beauty in the little face and form required no fortune teller to read how the lines of life would be apt to be crossed, and tried, and tempted, and troubled in that little palm. 
               Questioning her, they found that her country was Italy, and that she had the name and the age of the little Mary. 
               Eight years ago, in such different countries were born, perhaps at the same hour, such different children; and the holy Baptism!-so differing in these widely severed lands-(but which ought to be the same, because both are Christian,) with the same sign-the cross of Christ-teaching the same story of the "Blessed among women"-had united in giving, with such different gifts of wealth and poverty, the same name, perhaps at the same hour, to these two little Marys. 
               "My name, papa! and just as old as!"-she whispered-poor little thing! I wish she could stay with me." 
                
               The little stranger acquitted herself to the entire satisfaction of her child-patron, and to the evident satisfaction of the whole company. Her extreme beauty and grace-her natural childish delight in all that she saw-her grateful thanks for the presents heaped upon her, increased in its effect by the slightly foreign accent-the desire to return the favors so unexpectedly showered on her, by her music, her only possession-and then so naturally her performance, with all the pride of her art-her song of a land so far for such little feet to have come from-and at intervals, the accompaniment of her tambourine, which displayed her whole beauty and grace-altogether charmed every beholder. 
               In repose her face was very melancholy, but most gentle; the eyes, shaded with their long lashes, appealed as if for protection with such a mournfulness in their look never seen in children who are kindly cared for-and the mouth was sad and firm, as children's are not who take not care of themselves. 
               But when the lips were parted in their singing, the eyes brightened until they, seemed to burn like stars-the cheek glowing, and the whole face was radiant with the light of a genius which, in her country more than any other, springs often by tile wayside in the open air. 
               Bending lowly, as she departed with her gathered gifts and dainties, she kissed the hand her little namesake extended to her, and pressed it to her breast; forgetful of her acquired language at the moment when her heart was speaking so loudly, her parting salutation was unwittingly and naturally spoken in her mother tongue; and with thanks for being told to come some day again, the Christmas beggar went out blessing and blessed. 
               As the door of the hospitable mansion closed behind them, and the street stretched out before them long and cold, she thought it had been all a dream but her hands and arms were full of the Christmas gifts, and she knew that they were real. 
               The twilight had only just closed in and above her; in the sky was the evening star-only that one in all the sky-she could see it shining so kindly, friendly on her, as if to cheer her way. 
               -So in all her heart, there seemed but one like a star to love-the little Mary-the only one in all her heart; she could see her smiling so kindly, friendly on her, as if to cheer her way. 
               Oh, Christmas Star! this was thy power! 
             
             
                
               II. 
                
                  
                     "Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid then not, for of such is the kingdom of Heaven."
                   
                
               Over the world the same Christmas-over the world the same Christ! Children bound together in happy bands! Our two little Marys, whom the world would forever separate, meet at last, as may we all meet-at the feet of Christ! 
               As in the days of the Saviour on earth, the offspring of the prince would not have shrunk from sharing with that of the beggar the arms of the Divine Master, so is it now; and the Christianity that would be otherwise, and must have its pew and its place and its price to pay, forgets the divine precept and prayer that we "all may be one." 
               As the evening star pursues its path steadily and surely, until around it is gathered the shining glory of heaven, so the beggars star faded not nor faltered, until to her was bound "the sweet influences, as of the Pleiades." 
               The little Mary of wealth and love rested not until she had shared the blessings, so thickly clustering for her, with the little Mary of poverty and want. 
               From the time when she had shared her Christmas gifts with the homeless child, she had thought of nothing but the little wanderer. 
               Surely, it was Christ himself who thus, as her restored gift, bade her gather back from the glittering branches of the Christmas tree a jewel for His crown! 
               All the enthusiasm of her beautiful nature had been drawn out to support the object of her remarkable affection. None knew the pleasure she had taken in her apparently overweening attachment ment; none knew the thought and care which she had spent in her plan of rescue for the street beggar; how she had lain awake at night to think, and then fallen asleep to dream how they might be together; how the immeasurable distance between them might be overcome; and when, at last, like a holy star, came the idea of the Sunday School, none knew the blessing in which the little tired mind-tired with its wandering after a wanderer-then rested. 
               Yes-the Sunday School-that was the place. She had seen many beggars there; there they might be together; there they might be equal; there the two little Marys might together kneel, and with united voices pray "Our Father," and be sisters. 
               How she treasured up her plan for a whole week, until she should meet her teacher; then how her heart throbbed when she made her request, the granting of which was to gather another lamb into the fold; how the glad tears sprang to the tender eyes which were so pleadingly raised to the teacher's face; and, when the promised admission was readily given, how she went away so happy; how she wished the week gone and the Sabbath come, which was to be really such a holy day; how she lingered at the church door to wait for the steps which were so surely, so thankfully, coming all the way from the dark, cold lodging, where the children of this world would have called her poor, to the free entrance of the house of God, where the children of light are made rich; then clasping each other's hands, one little Mary led the other little Mary into the blessing she had prepared for her; and, seated beside her on the same bench, they read from the same book, to be taught, by the same care, in the same Alma Mater-the American Sunday School! 
             
             
                
               III. 
               Thus had the full heart, so crowded with love, in all its full stream of blessings, turned to befriend the heart which had touched her compassion with its desolate loneliness. 
               And generously did she befriend her-and it was no light thing to do-for after the novelty of their appearance at the door had worn away, which was very soon, all the house grew tired of their return. 
               "It was shocking music, and a great bore to have it grinding in their ears so often," was said in the drawing-room, and the children, from a natural imitation, echoed the cry; and the servants, who always feel safest in following the tide of life which is over them, magnified and moralized, and demoralized, the thoughtless speeches of their superiors, until at last one day it ended in a banishment of what there had been so much effort to gain. 
               "Oh do come from the window, Mary, and then they will go away; we are all so tired of them." This was often said. 
               "I'm sure," said the old nurse, who prided herself upon the respectability of being settled, "I wonder your mama allows you, Miss Mary, even to look at such onery people as them, much less to be inviting them in. I'm sure its only a-helping of them on in their wicked life; the lazy, worthless vagabones-why don't they go to work? And, as to that child, she's a-going the broad road to ruin fast." 
               "I think I'll step out," said John, the waiter, as he entered with a costly tray of delicacies, which he was preparing for the children's lunch; "I'll just step out and send them beggars off; its too much, collecting such a gang of ragamuffins on the pavement ment, and there is no end to it; let these furriners keep to their own country, I say;" so saying, he left the room. 
               "Oh! nurse, nurse, stop him," cried little Mary. pale with emotion-"don't let him mortify her so;-oh! Frank, Harry," (turning to her brothers,) "stop him-pray do-papa said I might have them to play whenever I chose, and I love little Mary. Oh, it is too bad." And, covering her face with her little white hands, as she turned from the window she burst into an uncontrollable fit of sobbing. 
               Her brothers had stopped their romp at the further end of the apartment in answer to her appeal, but when they reached the window it was too late, they were just turning to depart; the song was stopped in the midst, and the singer had turned away, but she had not turned before she had seen the distress sweep over the face of her child-friend at the window, and as she turned away she felt as if a cloud had come over the only star in her sky, leaving her dark and desolate. 
               "She has gone, Mary," sail Frank, "and we had better let her go now, for John would only mortify them more if we bring them back; but she shall have some money; I will run after her with this"-and he ran off. 
               "Oh, Frank! oh, Harry! it is too bad"-and the most violent sobbing shook the little frame, as, crouched upon the soft carpet, she buried her face in her hands and refused to be comforted. 
               The nurse and John, frightened at what they had done, when they saw the extent of her grief, began their mutual recrimination, each blaming the other for what was the fault of both. The children, gathering around, tried to soothe her-but no, she could not be comforted. 
                
               The lunch was untasted by all, and after many weary hours, little Mary's first and greatest grief seemed subsiding, like a rain; the tears stopped at last, but there was no clearing away, no smile-heavy was the light heart, sad the merry eyes, and slow the feet, so quick in their never-tiring errands for all. 
               "I'm sure, Miss Mary, I never dreamed of hurting your feelings, I was only thinking of them. I hope you will care no more about it, and let me dress you nicely for dinner now; the other children have all gone down." 
               Quietly the gentle child submitted to the dressing; she spoke not one word, although the nurse tried to make her talk. As she stood to be dressed, only once the nurse noticed that she put her hand to her head and held it there for a moment, as if in pain. 
                
               The motion of that little hand smote her to her heart; and her remorse was great when that night the little Mary lay down, not to rise in the morning with the other children in health and strength, but, ill and suffering, she was paying the price of her befriending. When all were roused at night to assist her, then it was remembered how she had at table spoken nothing and eaten nothing-and how throughout the evening the face had been pale as marble, with only one small spot on the cheek, which seemed to burn deeper and brighter as the paleness increased. 
               At once she was very ill-and now her mother wondered she did not before see that she was sick; but there had been company all the evening in the drawing-room, and she remembered with a pang how she had noticed the brilliant face only to feel proud of its beauty, which attracted, as usual, the admiration of the guests. 
                
               Now, over the little form they watched, as none know but those who, like them, have watched a like form, while the fever burned on like a devouring flame, wasting the strength and threatening the life-how precious, none know but those who, like them, would have eagerly bargained to have parted with all their possessions, so they might keep a such-like little heart from beating away so fast. 
               Always delicate, the tenderest care had ever guarded her from the least crossing of a will, so gentle that the indulgence of it was at once its allowance and its reward; she was, therefore, unprepared for the excessive trial which she had so cruelly suffered in the cause of her little friend. 
               The story collected from the children, and the distressed account of the offending servants, explained sufficiently the cause of the child's state; while her earnest calling, in the delirium of her fever, for her beloved companion, showed how the pressure of the heart affected that of the brain. The physician advised that the object of her solicitude might be brought to her; but an unconsciousness of all save the phantasies of the fever rendered it useless. 
               At last, after many weary days, the child lay resting after a hard struggle for the life-relieved, but exhausted: no ache, no pain; but so weak she could hardly live. 
               She did live; but oh, so frail the tenure-so pale the fair, fair face-so thin the little white hand-so fluttering the heart-like a crippled bird which disease had touched with its withering blight forever. 
               Around her little couch was gathered every thing that could divert or please a passing fancy. 
               "My darling," said her mother, gently, as she kissed her, "see the fresh flowers your father brings you." 
               "Thank you, dear mama-dear papa! I love them very much!" and the little arms were thrown in caresses around first mother, then father. 
               "My darling," again said her mother, "see your little Mary your father brings to stay with you, as you wished, all the time, and be your little sister." 
               "Dear mama-dear papa! oh, thank you-I love her better than flowers-oh, yes!" 
               Again as she spoke the little arms were raised caressingly; and when they were again folded, it was around the form of the other little Mary. 
             
             
                
               IV. 
               "Never to go away: to be her sister!" So her father and another had said; and so it was: they had planned it all, and purchased it, even; for it was like a purchase-the release from the organ-grinder-who was not unreasonable, and kindly disposed to help his little country-woman, and give her up to a better fate than his strolling fortunes followed. 
               Long and weary would have been the time in the sick chamber, but for that blessed deed of charity which, while it divided the blessing, divided also the care; for such is the virtue of charity, that its reward is in its hand. 
                
               Day after day it was beautiful to see the two children-the two Marys-but ah! it was sad, the contrast. 
               The child of opulence, with hand filled too full to hold life's treasures-aye, life's best treasures-to behold her drooping and dropping them, fainting and failing away, while the child of poverty, with hand extended for the passing alms-aye, so often passing her-to behold her gathering and grasping the gifts of generous goodness, and growing more graceful and beautiful day after day. 
               One little Mary laying aside life-life, so gaily decorated-just when the other little Mary was putting it on. Ah! it was sad to see. 
               But it was beautiful, too, to see the love of the two children; to see the gifts of the one gathered back so gratefully by the other to the generous giver's breast, and then enjoyed together. 
                
               The winter had passed, and anxiously her parents watched to see the spring and summer revive their drooping-flower, but in vain. 
               Anxiously they sought, in other climates, the health that might yet restore her precious life; and when the autumn winds began to blow, they took her where no chill breath might touch her languid frame too roughly; and so they guarded and cherished her with all that money could obtain, or human skill control, but in vain. There was no medicine to heal her sickness; and when the winter snows were on the earth, and again the Christmas garlands hanging on the walls, at her desire they brought her home to die. 
             
             
                
               V. 
               Christmas over the world again! 
               Again in the sky the Christmas star! 
               Again the angels' anthem falls from heaven! 
               Again in this home of ease and plenty enters the Christmas day! 
               But it wakes no sleepers now. In that luxurious chamber there are those who watch, but not for Christmas; and they look up wearily, with no welcome for its almost mocking light, as it falls around the one they watch. 
               Far different from the scene where the Christmas light first smiled; far different from the manger where the Christmas day first broke; far different the luxury of the apartment it enters now, gilding the costly furniture and rich adornments, and flinging its radiance full upon a picture of the Virgin and child-only a picture, not the life-at whose shrine its first ray was kindled. 
               Yes, far different was the scene; but most unlike of all that the Christmas light was touching, unlike to what it first touched, was this- 
               Instead of Birth-here was Death! Instead of the cradle, here was the grave! 
               Oh, Christmas Star! 
               Here is thy power! 
               For the Death is the Birth! and the grave is the gate of life! 
               The little Mary was gone through into Heaven; but the other Mary lingered yet. 
               Lingered, to strew over her Christmas grave their morning flowers, covering her innocence with their sinless bloom. 
                
               Lingered, to pour with a beggar's gratitude the debt of love, pressed down and running over, into the mother's bleeding bosom. 
               And when the evening star came out again into her lonely sky, she seemed to see in it again her guide and friend. 
               And again one little Mary may lead the other little Mary-even beyond the sky. 
               Children! bound together in happy bands! 
               "Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you that in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in Heaven." 
                
                
                  O Christmas Star! what else betide, 
                  As Kings were led by thee 
                  To lay aside their robes of pride 
                  And be clothed with humility; 
                  So would we seek divine command- 
                  So follow thy holy ray- 
                  As rich and poor we together stand 
                  In the light of the Christmas day! 
                
                
                  O Christmas Star! O Christmas Star! 
                  Thy shining track we see; 
                  But the gate is strait from earth to heaven, 
                  And the path is humility. 
                  So shall it be in that better land- 
                  All pride shall be passed away- 
                  And the rich and the poor shall be hand in hand- 
                  In that better Christmas day! 
                
             
         
       
   
